If you have your Bibles, please, would you join me in John chapter 12? John chapter 12. This morning , God's grace, we're going to finish the first half of the Gospel of John , this final paragraph of John chapter 12. One of the most haunting songs that I recall from my childhood is a song entitled God's Final Call. It's in our hymn book. We have sung it before, but not very often. It's a very heavy song. And we're going to sing it later today. Listen to these words. Someday you'll hear God's final call to you. To take his offer of salvation true. This could be it, my friend, if you but knew. God's final call. God's final call. How can you live another day in sin, thinking someday with Christ you will begin? Oh, will you hear above the world's loud den? God's final call, God's final call. If you reject God's final call of grace, you'll have no chance your footsteps to retrace. All hope will then be gone. And doom you'll face. Oh, hear his call, God's final call. This morning we're going to consider Jesus' final invitation to the people of Jerusalem who had gathered there for the upcoming Passover. The first twelve chapters of John record our Lord's public ministry. His teaching and preaching to the multitudes. And as you've heard me say many times, they are structured around seven signs or seven miracles. This part of the book, Lord willing, we will conclude this morning. It's been called by scholars the Book of the Signs. And the second volume is often called the Book of the Glory. In these chapters, chapters 1 through 12, Jesus repeatedly calls on his hearers to respond in faith. But most of the people did not John provides a very concise summary of his ministry in verse 37. It says, though he had done so many signs before them, they still did not believe in him. And then John provides an explanation as to why the people did not believe in the verses that follow, that despite the miracles they turned away in willful unbelief. And God judged them by hardening their hearts so that they could not believe. But Jesus here And the final paragraph of John 12 makes one last appeal to the gathered crowd in Jerusalem. We are not sure exactly when Jesus said these words. Some suspect that he said it on an earlier occasion, but John decided to keep it until now because it was a fitting conclusion to his public ministry. And they say that because in the last part of verse 36 it says, when Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid himself from them. And they say, well, see. That's him. That's the end of his public ministry. So this must have happened earlier. But it's also possible that it simply means that Jesus had finished talking to them on that day. But the next morning, perhaps Tuesday morning, Jesus came back to the temple precincts and made this final appeal. Which summarizes and gathers all these different themes that he has been preaching and teaching about for the last three years. In this final paragraph, this final appeal, Jesus provides three reasons why the people must not reject him in unbelief. And these reasons that he gives are still reasons that people must not turn away from the gospel today. These words are still very relevant for us. They are not just for the people in Jerusalem who lived nearly 2,000 years ago. This is Jesus' final invitation. And I want us to consider these timeless reasons why you must stop rejecting Christ. The first one is this. Because when you reject Jesus, you're rejecting the only one whom the Father has sent to be the lights of the world. Look with me now at verse 44. And Jesus cried out and said, Whoever believes in me believes not in me, but in him who sent me. This is one of the few occasions where we read in the Gospels that Jesus cried out, that he spoke with a loud voice. There's another occasion on the cross when Jesus cried out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And earlier in this gospel, on the final day of the Feast of Tabernacles, Jesus cries out, if anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. And now as the Passover pilgrims gather in the temple precincts, Jesus cries out once more. He says this with a loud voice so that everyone around him can hear him. But it means more than just that he spoke with a loud voice. It means that he spoke with intensity and emotion. Jesus cared for these people. And so he calls on them to believe one last time. Now perhaps you're a little confused because in verse 40, John tells us that God has judicially hardened their hearts so that they could not believe. That is true, but it doesn't mean that that was true for every single individual that was there that day. We know that in the days ahead, there would be many who would be saved. That would be those who were not judicially hardened. So you should not think that there's some type of contradiction here. I want you to notice that Jesus begins with something that we commonly find in the Gospel of John. He says the word whoever. This is the open-ended invitation that we find so often in this book. In John 3:16, we read, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that Whoever believes in him will not perish, but will have eternal life. We'll see this word whosoever again in verse 45 And again in verse 46. Now the wording of this opening phrase of Jesus is confusing to us. Because Jesus says, whoever believes in me believes not in me, but in him who sent me. If you take that in a very literal way , it would mean that we should not believe in Jesus. And yet we have numerous passages in this gospel and elsewhere that tells us that we are to believe in Jesus. This is a way that teachers and rabbis often spoke in the first century. to get their point across. His point, I think, is clear and obvious. He's not speaking on his own authority. He is not calling on them just to believe in him because of his word, but to recognize that he has been sent by his father. He's going to reiterate that later in this very paragraph. In the Gospel of John, we find more so than in the other Gospels the reality that Jesus was sent on a mission. The word sent is the origin of our English word apostle. You could rightly say that Jesus was the ultimate apostle, the ultimate sent one. Yes, there were prophets who were sent before him, but they were sent not in the same way as Jesus. They did not embody the truth the way Jesus did as the Son of God. And there were, of course, apostles after Jesus who took the gospel to the ends of the earth. But they were not sent in the same way as Jesus. He says in John 4. 34, My food is to do the will of him. who sent me. He says in John 5, 25, whoever hears my word and believes on him who sent me has eternal light. He says in John 5. 30, I can do nothing of my own. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just Because I seek not my own will, but the will of him who sent me. John 6. 38, for I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but to do the will of him that sent me. And again, these statements do not mean that Jesus was coerced into doing this, that he didn't really want to come, and he really wasn't doing his will. That's not true. His will and the will of his father were in perfect sync. He said, I and my father are one in John 10, 30. What he's saying here is that it was not just that he was speaking on his own authority, but he was speaking as one who has been sent by the Father to say the Father's message. We see another indication that no one has come to the Father except through his son in verse 45, and whoever sees me sees him who sent me. He's saying that the only way that we can know God, that we can know the Father, is through Jesus Christ. We find the same thing at the very end of the preface of this gospel, this famous verse, John 1. 18. No one has ever seen God, the only God, who is at the Father's side. He has made him known. And John is alerting the reader at the very beginning of this gospel That Jesus is the ultimate word, the ultimate message, the ultimate revelation of God He is this because he is the one who is at the Father's side. He is right there. He knows his father better than anyone else, and so he is the ultimate disclosure of God. to humanity. He has made him known, which means to interpret fully and ultimately You see, no one can know God apart from Jesus Christ This is why all other religions of the world have a false and distorted view of God. There are some things through natural revelation and through other means that they have come to understand some things about God that He is powerful. That He is holy, that He is righteous, that He's not like us. But when you look at who God is through the lens of other religions, it is full of shadows and distortion. It's only through the lens of Christ that you can see God as He truly is. This is why Jesus could say in John 14, 9, Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. Not that they are the same person, but that He is the exact image of His Father. Now look with me at verse 46. I have come into the world as light. So that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness. This is also a common theme we find in the Gospel of John that Jesus is the light of the world. We find this in John 8. 12 and in John 9. 5, and there are other allusions to it scattered throughout this gospel. But Jesus came as light so that those who believe in him will not remain in darkness. This is a very important truth for us to consider. He makes the same connection in John 8. 12 where he says, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness. but will have the light of life. John chapter 3 and verse 20 says, For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his works should be exposed. And what we see here is that repentance is a necessary part of saving faith. This is where many preachers Have made a mistake in their proclamation of the gospel. There has been no teaching about repentance because of the fear that they might be accused of adding works to the gospel. Do not misunderstand me. No one has ever earned their way to heaven. You cannot In any way save yourself. But this verse and many others tell us that if you come to Jesus the light, you will not remain in the darkness. Christians at times do stumble and fall back into the darkness, but we do not remain in the darkness. Because we are children of light. But if you reject Christ in unbelief You will eventually find yourself in the darkest place in the universe, and that is the lake of fire. You can't hold on to your sin and have the forgiveness of sins as well. If gift is compared, and it is indeed the gift of eternal life, and your hands are full of your idols, they're full of sin. You can't pick up that grift because your hands, that gift because your hands are full. You have to set them down to receive that gift. This doesn't mean that the believers will be sinless. I wish it was true. I wish from the moment we were saved, for the rest of our lives we were sinless. What a wonderful thing that would be. But we are fallen. We are still all works in progress. But we have to understand that a person cannot remain in the dark and come to the light because those two things are antithetical to each other. Where there is light. There's not darkness. And where there is darkness, there is not light. But there's another good reason for you not to reject Jesus. Secondly, everyone who rejects the words of Jesus will be judged by those words on the last day. Look with me now at verse 47. If anyone hears my words and does not keep them, I do not judge him, for I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. In case you don't know, we live in a world where people love verses like this that say where Jesus says he does not judge. We live in a world of tolerance where that's exalted as a great virtue. And so you can easily seize upon this verse, take it out of context. Not compare it with other things that Jesus says and come to a false conclusion. I will come back to that in just a moment. But I want you to notice that there's a real emphasis in verses 47 and 48 on the words of Jesus. We have to first of all define what this is. Well, it is his teaching. Especially as encapsulated in the gospel, that they must believe in him. The person who does not keep his words Is the one who disbelieves his words. Again, it is true that we are not saved by our obedience. However, faith and obedience are always connected. All disobedience is rooted in unbelief. This is true for believers and unbelievers. If you sinned this week, and you did, whether you recognize it or not , And you could somehow analyze it and trace it back, you would find that it was rooted in your unbelief. You didn't believe what God has said You thought that your sin was more advantageous than obeying God in that moment. It could have been sin in any different realm, like having a complaining spirit or critical spirit or being bitter or being immoral. It could be any number of things, but at the root of it is unbelief. I don't believe what God said. I'm going to do what I want to do. And all obedience, all true obedience is the inevitable fruit of faith We have that song, trust and obey. For there's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. Because what comes out of our trust When we truly believe and trust in God, it will issue forth in a life of obedience, not perfect obedience, not always consistent obedience, but there will be obedience because we believe these things are so. This theme of hearing and obeying Christ's words is a theme that's really developed in chapter 8. Let me read a few verses from John chapter 8. He says in verse 31. If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples. And he says to the Pharisees in verse 37, My words find no place in you, and you cannot bear to hear my word. He says in verse 47, whoever is of God hears the words of God. And again in verse 51, truly, truly I say to you, if anyone keeps my word , He will never see death. And he's not saying here that if you're really obedient, then you'll be saved because you're saved by your obedience. No. But he's saying that the person who truly trusts in Christ. Will seek to be obedience. Will be the fruit, the evidence that they have trusted in him. You see, you can't really separate Jesus from the words that he spoke. You can't say, you know, I really trust in Jesus. I think he's the Son of God, but I don't believe all the things he said. No, that that's Irreconcilable. It doesn't work because he says he's a son of God, that he never lies, that he always tells the truth, that he knows everything. So to say I don't believe in his words is to say nonsense. If you truly believe him, you will hear his words and you will seek to obey his words. Now we come back to verse 47. I do not judge him, for I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. He says in John 5. 22 that the Father has given all judgment to the Son. And we read a little later in that chapter that he will judge all of humanity on the last day. What is he saying here? Well, he's saying exactly what he said earlier in John 3:17, right after that famous verse, he says, For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world or to judge the world. But in order that the world might be saved through him, in his first coming, Jesus didn't come as a judge to set everything right. He came to save. He came as a redeemer. He came to proclaim the gospel, repent and believe. But he didn't come as a judge. That doesn't mean he's not a judge. Because the Bible tells us In the second coming, he will come in power and great glory. And he will come as a judge, the judge of all humanity. Now look with me at verse 48. The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge. The word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day That might be confusing to you. What does that mean? Jesus says what will be, what will judge them, and has the idea of condemn Is the words that he has spoken? Is the gospel that they have heard? Jesus is addressing a very privileged group of people who happen to live in the right time and the right place to actually see the incarnate Son of God. in the flesh and to hear his teaching and and witness his miracles. And yet, in large part, they responded in unbelief And he is saying that on the judgment day, the words that they heard, the warnings that they received, the earnest please that they heard will be given as evidence that they are justly condemned. So let me ask you, how many times have you heard the gospel , the words of Christ? How many times have you heard a preacher proclaim the gospel that Jesus died for your sins according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and then he rose again the third day according to the scriptures? How many times have you heard a preacher tell you that you're not saved by works, that you're not righteous in and of yourself, that you should not fall to the common delusion. But somehow you're a really good person and God knows you're not perfect, but he's going to let you in because everyone knows you're a nice guy. This is the way people think. They have a very, very flowery An unrealistic view of themselves. I'm a pretty good person. Now none of you here have heard the words of Jesus with your own ears in his presence like these people did. But Paul says in 2 Corinthians chapter 5 to his hearers, I am imploring you on behalf of Christ to be reconciled to God. He is saying, I'm standing in the place of Christ. And since Christ died and rose again and ascended to the heavens, gospel preachers now for nearly 2,000 years have stood in his place, as it were, proclaiming his gospel. And imploring people to be saved. That's what I'm doing here this morning And I know that everyone here has heard the gospel at least once because that's what I've been proclaiming this morning. And I know that there are people here that have heard the gospel many times. And you're still lost. You still have not trusted in Christ. I don't know how it's going to happen. I don't know what method the Lord's going to use, if any. But it's like the words that you have heard, the gospel that you have heard, the truth that has entered your ears, that you have thought about with your mind, that all of that will be like exhibit A. And your condemnation. You should not take this to mean, by the way, that those who have not heard are then saved and go to heaven. Because the Bible says in Romans chapter 1 that through natural revelation they see the eternal power in Godhead and that they are without excuse. They have enough light to condemn them, but not enough light to save them. You may say, that doesn't seem fair. Great, then go as a missionary. But those who have heard the gospel again and again, and yet have rejected it. Have great culpability. They have a greater burden of guilt, and they will receive Much more severe punishment from the Lord because they heard and knew the gospel, and yet they responded in unbelief. There is a danger. There is a great danger to coming to church and hearing the gospel week after week and not responding to it. Because that gospel proclaimed to you will be to your everlasting condemnation. That is what Jesus is saying here. But there's another reason given in this last appeal for you to stop rejecting the truth. Because to reject the message of Christ is to reject the commandment of the Father and to forfeit eternal life. Look with me at verse 49 now. Jesus says, for I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me has given me a commandment what to say and what to speak. And I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say, therefore, I say as the Father has told me. Once again, we read that Jesus was not giving his own message, but only saying what the Father has told him to say. Jesus is God's ultimate prophet, his ultimate spokesman, who not only spoke God's word, but perfectly embodied the truth that he proclaimed. He is indeed the word made flesh. Jesus here, all the commentators agree, is referring back to a great prophecy of the Messiah. And Deuteronomy chapter 18. Let me read this for you, verses 18 and 19. This is what Moses uh records. I will raise up for them a prophet like you, that is like Moses. from among their brothers, that is, he would be Jewish, and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him. And whoever will not listen to my words that he shall speak in my name, I will require it of him. In other words, Because he is speaking perfectly for me and has my authority, those who reject his words are going to be held accountable for that rejection as if they rejected God speaking from heaven. This is a powerful thing to consider. Did you notice in verse 49 and 50 we find this word commandments? This word commandments. This is a reference to the message that Jesus brought, specifically the gospel. Now we tend not to think as the gospel as a commandment. We think of it as an invitation, and indeed it is an invitation, where the Bible is filled with imitation. invitations to believe. Jesus says, come unto me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. What a beautiful invitation. But I want you to know that the proclamation of the gospel is more than an invitation. It is the command given by God to believe. I think we think of it when we think of it just as an invitation, we think of it something that you can take or leave without any consequence. Sort of like all the sales pitches that we hear in our commercialized society. Is there ever a day that you're live that you don't receive some type of an advertisement? on your phone or in an email or on the radio or wherever you're going, somebody trying to solicit your services or get you to buy a prop to buy a product And of course, the vast, vast majority of the time, our answer is no, thank you. If I wanted your product, I would go and get it. And I think people think about that in regards to the gospel. They'll say things like, I'm glad that works for you. But that's not for me. I don't need that. I think weak people need it to give them some reassurance and to help them through the difficulties of life, but I'm a strong person. I can get through the hardships of life without having to have that crutch. Or I'm a scientific person, I'm a brilliant person. And I couldn't possibly believe the things that you believe in. I don't need your gospel. Thank you very much. And I'm a little offended That you think that what works for you will work for me. That's kind of bigoted on your part. But I want you to know that we must not be quieted about proclaiming the gospel and witnessing to people. Because the gospel is the power of God into salvation to everyone who believes. So let me convince you for a moment that the gospel is a command. Jesus began his ministry by saying Repent and believe the gospel. Mark chapter 1. That wasn't a suggestion. It's a command. In Acts chapter 17 and verse 30, we read that God commands all people everywhere to repent. That's pretty comprehensive. In John chapter 3 and verse 36 we read: Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. Whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life. But the wrath of God remains on him. To not believe the gospel is to not obey what God has called us to do. This past Wednesday night, Pastor Aaron preached from 2 Thessalonians chapter 1. And they talked about in those verses in that opening chapter. that those who are under the judgment of God he describes as those not obeying the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. Not obeying the gospel is equated with not believing the gospel. And in 1 John 3 and verse 23, it says, this is his commandment that we believe in the name of his Son, Jesus Christ. And now look with me at verse 50, this final verse of this chapter. And I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say, therefore, I say as the Father has told me. To disobey God's call to believe is to reject the commandment of God and to forfeit eternal life. You're not just rejecting the claims of Christ. You are doing that, but you're also rejecting the message of the Father. Notice Jesus says here, what I say, I say as the Father has told me. You see, to reject Jesus and unbelief after you have heard the gospel and you understand the gospel is one of the most wicked things that a person can do. Let me explain. You are rejecting God's only begotten Son His only son that he sent to the sin-cursed earth to die for sinners, and you're saying no thanks to that supreme sacrifice? You are turning your back on the light of the world and choosing to remain in the darkness. You are despising and insulting his sacrifice for sinners. You are shutting your ears to the wonderful words of life. You are saying, no thanks. To the greatest gift imaginable, the gift of eternal life. And you are ignoring the command of God, the creator of all the universe. You are saying to him, and you're a little Puny, finite flesh. No, I will not. And you are insulting the very person who will judge you someday. Paul says in his great sermon on Mars Hill in the city of Athens that God has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a mock Man he has appointed. Well, who is that man? He gives the answer. The one he raised from the dead. Jesus Christ will be the judge of all humanity for all the ages. That means for everyone here this morning and everyone else in the earth, someday Jesus will be your judge. And when Jesus condemns you eternally for your unbelief , it will be seen by all to be a righteous judgment. We live in an age when it's very common for people to think that God is not just They see tragedy in the world and they say, I can't believe that God is really sovereign or that God is really good. He can't be both because look at this tragedy. He must not be able to control it or he's not really a good god. People get very upset and very offended by the very notion of the doctrine of hell, of the lake of fire, of eternal punishment. They anger people. Doesn't seem fair, doesn't seem just The punishment doesn't seem proportional to the transgression. Not to mention those who have never heard. Which I've addressed on other occasions, and I'm sure Lord willing will in the future. But I want you to know that when Jesus judges every human being And the books are open. And the truth that they have heard and the thoughts of their hearts are revealed. It will be abundantly evident to everyone that they are guilty as charged. That their condemnation is just, that God is rights. They may have been able to hide many things. They may have have not even conceived of the wickedness of their heart, but when it is really brought forth and all the evidence is laid out as it were, they will see that their condemnation is absolutely the only verdict Possible. So what about you this morning? What about those who might be here this morning In this church, in this place, that have heard the gospel repeatedly, but persist in unbelief. I want you to know that you are playing a very dangerous game. And that someday you must give an account. And unless you repent and believe the gospel, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who died on the cross, Will judge you, and he will condemn you, and his condemnation will be just And you will never be able to say, but I didn't know, I didn't hear, I didn't have these advantages. No, you had many advantages that many have never had. You are doubly condemned and guilty in his sight. And so I say, seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. Now I want to conclude with just a few points of application very quickly. All who reject Christ do not know God. We live in a world of pluralism, of tolerance People don't mind so much if you talk about God in a very generic sense, because most people claim to believe in some type of God. But when you talk about Jesus, people wince a little bit because now you're getting a little specific. But I want you to know. That the clear and unmistakable implication of what Jesus said here and elsewhere is that all religions and cults that deny that Jesus is the Son of God are false. That means that Hinduism, Buddhism, Islam, Judaism, Jehovah's Witnesses, Mormons, they're all false religions because they reject the Jesus who is presented in Scripture. This is very politically incorrect. It might make you upset But Jesus said, no one can come to the Father but by me. Your argument's not with me, it's with him. Jesus was sent to earth by his father on a mission of redemption. And so to reject the Son is to reject the ultimate revelation of the Father and the only Savior that He has provided. Number two, those who remain in the darkness have not truly come to light. There are millions and millions of Christians in this country and around the world Who are nominal Christians, that is, Christians in name only. They're cultural Christians. They might be able to quote to you John 3. 16 that they learned in Sunday school when they were kids. But they live like every other lost person. They have no heart affection for God. They have no desire to live a holy life. They struggle with all kinds of sins that they are in bondage to. But if you ask them, are you a Christian, they'll say, oh yeah, I'm a Christian. They're a cultural Christian, but on the great day when they stand before Christ, will there be evidence that they have truly been born again? You can't live in the darkness and say you're a child of light Too many preachers and their efforts to preach the pure gospel have omitted the doctrine of repentance. And in a desire to have large numbers of people come to Christ have left out The whole part about, oh, by the way, you can't continue to live in sin. You can't continue to live an immoral lifestyle. You can't continue to live under the bondage of addictions and greed and lust. And impurity. Those things are incompatible with the gospel. And so there are many people, millions of people, who think they're okay. But there's not one shred of evidence that there's ever been a change in their life. Thirdly, every human being will be judged by Jesus, the Son of God. We don't like to talk about the final judgment and the medieval ages All churches had big pictures of the last judgment to kind of frighten people. We live in a modern scientific age and we laugh at such notions that there is going to be a last judgment. They they think of those as ways they tried to keep people in line from living desolute and immoral lives. Oh, you're going to have to answer to God someday. Well guess what? You are going to have to answer to God someday. This is not some myth that people in the Middle Ages came up with. It's found repeatedly in the Word of God, and Jesus Christ will be your judge. And every human being will either be condemned because of his sin, or he will be declared to be righteous because he is found in Christ. has been imputed with his righteousness. And then finally, it's a very dangerous thing to respond to the preaching of the gospel and unbelief. I wonder if anyone on that day when Jesus made this final appeal responded by trusting in Jesus. We're not told. It'd be interesting to know. Maybe no one did. Maybe God was merciful and they heard the gospel again. On the day of Pentecost or after our Lord's resurrection, they said it really is true. Jesus is the Son of God, and they trusted in him. But undoubtedly, there were many people in the temple precincts that day that heard the gospel for the last time, and they never heard it again. And they would perish eternally. Because they remained in the darkness. They remained in unbelief. It could be because they never heard it. It could be because they died. It could be because their hearts became so rock hard that they never wanted to hear the gospel again I wonder if there's anyone here today that this will be the last time you hear the gospel. I am going to preach the gospel again, but maybe you won't come here. Or maybe you will die unexpectedly My friend, respond to the gospel. It's your only hope. Let's close in prayer. Father I pray that you would use your word, the words of our Savior The words that he spoke coming from his father, I pray that you would use that word to draw sinners to yourself today. And Father, that you would not allow anyone to leave here who is not right with you. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.