Give your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to Isaiah chapter 50? I wonder if you've ever had anyone show you great disrespect to insult you in an alarming way, perhaps to curse at you, to slap you. Not a pleasant experience. Different cultures express contempt in different ways. I remember a number of years ago. When George Bush was president, he was giving a press conference. Undoubtedly, those of you who are old enough remember this, and someone Threw their shoes at the president's head. They were Middle Eastern reporters, and their culture that was an expression of utter contempt. This morning we come to a passage which reflects the suffering of our Lord, specifically the contempt That he was shown by those who crucified him Every so often you'll hear in the news about a professional athlete that spits in the face of his opponent. So I think of the last twenty years I can think of this occurring in the world of football, basketball, and baseball. And whenever it occurs It produces a great response of outrage from society. Because everyone recognizes this is not an acceptable way to treat another human being. This morning, as we prepare to take communion, I want us to consider a prophecy of Isaiah that was given many hundreds of years before the death of Christ. That gives them specifics of the way Jesus would be treated. This passage is part of a series of passages in Isaiah that are known by scholars as the servant songs. They are poems embedded in the book of Isaiah that speak prophetically of Jesus' coming ministry. There are four such songs. They are found in Isaiah 42, 49, 50 And then the end of 52 into chapter 53, the most famous of those songs, of course. This morning I want us to consider some verses from the third of those four songs that's found here in Isaiah chapter 50. In the first three verses of this chapter, the Lord is complaining against the nation of Israel. Israel was not listening. To their God. His revelation was not received, despite the incredible power that he had demonstrated on their behalf. They would not receive the message that he sent by way of his prophets. And in this passage, beginning in verse 4, the Lord presents the truth that there's coming a day when he will send his ultimate prophet. His ultimate spokesman, the word of God Himself, the Lord Jesus Christ. Verse 4 is a beautiful verse. It says, the Lord Hath given me the tongue of the learned, that I should know how to speak a word in season to him that is weary. He wakeneth morning by morning, he wakeneth mine ear to hear. As the learned, there are many details here, many wonderful thoughts that I would like to give, but we don't have time for that this morning. These are the thoughts, the words of our Lord Jesus Christ coming to bring comfort and strength to people who are oppressed. We see him in this passage primarily as the suffering prophet The fact is that many Old Testament prophets suffered a great deal. Some were imprisoned, others were kicked out of the nation and exiled, and others were tortured and put to death. But the prophets were always honored long after they were dead. The Lord makes reference to this as the Stephen. Jesus would come as the ultimate prophet. In a recent message on the Sunday evening, we looked at this from Deuteronomy chapter 18. We do not need to wonder. Who is the subject of this prophecy? Who is the person that is being referred to here? It is clear to anyone who accepts the Bible as the Word of God that this is the Lord Jesus Christ. Because in Isaiah chapter, or excuse me, in Luke chapter 18, the Lord makes reference in an indirect way to this passage. In Luke chapter 18, I'd like to begin reading at verse 31, and we'll come back to Isaiah 50. It says, then he that is Jesus took unto him the twelve. And said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished. For he shall be delivered unto the Gentiles, and shall be mocked, and spitefully entreated, and spitted on. And they shall scourge him and put him to death. And the third day he shall rise again There are two specific prophecies that were mentioned in Isaiah 50 that the Lord reveals would be fulfilled in his own life in That statement to his disciples. So this morning I want to speak to you on a prophecy of Jesus' submission to his suffering. This passage reveals in a beautiful way the submission of our Lord to the suffering that he would face at the cross. The first thing I want you to notice is that the suffering of Christ was involuntary submission to his father. Look with me at Isaiah chapter 50 and verse 5. Jesus, remember, is essentially the one speaking here. The Lord God hath opened mine ear. And I was not rebellious, neither turned away back. This verse expresses the attitude of our Savior toward his suffering. It begins with this declaration, the Lord hath opened mine ear. It's an expression of submission on his part to hear and to do the word of the Lord. It's nearly parallel to that twice-repeated reference in verse 4 to the Lord wakening him. The attitude of the servant of Lord was reflected by those famous words of the prophet Samuel when he said, Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth. This was the continual attitude of the ultimate servant of the Lord, Jesus Christ. And in verse 5, we have here two parallel expressions. of his submission to his father. In verse 5, he says, I was not rebellious, neither turned away back. When Jesus says that he was not rebellious, he is said in contrast here to the nation of Israel. They were constantly rebelling against their covenant God. Though God had delivered them by a mighty arm from their bondage in Egypt and brought them through through many miracles, passing through the Red Sea, providing manna to them. Giving them light and guidance and protection. And then he brought them into the promised land and expelled their considerable adversaries. And yet they turned away from him again and again. They were constantly breaking God's law. And establishing kings who would turn away from God and setting up idols in their own homes and in their sacred shrines. They were a rebellious people. But the Son of God would not rebel. He would always do those things that were pleasing to his father. He was the perfect servant of the Lord. He did not rebel against his mission of redemption, and he did not resist the humiliation and degradation that would come with the cross. He said, I delight to do thy will, O my God. In John chapter 12 and verse 27, he says, Now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say, Father, save me from this hour? But for this cause came I unto this hour. And Jesus cried out in the garden of Gethsemane, Not my will, but thine be done. Jesus was not rebellious. He was completely submissive to his father's difficult will. And then it says in Isaiah 15, neither turned away back. This has the idea literally of shrinking back from doing the will of God. The Hebrew word behind this expression was sometimes used to convey the idea of apostasy of finally falling away from the Lord. But the servant of the Lord would not fall away, but perfectly fulfill his Father's will. But doing the Father's will would not be easy. In fact, it was unthinkably difficult. It involved not only death But degradation. It involved the death of the cross. Look with me at verse 6. Jesus says, I gave my back to the smiters, and my cheeks to them that plucked off the hair. I hid not my face from shame And spitting. What an amazing verse that is. One of the most amazing verses in the Old Testament predicting the suffering of our Lord. How did Jesus cope with that coming crisis? I'm not going to preach from this verse, but we have this beautiful expression in verse 7. Notice how again these are the words of our Lord prophetically, for the Lord God will help me. Therefore shall I not be confounded. Therefore have I set my face like a flint, and I know that I shall not be ashamed. We have a beautiful revelation of how he studied himself with such a difficult prospect ahead of him. He had reassured himself with notice the presence of God and the promises of God. By the way, this is a great verse for us to meditate on when we are facing what seems to be an impossible challenge. And we just don't think that there's any way we can actually do what God has called us to do, this would be a wonderful verse for us to consider. Now I want you to notice that there are two parallel phrases in verse 6. This is Hebraic thought, the use of synonymous parallelism. to emphasize a truth. And I want you to notice that these emphasize the voluntary nature of our Lord's suffering. Notice what it says. He says, I gave my back, and I gave my cheeks, and I hid not my face. These verbs express a conscious and willing submission to suffering on the part of our Savior. This is contrary to our human nature. This defies our natural reaction. But Jesus gave himself to this degradation. It's important for us to understand that our Lord's death and suffering was not something that happened to him apart from his will. Sometimes preachers, devotional writers, and poets Give the impression that Jesus somehow was a helpless victim. But the Bible teaches the exact opposite. In the prophecies of the Old Testament, in the record of the Gospels, and in the explanation by the Apostles, we consistently read that Jesus' brutal murder was something that he willingly consented to. Jesus was not a victim of a corrupt judicial system. No, he voluntarily laid down his life. This is brought out And a great chapter in the New Testament. Why don't you keep a finger here in Isaiah 15 and turn with me to John chapter 10? I want you to notice just in this one chapter how often this is mentioned. This is the chapter that speaks of Christ as the good shepherd. John chapter 10. And verse 11, please. Jesus says, I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. Now look with me ahead to verse 15. As the Father knoweth me, even so know I the Father, and I lay down my life. For the sheep. Now look with me at verse 17. Therefore doth my father love me, because I lay down my life that I might take it again. No man taketh it from me But I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my Father. So I think it's crystal clear here that Jesus' death was something that he consented to. It was voluntary. It was submission to his father's will. Jesus could have instantly stopped the torture and degradation that he experienced. In fact, Jesus says something to this effect. In Matthew 26 and verse 53, he says to Peter, Thinkest thou that I cannot now pray to my Father, and he shall presently give me more than twelve legions of angels? The songwriter was correct when he wrote, he could have called 10,000 angels to destroy the world and set him free. But he didn't stop it because this was the will of his father. This was his plan of redemption. This is the only way that sinners like us could be redeemed. But what did Christ endure for us? Now I want us to focus our attention more specifically on verse 6. There are three acts of brutality that are specifically mentioned in this verse. We have flogging, the plucking out of his beard. And him being spit upon. What is most amazing about Jesus' shameful treatment is that he is the only innocent man who ever lived This is what makes it all the more stark and alarming. He is the one who fed the hungry, who healed the sick. And opened the eyes of the blind and the ears of the deaf, and cast out demons, darkness, and death. And yet he was despised and rejected of men. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. Now these three hate-filled acts mentioned in verse 6 all have two things in common. First of all, they were the way criminals were commonly treated by those in authority. Today we have many laws protecting criminals from abuse. But in the ancient world this was not the case. And Jesus here was being treated as the ultimate criminal, a man who was condemned to die, a man who no longer deserved to be protected by the rule of law. And how these actions taken on him by his captors reveal the depravity of the heart of man Most people in the world today think that people are essentially good, kind , loving. We see expressions of this even at this time of year when people generously give to charities and volunteer in very place in various places to help those who are less fortunate. And that's a good thing. But make no mistake about it, man is not essentially good. The darkness and the depravity of the human heart is in large part hidden from us because of the constraints of society and the rule of law. So much that people would do, they do not do. But when there is a portion of our nation that experiences a great disaster, Or whenever there is a blackout and one of our major cities has no power and no surveillance, you see true human nature show itself. And when a human being is defenseless, or at least is thought to be defenseless, and has no law protecting that person The hatred of humanity comes on prominent display. And that is what we see here in the way our Lord was treated. Second thing that these have in common, these three actions, is that they were designed to humiliate and shame a person. The idea was that physical torture was not enough. There must also be psychological pain inflicted on the condemned. His was a costly obedience. Let me briefly note what our Lord endured for us. We first of all have this reference: I gave my back. To the smiters. This is a reference to scourging or flogging. Both Matthew and Mark record that Jesus was scourged. This would have been done in public so that people could watch. It was to act as a deterrent to those who wished to follow a life of crime, but it was also done in public to embarrass Those who were in great pain and would cry out and beg for mercy. The slogging was very painful. There were some in ancient times who said that it was better to die than to be scourged. The Romans, we know from the writings of the day, referred to it as the halfway death. Indeed, people did die from this flogging. The whip was known as a flagrum. It consisted of a wooden handle to which were attached several leather thongs, and at the end of these thongs were pieces of metal and jagged animal bones and other heavy and sharp objects. And the result was that when this whip was used, the flesh was torn open, and there was much bruising and bleeding. And this whipping was done by a professional man who was strong and skilled and knew how to inflict the maximum amount of damage. The Bible tells us in the fourth servant song that by his stripes we are healed. The next torture we read in this prophecy is the tearing out of Jesus' beard. This accent is not specifically recorded in the four gospels. I remember many years ago a lady told me that she was having trouble finding that in the gospel record. And so I took my Bible and went through Matthew's account and Mark's account and Luke's account and John's account and it wasn't there. And then I remembered that it was a prophecy from Isaiah chapter 50. This, of course, would be painful, but the primary intent of this action was not to hurt, but to humiliate. It was an expression of profound disrespect. In the Middle East, still today, almost all men have beards. It's a symbol of manhood. It's symbolic of his dignity and standing as a man in their community. The rabbis we know would often swear by their beard. The Muslims still do today. And if so, if you wanted to disgrace a man, you would shave his beard. We see An historic example of this in the life of David in 2 Samuel chapter 10. We read of the Ammonite king who foolishly disgraced David's diplomats by, among other things, shaving off half of their beards. And you may recall that David told them to wait until their beards were fully grown back, because he would not have his diplomats appear in public with half a beard. But Jesus did not have his beard shaved off. It was plucked out by the roots. And then thirdly, we read him say, I hid not my face from shame and spitting. To spit in someone's face was to show absolute contempt. It's a very personal insult. Those of us living in the West in the 21st century, perhaps we would think of the danger of germs being spread. We are very sensitive to these things. But the significance of this act was it was symbolic of a curse. It was cursing someone. In the Old Testament, we read of two situations when spitting was done intentionally. In Numbers chapter 12, in verse 14, we read that if a daughter brought shame upon the family name, her father would spit in her face, and she would be shut out of the household for seven days. We read of another case of this in Deuteronomy chapter 25 and verse 9. If a brother failed to marry his deceased brother's wife and continue the family name as the law prescribed. He was publicly humiliated by having the widow take off his shoe and spit in his face. This was intended to demonstrate shame. And to disgrace this man who had refused to fulfill his family obligations. And Jesus endured the shameful act on at least two occasions. Turn with me to the Gospel of Matthew, the first gospel, Matthew chapter 26. And verse sixty-seven This is after his trial before Caiaphas, the high priest. Verse 67 says briefly, then did they spit in his face and buffeted him And others smote him with the palms of their hands. But this was not the last time that he would be treated this way. Turn with me to the next chapter, Matthew 27. Matthew 27 verse 30. This takes place after one of the trials before Pilate. Verse 29. And when they had platted a crown of thorns, they put it upon his head and a reed in his right hand. And they bowed the knee before him, mocked him, saying, Hail King of the Jews! And they spit upon him, and took the reed and smote him on the head. We see that Jesus was repeatedly subjected to this humiliating treatment. Why did Jesus have to die in such a humiliating and shameful way? The Bible answers that question. In Isaiah chapter 53. Would you turn with me to Isaiah 53? Do you remember me saying that there were four servant songs? We've been looking this morning at the third. of those servant songs. This is the fourth. And it's in this fourth servant song that we find the answer to that question, why did Jesus have to die like this? I want to begin reading At verse 1, Who hath believed our report? And to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant. And as a root out of a dry ground, and he hath no form nor comeliness, and when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows. And acquainted with grief, and we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. We see here in these first three verses the rejection, the wholesale rejection of the Messiah by the people. And then in verse 4 we come to this next stanza which gives us this answer. Surely he hath borne our Greece. and carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities, the chastisement of our peace. was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity. of us all. Skip down to verse 10. Further explanation. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief. And when thou shalt make a soul an offering for sin, for he shall see his seed and shall prolong his day, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand Verse 11. He shall see of the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many For he shall bear their iniquities. You see, Jesus was bearing the shameful disgrace that you and I so rightly deserved. I mentioned that spitting in the face was symbolic of the curse The fact is that because of our sin, we are under the curse of God. We deserved that treatment. We deserve to be humiliated and disgraced for our sin. Because sin is the most shameful thing in the universe. You see, our sin is not a harmless mistake, but a disgraceful affront to our holy God. It is to sin against our Maker and Redeemer, to assault the majesty of God, and to spit in his face. But while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. The hymn writer had it correct. When he wrote, Bearing shame and scoffing rude, in my place condemned he stood, sealed my pardon with his blood. Hallelujah What a Savior. I hope that you can say that from the depths of your heart. That that truth resonates in your soul That when you consider the death of Christ in your place, your heart cries out, hallelujah, what a savior.