Give your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to John chapter 13 In 1878, William Booth's Salvation Army was beginning to make its mark on the world, and men and women from all over the world were inspired to enlist. One man who enlisted was named Samuel Bringle. He was a pastor of a church here in America. And he resigned his church, crossed the Atlantic to join with Booth in Great Britain. But William Booth was not convinced that Samuel was perhaps the kind of man that could really be used there at the Salvation Army. He said to him, You've been your boss for too long. And so to instill humility into him, he gave him the job of cleaning the boots of the other trainees. Discouraged, Samuel Bringle said to himself, have I followed my dream for nothing to go and serve the Lord? But then he remembered that Jesus washed the feet of fishermen. And so he was content in that lowly task. And in time He was promoted and became an indispensable help to William Booth and the Salvation Army. This morning we're continuing our study of John by looking at this beautiful example of love and humility of our Savior as he washes the disciples' feet. This is only found in John's Gospel. Let me remind you that this takes place on the night before our Lord's crucifixion. It's Thursday evening. They're in the upper room. They're celebrating their last Passover together. And the Lord is about to open his heart to them in ways that he has never done before. This is traditionally known as the upper room or farewell discourse. But before the Lord speaks from his heart, he is going to correct Something that has bothered him in the three years that he's had these disciples and even this very night. He's going to really Live out a parable, act out a parable before them, because sometimes actions speak louder than words This act of washing the disciples' feet has been called the greatest sermon on humble service ever delivered. It's really a picture of the incarnation. Scholars over the years have lined up the actions of Jesus that are recorded here with the different phrases that are found in that famous Kenosis passage in Philippians chapter 2. Where it says that he emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. And they have noted that there is real parallelism there. That what he did in girding on that towel and washing their feet and ministering to them was really a picture of his entire incarnation. But we know that the primary message in this is the Lord is teaching his disciples about the importance of humble service. And all preachers are thankful whenever the passage itself interprets itself, and that's exactly what we have in John 13, because later in this chapter, Jesus explains this to them. The reality is that if you looked at all of our Lord's dealings and interactions with his disciples and all four gospels, you would find that in his private dealings with them, the lesson that he brings to their minds most often is the importance of humility. He says often to them, the first shall be last, and the last shall be first. He tells them that the way it works in his kingdom is not that you use your position to serve yourself. He says that's the way it is in the world. But in my kingdom People use their position of power to serve other people, not to be served by other people. But despite the frequency of his teaching to his disciples, they failed to grasp this because they're very much like us. Luke chapter 22 gives us some helpful background on this. We find that there was an ugly demonstration of selfishness on this very night. On this sacred evening, when they gathered to celebrate the Passover, listen to these words. A dispute also arose among them as to which of them was to be regarded as the greatest. And he said to them, the kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and those in authority over them are called benefactors, but not so with you. Rather let the greatest among you become as the youngest and the leader as one who serves. For who is greater, the one who reclines at table or the one who serves Is it not the one who reclines at table? But I am among you as one who serves. And although we can't be dogmatic about the order of events, I think it's very likely that after he said that I'm among you as one who serves, that he got up, put that towel around his waist. and began to wash their feet. Just imagine the awkward silence and the burning sense of shame as Jesus, their teacher, their Lord, washes their feet. There are multiple lessons that are found here, but I want you to look with me at John 13 and verse 12. Notice how Jesus interprets these actions. It says, and when he had washed their feet and put on his outer garments and resumed his place, he said to them, Do you understand what I have done to you? You call me teacher and Lord, and you are right, for so I am. If I then your Lord and teacher have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet For I have given you an example that you also should do just as I have done to you. Jesus was modeling Christian servanthood for his followers. He was showing them what a real servant of God looks like in action. This is a lesson that we desperately need to hear. Because we live in a culture and in a time that exhorts us to look out for ourselves. That tells us that we should consider our own well-being, certainly before we would consider the well-beings of others. That we should defend ourselves, that we should stand up for our rights. Because if you don't stand up for yourself, the world says no one else will stand up for you. And it's very easy when we hear these things for them to permeate our thinking and even our actions. But I want you to know that Jesus tells us the exact opposites. We are to serve God by serving others. So let me ask you, are you serving others like Jesus Christ? If you're here this morning and you would call yourself a follower of Christ, a believer, I want you to know that every follower of Christ should possess the traits. And I want to point out three of those traits that are found in our passage this morning. The first one is this: a Christ-like servant must be motivated. Look with me at John 13, verse 1. Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour had come, To depart out of this world of the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, He loved them to the end This is the way John is introducing this act of washing the disciples' feet because it was preeminently a manifestation of our Lord's love for his people. Later this night, Jesus would say, Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. And Jesus would do that the very next day when he would die on an old rugged cross. So I want us to see here that we should love other believers the same way that Christ loved his disciples. There are two examples of selfishness that took place in the upper room that night. One I've already mentioned to you. There was a dispute, and although it does not say. . . The exact impetus for this dispute, it's very likely that it had to do with the seating arrangements. They wanted the seat of honor. They wanted to be next to Jesus. Because it conveyed their status, their importance. And so they were arguing about who should be on his right hand and who should be on his left. and so forth. And so there was a dispute among them. They wanted to be next to the king because they felt that perhaps his kingdom has just about come And they wanted to be there to be reigning with him at his right and his left hand. They had entirely forgotten that Jesus had taught them numerous times The first shall be last and the last shall be first. And then the second example of selfishness Was that no one stepped forward to wash the disciples' feet? This was something that was expected In a social setting. But no one did this. There was a town of basin that was provided. It was there in the corner, probably the person who loaned this room to them or rented this room, the space to them, provided that, but no one stepped forward to do this act. And Jesus is going to condemn them for this. In verse 14, he says to them, if I then your Lord and teacher have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. You see, they should have been fighting to be the first one to get to that basin and towel and wash one another's feet, but that's not the way it played out. No one wanted to stoop to do this lowly task. Jesus has called them to love one another, and they have failed. miserably. He's going to tell them later in this very night, if you look with me at John 13 verse 34, he says, a new commandment I give to you that you love one another. Just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. So this first point I'm trying to establish this, that love should be the motive Behind all of our service for the Lord. Our love for Him, first of all, and then our love for the people that we minister to. In fact If you serve the Lord without a heart of love, the Bible tells us that it counts For nothing. This is exactly what Paul says in that famous love chapter in 1 Corinthians chapter 13. He says If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. And if I have prophetic powers and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, And if I have all faith so as to remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing. If I give away all I have, and if I deliver up my body to be burned, but have not love, I gain nothing. I wonder if we really believe that. Because I think that in many cases we would think in our minds, well. You know, I may not enjoy it. I may grumble and complain about it. But as long as I'm faithful and serving the Lord, I think He is very glad to receive whatever help he can get. But I want you to know that the Lord can get along without you just fine. And the reality is If you do not serve him out of a heart of love, it's worthless. You might have spectacular gifts, and we have a lot of gifted people in this church. You might be able to sing beautifully. You might be able to play musical instruments in a very skillful way. You may be able to speak and teach the word of God. in a powerful way. But if you are not doing it out of a heart of love for the Lord and for the people you minister to, God says it is worthless. You might dedicate yourself to be a missionary and leave the comforts of the United States of America and go to some place where it's dirty and it's dangerous and you take your family there. And as commendable as that is, if you don't do it out of a heart of love, it's worthless, God says. Perhaps you don't go to the mission field, but let's say that God has blessed you and you have many finances, and so you give a large sum of money for the dissemination of the gospel to the ends of the earth, but if you don't do it as an act of worship out of a heart of love, I don't care how large the figure is, God says it's worthless. Our ministry must be motivated by love. But now look with me at verse 2. During supper, when the devil had already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him. I know this is an incomplete thought. But I want to extract this from this. Why does John mention Judas right after he's just talked about the Lord and his heart of love? Let me give you three reasons that scholars have come up with, and I think that they're all correct. Number one, we see a powerful contrast between the hatred of Judas and the love of Christ. It's like when jewelers want to show the brilliance of a diamond, they put it on a black cloth. And the black cloth here is Judas Iscariot, who has already conspired and betrayed to betray his Lord this very night. Secondly, I think it's included here because John is preparing the reader for the betrayal that's about to occur. But third, I think it also implies that Jesus washed the feet of Judas Iscariot. Now, I don't have a verse for this. I cannot prove it beyond a shadow of a doubt. But that is the logical conclusion when you think about it. If Jesus went down around that table and washed the disciples' feet and then he skipped over Judas, wouldn't that be suspicious? Wouldn't people say, oh, what does he know about Judas that I don't know? And later that night, when Jesus reveals to them just a matter of moments, when he says, one of you will betray me. We would expect them to say, Lord, is it Judas? But that's not what they say. They say, Lord, is it I? You see, we know about Judas every time we open our New Testaments and we encounter his name. But they trusted Judas. They had high respect for Judas. That is why he was the treasurer, and that is why he had a position right next to the Savior. Because he had great respect in the eyes of the other disciples So Jesus, the Lord of glory, washes the man who in a few moments is going to go out to make arrangements to betray him. Jesus perfectly lived out what he told his disciples. Love your enemies, do good to those who curse you, pray for those who abuse you. And what Jesus is revealing here, a wonderful example, is that Christian people can demonstrate love even to the most oppressive enemies. Richard Warmbrand tells some amazing stories of Christian persecution behind the Iron Curtain He tells them one occasion of a guard who tortured and treated Christians horribly who fell out of favor with the authorities, and they decided that a fit way to punish him was to throw him in with the Christians because they assumed the Christians would savagely savagely beat him and kill him. But to their amazement, that's not what the Christians did. Though this man had done Horrible things to them and their loved ones. They treated him with kindness. They gave him some of their own food. They gave him garments to warm him and they loved him and showed the love of Christ. And he was astounded. And so was everyone there at that camp. These people were following the example of Christ and showing love even to enemies. The second trait that we see in our passage here is that a Christ-like servant must serve others with humility. with humility. I want you to notice that we must serve others no matter what our status might be. Look with me at verse 3 Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands and that he had come from God and was going back to God and then rose from supper. This verse is inserted by John to heighten the amazing act of humility that follows. In case we have forgotten who Jesus is, John reminds us, he is the one who has all authority. He is the one who has existed for all eternity He is the one who is the God man who will return to his heavenly home. And the point John is making is very clear. If the incarnate Son of God could stoop to serve others in such a demeaning way, then certainly none of us is exempt from any service. This is precisely the way he will interpret his actions. As I remind you again of what he says in verse 14, if I then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet. You also ought to wash one another's feet. And we see here that we must serve one another no matter how demeaning the task I'm going to take a moment just to give you some background on this because our context, our culture, our times are very different from the first century in Judea. Most roads, most paths were not paved. People did not have cars You walked where you wanted to go. And most people wore sandals. And so you didn't have to walk very far before your feet were covered with dust. Let me remind you that Israel has a much drier climate than we do. So there's lots of dust in Israel. So when people went to a major social function like a Passover feast, they would bathe before they went, they would dress in proper attire, and they would walk to that social gathering. But as they would walk, their feet would get dusty and dirty. It was impossible for this not to happen And so it was customary to always have a servant on hand who would wash the feet of the guests as they entered into the place where they would celebrate the Passover. But there was no such servant here. No provision had been made. This was considered the lowest and most menial task. that a slave could perform. In fact, the Jewish Talmud instructed that Jewish slaves should not do this. Only unclean Gentile slaves should do this because it was such a low, demeaning thing. And so Jesus does the most demeaning task in their culture that was imaginable. Their eating arrangements were also very different from ours. They would not eat at a dining room table like you do with table and chairs. They had a low-lying table, maybe a foot off the ground. And you would recline on your left elbow, and they had a cushion made just for that, and you would cushion your elbow as you leaned on that, and your feet would be out away from the table, not under the table, because the feet were considered unclean and therefore they were away from the food. When my wife and I went over to Israel in 2011, We we had a meal sort of like that, and it was the most uncomfortable meal I've ever had in my life. And I was just like, I'm so glad I'm an American, you know It was not a comfortable posture to eat in. But this is the way they would do this. And so when Jesus came to wash their feet, It's not like he had to get under the table or something. Their feet were all away from the table and very easy for him to access. Now I want you to notice how John is so detailed in his description of what happens. In verses 4 and 5, he records seven details of this event. Notice them. He rises from supper, laid aside his outer garment, picked up the linen towel, wrapped it around his waist, poured water into a basin. He washed the disciples' feet and he dried their feet with a towel. Why does John provide all this precise detail? There's nothing else in his gospel. That he provides so much detailed information for, except for the washing of the disciples' feet. What are we to make of this? Well, one thing we know for certain is that John was an eyewitness. He saw this himself. And let me add something else. All the verbs here are not in the past tense, which of course it had happened many decades earlier when John wrote these words. But he uses present tense verbs like it's happening right now, and he does that because he wants his readers to picture this, to visualize this before their eyes. Jesus washing the disciples' feet, and this was an event that John would never forget. It was etched into his mind. It was a lesson that he could never, ever forget. And what we see here is that a Christian servant must be willing to do unpleasant tasks. We should not think to ourselves, well, I'm a person of status, I'm a person of authority, I'm a person with this position, therefore, these things are beneath me. The Christian gospel tells us that is wrong thinking. In the church environment, there are always unpleasant things to do. There are diapers to be changed. There are toilets to be cleaned. There are fallen disciples who need to be confronted. And none of us are ever too important to get our hands dirty. A Christ-like servant must be motivated by love and must serve in humility. And thirdly, a Christ-like servant must serve in purity. The heart of this passage revolves around our Lord's conversation with Peter. Look with me. At verses five and six. Then he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with a towel that was wrapped around him. He came to Simon Peter, who said to him, Lord, do you wash my feet? As Jesus was washing the disciples' feet, there was an awkward silence in the room. Do you know what it is to hear awkward silence? When something happens and everyone is absolutely quiet, and it's because it's an awkward situation. Everyone remains quiet until Jesus comes to the feet of Peter. And Peter can't stay quiet. Peter is going to say what everyone else is thinking And the emphasis in this statement is on the pronouns. You wash my feet And Peter recognizes that this doesn't seem appropriate. This doesn't seem right. This is not the way things should be, and we should, in a sense, commend Peter for having that sense. So there's one in Peter's column, but on the other hand, he's rebuking the Lord, which is not a good thing. He was too humble, in a sense, to have his feet washed, but he was also too proud to have his feet washed at the same time. And then in verse 7, Jesus responds to Peter this way, what I am doing, you do not understand now. But afterward you will understand. And this is probably a reference to what we find elsewhere in the Gospel of John, that after our Lord's death and resurrection and his ascension, and then the day of Pentecost when the Spirit comes down. The disciples would understand much more of our Lord's actions, including Peter and including what happened that night in the upper room. But notice how Peter's protest continues in verse 8. Peter said to him, you shall never wash my feet. A very strong statement. Peter uses a double negative in the Greek text. And in English, when we use two negatives together, it makes a positive. It's not like that in most languages in the world. And so it could be rendered something like, you will never, ever wash my feet. He's being very strong and very emphatic and dogmatic in this statement. And the Lord responds and says, if I do not wash you, you have no share with me. Now the Lord is turning the conversation to a spiritual illustration. Jesus obviously is not saying that if you have your feet washed, you are saved. Because he is going to wash Judas' feet. And Judas was not a true follower of Christ. Notice What he says in verses 10 and following, you are all clean, but not every one of you, for he knew who was to betray him. That is why he said, not all of you are clean. John didn't understand what Jesus meant by that at the time, but years later he understood. Ah, he was talking about Judas. So what is Jesus getting at here? When he says the word share here, it's talking about having a part with him or being a part of his group or one 's inheritance. And what Jesus is alluding to here is there must be a washing that a person experiences. in order for them to become part of the Lord's people and receive the inheritance of eternal life. He's referring to his atonement that he would make the very next day when he would die on the cross. The Bible uses God 's saving work in this way sometimes. In 1 Corinthians 6. 11, it says when Paul lists what the Corinthian believers used to be, describes them primarily as being idolatrous people and immoral people. And he says, and such were some of you. Notice he doesn't say such are some of you. But such were some of you, but you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. And he says to Peter, if you're not washed, then you're not a part of my people. You're not a part of the true disciples of Christ. Now Jesus is going to make a distinction here. In verse 10, he says, notice Notice what he says here. Jesus said to him, the one who has bathed does not need to wash except for his feet, but is completely clean. And the analogy is this, when a person was going to a major event, they would take a bath, as I said, and they would walk there and their feet would get dirty. But when they came to their guest home to celebrate the Passover, They didn't say, hey, listen, I need a place where I can take a bath. No, they don't need a bath because the only part of their bodies that is dirty is their feet. They just need their feet washed, and then they're completely clean. So what is the spiritual meaning here? Well, Jesus is going to talk about Christians service. And the fact is that to really serve Him, we must be in fellowship with God. To serve him effectively. This is true of all Christians. We should have a desire to be in fellowship with God. We don't have to get saved. Take a bath every time we sin. If that were the case, in a literal sense, we would be taking baths all the time. Sometimes Christians, there's some groups that have been mistaken and they think that when we sin we lose our salvation, so we have to get resaved. The Bible does not teach that. When we sin, we do not lose our salvation, but we lose that sense of being near to God, that fellowship That makes the Christian life so filled with joy. We lose that. And so we must, as it were, have our feet washed or wash our feet. Now let me be clear about this. The Bible is not teaching us that we must be practically perfect in order to serve the Lord. Sometimes people get this confused in their minds, and so they never serve the Lord because they say, I'm not, I'm not holy enough, I'm not worthy enough, I haven't risen to that really high level. in order to serve the Lord. So they just don't serve the Lord at all. And I want you to know that we are all works in progress. We all come short of the glory of God. I've heard preachers in the past in my youth that would say that God will not use an unclean vessel. And they take this from some comments in 2 Timothy chapter 2, which I will not take the time to look there. But then I would think of people like a man named Samson. Have you ever heard of Samson? Was he an outstanding, spiritually mature man? No, he was not. God used him a great deal to defeat his enemies. But there's a sense in which God was not glorified because he was not walking in fellowship with the Lord's. God can draw a straight line with a crooked stick. And you should never reverse this. I've also heard in my youth, sometimes if someone had a large ministry or Lots of people were getting saved from their ministry, they would assume that person must be a very, very, very holy person. And then they might find some time later that there was some scandal taking place all along. And yet all these people were saved, and this church was thriving, was growing. How can that be? It's because God's gospel is the power of God into salvation that everyone believes. And God can even speak through a donkey. Right? It's the gospel that saves not people. But having said that God delights to use pure vessels that are very well aware of their flaws and their mistakes, but they are seeking And they are walking in fellowship with the Lord, and they're relying on the Spirit of God and not their flesh to serve the Lord's. So how do we maintain fellowship with God? Well, the scriptures point to at least two ways. John, who wrote this gospel, also wrote some epistles, and I want to ask you if you can quickly to turn to the very back of your New Testament, the book of 1 John, chapter 1. Verses 6 through 9. It answers this very question I just asked. How can a believer who is very well aware that we fall and we sin all the time, how can we maintain fellowship with God? 1 John 1 verse 6 says this, if we say we have fellowship with Him, while we walk in darkness we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. Now look at verse 9. If we confess our sins. He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. The word confess means at its root to agree with God. When the Holy Spirit of God convicts you what you said was wrong What do you do? How do you respond? That's no big deal. No, you say you're right, Lord. What I said was wrong. And that might mean that you need to speak to someone that you said those words to, or maybe you just need to speak to the Lord if it really wasn't saying to anyone, but just thinking it. The point is, is that we are to, as it were, wash our feet on a regular basis. to confess our sins so that we have that fellowship with the Lord once more. We should, the Puritan said, keep short accounts with God. We we understand this right. We we live in a culture where we have credit and debt and some people keep very long accounts, right? They've gone a long time without paying their bills. And they get hounded by creditors and others. It's a horrible way to live. But many people live that way spiritually They don't ever go to the Lord. They only pray about things they want, but they never confess their sins. They never say, God, forgive me of this. They never They never seek to turn from it or repent it. They just dismiss it and don't think about it and don't worry about it. And therefore, they don't enjoy any real fellowship with God. They don't worship him and serve him in spirit and in truth. Because that fellowship has been hindered by their sins that they don't confess to God, they don't acknowledge. Another way is we must let the word of God wash us. John's going to say a little bit later in this Same night he's going to say, already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken to you. In Ephesians 5, 26, that great passage on marriage, it speaks of the washing of water with the word. Do you know what it is to have the word of God cleanse you? This is a good reason why it would be very helpful for you to read the Word of God daily. To let the Word of God cleanse you and remind you of what you believe and what God has said. Strengthen your faith. Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. And if you're not much of a reader, Because of technology, you can listen to the audible versions of the Word of God very, very easily on your commutes. At the beginning of the day, at the end of the day, you can hear and listen carefully to the word of God and let it wash you. And you can put yourself under the sound of good gospel preaching. There are literally millions of sound gospel sermons online that you can listen to. You can listen to a sermon every day if you want to. And let the word of God strengthen you and wash you. It's been said before. 100 years ago, people would often write in the front of their Bibles when they gave it to someone else these words, Sin will keep you from this book, or this book will keep you from sin. And it is true. Let me quickly conclude. Let me ask you a pointed question. Have you ministered? Have you served the Lord by ministering to others this week? Have you served the Lord by ministering to others this week? Or this month? Or further back? It's very easy for us to become so concentrated and so focused on our own problems and our own needs and our own desires and our own jobs That we live like an island where we don't really support and help and minister to others. But if we're going to be like Christ , We will serve the Lord by serving others, which means we will do it out of a heart of love. We will do it humbly. And we will do it with a pure heart. So are you serving the Lord out of a heart of love? You know one way you can tell? And I'm preaching something that at times has condemned me. And that is when you serve others and you just complain about it. Oh. People are impossible. And you're so frustrated with them and trying to minister these people, and they're just unreasonable They keep messing up. Why don't they grow up? When do they mature? God is not pleased when we serve him with a complaining spirit. We need to do it out of a heart of love. And we need to serve the Lord humbly. You know what that means? That means that we don't need people to pat us on the back or applaud us or commend us. The other people who do things in this church that 99% of you don't know anything about, but they serve the Lord. They do tasks behind the scenes, and no one ever sees it or knows about it or perhaps commends them for it. For the Lord sees, and the Lord knows. And that's enough for them. And are you serving the Lord while walking in fellowship with Him? You know, the most miserable person in the world is a person who is truly a child of God, but they're clinging to idols and they're living in sin and they're miserable because the Spirit of God is convicting them and they feel really bad about it, but they keep doing it. And they they don't have the pleasures of the world like a lost person does who 's the Spirit of God doesn't bother them at all. But they also don't have the fellowship and the joy of the Spirit either because they're walking in disobedience. And so they're just a miserable human being. Why would you live that way? And one final thought. If you've been selectively listening this morning, I want you to know that this is not a call for you to be nice to others. It's much, much, much, much deeper than that. And if you're here And you don't know the gospel, and you don't know what the Lord Jesus Christ has done, I want you to think, ask yourself this: this. Have you been washed by the blood of Jesus? Because Jesus said, if you have not been washed, you have no part with me. If you have not been born again. If you've not repented of your sins and put your trust in Christ, you can never serve the Lord. You can never be an example to others. You can never really, really be a blessing to others. Because you don't know the Lord. Why don't you seek him today? Trust in him today. This is the only way to follow our Savior Let's close in prayer. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for the example of our Savior. Help us, Father, to respond in faith to what we have heard this morning. And for those who might be here who are lost in their sins, I pray that they would not leave here without repenting of their sins and trusting in Christ alone. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.