Of your Bibles, please, would you join me in the passage that we read a moment ago? John chapter 7. G. Campbell Morgan, a famous preacher from the early 20th century. Tells a story of a pastor who went to a famous English actor named McCready. This pastor said to him, I have a question for you, sir. Why is it That people flock to hear you every night when you portray some fictional story to them. And yet when I preach the everlasting truth of God, very few people come to hear me. The actor responded, the answer is simple, sir. I present fiction as though it were truth, while you present the truth as though it were fiction. I think this might be part of the answer as to why people flock to hear our Lord. He not only spoke the truth, he embodied the truth, whereas the religious leaders of his day Tended to be hypocrites and not speak with authority. Today we continue our study of John by considering an incident that occurred at the Feast of Tabernacles. This feast was held in the fall and September-October timeframe. And it celebrated God's faithfulness and providing for his people during the wilderness wanderings and also in the yearly harvest. It is called the Feast of Tabernacles or Booths because traditionally the people would live in temporary shelters during this week. Remembering what it was like when they first left Egypt and were in the wilderness. If you were with us last week , You know that Jesus was invited by his brothers to attend this feast and to travel with them, but Jesus declined that invitation because They had other goals than he did. He did go to the feast. He left later and he came privately, not in any caravan. And in verse 14, we find the setting for this new paragraph, this new incident in the city of Jerusalem. It says, and about the middle of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and began teaching. The Feast of Tabernacles lasted for eight days And so this would have been around the fourth day. It's likely that Jesus had just arrived the night before, and now he goes in the morning to the temple precincts to teach. It might raise a question in your mind, if Jesus was trying to keep a low profile, then why did he go to the very center of the celebration and speak? I think that Jesus traveled privately because he was trying to avoid something like the triumphal entry from occurring on this occasion. There would be a triumphal entry during the week where Christ was crucified about six months later, but it was not his hour yet. And if he traveled with the Galilean pilgrims, they may indeed have marched into Jerusalem like a conquering hero. And that was not what he was seeking to accomplish. He was seeking to do the will of his father. But Jesus did get up and teach, even though the religious authorities were conspiring to murder him, because he was the bravest man who ever lived. And he would do the will of his Father. Now, what we have in this paragraph is the interaction between Jesus and the people who have come to this feast. And it all centers around Jesus' identity. That is, remember, the big question that John is seeking to answer in this gospel. Who is Jesus? And what he wants to convince his readers is that Jesus is the Christ, the Messiah, the Son of God. At the very heart of this discussion that we have in our paragraph this morning is, does Jesus have the right or the authority to teach In the temple and to heal on the Sabbath. The religious leader said aloud no to both questions. But Jesus is going to defend his authority and his credentials, and he's going to demonstrate that indeed he does have the authority and the right to do this. Now, why should this historic incident that took place nearly 2,000 years ago have any interest for us? The answer is because the great question still before humanity is, who is Jesus? Is he just a good man? Was he just a great teacher? Was he simply a miracle worker? Or was he who he claimed to be the Son of God, God and flesh, the Savior of the world, the one who died for sinners, our only hope of redemption? So what do you think of Jesus? Your answer is very, very important because it will determine your eternal destiny. I want to speak to you on Jesus defending his credentials before the people, and I want us to see that everyone should consider the unique claims of Jesus. I have two big points that I want to make this morning. That are found in the first and second half of this paragraph. The first one is this: Jesus is the true teacher of God's word. Jesus is the true teacher of God's word. Around the massive structure of Herod's temple, there were several courtyards. And it was traditional for rabbis to teach outdoors in these courtyards where people would gather. This was especially the case When there was a feast day and there were tens of thousands of visitors and pilgrims that were inhabiting Jerusalem. And so Jesus went into one of these courtyards and he taught the people. We are not told what he taught. Was it like the Sermon on the Mount or the Olivet Discourse or something else we find in the Gospels or something completely unique? We do not know. But we do know that it left an impact on the people who heard him. Look with me at verse 15 of chapter 7. The Jews therefore marveled, saying, how is it that this man has learning when he has never studied? It's likely that most of the people in the crowd that day had never heard Jesus teach before. Most of them were probably not from Galilee or Judea. They were pilgrims that had come from the Mediterranean world. They were Jews, but they lived some distance away. But this day they got to hear this person they had heard about, Jesus of Nazareth, this miracle worker, this one who spoke in a unique way. And they marveled at his teaching. It was not like the rabbinic teaching that they heard in Jerusalem or in their synagogue back home. How was it different? Well, we have a glimpse of this at the very conclusion of the Sermon on the Mount As you may know, it's found in Matthew chapters 5, 6, and 7. And at the end of chapter 7, verse 28 and 29, it says, And when Jesus finished these sayings, the crowds were astonished at his teaching. For he was teaching them as one who had authority, and not as their scribes. What does it mean? That he taught them with one who had authority? That's an important question. Does that mean that he was bold and provocative, that he was loud? Whereas they spoke quietly, without any passion? No, I don't think that's the answer. I think the answer is That he spoke with the authority of God. We know from traditional accounts of the day That when rabbis taught, they taught primarily by question and answers concerning Jewish theology. And they liked to quote famous rabbis of the past And so they would follow one quotation with another quotation with another quotation with another quotation. And this was impressive to many people because How could they remember all of those names and all of those quotes? How could they know all of those things? But they spoke with a derived authority. They didn't speak clearly that this is what God has said, but this is what the rabbis have said, this is what tradition has taught us But when Jesus spoke, when Jesus preached, he spoke with authority We see a sense of this in the Old Testament with the prophets. What are they famous for saying? Thus saith the Lord, right? But Jesus went even a step further than that. Jesus said, but I say unto you He spoke with authority. Now the reason why these people and religious leaders were dumbfounded Is that Jesus was never formally taught theology by a rabbi. When they say that he had never studied, they're not saying that Jesus was ignorant or that he couldn't read. They're saying that he doesn't have the typical credentials of a rabbi. He cannot say, I am from the school of whatever rabbi. And they would instantly know his credentials. Jesus didn't have any of those credentials. I am not at all opposed to education, and I am very glad that I went to seminary. And I encourage our young men training for ministry. To consider formal studies. But I also want you to know that many of the greatest preachers in the history of the world had no formal training. Did you know that? Men like Charles Spurgeon, he never spent one day in college. He never went to a Bible college. He was self-taught. He knew the word really well, but he didn't have those credentials. Men like Martin Lloyd Jones, the great preacher in Great Britain. He was a medical doctor, but he never had any formal religious training. Men like G. Campbell-Morgan, who I mentioned earlier, had no formal religious training. And these men were all giants in the Word of God in their day. Now, you remember the Apostle Paul? He was a student of Gamalia. The most famous rabbi of the day. He had, and he often would present those credentials. He was a Pharisee of the Pharisees. He went to the elite theological school. But Jesus had no such training. But he exhibited an amazing knowledge and insight into the Word of God. Notice how Jesus answers their question. How is it that he has this learning? Verse 16, so Jesus answered them, My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me. You see, Jesus wasn't giving his own take on issues. He wasn't throwing out his opinion. No, he was preaching the authoritative word of God. This should be true of all preachers. What people need to hear is not any man's opinion or viewpoints. What they need to hear is what God has said in his word. And the best preaching is preaching that simply explains, applies, and amplifies what clearly God has said in his word. I'm doing my very best to do that this morning. I'm trying not to give you some funny story or some um some opinion of mine, but simply telling you what these words mean in context and in that cultural environment Now when Jesus says that his teaching is not his own, he's not saying that he disagreed with the teaching he was giving, that like the f he was like a parrot and he was just repeating what the father told him. No, no, he's not saying that at all. He says in John 10, 30 that he and his father are one. They are of one purpose. He's sent on a mission. Saying that his authority does not ultimately, as it were, come from him, but it comes from his father. But there's a problem for the common people that were there that day and heard his teaching. And this is a problem that goes on everywhere in the history of the world. And that is, how do you really know what teaching comes from God? Because the Jewish religious leaders were saying that their teaching came from God, their teaching came from the writings of Moses and others. And Jesus is saying that his teaching came from God. So how are the people to know who is right? That brings us to verse 17. Jesus says, if anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own. This is an amazing verse with profound implications. And it echoes what we hear several times in the Old Testament. In Deuteronomy chapter 4 and verse 29 it says, you will seek the Lord your God, and you will find him If you search after him with all your heart. 1 Chronicles 28 and verse 9, this is David speaking to his son Solomon. He says, if you seek him He will be found by you. And in Jeremiah chapter 29 and verse 13, we read, You will seek me and find me when you seek me with all your hearts. What this verse is saying, verse 17, is that if a person sincerely seeks the Lord And they sincerely, with all their heart, want to know the truth, and they want to obey God's will. God will confirm to them through his word that Jesus is his beloved Son. I believe that this is true. I've encountered many people over the year who were seeking the truth. And in reading the Word of God, they came to believe that these things are true. Why is that? Because the scripture is self-authenticating. Do you know what I mean by that? It proves itself in the inner man. You know, we have a very, and I'm not opposed to this at all, but there's a great interest today in apologetics. Defending the Word of God from the attacks of people who are skeptics and do not believe. And there's all kinds of good arguments as to why we should receive the Word of God. But I want you to know that when a person who is seeking the Lord opens their Bible, they don't think this, I see that this is the Word of God because This book was written by 40 different authors over 1600 years, and yet it has one coherent message that does not contradict itself. That is miraculous. And the only way that could happen is if that is the Word of God. That is true, but that's not what gives a person assurance. It's when they read the Word of God and they know in their hearts this is true. This book speaks to me like no other book I've ever read in my life. And they come to put their trust in Christ. Now this truth in verse 17 cuts the other way. It reveals that the religious leaders who wanted to murder Jesus were not sincerely seeking to know the truth As experts in the Old Testament, they should have been able to connect the dots between all of those Old Testament prophecies and how Jesus fulfilled them during his life. There were no one in the world that knew these prophecies better than they did, and yet they failed to connect the dots. You ever wondered, how did that happen? The answer is they didn't want to find that connection because it was an inconvenient truth. A truth they did not really want to explore. How could they admit that what they had been teaching the people for years was wrong and self-serving? How could they admit that their whole system, the whole hierarchy of external conformity, the hedge around the law, that all of it was really based on man-made rules and not the true word of God. How could they give up their status among the people as the holy, righteous keepers of the law? They could not do that. They would not do that. It was too costly. And so instead they sought to silence the truth. By plotting to murder the Son of God. Many people who reject the Scriptures will also refuse to read the Bible or come to church or consider the claims of Christ because they don't want really want to discover the truth. It would require them to repent of their cherished sins and start a new way of life, and so they would prefer to remain in ignorance and unbelief. We see anger. He says in verse 23, Are you angry with me? Because on the Sabbath I made a man's whole body well. There was an anger there. He's pointing at the fact that there's something irrational about their anger. A person's response to a man who had been an invalid for 38 years and was now better should be not anger, but rejoicing. There are many very angry skeptics in the world today. And their anger Points to something personal, right? I mean, if you just believe that the Bible wasn't the Word of God, that it's all made up, it's just a crutch that people use to get through life, there's nothing to it in everything. Then just ignore it and walk away from it. But don't get red in the face angry and shout and yell and make angry posts and videos and everything about it. Because what that reveals Is that something about this teaching is touching something very personal about you and you don't like it The fact that God claims to have control over your life, that He knows the truth, those things are disturbing to law's people. And so many of them respond with passion and anger. Jesus continues to defend himself in this passage and exposes adversaries in verse 18. Look with me at verse 18. He says, the one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory. But the one who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true, and in him there is no falsehood Jesus here employs a proverbial saying that reveals the difference between a false prophet and a true prophet. A false prophet pragmatically says What people want to hear. Because if you say and you articulate what people are thinking and feeling, it gives you power and influence and in time wealth Jeremiah, remember, talked about the false prophets in his day who were saying, peace, peace. They were saying what people wanted to hear about the Babylonian invasion. Everything's going to be alright. Don't worry about it. And those prophets gained a following, whereas Jeremiah, who told them some very disturbing news, was not treated so well. A false prophet takes the word of God and he shapes it and molds it to his advantage. He takes bits and pieces of scriptural truth and tells a narrative with them that will deceive people and enrich him. It has always been this way. He does it for his own glory, for his own publicity, for his own self-promotion and self-enrichments. But Jesus was not seeking his own glory, but the glory of the Father who sent him. The religious leaders in Jerusalem claimed to be the ultimate spokesman for God. They say that they sat in Moses ' seats. What a tradition, Moses the great lawgiver. But we see in this passage this clear contrast that Jesus is the true Teacher of God's word. He is the ultimate prophet that Moses predicted in Deuteronomy 18, who would speak all of God's word. Jesus is worthy of your trust. Now look at the second half of this paragraph We see here that Jesus is the true keeper of God's law. That's the key word in verses 19 and following. Now in verse 19, Jesus goes on the offensive. Look at this. Has not Moses given you the law? Yet none of you keeps the law. Why do you seek to kill me? These were provocative words. He says, Moses, you claim to honor, is your great hero. He has given you the law, and yet none of you keep the law. That was an insulting statement. Who were the people he was talking to? He was talking to pilgrims who had left their homeland and traveled for days, if not weeks, to come to Jerusalem, had spent a large amount of money to come here. These were The really serious religious people. They're making sacrifices for what they believe is true. And they've followed the law. They come here to one of the three prescribed pilgrim festivals in Jerusalem. And this man gets up and he says, you don't keep the law. That would have been horribly insulting to them. And within that crowd there were also religious leaders who were undoubtedly listening. to what he had to say and looking for an opportunity to entrap him. And then Jesus provides the evidence that they're not keeping Moses ' law. Do you see what he says? He says here verse 19, Why do you seek to kill me? In case you're not aware of it, one of the Ten Commandments, number six actually, is thou shalt not kill. This is perhaps the most heinous crime that a person can commit against another person, putting them to death. The ultimate act of hatred. And Jesus says, You are seeking to kill me. This is evidence that you're not keeping the law because the most heinous of the second half of the law That deals with humanity's obligations to one another. You're trying to kill me. You've broken this law Even with this intention. And notice how the people respond. Verse 20, the crowd answered, You have a demon who is seeking to kill you. Now, I don't think that the people were necessarily saying that they believed he was demon-possessed This expression was a common way that people in their culture expressed the idea that we would say today, you're crazy. You're crazy. You're delusional. You're paranoid. Nobody's trying to kill you Now I think the crowd that said this were probably unaware that their exalted religious leaders were actually plotting to kill him. In fact, they're at this very feast looking for an opportunity. And the rest of this chapter, we're going to see two Two situations where they're trying to arrest him. But the people are ignorant of this. But Jesus completely ignores their question. And he continues doubling down on this idea of breaking the law. Look with me at verse 21. Jesus answered them, I did one work, and you all marveled at it. Now, if you don't know what comes earlier in John's gospel, you have no idea what he's talking about. But if you've been with us through our study, you know this is referring to John chapter 5. When Jesus heals the man by the poor Saloam, who had been an invalid for 38 years So I want to invite you to turn back with me. Some of you weren't here and some of you have forgotten. Turn back with me, please, to John chapter 5 and verse 5. I want to read this account that he's referring to. John 5, verse 5. One man was there who had been an invalid for 38 years. When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had been already there for a long time, he said to him, Do you want to be healed? The sick man answered him, Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up. And while I am going, another steps down before me. Jesus said to him, Get up. Take up your bed and walk. And at once the man was healed, and he took up his bed and walked. Now that day was the Sabbath. So the Jews said to him, Who has been healed? It is the Sabbath. It is not lawful for you to take up your bed. But he answered them, the man who healed me, the man said to me, Take up your bed and walk. And they asked him, Who is the man who said to you, take up your bed and walk? Now the man who had been healed did not know that it was Jesus, for Jesus had withdrawn himself. As there was a crowd in the place. Afterward, Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, See, you are well. Sin no more, that nothing worse may happen to you. The man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had healed him. And this was why the Jews were persecuting Jesus, because he was doing these things on the Sabbath But Jesus answered them, My Father is working until now, and I am working. This is why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, But he was even calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. Now we're about a year later in Jerusalem, and apparently the people are still talking about that miracle. It was hard to deny a man who had been an invalid for 38 years in that community that was now walking around. It was hard to deny that that was a miracle of God But the religious establishment was not rejoicing that a disabled man was now restored. No, they were enraged that this miracle occurred on the Sabbath. This is why they conspired to murder the Son of God. And so now a year later, Jesus is going to defend his actions. Now, if you've not already done so, I'd invite you to turn back with me to John chapter 7 and verse 22. John 7, 22. Let me pick up here. Verse 22, Moses gave you circumcision. Not that it's from Moses, but from the fathers. He's saying it didn't start really with Moses. It started with Abraham. And you circumcise the man on the Sabbath. If on the Sabbath a man receives circumcision, so that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with me because on the Sabbath I made a man's whole body well? This would have been a typical rabbinical argument from lesser to greater. If this is true , Then this must be true. And the argument is this if Moses permitted the circumcision of a young baby boy to occur on the Sabbath , How much more does God allow man to be healed and regain his mobility on the Sabbath? You see, if a little Jewish boy was born on the Sabbath , He was to be circumcised on the eighth day, which by their reckoning, which they counted inclusive, would have been the next Sabbath day. And the Jewish rabbis reckoned That the rite of circumcision took precedent over observing the Sabbath, and so it must be done on that day to fulfill the law. Now we also know that the rabbis allowed medical treatment on the Sabbath, especially when it was emergency, because life was more sacred than keeping the Sabbath. What Jesus is arguing is not just that his healing was okay or allowable on the Sabbath But it was required by a true understanding of the law. One of the strongest chapters of condemnation in Scripture is Matthew chapter 23, when Jesus condemns the Pharisees, and seven times there he calls them hypocrites. And in that denunciation, he accuses them of ignoring the weightier matters of God's law and focusing. On minuscule things. He talks about how they were tithing of their seed, that is, of their spices, these tiny microscopic See, it would be like if you took a salt shaker and you dumped it out and then you went down with a magnifying glass and you took every one of those grains of salt and every tenth one you put over here on the side for the Lord. All right. See that's they were like, this is how holy And impressive I am that I even tithe oaf of minuscule things like little seeds. And yet these very same men We're finding ways to take homes from vulnerable widow women by viewing Jewish law against them And when he talked about the weightier matters of the law, do you remember what he said were the weightier matters of the law? He said it was justice, mercy, and faithfulness. You see, when Jesus healed that man on the Sabbath day, he was exercising mercy. Which was a weightier matter of the law, which was far more significant and important than observing the Sabbath day and violating some man-made standard they had made about the fact that you can't carry your mat on the Sabbath, something the Bible did not say. So you see this clear contrast. These Jewish leaders were all about the law They claimed that they were the ultimate keepers of the law. And yet, at this very setting, they are plotting to murder the only innocent man who has ever lived. But Jesus is revealed here not only as the ultimate and true teacher of God's word. but as the ultimate man who has kept God's law. In fact, the only human being who has ever kept God's law perfectly. He is the ultimate messenger. You know why? Because he not only always spoke the truth, but he always lived the truth. Every man of God who has ever lived has been struck and smitten with the reality that he doesn't live up to everything he preaches. That to some degree he's a hypocrite because every preacher is a sinner just like the people he preaches to. But Jesus was the Savior, the Son of God. He was the blessed man who delighted in the law of the Lord. who perfectly with all of his heart kept God's word and spoke God's word. What John is revealing in this incident is that Jesus is worthy of our trust. I'm going to quickly conclude with three applications. I think we see here that all people, number one , are responsible to believe in Jesus and are guilty if they respond in unbelief. I'm taking this implication from verse 17 The Bible presents a balanced view of salvation that many people find difficult to maintain, and I understand that. I believe the Bible teaches that God sovereignly elects some to salvation. But it also teaches that all people are responsible to believe and are guilty if they do not believe. In verse 17, the emphasis is on man's responsibility to believe. No one will be able to say at the great white throne judgment, Lord, I was seeking you with all my heart, but you wouldn't let me come. No, it will be demonstrated that they were not seeking God with all of their heart. That in fact they did not live up to the light that they had received from the Lord. So what should you do if you're here this morning and if you were brutally honest, you would say, Pastor, I want you to know I do not really believe the gospel. I'm not sure about what you're talking about. I'm not sure that Jesus is truly the Son of God, God in flesh, and that He lived a perfect life, and that He died on the old rugged cross. I'm not certain that those things really happen. I'm not even sure there's really a God. What would I say to such a person? I would say to them, your only hope is to seek the Lord in his word. The Bible says that faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. The word of God is the means that God uses to awaken new life in dead people. And so I would urge you with all of my heart and with all the earnestness that I could muster this morning, that you must read the Bible as if your life depended on it. That you must listen to the preaching of the gospel as if your life depended on it. If you think there's even the slightest bit of chance that this is right, that this is true, then you must continue to search that out because it's your only hope. And if you don't search it out, you will perish eternally. You must seek the Lord while he may be found. You must listen to the scriptures and you must beg God in prayer to open your eyes to see the wickedness of your own heart and the beauty of the Savior. And I want you to know that God delights to answer such prayers. I read the story from some time ago this week that I encountered about a man who lived in Arizona. He was living a wicked life. And one day he came under a profound sense of conviction because of a preacher that he had listened to. But he still had many doubts. He still had many questions that he felt could not be answered. And so he asked a Christian, what should I do? And the man said, Why don't you just go to God and ask him to make it clear to you? And so that night by the side of his bed he called out to God and he said, If you really exist , I want you to show me that you're real and that Jesus is your son. And so he began to read the scriptures, and he read the scriptures for three straight days. Until we come to a sense that he was a sinner who needed a savior and he put his faith and trust in Jesus Christ. I have heard testimonies like this over the years, many of them. And so I exhort you to seek the Lord in his word. Number two, true preachers will seek to be faithful, not popular. In verse 18, Jesus says that false teachers seek their own glory. They say what people want to hear. But a true preacher, a faithful minister, is not pointing attention to himself, but he's pointing attention to the Savior. And so we must always remember that we should not judge a man of God by the size of his congregation, but by the faithfulness of his proclamation. I like what the Scottish theologian of a century ago named James Denny said. He said, no man can bear witness to Christ and himself at the same time. No man can give the impression that he himself is clever and that Christ is mighty to save. And thirdly, we must be careful that we do not misjudge people I'm taking this from the last verse in our text, verse 24, where Jesus says to these people, do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment. Now we live in an age where I'm told the most quoted verse is Matthew 7. 1. You know what it says? Judge not. We live in an age of tolerance where that's the greatest virtue. And whatever you do, you are not to judge anyone But the reality is that it's impossible to live without making multiple judgments every day. And it would be very unwise to not make judgments. constantly. But what Jesus here is talking about in a context, of course, is the judgments that they had made of him. And the people had come to a wrong conclusion. And Jesus is rebuking them for unfairly judging that indeed he broke the Sabbath. But this is a broad principle that applies to not just those people there that day who heard Jesus, but to us today in the 21st century who read his words. One of the most common ways that we sin against people is by misjudging them. If you have ever had people misjudge you , They thought something about you that simply was not true. It's so common And we see two causes of wrong judgment in this text. Number one, we are so easily influenced by the opinion of others. Why do the people have a negative view of Jesus? Because the false religious teachers were constantly telling them, hey, that guy, Jesus of Nazareth, he's a bad man. You need to stay away from him. He's a false teacher. Don't listen to him. He's a Sabbath breaker. Don't follow him. We're influenced by the opinions of others, number one. Number two, we so often make judgments based on appearances. And we take a little bit of evidence and we arrive at a horrible conclusion about people. But there's this problem that we all have, this limitation. You know what it is? We cannot see inside people. We can't see their motives. We can't see what they're thinking. We don't know their experiences. We don't know what is really going on inside of them. So we have to be so careful that we don't just look at appearances and say, I know what that person's all about. And then there's a third thing here. We so often make assumptions based on those superficial observations. And because we all have a fallen heart, what we tend to do is always assume the worst of people. I know why he said that. I know why she did that. I know what's going on. And so often grave divisions that people have are because they continually assume the worst of people. Assume they know what they're thinking. Assume they know their motives. Assume they know their heart and they don't know their hearts. So we need to be careful. This is the cause of so many divisions, of so many problems. In 1 Corinthians chapter 13, one of the characteristics of love. as God defines it, is that we assume the best of people. Not that we're naive But we give people the benefit of the doubt like we would want them to give to us. It's so unfair so often we know people very, very little. We see one instant or we hear one word, and instantly we put together a portrait of who that person is. And we think we know their full character. We're kind of like the paleontologist who finds the little tooth of a dinosaur and he erects this entire monster from that tooth. And we see one flaw in a person and we say, I know that person's character. I know what they're all about. And we describe them and label them in the most unflattering of terms. We need to be careful that we do not violate what Jesus said to the people that day when he said, do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it is like a sword That convicts us and pierces our hearts and speaks with authority. I pray, Lord, that you would use Your word that we consider this morning in the lives of these dear people. And Father, for those who are here and are yet lost in their sins, trusting in their own righteousness, perhaps skeptics at heart, I pray. That you would help them today to see the truth and to believe the gospel. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.