If you have your Bibles, please, would you join me in John chapter 6? John chapter 6. In the 1880s The most famous criminal in America was a man named Charles Bowles, but he was better known as Black Bart. He robbed 29 Wells Fargo stagecoaches in Northern California and Oregon between 1875 and 1883. He was an Englishman, spoke with an accent. and was known as the gentleman outlaw. He never used violence or foul language, and at times he left behind witty poems That poets said reflected real skill and talents. He never rode a horse because he had a fear of horses. He never fired a shot or took any hostages. But amazingly, he was not resisted until his final robbery when a man noticed that he didn't have a horse. It's hard to make a getaway without a horse. And so he just followed him. And finally, the man surrendered and was taken without incidents. Why were people so afraid of this man? Well, he had a really good name, Black Bart. He had a very impressive outfit. And he spoke with great confidence. And the papers had written up all these stories that were speculative about the fact that he had this large gang and this large enterprise, and he was a very dangerous man. And so people were terrified of him, but in fact, he was a fearful man himself. And it was all just an act Fear is a powerful emotion. Do you know that? It's a gift from God that He's given to humanity. to keep us from danger and harm, and to keep us from making foolish decisions But fear can easily become a problem. It can keep us from living our lives with joy and serving the Lord. Fear often and quickly becomes sinful. When does fear become sinful? Well, when it keeps us from doing what God has commanded us to do And when it so robs us of our joy and peace that we become a bad testimony to the world of the peace and joy that God is to fill our hearts with. I don't know if it's just perception or not, but it seems to me that we live in a time in history when so many people are filled with panic and fear. It's become more of a problem since COVID. So many phobias, so many people unable to really live life, paralyzed with crippling fear. And the Lord knows that we are fearful people, and this is why the most common command given in Scripture is fear not. Used over a hundred times. And this morning, as we continue our study of John's Gospel, we come to a spectacular incident When Jesus comforts his fearful disciples with the words, It is I, do not be afraid. These words were said When the disciples were in the midst of a great lake in a storm, and he comes walking on the water to them. This is the fifth sign or miracle in the Gospel of John, the fifth of seven that will be found in the first 12 chapters of this book. that are intended to point the reader like a sign to his identity as the Messiah, the Son of God. Now this miracle follows right on the heels of the fourth sign, the miracle of the feeding of the 5,000. It's just a matter of hours later. Let me remind you of the setting. Jesus and his disciples have been ministering for some time in Galilee. The crowds have grown larger and larger. They want the Lord to heal, they want to see miracles. And so Jesus and his disciples need to regroup They need some time away from the mob, and so they go over to the eastern side of the Sea of Galilee, the less populated area, but the crowd follows them there. The disciples are annoyed and they tell Jesus, tell the people to go away. But he doesn't do that. Instead, he has compassion on them and he feeds the multitude by multiplying a little boy's lunch. And we see in this miracle that it's Jesus that meets the deepest needs of the human heart. He satisfies the human heart. And then Jesus goes up on the mountain to pray. He went to this region to pray, but he's been unable to because the crowd has been right there. But now he sends his disciples away. He goes up on the mountain to spend some time with his father. Now, John has a very concise Account of this miracle. Matthew and Mark have more details, more setting, more incidents that occur. And so I'm going to be referring to some of the things that they mentioned in our study today But what we see here is that Jesus has authority over all of creation. As we have heard sung today, he is the one who can still the waves, command the wind to stop. These are the actions of God in flesh. But on a more personal note We see that Jesus is the one who can comfort our fears and quiet our hearts. Did you know that Jesus is the comforter? I can see on some of your faces you're thinking, no, Pastor, you got that wrong. It's the Holy Spirit that is the comforter. All right, listen to me. Jesus said, I will send you another comforter, which implies what? There was a comforter before that, and it happened to be Jesus. Jesus is the original comforter. The Holy Spirit also comes in his place when he ascended to comfort us. He's the encourager, the one who comes alongside is the idea of that word. This miracle was not for the multitudes. This was just for the twelve. This miracle was for their benefit, to strengthen their faith. For them to see that they could find all that they needed in Christ. So let me ask you this morning. What are you afraid of? What fear wakes you up at night And worries you throughout the day, and robs you of joy, and perhaps keeps you from serving the Lord. I want you to know that it is not the Lord's will that you live this way. He wants to comfort you. To quiet your fears. But how does Jesus quiet our fears? I want to mention three things in this brief miracle. Number one, Jesus quiets our fears by coming to rescue us. Let's look at the setting of this miracle in verses 16 and 17. Notice what it says, when evening came, his disciples. Went down to the sea, got into a boat, and started across the sea to Capernaum. It was now dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them. Jesus has gone up into the mountain to pray. The sun is setting. He has sent the villagers that were there for the feeding of the 5,000 into the villages to spend the night. And both Matthew and Mark record that Jesus, listen to this, made his disciples get in their boat and go to the other side, to their home region of Capernaum. Why did Jesus send them away? Why does the gospel writer say that he constrained them, or we might say he forced them to do this? I think it's because they were being influenced by the crowd. Do you remember what we read? In chapter 6 and verse 15, it says that of this crowd that they were about to come and take him by force to make him king. And you know what? That's exactly the way the disciples felt as well. That's what they wanted. They wanted Jesus to go up that pat to that Passover as a king with 20,000 people. And gather more people along the route of pilgrims and overthrow Rome and re-establish the glory of Israel. That's what they wanted. And guess who would be part of that royal court? The twelve disciples who got in on the ground floor and started following him before he had any followers. And so I think they were profoundly disappointed when he sends the crowd away and then sends them to the other side of the Sea of Galilee. Now look with me at verse 17 , the last phrase, it was now dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them. How are we to understand this? Well, probably what happened is that Jesus told them to wait by the shore to leave until a certain hour, agreed-upon hour. And if he was not there, then they were to leave without him. And perhaps they assumed that he would find transportation the next day and join them back in Capernaum. They certainly weren't anticipating that he was going to walk on the water and join them that way. But it was his will that they go without him, and they go right into the teeth of a storm. John has phrased this last phrase to alert the reader that something bad is about to happen. Listen to these words. It was now dark. And Jesus had not yet come to them. John uses the term dark to refer to something that's dangerous or evil in his writings. He's not just saying it's nighttime. He's saying something different. He's saying there's something difficult that's about to happen. And Jesus will not be with them. We sang this wonderful song, Master of the Tempest is Raging. It's actually talking about an earlier incident that's recorded in the Synoptic Gospels when Jesus is asleep in the boat, remember? And this great storm comes up. And they wake him up and they say, Carest thou not that we perish? And he stands up and says, Peace be still. But now Jesus is not in the boat. They're out there on the sea by themselves. Now look with me in verse 18. The sea became rough because a strong wind was blowing. The Sea of Galilee is the most turbulent freshwater lake in the world. It was 2,000 years ago and it is still today. It has some very unique geography about it. It's a large inland lake. Oval shaped, it's seven miles at its widest point and 13 miles at its longest point. And it is unusual in that it sits 600 feet below sea level. It's in a depression. Not only that, but on three sides you have mountains. To the west you have the hills of Galilee, which rise about 1,500 feet. To the east, you have the Golan Heights, where they are at about 3,000 feet. And then to the north, you have the mountains of southern Lebanon that rise to nearly 10,000 feet. feet. And so what you have is this depressed lake in a bowl-like structure. And what you constantly have is the hot, dry winds of the desert blowing in from the south and colliding with the cool, moist air coming from the mountains and from the snow. And they constantly collide over the lake and create great storms. There are brief storms on this lake nearly every day. Now often they're not that fierce, but there's a storm there. When my wife and I were in Israel in 2011 and we spent four days around the Sea of Galilee, we saw a storm there every day. It's the way it is. And at night, the storms are most intense. The waves can get up to 10 feet in height and are more than capable of sinking a small fishing vessel. This is precisely the kind of storm the disciples encountered that night. Now look with me at verse 19. When they had rowed about three or four miles, they saw Jesus walking on the sea and coming near the boat, and they were frightened. So they had rode three to four miles out into the middle of the lake, and this was not a pleasant experience. The other gospel writers tell us that the wind was against them. They were going into the wind. It's never fun to be going into the wind. And in Mark 6. 48 in his account, he says that they were straining at the oars. All right? They're rowing this boat, and they're rowing against the waves and the wind that are crashing against the boat , and it's not a pleasant experience. And Jesus is going to come to them, and according to the Synoptic Gospels, he's going to come during the fourth watch, which would be anywhere between 3 a. m. and 6 a. m. So let's add up these details. The disciples leave the coast, I think, between 6 or 7 p. m. as the sun is setting They go out. Soon after they get out in the lake, there's a storm. The wind is blowing against them. And then Jesus comes to them sometime between 3 and 6 a. m. which means at the very least They had been rowing for eight or nine hours, maybe more. And how much distance have they covered in those eight or nine hours? Well, three to four miles, which means they've been traveling at about half a mile an hour. Not very good progress. Very frustrating. They're expending all of this energy rowing into this storm against the wind. And they're doing this because the Lord told them to do it. Now, how would you feel if you were in that boat that night? Well I think you might be seasick. We have people that get motion sickness, all right? This boat would have been moving all around. I think they would have been exhausted because they've been rowing nonstop for eight or nine hours. I think they would have been wet. The waves would be splashing on them. I think they would be cold. I think they would be a little disgruntled. Why? Because this was not their idea. This is what Jesus wanted them to do. Remember, they were fishermen. He was a carpenter. Maybe they're saying, you know, we knew this was not a good idea. But we listened to him and came out here. Now look where we are. But there's another detail that I must share with you. In Mark chapter 6, we read. That Jesus was watching them the whole time up on the mountain, looking down at the Sea of Galilee. He saw them straining at the oars. He saw the storm that they were facing. And I believe that he was praying for them. Now what is fascinating about this, and this is very instructive for us, Is that Jesus did not come to them right away to rescue them, did he? Right? He could have come as soon as they started facing a storm. And they're just, you know, several hundred feet away from the shore. He could have come to them when they were still dry, when they were still rested, and have rescued them. He didn't do that. He let them continue hour after hour after hour in this difficult situation. Why do you think he did that? Well, I think it was a test. To see how they would respond. Would they trust in him? Had they learned something from the feeding of the 5,000, that spectacular miracle that just took place a few hours ago? Would they pray to God? Or would they just say, we're going to figure this out ourselves and we're just going to try a little harder? We're going to row a little faster. We're going to depend on our own resources to get through this. It reminds me of a story that the Chinese devotional writer Watchman Lee tells about. When he was once with a man at the sea, and they looked out and they saw a man who had been swimming out there, but he wasn't a good swimmer, and he was starting to drown. And this man was flailing around in the ocean. And Watchman Nee said to him, Why don't you go out and rescue him? He said, This man is a big, strong man. He will pull me under if I go out there to rescue him. I'm going to wait. until he's expended all of his energy, and then I'm going to rescue him. And that's sometimes what the Lord does with us. Not because he's being cruel, but because he loves us. He wants us to learn you don't have the answers. You don't have the solution to this problem. And all of your scheming and all of your efforts and all of your energy is not going to solve the situation. It's not going to bring peace to your hearts. But Jesus did come to them when they were hopeless, when they were frightened. In the middle of the night, in the wee hours of the morning, he came to them. He would not let them perish. These were his future apostles that would turn the world upside down. And the Lord never abandons his people. He will not leave us nor forsake us. He comes to rescue us in the storms of life. Secondly, Jesus quiets our fears by his words of reassurance. Look with me now at verse 20. But he said to them, It is I. Do not be afraid. Jesus came to them in spectacular fashion. He came walking on the water. Let me ask you, do you believe that? Do you believe that Jesus actually walked on the water? I do. Unbelieving scholars have tried to explain this away. Some people say that there was like, you know, the sandbar out there in the middle of the sea, and you know, he's out there and he's like His feet are like two or three inches under the water. It looks like he's walking the water. There's actually a sandbar there that they didn't see. He's kind of fooling them, and they're really impressed by this. Others say that there was like it was a cold night and there was an ice sheet there and he was walking on the ice. But it doesn't usually get that cold in this region of the world. And ice generally doesn't form when there's turbulent water, when there's a storm So that doesn't seem like a very good solution. And of course, we also read about Peter and Matthew's account sinking into the water, nearly drowning. The Lord has to rescue him. That kind of throws the sandbar theory out of the picture. No , you have to accept this as it is. It's a miracle. It is a manifestation of Jesus' divine nature. In Job chapter 9 and verse 8, it says that God alone tramples the waves of the sea. poetic language fulfilled in Christ. And in Psalm 77 and verse 19 it says that God's way was through the sea and his path through the great waters. You see, Jesus walking on the water was a demonstration of his deity. He was fulfilling the poetic depictions of Yahweh in the Old Testament. But at first this was not comforting the disciples. They were terrified. We should not judge them too harshly. They had never seen anybody walk on water before. It was the middle of the night. They were several miles from shore, and it was startling to them. Mark tells us that they thought that they had seen a ghost. The Greek word there is phantom Just like in every culture, the Jewish culture had superstitious tales that at night phantoms were going about doing evil things. Like ghosts and goblins, and that's what they thought they were seeing. But Jesus was not there to frighten them. He was there to comfort them and to quiet their fears. And the focal point of this account is his brief words to them. When we look at the various records in Matthew, Mark, and in John, we find that he said three things. The last two are recorded in John, but the first one he says. Take heart, or as the King James Version has it, be of good cheer, or take courage Here they are out in the stormy sea in this boat. They see a figure walking on the water. They are terrified. And then they hear a very familiar voice saying something that they'd heard many times before. Be of good cheer. Years ago, I think it was around 2003, I preached a series of messages every time Jesus says this. Because this expression is only used by Jesus, be of good cheer or take courage Sometimes people have unique expressions that they use, and when you hear it, you know it's that person, right? Like a catchphrase. For Jesus, it was these words, be of good cheer. We read about it When a paralyzed man was let down through the roof by his friends in front of Jesus because there was such a crowd, they couldn't get in the door. And he says to him, Son, be of good cheer. Your sins are forgiven. We read about a woman with an issue of blood. And Jesus said to her, daughter, be of good comfort. Thy faith has made thee whole. He said to blind Bartimaeus through a messenger, be of good comfort. He is calling for you. And Jesus would say to his disciples in the upper room the night before his crucifixion, be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. Jesus frequently said these comforting words to people in desperate situations. I think that Jesus was probably the most encouraging and comforting person who has ever lived. But then there's something else that he says to them that may have escaped your notice. Look at John 6. 20. He says, It is I. Now, this phrase that consists of just two words in the Greek text could also be translated, I am, ego, a me. When you think of the name I am, you should think of Exodus chapter 3 and verse 14. The burning bush incident when Moses is making excuses as to why he cannot be God's deliverer, and God says, I am, will go with you. He says, Whom shall I say has sent me? And God says, I am. A form of the verb to be. It's the origin of the sacred name Yahweh or Jehovah. It's a name that emphasizes God's covenant keeping toward his people. That he will never change and he will never change his mind and he will never abandon his people. And I think that as John thinks back on this incident and records the words, I am That he means something more than just that Jesus was saying it's me. There are many fine Bible scholars Who would disagree with me, and many who would also agree with me. So let me take a moment to defend my premise. That he was making a claim to deity. Number one, this expression, I am, there are seven of them in the Gospel of John. If you know anything about John, you will know That he loves the number seven. You find it in all of his writings. He has seven signs. He has seven metaphorical I am statements where he says, like, I am the bread of life. I am the vine. But seven times in this gospel he says, I am. And on several occasions these exact words are clearly taken as declarations of deity, the most famous of which is at the end of a very contentious chapter and John chapter 8. Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am. So they picked up stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple. And I think another argument I would use for this being I am is that John loves to use terms That can be understood in two different ways. For instance, he talks about being born again, which can also be translated born from above. And they're both true. He talks about him being lifted up, which is a reference to his crucifixion, but it's also a reference to his exaltation after his resurrection. And I think here we have another example of this. He said is it is I or I am. It could be simply him indicating, hey guys, it's me. It's Jesus. But he's also saying, I am. I am Yahweh, I am the great God that revealed himself to Moses. And this is clearly the reaction that his disciples had to it. In Matthew 14, 33 it says, those in the boat worshiped him, saying, Truly you are the Son of God. This is the first time we read of disciples worshiping him and making such a proclamation. It was their understanding of what he was saying. He is letting his disciples know that he has authority over all creation. And that he will not abandon them when they need him most. And then he says, do not be afraid. The third thing he says: it is I, do not be afraid. I think that Jesus said these words with tenderness, not with rebuke. Because Jesus has come to comfort them. Jesus quiets our fears by coming to rescue us. And by his words of reassurance , And thirdly, Jesus quiets our fears by his abiding presence. Look with me at the last verse in this incident, verse 21. Then were they glad to take him into the boat. And immediately the boat was at land to which they were going. Now in Matthew's account We read of Peter's short-lived attempt to walk on the water. You remember he took his eyes off of Jesus and he looked at the waves and it began to sink and he said, Lord, help me. And Jesus grabs him and rescues him. But John is not focused on giving every detail or focusing on the disciples. Instead, he is focused on Christ. I love the way John puts this. They were glad to take him into the boats. It had been a long and difficult night. They thought they might perish in that storm. They were getting nowhere. But Jesus comes And speaks to them. Be of good cheer. It is I, be not afraid. And they gladly bring him into the boats. And you know what happens when he got into the boat? The other gospel writers say that instantly the storm ended. The wind stopped blowing. The waves stopped pounding against the side of that little boat. And there was peace. Now, how do you take the last phrase in verse 21? And immediately The boat was at land to which they were going. Now, there's a scholarly debate on how we should take that. Is that yet a miracle within a miracle? Where like when Jesus got into the boat, boom, they're right there on the shores of the Sea of Galilee at Capernaum, and they've just covered perhaps like another three miles. Maybe we should take it that way. Perhaps that is the case. Whatever the case, John does not draw attention to it. He doesn't elaborate. He doesn't say, and this is the sixth sign, or something like that. Or it could be. The storm is over, the sun is rising, the waves are no longer pounding, the wind is not against them. And the Lord is talking reassuring words to them. And just in a matter of moments, they find themselves on the shore because the time passed so quickly and the traveling was so easy now. And they were at peace. Have you ever had an experience where time just flies by? Like, oh wow, we're here. Because you were talking and you were engaged in conversation. Perhaps that's what John reflecting. I'll let you work that out for yourself so you can ask John when you get to heaven. But what I want you to see Is that the presence of the Lord is always the answer to our fears? Alright? When Jesus gets in that boat, then everything's good. This is a message that we find all throughout Scripture from cover to cover. We read of Jacob who fled from home trying to get away from his brother, and God comes to him. And says to him, Behold, I am with thee. He says to Moses who very reluctantly Going to lead the people out of the promised land, but he doesn't want to. He knows it's going to be really hard. And God says to him, I will be with thee. He says to Joshua, who has to take the unenviable task of being a leader after the legendary Moses And Joshua does not feel he's up to it. And God keeps saying to him, Be strong and of good courage, be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee wherever you go. We read that the Lord was with Joseph in his difficult times. And David writes in the 23rd Psalm, even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. In Isaiah we read, fear thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God. And Jesus, when he took on flesh and came to earth, it was the fulfillment of the great prophecy in Isaiah 7. 14. Of Emmanuel, God, with us. The answer to our fears is always Realizing the presence of the Lord, that we are not alone, that He is with us I would like now to make just a few final points of application. Number one, when we're facing a storm in life We should remember that God knows all about it. I wonder if the disciples that night, when they were rowing hard against the wind, were saying, Boy, I wish Jesus was here. If he were here, he would solve everything. If only he knew, he knew he was watching them and praying for them. You must never think that God doesn't know about your problem. You may have an issue that's crushing your soul and you've shared it with virtually no one. I want you to know that he knows about it. He knows about it. And so you could come to him in prayer. That brings me to my second point. When we're facing a crisis in life, we should demonstrate our faith by going to God in prayer. We don't read of the disciples praying. Perhaps they did, and it's just not recorded. But so often we try everything we can think of in the world to solve our problem, and then we run out of solutions, we pray. But prayer should be our first response, not our last resort. And thirdly When we are facing difficult trials in life, we should fill our minds with the promises of God. The promises of God We have so many promises in this book. The disciples had the unique privilege of hearing the word speak to them. But we should not think that we are at some great deficit because we have the written words of God that are filled with promises that are designed to strengthen us and encourage us. And remind us of who God is and what he will do for his people. If you're here this morning and you're going through a difficult trial What you need is the promises of God. You need to meditate upon these truths. You need to memorize these verses. You need to hide them in your hearts. You need to write them on cards and take them around with you. And when you're facing panic and crisis, you pull it out and you look at those verses and you say, this is the truth. And I am going to rest in God. You must learn to feed your faith and starve your doubts. We so easily do the opposite. We use our imagination and our fear and we fuel up all of these scenarios that might just happen. What if? What if this happens? And what if this happens? And then and then that leads to this and this and this. Oh no, all hope is gone. No, my friend. Build your life on the promises of God. And number four, when we're facing a frightening situation, we should recall how God has delivered us in the past. There's a very fascinating account or verse about this in Mark chapter 6 and verse 52. Mark records that the reason the disciples were so afraid is because they had not gained any insight from the incident of the feeding of the 5,000 because their hearts were hardened. Mark writing under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit says that the reason why they were so terrified Is they really hadn't learned what happened the day before. They didn't come to realize how powerful Jesus is. One of the great exercises that you must learn in your Christian life. is to reflect back over your life and how God has delivered you in the past. This is one of the advantages, by the way, of being old, or perhaps I should say mature. You know, this this is one of the downsides that young people face, right? They face a problem in life. and they don't have any experience to reflect and to have a balanced perspective that this is not the end of the world Because they have such a short lifespan of experience to compare it with. And often they make tragic decisions. Because they don't have a sense of perspective. What age does is it gives you a sense of perspective and you can look back and say, you know, I can remember when I felt like this for before when I felt like I was out in the middle of a lake during a storm and I was going to perish and God came and delivered me. And He's done that multiple times in my life and He's going to do it again. And the the situation I'm facing right now, he is going to deliver me just like he has before. You know, that's what David did when he faced Goliath Remember what he says 1 Samuel 17? He says, God delivered me out of the hand of the lion. and of the bear, and he will deliver me from this giant. That's how we should think as Christians God hasn't delivered me in the past just to let me fail and perish now. He's going to come and help me again with this insurmountable situation That's an exercise of faith. So when God delivers us, we should not just go on our merry way. We should reflect on what God did. and store it away for the next crisis that we face. And finally, let me just say that if you're still an unbeliever , I invite you to see in this great miracle of Jesus walking on the water and delivering his people that Jesus is worthy of your trust. You know what people long for in a friend or in a spouse? They want someone who will never abandon them, someone who will help them when they don't know what to do. When Jesus is our Savior. And He's omnipotent. And He rescues His people. And He never, never leaves us. alone and abandons us finally. He always comes in the darkness of the night. He's worthy of your trust. Won't you trust in him today? Let's close in prayer, Father. We thank you for our wonderful Savior And a beautiful portrait of him that we find today in the Gospel of John. Help us, Father, to remember this. I pray that you would be with your dear people today who are struggling with great trials and are fearful and afraid. I pray that they would take this message and that they would allow this truth to strengthen their soul and fortify their spirit. that they might stand and trust in you. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.