You have your Bibles, would you turn with me please to Hebrews chapter five? Hebrews chapter five. Alexander White was the most famous preacher in Scotland in the middle of the 19th century. He was commonly known as the last of the Puritans. For nearly 40 years, he was the pastor of the largest church in Scotland, a church located in the heart of Edinburgh He wrote many fine books on the life of Christ and the ministry of prayer, but his most famous literary achievement is his six volumes of Bible characters. These books add up to nearly a thousand pages and cover about 160 Bible characters. His sketches are perceptive, intriguing, and sometimes even humorous. I'm going to read one paragraph from his biographical sketch of Aaron. The first high priest. White says, all went well with Aaron as long as he had Moses beside him. But always when Moses was for any length of time out of sight, Aaron was a reed shaken with the wind. He was as weak and as evil as any other man Those forty days that Moses was away on the mount brought out, among other things, both Moses ' strength and greatness, and Aaron 's littleness and weakness, in a way that nothing else. could have done. This morning as we continue our study of Hebrews, we come to a paragraph that demonstrates That Jesus is better than Aaron, the first high priest. The book of Hebrews was written to convince suffering Christians not to consider going back. to their old religious way of life because Jesus is far better than anything Judaism had to offer. In the first two chapters, the unknown writer of this book demonstrates conclusively that Jesus is better than the angels. And in chapters 3 and 4, the writer shows that Jesus is better than even Moses. And now in chapters 5 through 10. The pastor who wrote this precious book is going to argue that Jesus is better than the Iranic priesthood. Now last week we considered a very comforting passage that communicates the nature of our great high priest. And now in chapter 5, this discussion continues. Notice that the first word in chapter 5 is the word for. This means that it's linked with what comes before it. This is not how we would begin a chapter if we were writing a book. So let me remind you that the chapter and verse divisions in your Bible are not given by God, but were added centuries later. by man who made it easier for us to find our place. So let me read The section that really begins the high priest and read it into our text this morning so that perhaps you can see the connection. Look with me at chapter 4 and verse 14. It says, seeing then That we have a great high priest that has passed into the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God. Let us hold fast our profession For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly under the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. For every priest taken from among men is ordained for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices. for sin, who can have compassion on the ignorant and on them that are out of the way, for that he himself also is compassed with infirmity And by reason hereof he ought as for the people so also for himself to offer for sins. And no man taketh this honor unto him. But he that is called of God as was Aaron. Did you see the connection The author has just shown that Jesus is our great high priest, and now he is going to reveal that he is the ultimate fulfillment. Of especially the first high priest Aaron, that he, just like there were qualifications for the first high priest Aaron, Christ not only met those qualifications, he exceeded them. Because all of the high priests that came before Jesus were but meager types, symbols of the ultimate high priest, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. What we have in this paragraph in Hebrews 5, 1 through 10, is a compare and contrast Paragraph, just like we had in chapter 3, when there was a comparison and a contrast between Christ and Moses. Here there's a comparison and contrast between Christ and Aaron and all the high priests who followed him. Now I find myself, as expositional preachers do sometimes, in a bit of a quandary this morning. Because it would be nice to take the whole paragraph as one unit, verses 1 through 10, because it's kind of intended to be one section. But I find myself constitutionally incapable of covering ten verses with so much rich information in one message. I know it can be done. But I don't think I can do it. So we're going to divide it up into two halves. And so it means that when I cover these first four verses as I intend to this morning, I am going to be jumping ahead to other passages in Hebrews. to make the comparison with Christ because I can't give a message on just the fact that Aaron was rather insufficient as a high priest and then pronounce the benediction and go home. So we're going to be making this contrast and this comparison this morning. And no one entering this building this morning. Said to themselves as they came in, you know, I'd really like to know more about the qualifications for the Old Testament high priest. That was not on anybody's mind. But let me remind you that all of God's word is profitable. And what we're covering this morning is very profitable and helpful when properly understood. This passage has great significance for us because we are, like those Old Testament saints, sinners in need of a sacrifice and in need of a high priest. To make atonement for us. And because Jesus is our great high priest, he can meet all of our needs. So I'm going to preach to you this morning on this truth that Jesus is better than the ironic priests Would you notice with me first of all that Jesus is a better mediator than any Aaronic priest? And we're looking now at verse 1. Our text says, For every high priest taken from among men is ordained for men, and things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices. For sin. Verse 1 succinctly summarizes the ministry of the high priest. The first thing we read is that the high priest was to be taken from among men. Now this may seem painfully obvious. But there is a significant point behind these opening words, and that is that the high priest served as a representative for the people. And so to be a true representative, a high priest had to be one of them. In other words, an angel could not have served as high priest. Or some other celestial being. It had to be a person that was identified with them, a person who encountered similar life experiences. We've encountered this truth before. If you recall, the very first passage that really brings out the office of high priest in this book is found in Hebrews chapter 2. In verse sixteen, where it says, For verily he took not on him the nature of angels, but he took on him the seed of Abraham, wherefore in all things that behooved him to be made like unto his brethren That he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God to make reconciliation for the sins of the people. Now you may recall that when we covered that text, I used the analogy that in our political arena we have still laws and regulations today. That the representative who represents a district has to reside in that district. They have to have an address. in that district and I mentioned that sometimes that they will skirt the rules and they'll actually be living somewhere else, but they'll rent an apartment in that place and say, I'm a resident there, but they're never there Jesus, of course, is not like that. He is a hundred percent human. He is a representative of God for us. But here as we look in the Old Testament context at the description of the high priest, he had to be taken from among the people, from among the Israelites. And we see here that he was ordained for men, that is, to represent the people. Now we first read about the office of high priest in Exodus chapter 28. And in that chapter, most of the the information is there about his dress and his garment that he wore. And one of the things that he wore was a breastplate. Consisting of gemstones that represented the twelve tribes of Israel. And these twelve tribes were all, as it were, represented in this one man. who stood as their representative. So first in order to be a mediator, the high priest has to be representative of the people, but there's more. He also had to represent the people before God. Notice it says in verse 1, and things pertaining to God, that is, in relation to God. This is undoubtedly a reference to the Day of Atonement when the high priest entered the Holy of Holies and made atonement for the people. You might say, well, I thought the people were supposed to offer sacrifices themselves when they sinned. Well, they were. And many of them did. But some did not. And some people who often offered sacrifices, there were occasions where they They either forgot or they just ignored it or they they were ignorant of it and unaware of it and they didn't offer the proper sacrifice for their sin. And so, in order that the wrath of God did not come down upon the nation, God instituted the Day of Atonements. When the priest representing all of the people made atonement for their sin once a year. Now what's fascinating about this is that Aaron did not enter the Holy of Holies with his priestly robes on. This priestly vestment was worn to show the dignity and majesty of his office among the people. But when he went into the Holy of Holies on the Day of Atonement, that Square room that was fifteen feet by fifteen feet. He wore only plain white linen. Nothing was dyed or decorated or embellished in any way. And this was a symbolic of the humility which he was to enter. And it surely points to the condescension of our Lord and Savior who came to ascend-cursed earth to save his people from their sins. 2 Corinthians 8 9 says, For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his poverty might be rich. The entirety of our Lord's incarnation and coming to earth was an act of humility We think of this great passage who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, and took on him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. But how did the high priest represent the people of Israel before God? Well, one of his primary duties, of course, was to offer sacrifices. We find this at the end of verse 1. It says, that he may offer gifts and sacrifices for sins. And we've gone through this before when we've studied the book of Leviticus, how that there were five basic different kinds of offerings and sacrifices and regulations and intentions and purposes for each of them. And we'll talk more about the sacrifices when we come down to verse 3. But what we see here is that the high priest was tasked with offering sacrifices. This was part of his mediatorial work as a represented man before God. And what we see here, of course, is that Christ is far greater And far better than Aaron or any other high priest. He is a perfect representative for us. He is not a flawed and sinful human being like us. He is fully man. But he is sinless, the sinless Son of God, as our representative. You know, when nations have a diplomat that represents a nation, they want someone who is impressive. Who can speak well, who looks dignified, who looks depart, because they represent an entire nation to another nation God came down in flesh, the second person of the Trinity. took on human flesh, and he is our sinless representative before God. Aaron was only a faint picture of the great high priest that was to come. Jesus is really the only one qualified to be our mediator. For there is one God and one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. And secondly We come to verses 2 and 3, and we see here that Jesus is more compassionate than any ironic priest. Verse 2 says, Who can have compassion on the ignorant and on them that are out of the way? For that he himself also is compassed with infirmity. And I will stop reading there for now. We see the qualification here of a high priest is he was to be. Compassionate. Now, the Greek word that is rendered compassion here occurs only this once in the Bible. And it's a word that's difficult to translate. It is a moderate response somewhere between anger and apathy. And so different versions render it in many different ways. One of the most common ways is to deal gently. The idea here is that the high priest was supposed to be a caring spiritual leader. He was supposed to really, genuinely, sincerely care for the people that he represented and served on a daily basis. But often that was not the case. Have you ever gone to someone to a spiritual leader or an authority figure with a problem, with something that was really vexing you, and you came to them And you sense that it was not a great concern on their parts. I suspect that all of us have had an experience like that. And to be honest with you, maybe you've had that with me. Because I'm certainly not perfect. And we all fall short. I was speaking to a pastor the other day and he was telling me about a ten -page letter that he got from a lady where she went through and criticized every single thing that he's ever done in his life, as he put it that way. Just let him have it. And we were discussing about why is it that so often spiritual leaders receive such venomous epistles? And there are many reasons for this. But one reason is because people have high hopes for their spiritual leaders. I'm not saying they shouldn't. Don't misunderstand me. But in the end, every spiritual giant that you've ever heard of If you knew them inside and out in every detail of their life and you live with them, you know what? You'd probably be a little disappointed. I thought this guy was some kind of a giant. I thought he lived in a completely different level and realm than anybody else. And look, he has flaws He has inconsistencies. He has hypocrisies in his life. This is true of every spiritual leader who is Has ever lived except for Jesus Christ. Now who is the high priest to help with? Them that are ignorant and them that are out of the way. Now, it sounds like our text is referring to two classes of people, but it's not This is an occasion when two expressions are being used to denote one idea. It's referring to those who went astray through sins of ignorance. In the Old Testament, it spoke of sins of ignorance. These were sins that people committed that were not high-handed, defiant, I'm going to do this, I don't care what the ramifications are. These were sins that people did, you may, out of their weakness, out of unintentionality, out of forgetfulness whatever the case might be, or because they didn't know. It was still they were still guilty. And they still had to offer sacrifice. And they still had to come before the priest. We find things like this often in the Old Testament. What this text is essentially saying is that the high priest had to be patient with his people. It says, for that he himself is compassed with infirmity. And the idea here is that he's clothed with infirmity. This is what he wears This is fascinating because the high priest was famous for being clothed with the most glorious garment in all of Israel. And here it says he's clothed with weakness. That's what the word means. There were four aspects of the high priest attire that were unique to him, that separated him from the dress of a regular priest. First of all, there was the robe or the ephod. This was a blue garment that was seamless. It symbolized the integrity that should mark the high priest. And the color blue was a a color of deity. It meant that he was dedicated or consecrated to gods We read of a garment that extended from the shoulders to the waist. It was made of blue and gold and purple and scarlet threads. was beautiful, and there were two onyx stones that were set in gold sockets on the shoulders of the ephod. And these stones were inscribed with the names of the tribes of Israel. And then there was the breastplate, which was fine linen, and it was folded over. It had a pouch, and in this pouch were the Urim and the Thumen, which w means light and perfection. And there was a breastplate with twelve gems that represented the twelve tribes of Israel. And there was a holy crown or a mitre that was placed on a turban. It was like a turban with a gold plate, and on the front it had inscribed to it, holiness to the Lord. Aaron wore this beautiful dress. But he was a weak man inside. Sometimes people use the expression, that guy's an empty suit. That means he looks the part, he looks good, but he's totally worthless. As far as being able To bring about real atonements and real holiness in the people, Aaron was an empty suit. He looked good. He had this impressive dress. But he was clothed with weakness. One aspect of this weakness is that sometimes the high priests were not as compassionate or sympathetic to the people as they should have been. We read in 1 Samuel chapter 1 of a godly woman named Hannah coming to pray in the temple. And Shiloh and Eli the priest saw her there and her distress. And what did he think of her? He thought that she was drunk. He told her to put away wine. She explained to him that she was not drunk, but that she was of a sorrowful spirit. This is a minor thing, but it does show perhaps that he assumed the worst of her. You see, so often these priests got fed up with dealing with people They should have been patient and sympathetic because they were sinners as well. But you know what? They never had they never ran out of work. They had really good job security because people were constantly sinning. And people every day were coming with their sin issues. Day after day after day after day after day, the same old sacrifices, the same old conversations Very easy for them to become hardened and cynical, resentful. But our high priest is not like that. He does much more than just restrain his anger and frustration with us. It says in chapter 4 and verse 15 that he is touched with the feeling of our infirmities. And I mentioned to you last week that this means that he enters into our suffering and he prays for us. And he gives us grace to help us in time of need. Jesus is far more compassionate. Than any ironic priest. And that brings us thirdly to this comparison in verse 3. It says And by reason hereof he ought, as for the people, so also for himself to offer for sin. We see here that Jesus is able to deal with sin better than any Iranic priest. What was the primary weakness alluded to in verse 2? Well, the answer is found in verse 3, and that is that the priest was weak and that he was sinful. The priest should have been patient and understanding. With the people's sins because he himself was a sinner. He had the same disease. Aaron the first high priest was a weak and sinful man. I started this message bringing that out to you. When he should have led the people to holiness, he led them instead into idolatry. And then it's almost humorous when Moses came down from the mountain. And confronted him about it. He said, I don't know what happened. I took this gold and threw it into the fire and this calf came out. That wasn't exactly how it happens. He actually fashioned an idol. This man who was supposed to lead the people in worship led them into idolatry and immorality And there were other failures in his part as well. You see, Aaron was a weak man. He was a sinful man. And every high priest who followed in Aaron 's lineage was a sinner who need to offer sacrifices for his own sins. Now, once again, here the reference is to the Day of Atonement and the procedure on that day The high priest would enter the Holy of Holies and sprinkle blood on the lid of the Ark of the Covenant that was known as the mercy seat. But before he entered the most holy place to make atonement for the people's sins, he had to offer a sacrifice for his own sins. What a painful reminder that must have been. This holy man has to admit in a very symbolic and powerful way that he himself. Was a sinner. It says in Leviticus 16, thus shall Aaron come into the holy place with a young bullock. For a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering. And Aaron shall offer his bullock for the sin offering which is for himself and make an atonement for himself and for his house. There's a record of an ancient prayer for a priest that's recorded in an ancient document known as the Mishnah. It goes like this: O God, I have committed iniquity and transgressed and sinned before thee. I and my house and the children of Aaron, thy holy people. O God, forgive, I pray thee, the iniquities and transgressions and sins which I have committed and transgressed and sinned before Thee, I and my house. You see, the entire Levitical system was ineffective in dealing with sin. Don't get me wrong, it is what God had prescribed for them. But it was never intended to be the ultimate remedy. And we see this in the facts that even the leader, the holiest man in the land, supposedly, was himself just a sinner. I wonder how many priests at some time in their years of service would think to themselves What's the point of what I'm doing? You ever had a job that you felt was pointless? It seemed like what you were doing didn't matter at all. It didn't count for anything. It was accomplishing nothing. There was no real progress. There's no point to it. It's very hard to work that way. How many priests who perhaps at one time were enthusiastic about entering into the service of the Lord after a few years or a few decades said What am I doing here? We slaughter all of these animals, we spill all of this blood, we listen to all of these confessions that people come as they place their hands on the animal, and yet what happens? Nothing seems to be getting any better. People just keep on sinning What is really being accomplished? We see here perhaps most profoundly that our Savior is much greater than Aaron. Aaron, the author of Hebrews, in the next six chapters, is going to demonstrate how Jesus' atonement for our sins was so far superior to the priestly efforts of Aaron and his sons. I want to just mention this as kind of a preview. But in all of these chapters Ed, all the way through chapter 10, that's the primary thing we're going to be talking about. Jesus' atonement for sin was superior to Levitical priesthood in at least four ways. Number one Aaron had to make a sacrifice for his own sins and then for the sins of the people. But our mediator is not a frail sinner like Aaron. and need of forgiveness. No, he is the sinless son of God. I want you to follow me this chain of references. Turn with me to Hebrews chapter 7, please. Hebrews chapter 7 verse 26 It says, For such a high priest became us, who was holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners. and made higher than the heavens, who needeth not daily as those high priests to offer up sacrifice, first for his own sins, and then for the people, for this he did once when he offered up. Himself. Jesus' death on the cross was the ultimate sacrifice. All the sacrifices before pointed to that, and it was once for all accomplished. Secondly, Aaron offered up the blood of bulls and goats, but Jesus offered up his own blood blood. Turn with me ahead to Hebrews 9 now and verse 12. Hebrews 9 12, neither by the blood of goats and calves But by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. And then chapter 10 and verse 4 says it this way: for it is not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sins. All of those thousands, tens of thousands of sacrifices over the years made no atonements. They only pointed to the coming atonement of Christ. Thirdly, Aaron entered the tabernacle. But Jesus entered into heaven itself. Turn with me to chapter 9 and verse 24. It says, For Christ has not entered into the holy places. Made with hands, which are the figures of the true, but into heaven itself now to appear in the presence of God for us. Aaron represented the people in the tabernacle, that holy place. But Jesus entered into heaven itself. And there he represents us. Finally, fourthly, Aaron had to repeat these sacrifices. But Jesus made atonement for the people once for all. Look with me at Hebrews chapter 9 and verse 25. Not that he should have should offer himself often, as the high priest entereth into the holy place every year with blood of others. For then must he have often suffered since the foundation of the world, but now once in the end of the world. Hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. And then Hebrews chapter ten and verse eleven. And every high priest standeth daily ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices which can never take away sin. But this man after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down on the right hand of God. Now, why does this book of Hebrews, and perhaps even more broadly, the book of the Bible spend so much time talking about sin. You ever wondered about that? Why all these chapters in Hebrews about atonements? It's because mankind's greatest problem is sin. People often think that the problem is war or inequality or poverty or lack of education. The list goes on and on But no, my friends, our greatest problem is sin. And many of these other issues are only manifestations of that. Our problem is sin. This was not just a problem with those Old Testament Jews or these New Testament believers. This is our problem as well. And so let me ask you, how do you deal with your sin? Then ask you if you're a sinner. I already know the answer to that question. The question is, how do you deal with your sin? Do you ignore it? Do you excuse it? Do you just try to compensate for it? I've known people over the years who made large donations to churches Because of some sin in their life. And kind of like, yeah, I guess I gotta make a large donation, kind of make up for what I just did. It's not what God wants. The only way your sin can be atoned for is the shedding of the blood of Christ. Christ, the Lamb slain before the foundation of the earth, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. He's the only solution, the only remedy, the only cure for our sin problem. And every other avenue that we use to deal with our shame and our guilt. Will fall short because the answer is found only in Christ Let's not forget the broader context and purpose of this book. This concerned pastors writing to these suffering believers. And he's saying to them, do you really want to go back to Judaism and Levitical system, which could never really deal with your sin? Do you really want to turn to the symbols away from the reality? Do you want to look at the shadows instead of the substance? He's saying, don't you realize that all of this work, all of this effort, all of this liturgy, it's just to point sinners to the Savior So don't turn back, he says to them, cling to Christ. And so I say to you, turn to Christ. He is the only answer to your And then fourthly, I want you to see that Jesus was uniquely chosen by God for his office. In a way unlike any Iranic priest. Look with me back now at Hebrews chapter 5 and verse 4 We read of this other qualification. The high priest had to be chosen by God. And no man taketh this honor unto himself. But he that is called of God as was Aaron. This final characteristic that's mentioned in our text. Is that the high priest had to be a man chosen by God? There wasn't a place where you applied to be the high priest. There wasn't a committee that reviewed applications and narrowed it down and then finally had a big reveal when they chose the person. It wasn't like that. This was God's choice. Now, you'll notice that verse 4 specifically refers to Aaron, and that is because The only scripture that we have, there's a sense in which the only high priest in the Old Testament that was directly chosen by God was Aaron, the first one. We read in Exodus chapter 28, and thou shalt take unto thee Aaron, thy brother, and his sons with him. from among the children of Israel that he may minister unto me in the priest office, even Aaron, Nadab, Abihu, Elazar, Ithamar, Aaron's sons. And thou shalt make holy garments for Aaron thy brother for glory and for beauty, and thou shalt speak unto all that are wise hearted, whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom, that they may make Aaron 's garments, to consecrate him, that he may minister unto me in the priest's office. And then in Exodus chapter 30, let me read this for you in verse 30. It says, and thou shalt anoint Aaron and his sons and consecrate them that they may minister unto me in the priest's office Now, in Israel's history, we do read of people who dared to take upon themselves priestly duties. In Numbers chapter 16, we read of a man named Korah who led a mutiny against Moses and Aaron. And Korah's complaints was that Moses and Aaron were not demonstrating an egalitarian leadership philosophy. We hear this word often today, egalitarian. It means we're all on the same level. He said to them, I thought The God said that we were a kingdom of priests, that everyone was set apart to God. So why are Aaron, why are you offering these sacrifices? And Moses, why are you the boss? Who puts you in that position? I don't remember ever taking a vote. And the Lord was so angry at Korah and his followers' arrogant defiance that he opened up the ground and buried them alive. And a fire came from the Lord and burned all of those men who dared to offer incense like a priest. In 1 Samuel chapter 13, we read of King Saul, who was preparing to battle the Philistines. But Samuel the high priest was late. And let me remind you, young people, that in this day he could not text Samuel and say, Where are you? What time are you going to get here? In the old days, I can remember where people were late to meet you and you just didn't know why. You didn't know if they got a flat tie or if they were held up or if they forgot, you had no way of checking. So Samuel was late, and Saul was nervous and agitated, and so he offered The priestly duties without waiting on Samuel. And Samuel comes And he says to him, You have done foolishly, and the kingdom will be taken from you And then we read of King Uzzah who went into the sanctuary to burn incense before the Lord, and the Lord struck him down with leprosy, 2 Chronicles 26. You see, it's a dangerous thing to appoint yourself to ministry. This goes beyond just what we find here. in the Old Testament context. The Bible says that if a man desires the office of a bishop or a pastor, he desires a good thing. It's something that's to be encouraged and commended and suggested. Someone no one should enter into the Lord's service unless they have a sense that God has called them. There have been many people who have entered the ministry because maybe their parents wanted them too. Or because sometimes like in Nations like in England where they've had state churches, it was actually a very comfortable living. It was a position of status and authority And people will look at sometimes a pastor or the admiration that people have for a missionary, and they might say, you know, I'd like some of that myself. I'd like to be the hero. I'd like to be the person in charge. And so they follow that direction, but to do so is a dangerous thing unless God has called you. I suspect that when these words from Hebrews chapter 5 and verse 4 were first read to that first century Jewish congregation, that it resonated with them. Because for many years in their context, the high priest was not chosen by God, but was appointed by Herod and ultimately the Roman authorities. And we know that in the first century there were all of these high priests who were notorious. They were wicked men. They got the office through bribes, through political connections, or because they agreed to be puppets. Of the Roman oppressors. And so people had often very little respect for the high priest. He was just a political official Who was not really out to serve the people, but to serve himself. But God desired that the high priest Be one that he had chosen, one of the sons of Aaron Now here in this passage we have a direct contrast in the very next verse with Aaron. If you'll notice in verse 5. This is kind of the crux of the passage, the dividing point of the passage. So also Christ glorified not himself to be made a high priest. But he that said unto him, Thou art my son, today have I begotten thee. He saith also in another place, Thou art a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek. And Lord willing, we will try to unpack that next week. But I want you to see today that the point he is making Is that Christ was so much more appointed and qualified to be a high priest than Aaron ever was. This is what the author is trying to convey to his first century readers and to us. That Jesus is better than any high priest before him. He is the one who can make atonement for his people. people who can represent us and pray for us and give us grace. Now I want to conclude with this one application. And that is that all of us need a great high priest. We all need a mediator, a go-between between God and man. The embarrassing reality is like Aaron, we are all clothed with weakness. We all are inconsistent. We all are prone to give in to the world and its pressures that it puts on us. We all fall short We all fail to do what God has commanded us to do in some respects, and we do those things that He commands us not to do. And so often we walk around in the delusion that we are so much better than we truly are. We all desperately need a great high priest. Even the best of us, even religious people, we all fail to do All that God commands us to do. We are helpless sinners in need of a Savior. We all need someone to deliver us from our sin. We all need an atoning sacrifice. And the only sacrifice that will provide true cleansing for our sins is the blood of Jesus. It's hard for us to comprehend and imagine. Sometimes people find it difficult to read through the book of Leviticus because there's so much blood there. I mean if someone were to try to make like a video uh recording what was in the book of Leviticus, it would be grotesque. Because it would just be filled with slaughter and the and the priest smearing blood everywhere. It's been said that the work of a high priest, if we could see it today, would appear to be more the work of a butcher than of a religious leader. And all of that blood that was shed was just a picture of the blood of Christ. That was shed at the cross, the only blood that can atone for our sin. Perhaps you're here this morning and you recognize that you are a sinner. And that you need a Savior. I want you to know that that answer is found in Christ. He's the only one. who can provide real forgiveness, real cleansing. He's the only one who can really deal with you with sympathy and compassion. He's the only one who can truly represent you before God. He's the only one who will be a faithful intercessor for you, who will pray for you and plead for you. 24 hours a day. We all need God's help every day. And we especially need His help in time of need. And the only one who can meet all of these qualifications is Jesus. So why would you look anywhere else? Jesus is the only mediator between God and man. He is the only one who can save you from your sins. Why don't you seek him today? Why don't you trust him today? Why don't you repent of your sin before him today and ask him to save you? He will. He is our great high priest. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for giving us a great Savior, a great high priest. And we thank you that because of him, we can be redeemed. Our sins can be covered We can come before you boldly with confidence, not because we are strong, but because we have a great Savior And so, Father, I pray that you would use your word to cause sinners to seek the Savior today. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.