Join me in Luke Chapter One. Luke Chapter One One of the oldest Christmas carols that people know is the one we sang a moment ago. O come, O come, Emmanuel. This hymn is about a thousand years old, and it perfectly expresses the somber mood of darkness before the dawn of Christ's birth. It's a song filled with scriptural illusions. And one of the verses in this hymn comes from the text that I want to preach on this morning. The third verse of that song says this: O come, thou dayspring, come and cheer. Our spirits by thy advent here, disperse the gloomy clouds of night. and death's dark shadows put to flight. You've probably sung those words many times at Christmas, but I wonder if you knew The text they come from. They come from Luke chapter 1 and verses 78 and 79. It's actually a song taken from a song. You may be aware of the fact that Luke includes several songs in his infancy narrative, that is, the first two chapters of his book. These songs are traditionally known by their Latin names of the first words of those songs. So we have Mary's famous song known as the Magnificant. Simeon's song, which is found in chapter 2, where he says, Now let us thou thy servant depart in peace. It's known as the Nuc Damentis. But the longest of all the songs is a song by Zachariah, the father of John the Baptist. It's known as the song Benedictus from the first word blessed. You may recall that Zechariah received a visit from the angel Gabriel who told him that his wife Elizabeth was about to give birth to a very special boy who would be the forerunner of the Messiah, John the Baptist. And although Zechariah was a priest, he had trouble believing that a couple like him and his wife in their advanced age. would actually have a child. And so he asked for a sign. And the Lord was not pleased with his request because it was made in unbelief. And so God rendered him speechless until the child was born and he was named. After many months of silence and reflection, Zechariah praises God with the Spirit-inspired song. This hymn begins in verse 68 and concludes in verse 79. In this beautiful song, Zechariah praises God for the coming Redeemer. Redemption is the key note of this song. Look with me at the first two verses. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people. He has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. And this is a reference to the Messiah because Jesus, the Messiah, came from the house of David. We heard that even in the song a moment ago. And then Zechariah demonstrates that the coming Redeemer was the fulfillment of many ancient promises in the Old Testament. This actually takes up the largest portion of this song in verses 70 through 75. Notice how he keeps referring to God's promises. As he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from of old, that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of those who hate us. to show the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant, the oath that he swore to our father Abraham to grant us. that we being delivered from the hand of our enemies might serve him without fear in holiness and righteousness before him all our days. And then in verse 76, Zechariah begins to speak specifically about the birth of his son. John the Baptist. Notice this in verse 76. And you, child, will be called the prophet of the Most High. For you will go before the Lord to prepare his way, to give knowledge of salvation to his people in the forgiveness of their sins. Notice John the Baptist is described as the one who will go before the Lord, that is before the Messiah, to prepare his way. And he would preach a message of repentance that would lead to the forgiveness of sins. And this coming visitation from God was all due to the tender mercy of our God. Notice verse 78. Because of the tender mercy of our God. Not because the people had earned it, not because they deserved it, but because of God's mercy. on his people. And now we come to our text this morning in the second line of verse 78, whereby the sunrise shall visit us from on high. And some of you may have day spring or day star for sunrise. It's all translations of the same word, but everyone agrees that it definitely refers primarily to the rising of the sun. The birth of Jesus is like the rising of the sun after a long, dark night. I love to see the rising of the sun. I saw it this morning on my way to church. It's not that I was up really early because the sun rose at 7. 24 this morning. This is, in case you didn't know, it's the shortest day of the year. And the the the sun rising, especially on a clear morning like this morning, it's so beautiful. It's so hopeful. It's the beginning of something new. And the birth of Jesus marks the beginning of a new era in the history of mankind. I wonder what you realize the differences that the birth of Christ has made in the history of humanity. It is impossible for us to imagine a world in which Jesus never came. It would be radically different from it is today. You think it's bad today? Just imagine if Jesus never came. For one thing, we wouldn't be celebrating Christmas, the birth of Jesus. For another, we you wouldn't be in church this morning because there would be no churches. You might be surprised to understand that probably it's hard to speculate on these things, but probably there would be no charitable organizations Do you realize that charitable organizations giving to people in need is an outgrowth of Christianity? And that most charitable organizations that you've ever heard of or ever known of were started by Christians to help people in Christians. And do you realize that it's possible, I guess, that there would be no hospitals in the world? You may say, how does that figure well The advent, the beginning of hospitals all goes back to Christian charity and compassion for people in need, and they started hospitals to care for people who were sick and dying. And they were following the example of Christ. We don't realize how much our concern for people in need and people who are oppressed and people who are poor and who are weak and are sickly how much of that we take for granted, but it's all rooted in Christian theology and the example of Jesus Christ. And if you doubt me on that, you go to parts of the world where Christianity and the gospel has not penetrated, and you will see far less concern for people in need. But my question for you this morning is, has the coming of Christ to earth made any real difference in your life personally? Is your lifestyle, your ethics, your values, your joy, your view of the world any different because Jesus came to earth about 2,000 years ago? On the Sunday before Christmas, I'm going to show you from Scripture that the birth of Jesus was the coming of light into the world. I did not plan this, but our Christmas concert on Christ, the light of life, perfectly encapsulates what I'm preaching this morning. In fact, We use a lot of the same verses that you'll find in the program. The first thing I want you to see tonight is that Jesus Christ is the promised light Of prophecy. Look with me, please, at verse seventy-eight, in that second line, whereby the sunrise shall visit us from on high. The sunrise is the translation of a very specific and interesting Greek word. It's a term that was used in two very different ways in the Old Testament. That Hebrew term that corresponds to the Greek term, and both of them point to the Messiah. The first way that it's used, we heard in the song that the young lady sang a moment ago. referring to a shoot or a sprout that comes up, that green tender shoot that is the beginning of a new life. We read about this in Isaiah chapter 11, where it says, There shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse, and a branch from his roots shall bear fruit. We've all seen this before where a stump has been cut down, but there's still light in its roots, and a shoot will come out of that stump. That's a picture of the coming of Christ. And sometimes this term in the Old Testament is translated the branch. Which is a title for Christ. We read about this in Jeremiah 23 and verse 5. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will raise up for David a righteous branch. And he shall reign as king and deal wisely, and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. We find it again in Zechariah chapter 3 and verse 8 that says, Behold, I will bring my servant the branch. These are all clear references to the coming Messiah. All the rabbis understood this. And it was a word That is the equivalent of the Greek term here for sunrise or daystar. But it's clear that Luke, in his record of Zechariah 's song, is using the word primarily to refer not to the branch or the shoot, but to the sunrise. this imagery of light that we find so often of the coming of the Messiah in the Old Testament. We find it in Numbers chapter 24. And verse 17, a star shall come out of Jacob, and a scepter shall rise out of Israel, saying that from the Jewish people would come both a bright light and a king. Perhaps the most famous Old Testament prophecy of the Messiah as light is found in Isaiah chapter 9 and verse 2. The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwelt in the land of deep darkness, on them has this light shone. This is a reference that in the darkness of Galilee of the Gentiles The light of the Messiah would come. And a few verses later we have this very familiar text, for unto us a child is born. unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace But most likely the verse that Zechariah has in mind when he speaks of the daystar or the sunrise is one of the final verses in the Old Testament. Malachi chapter 4 and verse 2, which has a very unusual and unique imagery. It says, but for you who fear my name, The son of righteousness shall arise with healing in his wings. In fact, that line is found in Heart the Herald Angel Sing that we sang this morning. The son of righteousness is not the S-O-N of righteousness, it's the S-U-N of righteousness The sun speaking of the Messiah as light, like the sun, his rays will come and bring healing. This is a reference to the light that the Messiah would bring. And so what is amazing is that Zechariah intentionally uses a very specific word that was used in the Old Testament for both the shoot and the branch and the lights. And both the shoot and the and the light have one thing in common, and that is they both signal a new beginning. Just like the shoot signals the new beginning of life and the sunrise signals the beginning of a new day, the birth of Christ was a very significant new beginning in the history of the world. And though we live still in a godless age, we still divide up the history of humanity into two big halves. Did you know that? We have the dates that have BC. before Christ. And we have the dates that are AD in the year of our Lord. And although secularists are embarrassed by this, and sometimes they will see, if you see in museums and and so forth, and in and in modern secular writings they will talk about BCE before the Common Era. That they don't want They don't want to make a reference to Christ again. They're embarrassed about the religious underpinnings of our whole Western calendar. But it's an undeniable fact that the history of the world changed when Christ came. And this is reflected even in the way we keep record of the years. We're about to turn over to 2026. Which to an old man like me seems like a science fiction number, right? It seems way, way off in the future. If you talk to me when I was a kid about 2026 , You would have thought about something way in the distant past. Well, guess what? It's next year. And that 2026, every time we see a calendar and we Bring in a new year, whether we recognize it or intend it or not, we are giving credence to the reality that the coming of Christ changed everything. Now we come to my next point. Jesus Christ is the saving light of the world. And verse 779. We have two parallel reasons why Christ came to earth. Notice to give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death. That's the first one. And secondly, to guide our feet into the way of peace. This is why Christ came. They are expressed in these two lines. So let's look at the first one. To give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death. This is a very powerful picture of the world before Christ came and the individual without Christ. borrowing from many Old Testament passages to give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death Undoubtedly, Zechariah is borrowing language from Psalm 107 in verse 10 that says that some sat in darkness and in the shadow of death, prisoners in affliction and in irons. We have similar wording in Isaiah 42 in verse 7. It says, the Messiah would come to open the eyes that are blind, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon, and from the prison those who sit in darkness. In the ancient world, prisons were dark places. Have you ever heard the expression dark as a dungeon? Right? And some of this, of course, is because they simply didn't have electricity back then, but also it was intentional They could put people often underground in dark, damp dungeons. It was to enhance their punishment. And often people who were imprisoned for any length of time, who were bound and changed in these dark dungeons. It says here it speaks about the shadow of death. The idea is they were approaching death, they weren't going to live very long. In the ancient world, people didn't remain in dungeons for like 20 or 30 or 40 years. They died pretty soon because the conditions were so deplorable and so unhealthy. They didn't last for long. Get a long prison sentence, it was very likely you were going to die in prison. And you were going to die in the darkness. A very depressing, a very gloomy thing to think of. But here it's saying in this text and in these Old Testament references. that this is the way humanity is, apart from the gospel, apart from the light of Christ. But this raises a very interesting question. Why is it, if indeed Jesus is the light of the world, why is it that so many people, even when they come close to the truth, Of the gospel, they still don't receive it. I mean, who wants to dwell in the darkness? Who wants to be in a situation that will ultimately bring death, the shadow of death? Why is it that the people that even knew Jesus well and were surrounding him and saw his miracles, why is it that so many of them still rejected him and did not trust in him? Well, the Bible answers this question in John chapter 3, verses 19 and 20. And this is the judgment. Listen to this. The light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness. rather than the light because their works were evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his works should be exposed. You see, the reason why people stay in the darkness is because in some way they still love the darkness, which is to say they love their sin. And so they remain in the darkness, even though they know about the lights. This is what we read in John chapter 3 and verse 36. conclusion of this very chapter that I just quoted from. It says, Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. Whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. So let me ask you this morning, are you still in the dark? Are you still in the dark? Darkness is a place where people dwell who are hiding from God We have a lot of lights around our church. Several years ago we enhanced and put up lights on the on the pack lights on the building. So there's not a bunch of dark corners and we have a lot of lights in our parking lots. We want there to be lots of light because light brings more safety and more security. But there are many people who prefer to dwell in the darkness. Jesus said, I'm the light of the world. You'll notice he didn't say, I am a light of the world. He says, I am the light of the world. He is the only light for mankind. The only way that he can come out of the darkness and to the light, the only way that he can be safe. He is the only hope for lost sinners, for those who are in the bondage of sin. And thirdly, this morning, I want us to see that Jesus Christ is the guiding light of his people. The last phrase of this remarkable song says, to guide our feet into the way of peace. Light provides guidance and direction. Jesus not only saves us by his light, but he guides us and protects us with his lights. This is a wonderful thing to follow in the lights. The Bible says, in thy light shall we see light. It's by following the light, our light, our savior. That we stay on the right path and we don't wander away. This is the essence of what it is in the Christian life. The essence of the Christian life is to follow our Savior. John also uses the imagery of him as the good shepherd. The sheep are to follow the shepherd, and we are to follow our good shepherd and our lights. He is the one who will lead us in the right path. And when we get into trouble is when we are not close to him, when we're not right in the light, but we start to linger in the shadows and drift back from him. This is when we encounter danger and difficulty in our lives. But how could a person know if they're truly following Jesus, the light of the world? Well, three times in the Gospel of John. Jesus reveals himself as the light of the world. And those three occasions give us some very helpful information about what it means to be in The light and following our Savior. In John chapter 8 and verse 12, he says, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of light. We see two mutually exclusive things here. Dwelling in the darkness and walking in the light are different from one another. A person who is dwelling in the darkness is not following the Savior. This is referring to their sinful lifestyle I'm not at all saying that by trying to live a good life and reform ourselves, that by doing this we save ourselves. No, we can never save ourselves. But the evidence that we are truly following the light is that we no longer are walking in the darkness. Because where there is light, there is not darkness, and where there is darkness, there is no light. This does not mean, of course, that Christians are perfect or that we're sinless. We all come short of the glory of God, but who we are following and how we are living are different. Now, when Jesus said these words that he was the light of the world, the Jews would have thought of the pillar of fire that guided the people of God when they were in the wilderness. What a comfort that must have been on those dark nights. And just as the people of God followed the pillar of fire, so true believers today follow Christ, the light of the world. He is our guide. And we follow him and believe him and trust in him. Because he is our Savior and our Master. Lord. Now the next time that we read of Jesus as the light is in John chapter 9 and verse 5, where he says, I am the light of the world. And some of you who have been with us in our study of John, you know that what Jesus does right after that is he heals a man who was born blind. A man who had congenital blindness, you could probably look in this man's face and you could see that he was blind because his eyes were deformed. And Jesus did this not just to show mercy on this man, but to be an illustration of what happens. in conversion. The Bible teaches that those who are lost are spiritually blind. They are in the dark. They don't see things the way you see things as a believer. And this is why you can give the gospel to them clearly, that you can take them to a church service, you could bring them to a Christian concert like we will have tonight. Where the gospel will be clearly presented, and yet they don't get it. They don't receive it. It doesn't touch their hearts. You watch a program like this or you listen to a sermon and you're like, oh, this is so clear and so conventional. This is what I believe. This is what I affirm. This is what I confess. And you can't imagine that anyone would listen to this or hear this and not be attracted to it, that they wouldn't want to come to the lights. But the reason is because they are in the dark, they are blind, they are spiritually blind. This is why there might be people here this morning who are listening to this, and it doesn't seem attractive to you at all. It doesn't seem something that you're interested in at all. Maybe it just seems like nonsense. You don't believe that any of it's true. Or maybe you do sort of believe it's true. Or it's possibly true, but the idea of Christ being the Lord of your life is not at all attractive because, frankly, you want to be in control of your life. Because you are still blind and cannot see things as they truly are. And this is why we are absolutely dependent on the Lord in his work in the hearts of people. He must open your eyes. You must see things as they are. Before you can be saved. And then in John chapter 12, we have this third occurrence. In fact, I'd like to invite you to turn with me here. I haven't had you turn to much scripture this morning. So turn with me, please, to John chapter 12 and verse 44. This may also serve to awaken some of you, the rustling of the pages. John chapter 12 and verse 44. Jesus is at the very end of his public ministry. He is about In a short time to go to the upper room to his disciples. And he's making his final pleas. To the people. Look at verse 44. And Jesus cried out. See? He's crying out. He's speaking loudly. Whoever believes in me, believes not in me, but in him who sent me. What he's saying there is not. That they don't believe in him, but he's simply saying that in trusting in Christ, you're trusting in his father, because he has been sent by the Father as his beloved son to earth. And then verse 45: And whoever sees me sees him who sent me. This is what he'll say in the upper room: He who has seen me has seen the Father. Not that the Father and the Son are the same person. But they have the same attributes. They are the same being. And so if you want to know what God is like, look at his beloved son, and you will see exactly what he's like. And then verse 46, this is our key verse. I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness. One more time Jesus uses this analogy saying that he is the light of the world. And you'll notice in this passage, he's calling on people to believe. He says in verse 44, whoever believes, and now in verse 46, whoever believes in me. May not remain in darkness. This is a reminder that Jesus did not come to earth and die just so that we would escape the punishment of hell. I often heard it this way presented when I was a child, you know. But the and it's true But it's not the full picture. Jesus also came to save us from our sins, so that we would not remain in the darkness. This is why you cannot take this approach that I want to stay in the darkness, but I also want to go to heaven someday when I die. I want to kind of have the best of both worlds. No, it doesn't work that way. Because if your eyes have truly been opened and you've truly come to the light, there'll be nothing of the old world that you want. And besides, the idea of having it both ways is nonsense because a person who really loves to be in the darkness and still live like an unbeliever, why in the world would you want to go to heaven? Because you wouldn't be happy there. Because that's where people worship and praise. And where it's a city of light, and there's no darkness at all. So why would you want that future for yourself? No, no, no. If you are going to come to the light, you will also leave the darkness. And that's why Christ came to change you from the inside out. Now the last phrase in Luke 1. 79 says, to guide our feet into the way of What is the way of peace? Well, I want to show you another passage that uses the same imagery. Turn with me to Romans chapter 3. Romans chapter 3, please, a very famous chapter, a chapter that is filled with the gospel. And one of the passages that I always turn to when I'm sharing the gospel with someone, Romans chapter 3, Paul here is arguing from Old Testament text. that no one is righteous. The key word of the book of Romans is righteousness. No one is righteous. There is no passage of scripture I know that is less flattering to humanity than the one I'm going to read right now. Look at Romans chapter 3 and verse 10. As it is written, none is righteous, no not one, no one understands, no one seeks for God, all have turned aside, together they have become worthless, no one does good. Not even one. Their throat is an open grave. They use their tongues to deceive. The venom of asp is under their lips Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood. In their path are ruin and misery. Now look at verse 17. And the way of peace they have not known. And there is no fear of God before their eyes. This passage where Paul is quoting from Isaiah 59 , describes humanity in his natural sinful states. It is not very flattering And I think all lost people, when they read this, they would say, that's not true of me. That's not the way I am. Oh, they would be quick to tell you there's a lot of bad people in the world and a lot of bad things happen, but they would also be quick to add that they're not one of those people. They'd say I'm not that bad. I'm not a wicked person. I'm no criminal And that's because they're still in the dark. You see, it's only those who recognize they are lost who can be found. It's only those who recognize that they are unrighteous. Who can find the righteousness of Christ? It's only those who recognize they are sinners who will seek a Savior from their sins. So what is this peace? The Bible talks about essentially three kinds of peace. There's first of all the peace of God. That we feel in our hearts. This is the subjective aspect. This is that piece in Philippians 4 that passes all understanding. When a believer can go through a difficult crisis and yet still be at peace. Don't you admire that in a person? They're going through a tough situation, but they're still at peace. And then there of course is relational peace. This is when we're not fighting with other people. The world is a very dysfunctional place where people just can't seem to get along. This is even evident often when families gather like at Christmas time. I have this health update things on my phone. I don't even know how I got there or anything. And like the day after Thanksgiving, I got this text or this update and it says Are you turning to alcohol to deal with your stress? You know? Because thinking, you know, if you're if you're probably with your family at Thanksgiving, that's probably what you're doing. Because it's so difficult. And I'm like, no. I didn't answer it back, by the way. No, I'm enjoying being with my family. They have not brought me to that place. But it's very sad to think that there are millions of people that are saying, yes, that's exactly what I'm doing. And there are many people who are not looking forward to Christmas this year because of the people they're going to have to be with that annoy them and irritate them. It's very sad. But that's not what this passage is talking about when it talks about peace. It's talking about peace with God. And this is an aspect of peace that most people never even think about. The Bible says, in many places, I think of two occasions in the book of Isaiah, the The last verse in chapter 48 and chapter 57, if I'm remembering correctly, it says that there's no peace, saith the Lord, for the wicked. There's no sense that they are right with God. In fact, they are rebelling against God. And now when whenever I've shared this with lost people that they are rebelling against God or they're enemies of God, they never assent to that. Oh no, no, I'm not I'm not angry. I'm not against God. But when you start telling them what God requires of them, then you see some anger reveal itself. No, I'm going to live life my way. I'm not going to let someone tell me how to live my life The Bible teaches that all unbelievers are rebels against God. They don't want to be under his dominion. They don't want to listen to him. They want to live life on their own terms. But it's only those who repent and believe the gospel who can enjoy that peace with God. The key verse On this aspect of peace in the Bible is Romans 5. 1. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Let me ask you this morning, do you know that you are at peace with God, that you are no longer rebelling against him? But you have laid down your resistance and your weapons and you're under his authority. And furthermore, you know that God's wrath is not abiding on you anymore. Because you're trusting in Christ who absorbed all of God's wrath that was destined for you. This is the heart of the gospel. Have you ever thought about how much the Bible says about the connection between the incarnation of Christ and peace? I mentioned earlier this passage in Isaiah chapter 9 and verse 6, for unto us a son is born, unto us a child is given, the government shall be upon a shoulder. and his name shall be called. Remember these titles, wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father. And what's the last one? Prince of peace. What's that peace talking about? It's talking about the peace that sinful, rebellious human beings can have with God. And we find this even in the message of the angels to the shepherds at the birth of Jesus in Luke chapter 2. Remember what they said: glory to God in the highest! And on earth, peace among those with whom he is pleased. God's peace, often this verse is used out of context as a call to world peace, and can't we just put aside our weapons and disarm and all be at peace with one another? And this is a wonderful Christmas story and everything. But that's not what the verse is saying at all. It's talking about the fact that There's peace only with those with whom God is pleased. Let me ask you, with whom is God pleased? You know whom God is really pleased with? He's pleased with his Son. He said, This is my beloved son, and whom I am well pleased, and the only people that God is well pleased with. are people who are with Christ, who have trusted in Christ, who have come to the light, and are depending on Him alone for safety. So if you want to enjoy that peace of knowing that your sins are forgiven, that you are right with God. The only way is to come to the light and to trust in the Savior that the Father has provided. Let's close in prayer. Prayer this morning. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for giving us a wonderful Savior who is the light of the world, the one who has brought us out of the darkness. out of the bondage of iniquity, has brought us into fellowship with you. And we thank you, Father, that because we are in the light, we can walk in the light. And we can enjoy this peace, this peace with God. I pray, Lord, that you would use this wonderful prophecy to draw people to the Savior that they would repent and believe the gospel. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.