Would you please join me in John chapter 7? John chapter 7. If you're visiting with us, we're making our way through the Gospel. John Has it ever occurred to you that the world's most dangerous false teachers all claim to be prophets of God? Whether it be Muhammad or Joseph Smith or Sun-Young-moon or Jim Jones, they all claimed to be messengers sent by God. To claim to receive revelation from God and to speak for him is an astounding claim. And this, of course, is exactly what Jesus did. When Jesus came to the Feast of Tabernacles this last time, he came as the ultimate prophet, the ultimate messenger sent by the Father. And just as many Old Testament prophets came to Jerusalem and were put to death by the authorities there, so Jesus Would be crucified in about six months' time. This morning, as we continue our study of the Gospel of John, we're exploring a conversation between the Jesus and the residents. of Jerusalem. They are responding to Jesus' claims to be the Messiah, and Jesus will respond to their unbelief. I have to tell you this is a difficult passage to outline into a sermon because it's a conversation. In a conversation, there's back and forth, right? You're responding to what each other is saying. So it doesn't fit well to have like a linear outline. that has seven different points that progress through the passage. So what we're going to see today is a contrast between The way that people responded to Jesus and the way he responded to them. Now this passage is all about the identity of Jesus. Notice the questions here. Verse 25, is not this the man whom they seek to kill? Verse 26, can it be that the authorities really know that this is the Christ in verse 31? When Christ appears, will he do more signs than this man has done? You see, it's all about who is Jesus. And the reason why the Apostle John has included this conversation here is because the whole focal point of his gospel is about the identity of Jesus. His purpose statement is found at the end of chapter 20, and it says, these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ. the Son of God and that by believing you might have life in His name. I have to confess to you that one of the main reasons I chose to go through the gospel of John, even though I knew it would take a long time, is because I wanted to preach the gospel to people who attend our church but are not believers in the biblical sense of the word This is a gospel that really invites the reader to believe It's called the gospel of belief for a reason because this verb is used some 98 times in this book. And I want you to know that since this series has started, there have been several people that have come to faith in Christ. through the preaching of this gospel. And it's my prayer that there will be many more before we come to the final verse of this book. So I want you to notice this contrast that we have before us this morning. We have a motto of how people respond to Jesus. And of how he responds to them. So the first main point that I have that also has four sub-points is this. The people of Jerusalem reveal the depravity. of the human hearts. The city of Jerusalem is the heart and soul of Israel. It is up on a mountain, a mount. We call it the Temple Mounts. Is where the king resided and where the temple was. It was uh the s only city really in Israel that that had any impressive buildings, that had any sense of true civilization, and the people of Israel were very proud of their city. They called it the holy city. But it would be the residents of this city that would cry out, crucify him, crucify him. The Bible teaches a very unpopular truth, and that is that people are not basically good, but they're bad. They're not necessarily as sinful as they could be, but their sin extends to every portion of their person. They are a fallen creature, and apart from the grace of God, they will not come to Christ. Now, in our passage this morning, we see, I think, four varieties of unbelief. That are on display here among the people of Jerusalem. The first one is this, lost people sometimes hate Jesus. and want him out of their lives. This is exemplified by the religious leaders that were plotting to murder him. This is referenced here by what the people says in verse 25. Some of the people Jerusalem said, therefore, is not this the man whom they seek to kill? Now, this is an interesting thing for us to consider. How do we understand this statement? How does it fit With what we read up in the previous chapter, in this same chapter, excuse me, in verses 19 and 20. Look with me at verse 19 Has not Moses given you law, Jesus says, yet none of you keeps the law? Why do you seek to kill me? The crowd answered, You have a demon. Who is seeking to kill you? But now in verse 25, they say, isn't this the man that people are seeking to kill? How do we explain this apparent contradiction? There's two different groups of people. In verses 19 and 20, those words were undoubtedly uttered by the pilgrims who came from the Mediterranean world to this feast day. They didn't know about the inner workings of the political leaders in Jerusalem. And so they are astounded when Jesus says, they're seeking to kill me. Who's seeking to kill you? But the residents of Jerusalem who lived there, who knew what was going on, they knew that their leaders were seeking to murder Jesus. Now we see this attempts all through this festival. In fact, at the very beginning of this chapter We read that the Jews were seeking to kill him, a reference to the religious leaders. In verse 30, we read of them attempting to arrest him. And again in verse 32, they sent out temple police to arrest Jesus. So throughout this chapter, there's a real tension as the religious leaders are just waiting for the right opportunity to arrest him and to put him to death. These religious leaders hated Jesus because he exposed their sin and threatened their very way of life. And so they wanted Jesus out of their life. There are some unbelievers that take a very hostile view of Jesus today. If you try to witness to them, they won't just say no thanks. They will get angry with you and they will say, don't you ever bring that up again. I never want you to share your faith with me again. I'm not interested in that. And their very hostility reveals that this is a personal issue to them. Because often they recognize that if they are to truly embrace the claims of Christ , They would have to give up their cherished sin. And that idol reigns in their hearts, and they don't want even anyone even suggesting that as a possibility to them. And so they react in a way that betrays that this is a very personal issue with them. But there are other people who may respond with this kind of cynical attitude. Because of what they have seen in churches. This is an amazing thing if you think about it. These people of Jerusalem are saying, isn't this The man that our religious leaders are trying to kill? That's an amazing statement These are their venerable religious leaders that are doing this. And yet They seem not to turn away in disgust. It seems like they have become jaded and cynical because this is simply business as usual. All of you undoubtedly, I suspect, have heard of people that you've invited to church and they've said no thank you, and the reason they give is because the church is filled with hypocrites. You ever hear that? A very convenient excuse. Perhaps they live next to someone who is a professing believer. who went to church every Sunday and they will say something like, and he was the worst neighbor I ever had. And they believe that that person's inconsistent testimony is a great excuse for them not seeking the Lord. Now I must quickly add that verse 26, when it says, and here he is speaking openly, and they say nothing to him, can it be that the authorities really know that this is the Christ? That question is structured grammatically in such a way that it expects a no answer They're not honestly saying maybe our religious leaders want to trust in him because he's the Messiah. No, they're saying this, they're amused by their inability to capture him, and they say in a joking way, oh, maybe they know that he's really the Messiah. Wink wink. This is not a straightforward thing. This expects a no answer. Of course, of course they are not trying to trust in him So lost people sometimes have hatred for Christ, but not most. More common is what we find in the second category, and that is with the people of Jerusalem themselves. And that is that lost people often have a superficial knowledge of Jesus, but think They know him. Look with me at verse 27. But we know where this man comes from. And when the Christ, that is the Messiah, appears, no one will know where he comes from. I want you to notice how they refer to Jesus here. They refer to him as this man. We see that in verse 25. We see it again in verse 27. This is kind of a condescending way. They don't speak of him by name. They just refer to him as this man. And they claim that they know where he comes from, but the irony is, of course, they are ignorant of his heavenly origin. What they are saying is that they know that he is from Nazareth in Galilee. And that backwood village does not seem like a fitting hometown for the Messiah. This was the viewpoint of these sophisticated city dwellers. But we read something that may cause you to scratch your head. It's confusing. They say when Christ appears, no one will know where he comes from. Why would they say that? Because everyone knows that he would be born in Bethlehem. We'll see that actually later in this chapter. They knew about that. But what they are referring to is that there was a popular rabbinic teaching at this time That when the Messiah came, he would appear out of nowhere, that his past would be unknown and hidden. They some rabbis suggested that he would come marching out of the sea. Others that he would someday appear in the temple and nobody would know where he came from. And so because that thinking had permeated their perspective, they say, this can't be the Messiah. We know where he's from. We know his family lineage. He is certainly not the promised Messiah. They knew some facts about him. But they were ignorant of his identity. They didn't know him as the Son of God or the Savior of the world. And this is true, I fear, of many, many people, especially in our nation. What percentage of people could tell you that Jesus was born in Bethlehem? I think a pretty high percentage. Or that he died on the cross. I think that's pretty well known. They know a few facts about Jesus, but they don't truly know the Lord. And we can see this because he makes absolutely no difference in their lives. The way they live, the way they speak, the way they spend their money, their goals in life, their values in life, none of them have been changed because of their profession to know Jesus. They live life on their own terms, in their own way. They know some facts about Jesus. They may in some way identify as a follower of Jesus But they don't know him as their savior because they live just like any other middle-class lost person in America. We also see that lost people often have a superficial faith in Jesus, but think they follow him. Look at verse 30. When we come now to an interpretational matter. Yet many of the people believed in him. They said, when the Christ appears, will he do more signs than this man has done? Although the religious leaders were trying to arrest Jesus, many of the people believed in him. Now the commentators and preachers of the past are divided on this point. You may have always thought that anytime you read that people believed in the Bible, that means they were truly born again. But that is not true. The Bible talks about different types of faith. There's a real debate about this. Good Christians can differ about this, but I take this to be a spurious faith, a superficial faith. And I do so for several reasons. Number one, the entire tenor of this chapter is that of unbelief. And Jesus responds to the people of Jerusalem as those who have rejected him, not those who have believed in him. And because their faith seems to have been based entirely on the miracles of Christ. Notice what it says when they ask this question. When the Christ appears Will he do more signs than this man has done? And this question expects a no answer. No. When the Messiah appears, he wouldn't do more miracles because this guy has performed many, many miracles I think we read of this same type of response in John chapter 2 and verses 23 and 24. It says, many believed in his name when they saw the signs that he was doing, that is the miracles But Jesus on his part did not entrust himself to them. And it's a very interesting thing. It says they believed in Jesus, but he didn't believe in them. Literally. And it goes on to say, because he knew their hearts, he knows the hearts of all men. They didn't have a saving faith And I think we see this again in John chapter 6 of those people who experienced the feeding of the 5,000. And the Lord says, you're not really here because you believe in me, but because you want the bread, you want the food. And they ask for additional signs for him to rain down manna from heaven. And remember at the end of that, when he really presses home the claims of the gospel, the people went away. They abandoned him. The multitude was no longer following him. Even though they had one time called themselves disciples. So I think that we have another example of that here. I could be wrong. There's a sense in which I hope I'm wrong. That they were all true believers that responded there. But I don't think that's the case. I think that they were looking for a miracle-working political messiah who would overthrow Rome and make life better for them. That's the kind of faith they had. They believed that he was the Messiah, but they did not entrust their lives to him. They didn't repent of their sins. I think this is the kind of faith that Jesus describes in the parable of the soils, when the seed of the gospel is sown in a rocky heart, it endures for a while. But when tribulation or persecution comes, when it becomes costly, they fade away. This still occurs today. I've had many people over the years come to church here in the midst of a real life-altering crisis. Maybe the death of a child or the breakup of a marriage. Or the diagnosis of terminal cancer. And they turn to God and they come here. And they make a profession of faith, and in some cases I've even baptized them in this very baptistry here But a short time afterward, it became clear that as things started to clear up and their sense of desperation came to an end, they walked away and they had no interest in Christ. It was just a response of desperation, but not of true faith The question is: do you have a faith that will endure? A faith wrought by the work of God in your heart. Number four, lost people often have a flippant attitude about Jesus and ignore his warnings. Look with me now at verse 34 and following. Jesus says , I will be with you a little longer, and then I'm going to him who sent me. And he says, you will seek me and you will not find me. Where I am you cannot come. The Jews said one to another, What does this man intend? To go that we will not find him. Does he intend to go to the dispersion? Among the Greeks and teach the Greeks, what does he mean by saying, You will seek me and you will not find me, and where I am you cannot come? I want to talk about that last phrase at the end of the message. But for now I want to mention this suggestion that maybe when he says he's going away, he means that he's going out. to the dispersion, the diaspora, where many Jews had left Jerusalem and Judea and they had gone out to the Mediterranean world, to the Greek-speaking world. And we know historically that most of the major cities in that world at that time had large populations of Jewish people. They lived in the Greek world. They spoke the Greek language. But they dressed And their culture was more Greek than it was Jewish. They're sometimes called Hellenized Jews. But many of them would come back for the feast days, like Passover and Tabernacle, and the city of Jerusalem was filled with people like this at this moment. But the sophisticated residents of Jerusalem look down at them as being less than Jewish and far too Gentile in dress and culture. They did not speak Hebrew or Aramaic well. And they didn't look Jewish. They weren't quite as strict in their observance of some things as the residents of Jerusalem were. And so they looked down at them And when they make reference to the Greeks here, that he would teach the Greeks, this is a reference to the Gentiles, that he would be teaching the Gentiles whom they regarded as absolute pagans and as dogs. So what they are doing here in this suggestion is they are making an insult. They're saying, well, if this man who claims to be the Jewish Messiah Can't make it in Jerusalem, perhaps he can go to the Hellenized Jews and the Gentiles. There's some real irony here. Because in fifty years from this, there would be a huge number of Christians Among the Hellenized Jews and all of the Mediterranean world, the gospel would go forth and it would spread like wildfire. So this is kind of an example of an unintended prophecy that they are giving here. And perhaps some of these people did come to Christ about seven to eight months later on the day of Pentecost when 3,000 people believed. Through the outpouring of the Spirit of God. So how do lost people reject Jesus? Some do it very clearly. They hate him and they have animosity towards him. Some of them think that they know him. They know some facts about him. Others even think that they trust in him. And while others would openly mock him. But I believe that these are all just varying degrees of unbelief. This passage provides an ugly revelation of humanity. But now I want us to quickly look how Jesus reveals his identity as the ultimate prophet of God. Now perhaps you're thinking I'm reading something into this text by saying that Jesus revealed himself as a prophet, but I want you to notice in verse 40 it says, when the people heard these words, some of the people said, this really is the prophets. And when they say the prophet, they're referring to the prophecy in Deuteronomy chapter 18 when Moses said there would come an ultimate prophet. Which is a reference to the Messiah. He says, I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers, and I will put my words in his mouth. And he shall speak to them all that I command him. And whoever will not listen to my words that he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him. This is the key Old Testament text that speaks of Christ and his prophetic office. I think often that Christians are very eager to proclaim that Jesus is our King and He is our great high priest. But we we feel perhaps a little funny about saying he is our prophet. Because this is what often false teachers say of themselves, but it is a truth that we must embrace. And I think we see four ways that Jesus is the ultimate prophet in this passage. Number one, Jesus speaks boldly as a prophet. And verses 25 and 26. Look at verse 26. He is here speaking openly, and they say nothing to him. The idea of openly there is he's speaking boldly. Jesus, who is a wanted man, who is a man that they are conspiring to murder, comes right into the the lions then you might say right into the very heart of Judaism at their temple and he teaches the word that was a bold move And his teaching was not carefully measured, not to offend anyone or to excite the religious authorities. No, he speaks the truth. And this is what true prophets have always done. And the Old Testament would read of Elijah and his confrontation with King Ahab. And the list could go on and on of how prophets stood up when they said, Thus saith the Lord. They didn't mince their words. They didn't shape their message for their audience. They said what God told them to say. And this is what we see Jesus doing. He's not trying to curry favor. He's not trying course of self-preservation, he is speaking the truth. But he did something that all the other prophets could not do. He didn't just speak God's word. He was God's word. God's word in flesh. Secondly, Jesus is the ultimate messenger who was sent by the Father. Look with me at verse 28. Jesus proclaimed as he taught in the temple, you know me and you know where I come from, but I have not come of my own accord. He who sent me is true, and him you do not know This word proclaimed has the idea of, he cried out. Jesus raised his volume and he spoke passionately when he said, You know me and you know where I come from. Now this is an interesting expression, again, that we must parse. When he says that they know him, he's not saying that they know him as believers. He's saying, you're right, you do know a few facts about me. See what he says right before here. They say, but we know where this man comes from. We know his background. We know he's from Nazareth. He's not a stranger to us. We've been watching him for years. And Jesus says, you know me, you know where I come from. He's saying you know a few facts about me, but you don't know my father, and therefore you don't really know me. How do I know this is what Jesus means? Because In the same time period at the Feast of Tabernacles, we have in chapter 8 and verse 19 these words. Then said they to him, Wherefore is your father? Jesus answered, You know neither me nor my father. If you knew me, you would know my father also. So they didn't really know him. They sort of knew him. They knew some facts about him, but they didn't really know him. And then he says in verse 29. Of chapter seven, I know him, for I come from him, and he sent me Jesus here is revealing himself as the ultimate messenger, the ultimate prophet, the ultimate revelation from God. And I suspect that these words angered the leaders because these were divine claims. And so in verse 30, they seek to arrest him. But no one laid hands on him because his hour had not yet come. God was still in control, and they would not crucify him at the Feast of Tabernacles, but at the coming Passover. And then we see that Jesus is the ultimate miracle-working prophet. Verse 31. Yet many of the people believe in him And they said, when the Christ appears, will he do more signs than this man has done? And the expected answer is no. This man has truly affirmed his claims through an abundance of miracles. Moses performed many amazing miracles in Pharaoh's court, but when we think about prophets and miracles, I think we tend to think about Elijah and Elisha. They did some really amazing things. But they were no match for the record of Jesus. There are about 35 miracles recorded of Jesus in the four gospels, but we should not think that that was the extent of his miraculous work. That's a small little sample. Because we have all these expressions of him going into cities and villages and healing everyone that was diseased and sick there. So probably the number is in the hundreds, or if not the thousands, of people. That he healed in miraculous ways. And what we see here is that no one rejects Jesus for a lack of evidence. There is abundant evidence that Jesus is who he claimed to be for those who have ears to hear and eyes to see. And number four, Jesus warns the people compassionately like a prophet. Look with me At verse 33, Jesus then said, I will be with you a little longer, and then I'm going to him who sent me. When he says a little longer, he's talking about, in six months' time, I will no longer be here on earth because he would be crucified. And then he will go to his father. in heaven. Now, verse 34 is an interesting verse. You will seek me And you will not find me. Where I am, you cannot come. When he says, you will seek me and you will not find me, he does not mean primarily that I will be dead. Because everyone in Jerusalem knew that he was dead. They saw him crucified. They weren't looking around saying, Where's Jesus? I haven't seen him lately. Everybody knew that he died on a cross. Because he was right there the major thoroughfare outside the city walls. So that's not the complete meaning or the primary meaning And I want you to notice that these words stick in their minds because this paragraph ends by them saying, what does he mean by you will seek me and will not find me? And where I am, you cannot come John rarely repeats a phrase like this a whole sentence. This actually happened, but John didn't have to record it, except the Spirit of God wanted him to record it because he wanted this to be emphasized in the reader's mind. He wanted the reader to ask the question the people asking, what did Jesus mean by that? You will seek me and you will not find me. And so this gets into something that may be the opposite of what you have heard or what you have believed most of your life. And I'm going to give a nuanced answer, so you need to listen carefully. If you were with us a couple weeks ago, you know that I quoted a number of verses from the Old Testament That are similar to what Jeremiah 29, 11 says. You will seek me and find me when you search for me with all your hearts. Because that is very similar to what we have in verse 17, where Jesus says, if anyone's will is to do God's will He will know whether the teaching is from God or whether I'm speaking on my own authority. So But now Jesus says, you will seek me and you will not find me. So do we have a contradiction here? No, we do not. Let me remind you that those other texts speak of seeking the Lord with all of your hearts. which is a reference to seeking him humbly with a broken and contrite spirit And we have confirmation of this. If you look, remember, same place, same time period, same crowd. If you look with me at John chapter 8 and verse 21. And he said to them again. The first time was in chapter 7, now chapter 8. I am going away, and you will seek me, and you will die in your sin. Where I'm going, you cannot come. So what do we have here? We have the people of Jerusalem would at some time in the future seek the Lord in some way. And yet they would not find him, and they would not be with him in heaven. So When was the Lord, what does I think the Lord referring to here? I think the way to best answer this is by looking at another passage in the Gospels. I invite you, if you can, please, to turn with me to Luke chapter 19. Verses forty one through forty four and this is when Jesus weeps over Jerusalem at the conclusion of the triumphal entry on the very week in which he will be crucified So this is yet six months ahead of the passage we're in in John chapter 7. Look with me at verse 41. Luke 19, and when he drew near and saw the city, he wept over it, saying, Would that you, even you, had known on this day the things that make for peace, but now they are hidden from your eyes. For the days will come upon you when your enemies will set up a barricade around you and surround you and him you in on every side and tear you down to the ground you and your children within you, and they will not leave one stone upon another in you, because you did not know the time of your visitation Jesus with his omniscient eye looks ahead and predicts what would take place thirty-seven or thirty-eight years in the future. at the violent destruction of Jerusalem by the Roman general Titus in A. D. 70 when he would come in and just completely level this city. destroying its temple and all the other buildings there. There would be a great fire and great destruction and a great number of those who would die. And I think what he is saying is that there would be some people who heard his words that day in the temple, perhaps young people, perhaps teenagers That they would be mature adults some 37 or 38 years later, and in their disaster They would remember this great man that they once heard in the temple and the authoritative way in which he spoke and the tenderness in his voice, and they would cry out to him. To save them, but he says it would be too late. Now I I know that that is perhaps contrary to what you've been taught all of your life. Perhaps you've heard many preachers over the years say it's never too late. But the Bible speaks of a day of grace coming to an end So let me try to speak about this. As someone is dying on their deathbed, and they say to me, God's not going to hear me. I've sinned too horribly. I can't be saved, Pastor. I've gone too far. I'm never going to say to them, yeah, you're probably right. That would never be my response. I would say, remember the thief on the cross. Who just a short time before his death cried out to God humbly with a broken heart, and Jesus said to him, Today, you will be with me in paradise. But for the person who is alive and well, and they're saying, you know what, it's nice to know that there's always option B. And that someday in my life, I can turn to Christ and get saved anytime I want, even up to the very last hour. That person is being presumptuous. And the reality is They will come to him and they will not truly have a broken heart for their sin. They will be turning to Jesus in their desperation, but they don't really want Jesus. They just want to be rescued from that situation. You may know that in World War I, most of the battles were fought in trench warfare And the world had never seen what was then considered modern technology used in warfare. And it was horrific. At the number of casualties coming out of that war. And many English young men Who never experienced war went to these trenches and they saw their fellow countrymen die and drop one after another after another And as the enemy would be approaching an incursion upon their line of defense, many of them would cry out to God to save them. That they would turn over a new leaf, that they would be a good Christian young man. And they became known as foxhole conversions. Because as soon as the firing stopped, they went back to their old way of life. They never changed. They cried out in distress. They cried out in desperation, but they didn't have a heart that was truly broken of their sin and that really wanted Christ. They just were hoping for Jesus to be like a good luck charm that would help them through the rough patches of life. And so you must not think if you're here this morning , I'll get saved someday. I want to live life on my own terms. I do believe there's a lot of truth to this gospel stuff. I think Jesus is truly a great man, the Messiah. I'll get saved someday. But I'm not going to do that now, so I've got a lot of living ahead of me. This is why Isaiah 55 in verse 6 says, seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. You can't get saved on your own terms. You can only get saved when the Spirit of God breaks your heart about your sin and you cry out to Him in sincerity and in truth. And so I want to say to those of you who are here this morning under the sound of my voice, and I believe with all my heart that there are some. That you know that you're lost. You fall into one of these four categories I talked about this morning. Maybe a superficial faith, maybe a superficial knowledge, maybe animosity, or maybe kind of a mocking disdain. I don't know which one it is, but they're all lost. And maybe you feel a sense of conviction. Yeah, it does make sense. It does seem like he gave abundant evidence. I'll do it someday. I want to encourage you not to take that approach. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Seek him today. Cry out to him today. Ask him to change your heart. Seek him in earnestness today. And don't wait. Don't presume upon God's grace to think. That at any time and at any place, anywhere in the future, you can be saved. May God help you to seek him even now. Let's close in prayer. Father , Thank you for your word. Thank you for the warnings that we have in Scripture, especially from our Savior. I pray for those who are here this morning. In this service, Lord, who are yet lost in their sins, I pray that they would be alarmed and convicted of this and they would flee to the Savior. For refuge and for salvation today, for it's in Jesus' name I pray, Amen