One of the things that a pastor does is make frequent visits to hospitals. I can remember many years ago visiting a hospital. And having the nurses tell me about a Christian man, an elderly man who was there and was about to have surgery for throat cancer. And he was told by the doctors, you do understand, you know, that you won't really be able to speak. You certainly won't be able to sing after this. And uh this man understood that and accepted the news. This man, uh, I understand was a man who sang often in his church, had a wonderful voice. And the nurses mentioned to me that that night he sang most of the night praises to God. They could hear them echoing through the hallways of that hospital because he knew that soon he would no longer be able to give his voice to praise his God. I don't know that man's name. I don't know anything about him. I never met him. I understand that he died not long after that. But it's a reminder to us that praise is more important than perhaps we think it is. It is a barometer of our hearts. We all praise something or someone. There is something that gets you excited. There is someone that you are thrilled to talk about. And so what we praise, what we value says a great deal of what we prize and what's really important to us. And this morning I want us to talk about the praise of those Passover pilgrims as they came into the city of Jerusalem on what we call Palm Sunday. We call it Palm Sunday because in John's account of this event, he mentions that people cut down branches from the trees. And they had palms. Palms were a symbol of victory and deliverance. And people who were caught up that day and the emotion and the thrill of the moment were spontaneously expressing their praise to God. Now Palm Sunday marks the beginning. Of our Lord's final week on earth. It's sometimes called Passion Week or Holy Week. And I want to submit to you that it's the most important week. in the history of the world. Because the Lord Jesus Christ lived the most important life that any human being has ever lived on this planet. And he was the Son of God and He came and during that week He died and he rose again to redeem his people. And so it's the most significant week in the history of the world, and it begins with what we call Palm Sunday. It's a day when our Lord triumphantly entered into Jerusalem. This is one of the few events that is found in all four Gospels. And there are many lessons that we can learn from this. It's kind of a challenge for preachers who want to preach according to the seasons to preach. uh a new message, a completely different message on Palm Sunday, year after year after year. But there are many different truths that are found in the gospel's account of that event. And this morning I want us to focus on the praise that the people gave to Jesus. So I want to look To begin with at Luke 19, verse 37. It says, And when he was come nigh, even now with the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice. and praised God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen, saying, Blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord, peace in heaven, and glory in the highest. These people were filled with praise. Now I want you to know that there are many preachers through the centuries, who have been very critical of their expression of joy. And they have done so primarily for two reasons. Number one, they have suggested that those who welcomed Jesus so joyfully did so for superficial reasons. It mentions here in verse 37 that they cried with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen, and according to John's gospel, they're thinking specifically of his recent raising Lazarus from the dead. That was still in their minds. And I think as they entered into the city of Jerusalem that day, there was this great spirit of anticipation and expectancy. What incredible things might he do today and this week before Passover? I mean he just raised the man from the dead. What could he do? And so there was indeed this great expectation on the part of many people. And then there were many who were thinking that indeed this was the beginning of a political revolution. Because Jesus was coming, they believed, and many believed that he was the Messiah. Indeed he was, and they believed that he was coming and he was going to overthrow their Roman oppressors. No one likes to be under the control of another foreign entity. That was the shame of Israel. Yes, they had their temple. Yes, they still had their old faith. But they were embarrassed. Here they were the people of God and they were under the thumb of Rome. And so they longed for the day when the Messiah would come and would cast off this yoke, and they would be free again, and they would answer to no one but to Jehovah. And undoubtedly that is what many were thinking. So indeed, there were some superficial miracles there. But perhaps the most popular criticism of their praise that day is that it was insincere or fickle. I'm sure there will be many preachers today who will preach a message from this passage. And one of the most popular messages to preach is about the fickleness of mankind. And they will say that the same people who cried out, Hosanna, blessed Is he that cometh in the name of the Lord would just a few days later say, Crucify him, crucify him. And they will say, You see how fickle and how superficial people are. Now there may have been some people who did both, but I don't think that was true for most. Most scholars believe that the people who were rejoicing, who were cutting down those palms and spreading their clothing in the way that they were primarily Galileans. And they were coming into the city this day, and they were very proud of the fact that it was Jesus of Nazareth who was from their region of the nation. And they were rejoicing at that. And I also think that the people primarily who were crying, crucify him, crucify him , were the proud residents of Jerusalem and Judea who in large part rejected our Lord's ministry. And so I don't think the primary teaching of the triumphal entry is that people are fickle. And the fact of the matter is, if indeed this day and their praise was nothing but a farce, then why did Jesus accept their praise and even defend it? If you look with me at verses 39 and 40, it says, And some of the Pharisees from among the multitude said unto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples. And he answered and said unto them, I tell you, if these stones should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out. The scholars think he's using a proverbial saying, an idiom, an expression that was common of the day, that meant to convey the idea that this was unstoppable and inevitable. That all the people and all of creation would someday sing praise to Christ. And so it's impossible to truly stifle that and stop it. And we see a similar incident take place in Matthew's account. If you'll turn with me to the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 21. Now we know from comparing the various gospel records that this event actually took place the next day on Monday. But in Matthew chapter 21 and verse 14, I want you to notice what it says here. It says, And the blind and the lame came to him in the temple, and he healed them. And when the chief priest and scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children crying in the temple, saying, Hosanna to the son of David, they were sore displeased. And said unto him, Hearst thou what these say? And Jesus said unto them, Yea, have ye never read out of the mouth of babes and sucklings thou hast perfected praise? Notice we have a very similar thing that occurs once more. The Lord is told to silence those who are praising him, but the Lord does not do that. He defends it and says, it is appropriate. Now let me ask you a question this morning. Do you enjoy praising the Lord? I didn't ask you if you had a great voice. I didn't ask you if you knew all the hymns by heart. I didn't ask you if you're an emotional, sentimental kind of person. God has made us all differently. Some people are much more reserved. And some people are very expressive. Some people really emote their feelings on their face. Sometimes you don't like that because everybody knows exactly how you feel. They just look at you, oh, they're not having a good day today. Because you you have a a sign on your face that says exactly how you're feeling. And then there's some people who look the same every day. All right? Their facial expression seems to never change. It's always the same. We're different. God made us different. But God made all of us to praise Him. And the fact of the matter is, as I started out this message, I said that it really is a barometer of where our heart is. Can your heart Really engage in worship and really praise God this morning as we sang these wonderful hymns of praise to Jesus. Did your heart resonate with that? Did you find yourself entering into it, even though you may have a feeble voice? You might have a sore throat, but do you find it hard to stop yourself from singing because inside of you, your heart says, yes, that's what I believe. He is worthy of my praise. Or did you say, I don't know why people get excited about this? I don't know why people sing about Jesus. When will this be over? The way you respond to praising the Lord says a great deal whether or not you are a disciple of Christ who were praising him, or whether you're more like the Pharisees who were criticizing those who were praising him. What I want to focus on in this passage this morning is that Jesus is worthy of our praise because he is the King of kings and Lord of Lords. Now this passage primarily reveals to us that Jesus is a great king. And I want to bring out three things about him in this regard. First of all, I want you to notice that he is a powerful king. And Luke chapter 19, I want to begin reading at verse 28. It says, and when he had thus spoken, he went before ascending up to Jerusalem. And it came to pass When he was come nigh to Bethage and to Bethany at the mount called the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples saying, Go you into the village over against you, in which at your entering ye shall find a colt tied, whereon yet never man sat, lose him and bring him hither. And if any man ask you, why do you lose him, thus shall you say unto him, Because the Lord hath need of him. And they went and were sent their way and found even as he had said unto them. And as they were loosing the colt, the owners thereof said unto them, Why loose ye the colt? And they said, The Lord hath need of him. Now what do you make of this incident? The Lord has come to the outskirts of Jerusalem. He's resting for a time on what we would call the Mount of Olives. He sends two unnaid disciples into a nearby village. And it tells them exactly what they will find. He knows exactly what this animal is like, the fact that it's never been broken in, it's never been ridden. And where they will find it, that it will be tied up, and what they are to say to the owner. Now some maintain that the Lord arranged ahead of time. But he had talked with the owner and had gotten permission and he told them, you know, I'm going to send some of my disciples over, and and so they made arrangements. But if you were to read the four gospels, and just let them speak for themselves, that is not the impression that you would get. You would, I think, see more clearly an indication of the Lord's omniscience and omnipotence. You would see that indeed He is Lord of all. I like what Charles Haddon Spurgeon, the great British preacher, said about this. He said, The Lord knows the position of every animal in the world. And he counts no circumstance beneath his notice. And of course, when the disciples were loosing that animal at his instruction. The owner answered when they said, the Lord hath need of this, perhaps he was a follower, or perhaps He had great respect for what he had heard about this man who had raised the dead and was coming into Jerusalem, and he was glad to have a part in this. Now it's interesting that Matthew mentions two animals. Some skeptics like to say that Matthew misunderstood the parallelism that is found in Zachariah's prophecy. And so he speaks of it being fulfilled with two animals, but that is nonsense. I think Matthew is explaining that this young donkey that had never been written before, had its mother up ahead. Sometimes we know this was done to kind of calm an animal that was new to this. It's interesting to note that the scriptures make a m a point of the fact that this animal had never been ridden I think there's some significance here, even as Jesus was placed in a tomb that had never been used. It speaks of him being unique and special And we see that these individuals, the owners of this donkey, were very quick to respond to the Lord's authority when he requested the use of this animal. What we have here is the portrait of a powerful king who knows all and has authority over all, over all people, over all animals, over all of creation. Every king who has ever lived has liked to brag about his authority and the dominion that he has and how large his dominion is and how far it extends and how the people obey his will. But every monarch who has ever lived has had no authority at all except it was given to him by God. And this monarch. That comes into Jerusalem has all power. He said in Matthew at the end of Matthew's gospel that presents Jesus as King, it says All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. I love that wonderful hymn Oh, hail the power of Jesus' name. Let angels prostrate fall, bring forth a royal diadem, and crown him Lord of all. When we contemplate the authority, the sovereignty, the power of God, the power of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. It should well up within our hearts a desire to praise Him and to exalt His name. He's not only a powerful King, I want you to notice that He is a peaceful King. The gospel record makes a big deal about the disciples securing this donkey. Now for us That's a very trivial matter. Why is it important that there was a donkey that brought him into the city? Who cares about that? Well, the reason why the writers make such a point of this, of course, is because it fulfills prophecy. Now, I wonder if you can find with me the book of Zechariah. I encourage you to go to the first book of the New Testament, Matthew, and then back up a couple books, and you will come to the prophecy of Zechariah. Zechariah chapter 9. And verse 9. In John's record of a triumphal entry, it says that the disciples did not recognize at the time That this act was the fulfillment of prophecy. It wasn't until sometime later, perhaps many years later after Pentecost when they said, wait a minute, you know when the Lord entered into Jerusalem that day and everyone was praising him? That was a fulfillment of Zechariah 9. 9 Notice what it says here in Zechariah 9. 9. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion, shout, O daughter of Jerusalem. Behold, thy king cometh unto thee. He is just. And having salvation lowly and riding upon an ass and upon a colt the fall of an ass Every single word in this is filled with revelation about Christ our King. Let me mention several things without really expanding on these from this passage. This is a king who will bring joy. He says, Rejoice, O daughter of Zion. And indeed, that's what the people did when Christ came that day. Often when kings came, people had wonderful hopes that the king would bring them a good life, but so often he brought them a life of disappointment and oppression. Can I just say that whenever people think that somehow governments or authority, human authority, is going to solve all the wrongs in the world and make their life so much better, They are trusting in something that has historically failed people. So this king will bring joy, and this king will be the ultimate king. It says here, Behold thy king. The idea here in the text is of the ultimate king. Yes, Israel has had many kings, but this is the ultimate king. This is the true Davidic king who would reign forever. And this king would be just or righteous. Many kings, many rulers in the world are corrupted by their power. So often you have seen individuals who, when they were just a normal person and were not powerful and had no authority and no fame, they seemed to be a decent human being, but as they became powerful and famous , And people would do whatever they wanted. You would see that they abused their authority and their power and did horrible things. That was true of kings of the ancient world, but this king would be just and righteous. He would reign in righteousness. And this king will bring salvation or deliverance. He will not enslave his people like many monarchs have done. No, this king would deliver them. And what's really unusual about this king is that he would come in humility, lowly riding upon a donkey. What a contrast this is to the triumphal entry of ancient warriors. These processions were filled with impressive-looking horses. In the Roman world, the conquering monarch would come in a chariot draped in garland. There would be profuse displays of power and wealth, all designed to promote human pride, so the people would think that this conqueror was more than a man, perhaps even something like a god. But in contrast, this king will come dressed in humble garments, riding upon a borrowed donkey. In Jesus, we see the beautiful blending of humility and authority Of majesty and dignity. This is why the scripture reveals him as both the lion and the lamb. Yes, he is powerful, he is majestic, he has all authority. But he comes in humility and gentleness for humble, broken people like us that he might minister to us. What a beautiful picture this is. But many scholars believe that Christ's coming on a donkey also conveys the fact that he came in peace when the king would ride. on a war horse. It was clear that he was on a military campaign. But when he came on a donkey, it was an indication that he came in peace. And of course, that great text in Isaiah 9. 6 declares him to be the prince of peace. This king would not come to bring violence, but peace. Now the Hebrew concept of peace is a word we all know. It's the word shalom. It means more than just a cessation of war. It means entire wholeness or well-being. It is a person who is blessed of God. When you said shalom someone, you were essentially. Asking God to bless them. Now the Bible speaks of two kinds of peace. It speaks of objective peace and subjective peace. It speaks of our peace with God and the peace of God. Now people tend to be much more interested in the peace of God that is the peace of feeling that everything's alright, that I don't have to panic, I don't have to worry, I don't have to be racked with anxiety God. because I can be at peace and I can have stability in my life. Everybody wants that. But the scriptures teach us that before a person can truly enjoy that kind of peace, they have to be at peace with God. They have to know that the wrath of God is no longer abiding on them because they have been redeemed. Because the Savior has delivered them and has paid the penalty for their sin. This is the only way. This is what Romans 5. 1 says, being justified by faith We have peace with God. Only through Christ can we be reconciled to God. Let me ask you this morning, are you at peace with God? It's the only way that you can really find the peace of God is to put your faith and trust in His beloved Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Thirdly, I want you to notice that he is not only a powerful king and a peaceful king, he is a pardoning king. He is a king who saves. In the ancient world, kings had great authority. They could pardon those who were condemned to be killed. They had the ability to rescue those who were facing death. They could rescue a whole group of people Who were being oppressed by someone else. And this wonderful truth is revealed if we look carefully in this account. If you're not back in the Gospel of Luke chapter 19, I encourage you to turn back there. Luke chapter 19. I'd like to read a few verses here. Look with me at verse 37. It says, and when he was come nigh even unto the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice. And praised God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that he had seen, saying, Blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord, peace in heaven and glory in the highest. We see here that the people are practicing an ancient custom. They are throwing their coats down on the road. We read the same thing in 2 Kings chapter 9. At the coronation of King Jehu. We might consider this kind of like giving the red carpet treatment to someone. We're showing deference. We're showing honor to them. And this is what the people were doing. It was a way of showing allegiance to a sovereign. And the people were saying, He is our king, he is our Messiah when they cut down those branches, when they threw their clothing down on the ground. What an amazing day that must have been. In the Old Testament, we read that Jerusalem was the joy of the whole earth. Mount Zion. And on this day, this day of triumphal entry, it must have seemed that way In John's account, we read that Passover pilgrims that were inside the city as they looked over to the ridge on the Mount of Olive And they saw and they heard the sound of the crowds rejoicing, and they saw Jesus riding on a donkey that they came out of the city to greet him. So you had people coming down and people coming up and people coming from different directions. to see and to give allegiance to Christ. And it's very significant that they were crying Hosanna. This word, this expression comes from the passage that Dave read for us this morning from Psalm 118 in verse 25, and it means, save now. Save now, it was an expression that meant the Messiah has come now. And I think these people were saying more than they knew because in a few days indeed Jesus would save now because he would die on an old rugged cross. And we also read that they quoted from Psalm 118 in verse 26. Blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord 's. This was something that was traditional for them to sing at this time. We know, of course, the book of Psalms was the Hebrews' hymn book. And Psalms 113 through 118 formed a section of hymns known as the Halael, which means praise. And this is what Passover pilgrims would sing at the Passover season. And often they sang it not only at the Passover, but they would sing it as they were journeying to the Passover. Uh think of great crowds of people walking together and singing. Sometimes like people might sing on a bus or something. It's a way to pass time and it's an enjoyable activity, and that's what they were doing. And so this passage, these expressions of praise and of expectation of the coming Messiah come from that very hymn book, these beloved hymns. that they had sung together throughout their lives and that Israel had sang for many centuries. They were being fulfilled on this day. Blessed is he that comes. How many thousands of times had they sung those words, but on this day it was being fulfilled in Christ. Some scholars say that it was on this day, traditionally, that most people brought in their lambs to be sacrificed for the Passover season. So just imagine thousands and thousands of pilgrims pouring into the city, and they have these lambs with them. And all of those lambs, thousands and thousands of lambs that had been slain year after year, century after century, they all pointed. to the ultimate Lamb of God that would take away the sin of the world, that lamb that was to be slain in just a few days. It's interesting that in verse 38 we read that the people are crying out, peace in heaven and glory in the highest. I wonder if that sounds familiar to you. You ever feel like you've heard something similar to that before? Of course. Because that's what the angels were saying at the birth of Christ. Turn with me earlier in this book to Luke chapter 2. Luke chapter 2. I'm going to begin reading at verse 10. This is the traditional Christmas story. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people, for unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord's. And this shall be a sign unto you. Shall find the babe wrapped in swallowing clothes and lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest. and on earth peace, goodwill toward men. This triumphant Sunday was an echo of the Nativity And it's a reminder that Jesus Christ was born to die so that he might save sinners like us. And in this very chapter of Luke chapter 19, where we find the triumphal entry of Christ recorded , We read in verse 10 this very important verse, for the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. This passage reminds us that we need to be saved. We also find in the birth account of Christ it says in Matthew 1. 21, thou shalt call his name Jesus. for he shall save his people from their sins. This is one reason why people so often have no interest in the gospel. Because they don't think they need it. They don't think they're sinners. They're not concerned about that. Oh, they're concerned about their retirement. They're concerned about terrorist attacks. They're concerned about their children. But they're not concerned about their supposed flaws. Yes, they know they're not perfect. They know that sometimes they say things and do things they shouldn't. But it's not a big deal, it's not that serious, it's not that important, but the scriptures tell us otherwise Our sin is an affront to a holy God. Every sin that we commit, whether it's in our thoughts, in our words, in our actions, is a personal defiance. of our holy God and it demands a penalty, you see, whether you recognize it or not, your biggest problem is your sin. It's your sin that separates you from God. And until you recognize your peril, until you recognize the Seriousness of your problem, you will never seek the Savior. Because the Savior only came to save sinners And only those who recognize that and recognize the gravity of the situation will ever be saved. The scriptures reveal a connection between the righteousness of Christ. And our salvation. In 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse 24, we read this: who his own self bare our sins in his own body on the tree that we being dead to sin. Should live unto righteousness by whose stripes ye were healed. Jesus is sinless. He is the righteous one, and therefore he can be the perfect sacrifice for our sin. Jesus, the righteous one, died for the unrighteous. He died as our sinless substitute. And because Jesus is righteous and he died in our place, God the Father can credit his righteousness to us. He can forgive us and pardon us and still retain his holy and just stature as the judge of all the earth. That is the beauty of the gospel. It is something that man could never devise. It is God's work of grace. And it's a wonderful thing for us to contemplate. Let me ask you this morning, do you believe that the gospel is beautiful? Does it thrill your heart to sing praises to Christ? Do you find your heart is grit when you consider what he has done for you, when you consider his excellencies and his character and the way he revealed himself to us? Or does that bore you? Does that just sound like religious nonsense to you Does that just sound like something that preachers talk about and religious people go on and on about? But it has absolutely no relevance to the real world or to my life. My friend, if that's the way you're thinking, I want you to know something. You're lost. And you're headed to hell. And the sooner you realize the gravity and the seriousness of that, the better, because you desperately need a savior. Because you will never be good enough to earn your way to heaven. God will never accept you as you are in your sins and in your defiance of Him. You must come to the cross. You must come and claim Christ as your Savior because you cannot save yourself. And all those who do come to believe Who have a heart to praise the Lord. Oh, they may not sing as loud, they may not sing on key, they may not be able to sing at all because they are deaf or Something but they will have a heart to praise God. They will have a heart that's excited about Christ and what He has done And you know what happens when you have a heart to praise God? When you're really excited about something, you know what you do? You can't wait but to tell others about it and to get them to share in your joy and in your joy. your praise. And that's what evangelism is all about. I'm always touched By what we find in Revelation chapter 5. We read of the scene in heaven with a great diverse multitude of humanity. Is crying out and praise to God, worthy is the lamb that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. Does your heart thrill to that prospect of being there with the saints of all the ages? from all different ethnicities from all over the globe and were praising the lamb that was slain This is why I say there's great incongruity to people who say, oh, I know I'm going to heaven, but I can't stand going to church. I can't stand singing those hymns. I can't stand praising God. I have no time for that. My friend, what are you going to do in heaven? Why would you want to be there? Why would you want to be the people whose lives have been transformed by his grace? You see, that's not a place for you if your heart's not engaged with that here and now Charles Wesley had the habit of writing a hymn on the anniversary of his salvation. Which was in May of 1738. And one day he heard a Moravian preacher by the name of Peter Bowler say that if he had a thousand tongues, He would use all of them to praise the Lord. And Wesley had that image in his mind. And he put that, of course, into a wonderful hymn on the 11th anniversary of his conversion. And we have it in our hymn book as All for a Thousand Tongues to Sing. Let me ask you this morning, is that where your heart is? Do you feel like you could never praise the Lord enough? You could never thank him enough. enough for all the wonderful things and all the blessings that He has given to you and even for, of course, your great salvation. Is that your heart? If it's not, if that is a foreign idea or a repulsive idea to you, I would encourage you to seek the Lord's. I'd encourage you to examine your heart to find out why there is no joy, there is no praise in your heart for the Lord Jesus Christ, because he is worthy of all praise. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you, Father, that it Gives us all that we need. We thank you for the wonderful prospect that we have before us that we will gather with the saints around the throne and sing praises to our Savior. I pray, Father , that if there's some here this morning who believe that they will not be among that congregation. That they would seek you today. They would seek to understand the gospel better. I pray that they would search the scriptures. I pray that they would seek the Lord while he may be found. I pray that they would become concerned and anxious about their soul and their state before you because you are king. Who is worthy of praise and is worthy of all of our trust. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.