You can turn with me to John chapter 8. The renowned 19th century artist Gustave Doray Once lost his passport while traveling in Europe. He came to the border crossing and he explained his predicament to one of the guards. gave his name to the official, and he hoped that they would recognize him and let him pass. However, the guards said that there were many people who claimed other identities who tried to get through the border crossing. Doray continued to insist that he was who he claimed to be. And so the officer said, fine. Then I will give you a test. I will give you a sheet of paper, and you will draw for us and convince us that you are this great artist. And so he very quickly sketched some people who were waiting in line there. And very soon the guard was convinced that indeed he was the world-famous artist. His work confirmed his word. Jesus' identity is at the heart of the Christian faith If Jesus Christ was not who he claimed to be the Son of God, then everything that we hold dear, everything that we profess to believe as Christians, Everything that the scripture reveals has been overturned because the scriptures are all about his identity as the Son of God. If Jesus is not who he claimed to be, then our faith has been put in an imposter or a madman. It was C. S. Lewis who popularized what is known as the trilemma. Trilemma is like a dilemma, except it has three options. This line of reasoning existed long before Lewis and has been part of the Christian apologetic for several centuries. The idea is that there are only three really logical alternatives to the identity of Jesus Christ. This argument does not prove that Jesus is the Son of God, but what it does demonstrate is that it's illogical to hold that he was a good man and a great teacher, but not the Son of God. Because that's not one of the options. The popular idea is that he is either Lord, a lunatic, or a liar. If he was a lunatic, that is, someone who was mentally ill , they claim that this is how he identified himself as the Son of God. This is the one option. We all know that there are certain types of mental illness where people think they're somebody who they're not. I'm told over here in Springfield. Not far from us, the Springfield Hospital. I've been told by people who work there that there are individuals there who believe they're Napoleon whether they're Adolf Hitler or someone else. They sincerely believe that because they're mentally ill. And if you ask them who they are, that's who they say they are. Now, this is not a very logical alternative for the identity of Jesus Christ Because nothing else in the gospel record would confirm that he was mentally ill. The record that we have from firsthand sources about Jesus is not of a crazy man who is mentally unstable. But an individual who is the most balanced individual, mentally balanced individual the world has ever seen. In fact, the teaching that he gave And the instruction that he gave concerning this area is still marveled over by secular scholars. That's not the way that a crazy person talks. Another option in this trilemma is that Jesus was a liar or a deceiver, an imposter. The idea being that Jesus knew he wasn't the Son of God. But he wanted notoriety, he wanted fame, he wanted fortune, and so, like many people have in the history of the world, he claimed to be something that he was not And he was skilled at manipulating and deceiving people into believing that he was who he was not. This, of course, does not explain. the spectacular miracles that he performed, or the fulfillment of many specific prophecies, or the fact that he gave the world its most profound teaching. An imposter does not do those things. And if he indeed was an imposter, why would he die for what he knew to be a lie? It doesn't make any sense. So Jesus was not logically a liar or lunatic, and so the only logical conclusion that is left is that he is who he claimed to be the Lord, God in flesh. And this identity is brought out all through the scriptures. It's brought out prophetically in the Old Testament. It's brought out descriptively in the Gospels. And of course, an explanatory way it is brought out in the epistles. Now in John chapter 8 , The bulk of this chapter is given over to what is known as the light of the world discourse. And that's because in John chapter 8 and verse 12, Jesus says, I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. We call this a discourse. But it was not in the form of a lecture. It was in the form of a heated debate. The Lord's antagonists are identified in verse 13 as the Pharisees. And this debate takes place in the treasury of the temple. Look at verse 20. These words spake Jesus in the treasury, as he taught in the temple, and no man laid hands on him for his hour. was not yet come. And here John explains why they didn't just grab him. And the ultimate answer is because it was not the Father's will. Now, the issue under discussion in this heated exchange is the identity of Jesus Christ. And throughout this debate, Jesus refutes the flawed logic of his opponents and continues to provide evidence to support his claim that he was, in fact, the Son of God. Now I have mentioned to you before in a previous message that in the Gospel of John we have seven occasions when Jesus says, I am. These are not to be confused with the seven metaphorical statements of Jesus, such as we find in verse 12 of this chapter, where he says, I am the light of the world. There are seven of those as well. But there are seven absolute I am statements. And I believe that this is not an accident that there are seven because John often organizes things in his gospel and in other books that he wrote under the structure of seven. Of course, the number of completion or perfection. And I think it's intended to remind the careful reader of God's great revelation to Moses when he said to him, I am, have sent you. This, of course, is the basis of the sacred name Jehovah. These are unmistakable declarations of deity, and there are three of them in this chapter. Before we look at this passage in depth, I want you to note these three occasions. Look with me, first of all, at verse 24. Jesus says, I said therefore unto you that ye shall die in your sins, for if ye believe not that I am He, ye shall die in your sins. And then verse 28. Then said Jesus unto them, When ye have lifted up the Son of Man, then shall ye know that I am He and that I do nothing of myself. But as my father hath taught me, I speak these things. And then climactically the most famous of all the I am statements found in verse 58 Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, before Abraham was, I am. So tonight, as we remember our Lord, I want us to understand exactly who we are remembering. We are remembering that Jesus is the great I am, the Son of God. And what is astounding to me about this chapter is that Jesus graciously reveals his ident his divine identity to his detractors. These were his avowed enemies, the Pharisees. who did everything they could to discredit him. Jesus would have been more than right to just give them no information about himself. But in fact, he graciously and patiently provides evidence that he is the great I Am. I want you to notice with me first of all that Jesus reveals that he is the only Savior for sinners. Let's look at this first I am statement in this chapter, verse 24. I want to begin reading actually in verse 21. Then said Jesus again unto them. I go my way, and ye shall seek me, and shall die in your sins, whether I go, ye cannot come. Then said the Jews, Will he kill himself? Because he saith, Whither I go, ye cannot come? And he said unto them, Ye are from beneath. I am from above, ye are of this world, I am not of this world. I said therefore unto you that ye shall die in your sins, for if ye believe not that I am He. Ye shall die in your sins. Jesus reveals in verse 21 that they will not join him in heaven. When he speaks of going my way, he is referring to his approaching death when he will go to heaven to be with his Father. When Jesus says, ye shall seek me, he is indicating that even after his death and resurrection and ascension There would be many Jews who would be looking for a Messiah. This is not saying that all these Pharisees would truly be seeking the truth or seeking Jesus. It's saying they would be seeking a Messiah, even though he has already come. And he gives here that the reason why they cannot come, and verse 24, is because they are of the world. and they are dying in their sins. The Jews misunderstand his words. Look at verse 22. Then said the Jews, Will he kill himself? Because he said, Whither I go ye cannot come. The question, will he kill himself, expects a no answer. They don't really think he's going to kill himself, but they are mocking Jesus here. Once again, even the religious leaders failed to understand his words. Paul explains this phenomenon in the epistles. 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 18 he says, For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness, but unto us which are being saved, it is the power of God. This is why people ultimately do not grasp Jesus' identity when it is so obvious. Verse 23 gives us the answer. Ye are from beneath, I am from above, ye are of this world, I am not of this world. People who mock and cannot grasp The identity of Christ, it's because they are yet of the world. They cannot grasp divine truth. This is why you can come to a person, you can show them Bible verses, you can give them evidence. You can give them apologetic arguments like I mentioned earlier, and they can listen to you, but they remain completely untouched and unconvinced. It's because the preaching of the cross is to them that are in the process of perishing foolishness And this of course goes hand in hand with what we find in 1 Corinthians 2. 14. But the natural man, that is the lost man, receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him, neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned. Jesus is saying the same thing here using different analogy. They are from the world, I am from above It's like it's a different language, a different viewpoint, and they cannot understand that language apart from the Spirit of God. Now look with me at verse 24. I said therefore unto you that ye shall die in your sins. For if you believe not that I am he, you'll notice the word he is in italics. That means it's not in the Greek text. Ye shall die in your sins. Jesus graciously and earnestly warns them that if they do not believe, they will die in their sins. Now I said mentioned earlier that these antagonists don't deserve this revelation. They don't deserve the patient attention that Jesus gives to them. But notice how earnestly that Jesus is dealing with these people who have rejected him again and again. Three times he warns them here about dying in their sins. Did you notice this? Look at verse 21. I go my way and ye shall seek me and shall die in your sins. And then he says it again twice in verse 24. Ye shall die in your sins, ye shall die in your sins. So what does it mean to die in your sins? It means to die as a sinner without a Savior. without coming to trust in him and rest all your hope in him and him alone. You see, there are only two ways that people pass into eternity They either die in their sins or they die in Christ. One or the other. And notice what he says that they must believe. They must believe that I am, or that I am he that is the Messiah, the Son of God. Jesus is intentionally, I think, here, using these words to connect the reader's mind and perhaps the listeners there that day. to the revelation in Exodus chapter 3 and verse 14, when Moses is called at the burning bush and he says, Whom shall I say has sent me? And God says to him, I am have sent you. This was a divine declaration. But I think the Lord may also be quoting here Isaiah chapter 43. A messianic passage. Turn with me if you would. Keep a finger here in John 8. We're going to come back shortly. But Isaiah 43 and verse 10. Isaiah writes, Ye are my witnesses, saith the Lord, and my servant whom I have chosen, that ye may know and believe me and understand that I am He. Before me there was no God formed, neither shall they be after me. Verse 11, I even I am the Lord, and besides me there is no Savior. This is the exclusive message of the cross. There is only one God, and there is only one Savior. And it's only through Christ that a person can be saved. There are several foundational theological truths that a person must believe that are based on the revelation of God Himself given in Scripture. One of those foundational theological truths is that Jesus is the Son of God. That he's not just a great man. That he's not just a marvelous teacher, but he is God in flesh. If a person says, you know, I like the idea of Jesus dying on the cross and and I I like that wonderful sacrifice, but I don't really think That he was the Son of God. I don't really think he was God in flesh. I mean, I just I just can't accept that. Then whatever else that person may be, they're not a Christian. Because John is very clear, especially in the book of 1 John, and Paul is clear in the book of 1 Corinthians. That being a Christian means that we profess that Jesus is Lord's. And that this will not come about except by the Spirit of God, this profound conviction. This is why, this is one of the lines that can never be crossed by us as Christians. This is why we cannot have any fellowship or give any credence. To groups like the Jehovah's Witnesses, for instance, who would say that Jesus is not God, that he is a kind of God, but he's certainly not God in flesh. We can't accept them as Christian brethren because that is a divide, that is a foundational truth that cannot be crossed over. This is why we cannot join with liberal denominations who would be very quiet or agnostic about the deity of Jesus Christ. And they would emphasize his humanity and his marvelous teaching and his ethic and the importance of reaching out and helping people, but they will never boldly declare his deity. This is not a light matter. This is not something on the periphery. This is not trivial. This is foundational and essential. Because if a person doesn't believe that Jesus is who he claimed to be the Son of God, they don't know the gospel, their eyes have not been opened to the truth, and they will die in their sins. I want you to notice secondly that Jesus reveals that he is the crucified one who will be exalted. Look with me as we continue on in verse 25. Then said they unto him, Who art thou? Notice this whole discussion is about his identity. And Jesus said unto them, even the same that I said unto you from the beginning. I have many things to say and to judge of you, but he that sent me is true, and I speak to the world those things which I have heard of him. Jesus answers their question about his identity in two ways. First of all, he says, what I am telling you today is nothing new. This is what he has been saying throughout his ministry. This is not like some new revelation. By the way, I'm the Son of God. This is what he says. I've been saying to you guys again and again and again. His authoritative teaching, his incredible miracles, and his fulfillment of prophecy have all declared that he is the Son of God. And then secondly, he says, what I'm telling you has come from my father. This is not some idea that I came up with. This is what my father has taught. And what he has given me to say. It says in verse 27, they understood not that he spake to them of the Father. They just didn't get this And so he goes on to verse 28. Then said Jesus unto them, When ye have lifted up the Son of Man, then shall ye know that I am He. And that I do nothing of myself. But as my father hath taught me, I speak these things. Here Jesus predicts That the cross will reveal his true identity. John of all the gospel writers is fond of using words with a double meaning. I mentioned this to you on our Good Friday service. He does this like with the Greek word that's translated born again, or it can also be translated born from above. Theologians argue, does he mean born again or born from above? Well, he intentionally chose this ambiguous word because he means both. You have to be born again, not just physically born, but spiritually born. And in order to be born again, you have to be born from above. And he does the same thing with this expression, lifted up. Does it mean that Jesus will be literally lifted up on a cross? Yes? Or does it mean that Jesus will be exalted because he's lifted up on a cross? The answer is yes. They are both right. John very likely borrowed this idea from the prophet Isaiah, from that text that I preached from on Good Friday, Isaiah 52, 13. Behold, my servant shall deal prudently. He shall be exalted and extolled and be very high. And John is going to key into that imagery. And use that throughout his gospel. Turn with me back to John chapter 3 and verse 14. This is right before the famous John 3. 16. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. And now turn with me ahead to John chapter 12. Verses 31 and following. This is at the conclusion of our Lord's earthly ministry. It says, now is the judgment of this world. Now shall the prince of this world be cast out. And if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me. This he said, signifying what death he should die. Jesus is not saying that everyone will be saved. He is saying that all kinds of people, Jews, Gentiles, rich, poor, men, women, his revelation of the cross is open to all people. It's made manifest to all. And so what we see here is that the death of Christ, though it was the most barbaric, degrading, and humiliating form of death imaginable, that this was actually an exaltation. Because his death was so brutal and so horrific, the church was very slow to adopt the symbol of the cross. You know, today it's a universal symbol. You see the cross everywhere. It was not like that in the first few centuries of the church because they lived not that far removed from the practice of crucifixion And it was so degrading and so horrific that they could not bear to connect their wonderful Lord and Savior with that kind of barbaric practice. And so it was not for several centuries that we ever find Christians using the cross as a symbol. This is why people did not speak of crucifixion in polite company in the first century, because it was considered distasteful to do so. And this is why the great Kenosis passage in Philippians chapter 2 concludes that great text about our Lord's humiliation with the words Submit himself unto death, even the death of the cross. And Paul's point is the most barbaric, the most painful the most humiliating form of death imaginable. He didn't just lower himself to die, but to die in that way. And his point is that a human being can't go any lower than that. But ironically, in his humiliation, Jesus was lifted up. He was exalted and extolled and made very high. And that exaltation continued with the resurrection, the ascension, and his session at the right hand of the throne of God. In his death and resurrection, the world would see that Jesus was doing the will of his Father. He was indeed God in flesh, the great I Am. And Jesus reveals he is the only Savior of the world. And so one of the most compelling and most powerful statements about the identity of Christ is when the gospel goes out. What is it that has touched people's hearts? In every culture of the world is someone dying in this horrific way for their sins. That indeed has drawn people from all parts of the world to come and believe because of Christ as he was lifted up. He indeed would draw all types of men and women to himself. And thirdly, I want us to notice in this chapter That Jesus reveals that he is the eternal and unchanging God of the universe. Turn with me back to John chapter 8 if you're not already there. John chapter 8. The longer this conversation goes on between Jesus and the Pharisees, the more intense it becomes. Much of the remainder of the conversation is actually going to be about Abraham. Look with me at verse 33. Then answered him, we then answered him, we be Abraham's seed and were never in bondage to any man. How sayest thou, ye shall be made free? Notice they are very proud of their identity as the children of Abraham. Jesus responds in this way. Verse 39, then answered and said unto him, Abraham was our father, Jesus said unto them, If ye were Abraham's children, ye would do the works of Abraham. But now you seek to kill me, a man who hath told you the truth, which I have heard of God, this did not Abraham You do the deeds of your father. Then said they to him, We be not born of fornication. We have one Father, even God. Jesus said unto them, If God were your father, ye would love me, for I proceed forth and came from God. Neither came I of myself, but of he that sent me. Why do ye not understand my speech, even because ye cannot hear my word? Verse 44, ye of your father, the devil. And the lust of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own, for he is a liar and the father of it. Now those words And verse forty-eight, then answer the Jews, and said unto him, Say we not well that thou art a Samaritan and hast A devil. They are gravely insulted. They are proud. They regard themselves as the children of Abraham. But he says, you're not the children of Abraham. You're the child children of the devil. There could not have been anything that was more insulting to their religious pride. And so they respond. By name calling. This is the only time in the Gospels we have a record of them calling him a Samaritan. It was basically a racial slur that they were using about him because we know they despised the Samaritans. And they also accused him of being possessed of a demon, something that we find on at least several other occasions in the Gospel of John. Jesus demonstrates the foolishness of their charge because in verse 49 he says that he honors God. In verse 50 he says he's not seeking his own glory. In verse 51, he mentions that his word brings life. while the devil brings death. And then we come to verse 53. They say, art thou greater than our father Abraham, which is dead? And the prophets are dead. Whom makest thou thyself? Notice the conversation has come back around to his identity. Who do you claim to be? They reason that since Abraham and the prophets have died, Jesus must be claiming that he is greater than this legendary Jew. And this time they got it right. That's exactly what he was claiming. Look with me now at verse 54. Jesus answered, if I honor myself, my honor is nothing. It is my Father that honoreth me, of whom ye say that he is your God. Yet ye have not known him, but I know him. And I if I should say I know him not, I shall be a liar like unto you. But I know him and keep his saying. Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day, and he saw it, and was glad. Now that was an astounding statement. Abraham rejoiced to see my day. Now, scholars throughout the ages have wondered exactly what Jesus meant by this. Let me give you some of their interpretations Some scholars take this to mean that Abraham was watching the life of Jesus from paradise. Other scholars think that this is a reference to Abraham's understanding of the promise of the blessing in Genesis chapter 3, that in thee shall all nations of the earth be blessed. Many students of Scripture point to the ratification of the Abrahamic covenant when he was counted as righteous. Genesis 15, verse 6. There are some scholars who think that this is a reference to Abraham's joy at the birth of Isaac, as recorded in Genesis chapter 17. Others point to Isaac's near sacrifice at the moment when Abraham saw into the future, as recorded in Genesis 22. That he understood somehow that God who provided a substitute for Isaac, that this was a picture of the gospel, that someday he would provide a Savior who would die for sinners. But most likely the Lord is not referring to any specific event in the life of Abraham, but simply saying that in a variety of ways Abraham looked forward with great joy to the day when the Messiah would come. Look with me at verse 57. Then said the Jews unto him, Thou art not yet 50 years old, and hast thou seen Abraham? Now there's a lot of speculation about this. Why did they say 50? Some people say because that was considered the age when a Jewish man basically retires Their lifespans in that part of the world at that time were not as long as ours, and so we know that like a priest would retire from his official duties at the age of 50 I'm glad that we don't have that same regulation today because I'm now 51 and I would have to retire. Other people speculate that Jesus, we know that he was about 33, 34. that that Jesus may have looked older than he really was. Some people uh suggest that because he was a man of sorrows and because he was so earnest in preaching and in ministering to people. He was wearing his body down and looked older than he really was. Perhaps that's true or Perhaps that's reading into the passage. But what I think they're probably saying, they're just picking a round number and they say, what do you mean you're older than Abraham? You're not even 50 years old. Of course, Abraham was alive some 2,000 years earlier. And then Jesus makes this climactic an unmistakable declaration and verse fifty-eight. Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, before Abraham was, I am. Notice he begins this statement. He wants to gather their attention. He says, verily, verily I say unto you, this is John's way. of describing that Jesus was capturing their attention and he said, as it were, listen carefully to what I'm about to say. And all attention was riveted on his words. Before Abraham was I am. Jesus here in this statement is not only claiming that he existed before Abraham But by using the divine title, I am, he is identifying himself with Jehovah, the eternal gods. Indeed, the Jews were right. If Jesus was not who he claimed to be, this was the height of blasphemy. This is like a textbook definition of what blasphemy is. He's claiming to be God in flesh. We know the Jews had such sacred superstition, as it were, for the sacred name of God Jehovah. that they wouldn't write it without taking a bath and they would not pronounce it in their synagogue services lest they be charged with taking God's name in vain. And here this man stands before them and says, I am I am Jehovah, the eternal God, the God that revealed himself to Moses. I mentioned to you earlier that this name reveals that God is an independent being. He's I am. He doesn't need anybody's help. It reveals that he is an infinite being. He always has been and always will be. There is no limits to him This name reveals that God is an immutable being. That is, that he never changes. He never grows old. He never develops something new. He's always the I am, not the I was. And his name reveals that he is an incomprehensible being. We cannot fully understand what this means. How can we grasp this idea of I am? It sounds mysterious. And this name reveals that he is an eternal being. Sometimes people will ignorantly say that Jesus never claimed to be God. This is not so. Obviously, this is exactly how the people understood his words here, because in verse 59 it says, they took up stones to cast at him. But Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple, going through the midst of them, and so passed by. Not that he was a coward, but an supernatural and mysterious way, they were unable to corner him, they were unable to capture him or grasp him because his hour was not yet come. Tonight, as we gather around this table and remember Jesus, we are declaring, among other things That we believe in his divine identity. Often when we come to this table, we remember his humanity We remember his suffering. We remember that he is a man of sorrows and acquainted with griefs. We were we think about his suffering because in this way we can identify with him. But we must never forget. That Jesus, that Savior who died for us and suffered in a very human way, was none other than the great I Am, the Great God, God in the flesh. We believe, as we come here tonight, that He is the only Savior of the world, the great I Am who died for unworthy sinners like us. Let's close in prayer, Father , as we gather around this table Help us, Father, to remember that this great Savior is also the great God of the universe, the God who has always been. The God who came down, humbled himself to be born in meager surroundings, to be rejected of men, and to die. In a horrible way that we might be saved. Help us, Father, to reflect on this and to rejoice in this truth now, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.