You can turn in your Bibles to John chapter one, if you would like. Everyone's heard of Mount Everest because it has the distinction of being the tallest mountain in the world. When I was a boy in middle school, I liked facts like this and I remember learning that it was twenty nine thousand twenty-eight feet, but Today they say it's 29,029 feet, so apparently it's grown a foot. It was first climbed in 1953 by Sir Edmund Hillary And since that time, over 4,000 people have climbed the summit of this Himalayan peak, and 290 people have died trying to climb it. But hundreds of people every year spend around $50,000 to attempt to climb this mountain. It's not the most difficult mountain in the world to climb, but it's certainly the most attempted mountain, and that of course It's because it has the distinction of being the highest mountain peak in the world. It's unique, one of a kind. It's the ultimate triumph for a climber. There is a name of our Lord Jesus Christ that expresses this precise truth of being one of a kind, and it's the name only begotten. It's the translation of one Greek word, monogenase. The word expresses the idea of something that is unique or one of a kind. This particular Greek word is used nine times in our New Testament. It's used in Luke chapter 7 and verse 12 to describe the only Son of the widow of Maine, who was weeping over him at his funeral procession. And Jesus said to her, weep not. And he raised him from the dead. The same word is found in Luke chapter 8 and verse 42, and there it's used to describe a 12-year-old girl who was the only daughter of a man named Jairus. And once again Jesus raised her from the dead. In the very next chapter in Luke, we read of a desperate father who brings his only son to Jesus. This boy is possessed of a demon. and has seizure-like symptoms. The distraught father says to Jesus, look upon my son, for he is my only child. And Jesus, of course, heals the boy. In Hebrews chapter 11, that great chapter of faith We read, by faith Abraham offered up Isaac, his only begotten son. In each case, the term is used to describe the unique relationship that a parent has with their precious child. But no relationship between a parent and child can come close to loving bond between the father and his beloved son. It is a relationship that extends back before the beginning of time The biblical term that best expresses this unique relationship between the Father and Son is this term monoganace. There is, of course, a sense in which all born-again believers are sons and daughters of God, but none of us can rightly use this expression for our relationship with God. The most significant references to this term translated only begotten are found in the Gospel of John. There are four such references, and they are found in groups of two. There are two in John chapter 1 in the prologue to his gospel. And then there are two that are found in John chapter 3, of course, one of those being within the most famous verse in the Bible. In every one of these references, we find this name demonstrates that Jesus is the ultimate revelation of his Father. This is why Jesus said, and John 14, 9, He that hath seen me had seen the father. He wasn't saying that he and the father were the same person. But he was saying that he, as the son of the father, was the unique, distinctive, and ultimate revelation of his father. A few moments earlier he said in the upper room, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. This is the exclusive message of the Bible. Jesus will not fit into our pluralistic world of tolerance. He is clearly presented in Scripture as the only begotten of the Father. To assert that there is another way to God is to deny the unique identity of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Tonight, as we prepare our hearts for the Lord table, I want us to consider that Jesus is the unique revelation of God the Father. We're going to look at these four passages in the Gospel of John to help us understand the scope of this revelation. Would you notice with me, first of all, that Jesus reveals the glory of God. And for this, we are looking at John chapter 1. I begin in verse 1. In the beginning was the word. And the word was with God, and the word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. And then this word is going to be identified in one of the most significant verses in the Bible, which is found in verse 14. And the word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. These two verses go together. In verse 1, we have the very beginning, the parallel to the very first verse of the Bible. In the beginning, God. And then in verse 14, we have the beginning of the incarnation. Verse 14 has three parts that correspond to the three parts of verse 1. In the beginning was the word corresponds to, and the word was made flesh. And the word was with God corresponds to and dwelt among us. And the word was God corresponds to, full of grace and truth. John 1 14 is the most concise theological explanation of the incarnation in the Bible. There's very much a sense in which the rest of John's Gospel is nothing more than an explanation of this one verse. Now for our purposes, we're just going to consider this one phrase. in John 1. 14, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father. Remember, John, the man who wrote these words was the beloved disciple. He lived with the Lord for some three years and he had a special relationship with him. He describes this experience as seeing the glory of God. In what way did John see the glory of God? Well, I think that John is certainly referring to the Old Testament tabernacle, the word translated dwelt among us literally reads to dwell in a tent or tabernacle. John is saying that there was a glory dwelling in Christ, just as there was a glory dwelling in the Old Testament tabernacle. And from time to time the disciples caught a glimpse of this glory. One aspect of this glory was the glory he saw in the miracles of Christ. John chapter 2 and verse 23 brings that out. John was one of three disciples who saw the transfiguration of Christ. Peter, who also saw this incredible display, would say in a later day that he was an eyewitness of his majesty. But John saw an even greater glory of Christ than this. He saw the glory of Christ at the cross. He was one of the only disciples that came to the foot of the cross. We read later in this gospel in John chapter 12 and verse 23. Jesus answered and said, The hour is come that the Son of Man should be glorified. Verily, verily, I say unto you, except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone, but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. He that loveth his life shall lose it, and he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto life eternal. If any man serve me Let him follow me, and where I am, there shall also my servant be. If any man serve me, him will my father honor. Now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say? Father save me from this hour But for this cause came I unto this hour. Father, glorify thy name. The cross was a horrific scene, but it was also a spectacular demonstration of the glory of God. Jesus, the incarnate Son of God, was dying for sinners. It was a demonstration both of the wrath of God and the love of God. It is only in Christ that mankind can see the glory of God. Turn with me back to John 1. I want to look at verse 18 now if you're not already there. This is the last verse of the opening paragraph of John's Gospel. Notice how it begins. It says, no man hath seen God at any time. This is a categorical statement. John is repeating a foundational old theological truth that's revealed in the Old Testament. And John, in Exodus chapter 33, you may recall that. Moses made a bold request to the Lord. He said, Show me thy glory. He was very discouraged because The golden calf incident had just occurred, and God said that he was not going to go with them. He would send an angel, but he was not going to go with them through the wilderness. And Moses was profoundly discouraged, and he said, God, show me thy glory. And God replies in Exodus 33 and verse 20, thou canst not see See my face, for there is no man shall see me and live. But in the next chapter, he does allow Moses to see a glimpse of the glory of God. He hides him in the cave. And he sees the Shekinah glory. No man can see God for two reasons. First of all, because God is invisible. And 1 Timothy 1 and verse 17 we read now unto the king, immortal, invisible the only wise God. John 4. 24 says, God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. I've had many people over the years tell me they have seen God. I haven't believed one of them. Because the Bible says that no man can see God. There's another reason we cannot see God, and that is because God is too glorious. The God who said, let there be light is too bright to be seen with human eyes. The God who created our sons, our son, and billions of others cannot be glimpsed with our mortal eyes. But then how can we see God and know Him? The next phrase in verse 18 answers this question. It says, the only begotten Son, there's our word, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him. Why is it that we can only know God through his only begotten Son? The answer is because he is in a unique position. to reveal his father. He's described which is in the bosom of the Father. We might put it today, which is right by his side. The Son of God has dwelt in the closest possible communion with his Heavenly Father from before time began. He is in a unique position to make him known. Notice it says, He hath declared him The Greek word that is translated declared is the origin of our English word exegesis. This term is used for what an expository preacher does. He goes and he studies and he tears apart the passage and he's and he puts it all together and he makes it known. He's not trying to give some unique spin on that passage or made it make it fit into his agenda. He's just trying to say, let me show you what this is really saying. He is amplifying and clarifying what the word of God means. This verb means to make known. It can also mean to tell a story or a narrative. One writer put it this way: Jesus is the narration of God. This is what John is saying to his readers. He says, I want you to know, God, you don't need to depend on the law of Moses or the vision of the mystics that surrounds you. You need to look to Christ. The only way we can know God is through the Lord Jesus Christ because He is the only one who provides that accurate, that intimate revelation of His Father. This is the plain teaching of Scripture. You can turn with me if you would like. You don't have to, but in Matthew 11, 27, I'm just going to read through some passages that confirm this. Matthew 11. 27 says, All things are delivered unto me of my Father, and no man knoweth the Son, but the Father. Neither knoweth any man the Father save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son will reveal him. So it works both ways. The only way we can know the Son is by having a relationship with the Father. The only way we can know the Father is through the Son. We are dependent on the revelation of God to know God. God is not a being that we can understand through our intuition or through our searching or through our investigation. We are dependent on the revelation of God. And John chapter 6 and verse 46 Jesus says, not that any man hath seen the Father save he which is of God, referring to the Son himself. He hath seen the Father. This is why Jesus could say in the upper room, he that has seen me hath seen the Father. And then of course A wonderful majestic scripture that brings this out as the opening of the book of Hebrews. Hebrews chapter 1. And verse 1 says, God, who at sundry times and in diverse manners spake in times past unto the Father by the prophets hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son, by whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the world who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself purged our sins Sat down on the right hand of the majesty on high. Jesus is the final full and definitive revelation of his Father. This is why Jesus said the night before he died, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. This is why we cannot Except the mantra of the world that says that we all worship the same God, that there are many paths to God. that there are many names for God and we should not be so provincial and bigoted to think that we as Christians have the only way. The very core of the revelation that we accept by faith teaches otherwise. And so to dispense with that is to dispense with what it means to be a Christian. And it is to bring dishonor to our Savior. He is the only way that we can know God. Other nations in the world, other places in the world that may be steeped in idolatry, they may have a vague notion of God from creation. and from their own conscience and other ways that God has in a general way revealed himself. They may know by looking in the heavens that there is a a great power much greater than themselves who has much more wisdom than they would ever have, one that has been around a really long time. They can learn some very basic truths, but they can never have a clear understanding of God. except through Jesus Christ. And now I'd invite you to turn with me to John chapter 3. John chapter three and verse sixteen, a verse that everyone knows, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten, the monogones son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. The giving of God's Son is the supreme demonstration of the love of God. The term giving here includes both his incarnation generally and more specifically the giving of his life on the cross. What was so amazing about this gift of love is that the Father sent his beloved son to a sin-cursed planet. It says he came unto his own, and his own received him not. He was despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. Parents tend to be very careful about where they send their children. They don't want them to send them to a place where they're going to encounter danger, where people are going to treat them horribly, where they may be bullied. They may encounter things that will twist and warp their character. Parents, of course, understandably do not want to send their children there. But God the Father sent his beloved Son to an environment where he knew he would be despised and rejected and ultimately crucified. And the Lord did it because of his amazing love. But this was not just any child who died on the cross. It was the only begotten Son of God, his only son. Did you know that God loves his son more than anyone has ever loved their child? Because God's love is perfect, and his love never had a beginning. This is why when you hear the Father speak audibly, as recorded in the Scriptures, we hear him saying things like This is my beloved son, and whom I am well pleased, or this is my beloved son, hear him. The father loved his son and exalted his son, but he sent his son to die. He was born to die. But he didn't just come to die any death. He died in the most shameful and degrading way imaginable. He died on an old rugged cross. To save sinners like us. And in doing so, he perfectly revealed the amazing love of his Father. As the only begotten Jesus has revealed the glory of God and the knowledge of God and the love of God And finally, would you notice that Jesus reveals the justice of God? Look with me at the verses that follow this very famous verse, verse 17. For God Sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. Now, if that's where the scripture stopped in this passage, you might think, that's great. That means nobody's going to be condemned. But then John continues, he that believeth on him is not condemned, but He that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God, and there's that distinctive term that very important theological reference to the unique identity of Jesus Christ as the revelation of the Father. Now, if you were to ask many Americans if they were under the condemnation of God, I think you would find there would be very few who would say yes. Some of them, of course, would not agree with that because they are Christians. But many of them would say that they are not under condemnation because The only verse they know in Scripture is John 3. 16. And their distorted understanding of that passage is that God is love, God loves everyone, God's going to let everyone into heaven, regardless of what they They've done. He's just going to forgive everyone. And so everyone is good. We do the best we can, but God is love, and that's the only thing that we need to know. But in the same passage, in the same discussion, in the same interview that our Lord has with Nicodemus , He says something that is completely different from that common misperception. He says that those who do not believe are condemned. And he concludes this chapter with one of the most serious and alarming verses in Scripture. John 3. 36. He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life, and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life. But the wrath of God abideth on him. And as I've mentioned to you many times, I think every time I mention this verse, the idea there is not that someday They will experience the wrath of God. The idea is that right now, in the present tense, the wrath of God is abiding on them. They stand condemned. They are doomed to destruction unless they will turn and believe. A very sobering truth. Why is it that God is so narrow That he will not accept everyone, no matter what they believe or what they do. The answer is because he has provided one way of salvation. And that is through his beloved son. And those who reject that one way, that only provision, have no other way. And therefore they will face the wrath of God. Christ is the only way of escape. He is the only Savior of the world. Jesus is the unique and ultimate revelation of the Father. To reject the only begotten is to reject the Father and incur the wrath of God. And it's my prayer that as we gather here tonight around this table, that we are those who have put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ. We are those who are described earlier in this chapter as those who right now possess everlasting life. Because by the grace of God we have come to put our trust in Christ and Christ alone. And as such, we can say, now, no condemnation, now I dread. Jesus and all in him is mine, alive in him, my living head, and clothed in righteousness divine. It's wonderful truths for us to consider. I trust that tonight, as we come before this table, we will not come here assuring ourselves that we really are a good person and that we really have tried our best and that we're better than some. I hope that's not the fault of anyone. If it is, you should not partake of these elements. We come here tonight recognizing that we all deserve the wrath of God. We have justly earned God's judgment. But we have come by the grace of God to trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, the only begotten of the Father. And therefore through him There is, we have this just standing and we can have that wonderful assurance that there is no condemnation. that we dread. I trust that is the testimony of your heart tonight. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for your Savior, the only begotten of the Father, the unique Revelation that you have sent to this earth so that we might know you, so that we might be saved. I pray that you would help us as your people to relish this. And if there's anyone here tonight even in this assembly of Christian people, who has never put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, who has never seen the glory of the Savior. I pray that tonight they might do so and be saved. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.