If you have your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to the passage that we read a moment ago? Matthew chapter 1. One of my favorite duties as a pastor. is to visit newborn babies in the hospital and uh hold them and pray for them and take their picture and then come and announce the birth of a baby to you. And of course, one thing that everybody wants to know when a baby is born is what is the baby's name. It's significant. It's what we're going to call that person for the rest of their life. It often tells you a lot about the baby, and about the family that the baby comes from. That is true of the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Warren Wearsby makes the point that there are two names that Christians never call their sons. They never call their sons Judas. Because it's too terrible. They never call their sons Jesus because it's too wonderful. But I want to talk this morning about that wonderful name And we have in our passage before us this morning the account in which the angel comes to Joseph and tells him that he is to name The baby Jesus. Now Jesus was born into a Jewish culture where names were more significant than they are today. They were not just labels They were often a prophecy or fond expectation of what the child would do and become, and they often had embedded within them a form of the name of God. Such is the case with the most significant name in the Bible, the name of Jesus. We know this name very well. It's a part of our culture. We see his name everywhere, and we often see it, especially this time of year. It's interesting and I think appropriate that the very first time that we really encounter his name specifically is in the very first verse in the New Testament. Look with me at Matthew chapter 1 and verse 1, the book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. And then the verses that follow up through verse 17 records the genealogy of Jesus Christ. And Matthew has three groups of 14 names that are intended to emphasize the fact that he is a descendant of David. Notice what it says in verse 16, and Jacob begat Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ. And let me make a note that the of whom there is referring to Mary and not to Joseph. Notice that Joseph is not called the father of Jesus. He's called the husband of Mary here. And I want you to notice the very last verse of this chapter, verse 25. It says of Joseph, and knew her not till she had brought forth her firstborn son, and he called his name Jesus. So in the very first verse and in the very last verse of this opening chapter of the New Testament, the emphasis is on the name of this child, Jesus. Now this text that we're going to look at, this little paragraph, is known traditionally as the Annunciation. It's when the angel announced to Joseph That Mary had not been unfaithful to him, and that he should marry her, and that he should name her child Jesus. And the angel is very clear about this. He says in verse 21, thou shalt call his name Jesus. This is where the future tense is used like an imperative. Like a mom might say to her child, you will clean your room. She's not just making a prediction. But she is issuing a command. Now I want you to turn with me to Luke chapter one. I want you to notice in the infancy narratives the emphasis the Scripture places on this name. Luke chapter 1, I want to begin reading at verse 30. This is the angel's announcement to Mary. And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found favor with God, and behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb and bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus. He shall be great and shall be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David, and he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there shall be no end. So we see an angel comes to Joseph, says his name is to be Jesus. An angel comes to Mary, his name is to be called Jesus. And then if you'll turn the chapter over to Luke chapter 2. I want you to notice the official naming of the child. In the Jewish culture, this took place at the circumcision of the son. It says in Luke 2. 21, and when eight days were accomplished for the circumcision of the child, his name was called Jesus. which was so named of the angel before he was conceived of in the womb. Now it's important for you to understand that this was not the angel's idea. The angels were relating God's message. The word angel means messenger. And they came specifically to Joseph and Mary, and we see that their wishes were fulfilled. And Jesus is given this significant name. So I've gone through that to show you that there must be some significance in his name because God made certain And clear that his name was to be called Jesus. But what does the name of Jesus tell us about this person, this baby? Well, it tells us everything we need to know about him. In fact, it tells us the good news of the gospel. I'm going to preach to you on this Sunday before Christmas. On this truth that the name of Jesus is a God-given revelation of the identity of the Christ child. I want to show you three aspects of his identity. The first one is that the name of Jesus reveals to us that he is fully human. Now we as conservative Christians Have fought very tenaciously for the deity of Christ, and indeed we should. He was not just a man, he was not just a great teacher, he was not just a marvelous example. He is God in flesh. That's what the scriptures clearly reveal. And so we must never back down from that. But sometimes we have hit and hammered that note so loudly That we have forgotten the Bible also teaches just as clearly that he is fully man. He is completely human. Every time I teach this, I see some people who seem a little unsettled about that. I don't know about that. And I think one of the reasons they think that is because you think that being fully human means that you're what? That you're a sinner. But I want you to think for a moment that when Adam and Eve were created, they were fully human, but they were not sinners. There's very much a sense in which Jesus was and is more human than you and I. Because every human being that you've ever met is somehow defective and tainted by the fall. But Jesus was the sinless Son of God. Now as we turn back to Matthew, I want you to notice that this prophecy, this prediction, this command concerning his name is found in relation to this genealogy. The Lord wanted the reader to know that Jesus did not just come down from heaven. He didn't come down from heaven and float down from the clouds as a full-grown man and say, here I am. No, he was born like all human beings are born. He had a mother who experienced childbirth and he was born. And he is connected with this chain of humanity That goes back to David and goes back to Abraham. And if you go to Luke chapter 3, it goes all the way back to Adam. Jesus was fully man. He was born of a woman. He came unto his own. What kind of people? Did Jesus come to? Well, we have a lot of interesting names here. I don't, of course, have time to touch on even most of these, but we have prominent names like Abraham. Abraham was a great man. But he was not a sinless man, he was a liar. Jacob is mentioned here, he was a deceiver. Judas, or Judah here, was an immoral man. Ruth the Moabitist was at one time a pagan idolater. David was a murderer and an adulterer. These are the kinds of people that Jesus came to. He came among sinners, and how was he described in the Gospels? He's described as a friend of sinners. And when he died, he was crucified between two criminals in fulfillment of Isaiah 53. 12, which says, He was numbered with the transgressors. I think there may be some significance that the name of Jesus was also a very common And a very Jewish name when Mary told her friends there in that village of Nazareth that her baby was going to be called Jesus, or when she announced shortly after his birth that that would be his name, or when people gathered for that circumcision ceremony and it was officially and legally pronounced that his name was Jesus, people were not taken back. They were not shocked, they did not say, what a strange name that is. It would have been as if they use one of the common names of today. We have in our church a number of men with similar names. We have a lot of Daves in our church. At one time I think we had like three or four deacons named Dave. It was very distracting sometimes because I would say something about Dave and You had to you had to refer to which one you were talking to. We have a number of ricks in our church. I think at one time we had four or five. Maybe we still do. We have a whole bunch of Johns in our church. We have like five or six of those. We have some names that are very common. The name of Jesus was a name like that. Now we have a transliterated anglicized version of that. It would have sounded like Yeshua. with a Y sound. And of course it is the Old Testament name that we call often as Joshua. And the Bible tells us that Jesus came and took upon him The form of man. He was fully man. The word puts it this way. The word became flesh and dwelt among us. It tabernacled among us. It was right here in our midst. And of course, following the giving of his name here in Matthew 1, we have a quotation of Isaiah 7. 14 in verse 23, behold A virgin shall be with child and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted as God with us. And this was an important point of the redemption. Hebrews chapter 2 and verse 17 says it behooved him to made be made like unto us his brethren, to make reconciliation for the sins of the people He came to us. He took upon him the form of man, fully man, and yet fully God That's the great mystery, the great revelation of the incarnation. One of the great reformers put it this way, the Son of God became the Son of Man. so that the sons of men may be may become the sons of gods. Wesley put it this way in his Famous Christmas Carol, pleased as man with men to dwell. Jesus or Emmanuel The name of Jesus reminds us that, in one sense, Jesus is one of us. He is part of humanity. He came into and he was linked biologically and racially and in every other way with people like us. He came as one of us. But the name of Jesus also reveals not only that he is fully man , But that he is fully God. This is the great mystery of the incarnation. 100% man, but 100% God. Now we often perhaps miss this when we consider his name of Jesus, but it's right there if you look at it carefully. As I mentioned to you earlier, the name of Jesus is simply the Greek form of the Hebrew name Joshua. There are several Joshuas in the Old Testament. In fact, Josephus tells us. that in uh Hebrew history, uh which he was writing about in the first century, there were at least twelve different Joshua's. So you see, this was a common name. Now when we think of Joshua, we usually think of Moses ' right-hand man, General Joshua. It's interesting that Joshua is actually probably kind of like an abbreviated form of his name. Because when we have the listing of the twelve spies of which Joshua was one in Numbers chapter 13, his full name is mentioned, Jehoshua. Jehoshua. And it literally means Jehovah saves, or Jehovah is salvation. Now I want you to look with me at Matthew chapter 1 and verse 21, and I want you to read back that meaning that Jehovah is salvation or Jehovah saves into this text. And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jehovah saves, or Jehovah is salvation. For he shall save his people from their sins. Now there are many Bible scholars who believe that this is an illusion. To an Old Testament verse, Psalm 130 and verse 8, which says, And he that is Jehovah shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities. And so once again we see that Jesus is used in place in that quotation of the name Jehovah. So this is a revelation of the deity of Christ. That baby born in that stable in Bethlehem was nothing less than God. God in flesh. What a wonderful and amazing and astounding truth this is Only God can save his people from their sins. This baby boy, as Wesley put it, is veiled in flesh, the Godhead seat. Hail the incarnate deity. It's an expression of his deity. This Christmas, as we sing many different songs and as we reflect on the mystery of the incarnation, let us never forget That baby was the son of God. Fully man, but fully God. But the thing that is most emphasized in the name of Jesus is what he came to do. You know, what a person does is part of their identity. Whether you like it or not. People think of that guy, that guy's a carpenter, or that man's an accountant, or that lady is a nurse. And that becomes part of who they are, part of their identity. And it's always been that way. Well, what did Jesus come to do? What was his primary mission? His primary work It was that of being the Savior of the world. The name of Jesus reveals, thirdly, that he is the Savior of the world. It reveals, first of all, that he's fully human. It reveals secondly that he is fully God, and thirdly, that he is the Savior of the world. Now, if you were to carefully analyze everything the Bible says , about the first advent of Christ, you would find that there are over 50 reasons that the Bible enumerates as to why he came. But the primary reason that he came is very clear. He came, as it says here, to save his people. from their sins. I want you to see this. Look with me to the traditional Christmas story in Luke chapter 2. Would you turn there, please? Luke chapter 2. This is a passage that is often read. at this time of year. I want you to notice the angel, excuse me, the message that was given by the angels. Look with me at Luke chapter 2 and verse 8. And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. Now, of all the ways that those angels could have announced the identity of this child, they don't even mention his name here, but they mentioned what he would do, that he would be a savior. Now what do you think of when you think of a savior? Now we today almost always only use this word in religious terminology. But that was not true in the ancient world. That was not true in the Old Testament. It wasn't true in the Greco-Roman world. It was a word that they would apply to many different people in a non-religious setting, even. Well, a savior is one who delivers or rescues. And in a secondary way, it means someone who protects and preserves but Primarily it means someone who delivers, who rescues, someone who is in a great catastrophe, in a great crisis, in a great difficulty that they cannot save themselves, they cannot extricate themselves, and so a deliverer, a savior comes and rescues them. That's the idea of the word. Now it's interesting, what is it that he came to save us from? He came to save us from, says he shall save his people from what? From their sins. He came to save sinners. This is very apparent in his name. I was thinking about it this week. You know, every time people use his name, Whether properly or in a blasphemous way, whether they know it or not, they are indicating that he is a savior. That he has come to save sinners. What can we learn from this? I think we can learn from this that humanity's greatest problem, first of all, is sin. Did you know that? I mean, if God sent his only son to earth, and he sent him with one primary mission, whatever that mission is, it would certainly be addressing the most important problem that humanity faces. And you know what the greatest problem that we have is it's sin. Does it say that he came to make our lives easier or to wipe out poverty? or to take away all diseases, or to raise inequality and injustice in the world, says that he came to save his people from their Sins. You see the greatest threat that the world faces today is not ISIS. It's not Ebola It's not the collapsing Russian economy. No, mankind's greatest problem is sin. That is true globally. It's also true personally. A lot of times we focus on the effects of our sin, or the effects of the sin of others, and how that impacts our lives, and how it impacts our families, and how it even impacts our nations and our communities. But the root of all of that is sin. Why is this our greatest problem? Well, because it's a universal problem. Everyone has this problem. Did you know that? Everyone that you have ever met has this huge problem called sin. That's true of your parents. That's true of your siblings. That's true of your children. And yes, believe it or not, it's true of your spouse. It's true of everyone. Everyone that you know is sinful. In fact, you know what really irritates you and drives you crazy and really annoys you about other people? It is the sinful responses and attitudes and thoughts and actions that you see in them. That's what creates all the friction in the world. Nothing brings out your sinful responses like the sinful responses of someone else. It's a universal problem. It's also at the root of all the problems in the world. It's sin that destroys families. It is sin that often impoverishes people. It is sin that makes slaves of men and women who become addicted to some substance. It is sin that degrades a person. It is sin that is the essence of warfare and violence. All of our societal problems that you can think of are rooted in sin. But you know what? The reason it's the greatest problem in the world is not because of what it's done in your personal life or what it's doing in our nation or what it's even doing in the world. The most serious issue concerning sin is that sin separates you from God. Sin is mankind's defiant rebellion against his creator. It is nothing less than an act of treason. It's a violation of God's law, which is a reflection of his very purpose. When you make idols of God's gifts that He has given to you, when you take His name in vain, when your heart is filled with lust and hatred, you are not just breaking some arbitrary law, you are offending Almighty God's. Sin is a very serious thing. And the scriptures are clear that our God is holy. And because he is holy, and because he is righteous, and because he is pure, He cannot allow sinful, rebellious human beings in his sights. And therefore, those who die without Christ. The Bible teaches clearly , go to a horrible place called hell. But God sent his son into the world as a savior for sinners. And his name reveals to us that only he can save us from our sins. It says here in this passage In Matthew chapter 1, he shall save his people from their sins. And what's emphatic in this phrase is the word he. He that could be rendered, and he alone. He is the only one that can save his people from their sins. The Bible preaches an exclusive gospel. This is very, very unpopular today. We live in a pluralistic culture that says that we should uh view all religions as the same. And uh no one uh The world is ready to accept just about any claims that somebody makes, as long as you don't say that somehow you have the corner on truth and that things have to be done this way. The problem is, is the Bible is very, very, very clear that there's only one way, and that God provided only one Savior. So you can't be politically correct and be properly aligned with the clear teaching of Scripture. You've got to choose one or the other. Jesus said the night before his death, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. No man, no other way. In Acts chapter 4 and verse 12, it says, For there is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. And the name referred to there is Jesus. Only Jesus can save you from your sin. You can't do it. Someone else cannot do it for you. Only God, through the reconciling work of Christ, can save you from your sin. The Bible teaches that all of us have earned something the Bible calls the wages of sin. And the Bible says that the result of that, it says the wages of sin is death. And the Bible speaks of death in a very comprehensive way, not just the moment when your heart stops beating and you die physically, but the Bible speaks of spiritual or eternal death. And that the essence of that is to be separated forever from God. And the Bible has provided abundant evidence of this is why everyone dies. You know why? Because we're sinners. And our bodies are fallen. But God has provided a savior and Jesus. God sent his only beloved son to be born in Bethlehem, and 33 years later he would die on an old rugged cross. And on top of that cross there was an inscription with one name on it. It said this, this is Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. Right there in that description of what would have been his crime that was the name that saves Jesus Jehovah is salvation Jesus would live a perfect life and then die as a perfect sacrifice for sinners. He would be the Lamb of God which takes away the sin of the world. And he is the only cure that God has provided for our biggest problem, which is sin John 3. 36 puts it this way, He that believeth on the Son hath life, and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him So if a person rejects the claims of Christ, if a person continues on in their sin , They have rejected the only avenue of salvation that God has provided. It's kind of like a man who's in a burning building. And he can't get out through the doorway because it's completely blocked with smoke and with fire. And the only way is through the window, and there's a fire escape there. But that man has never been on that fire escape before, and he says, I'm not sure I want to risk going down that fire escape. I think I'm just going to wait here. If he waits there, he will die When they designed that building years earlier, they made a way of escape, but it was only one way of escape. And that was through that fire escape. Now salvation is much more than a fire escape, but this does illustrate the fact for us that God has made provision. But he only made one way. And that was through his son. And if we reject that way, if we turn aside from that and say, Well, I I think I can do it myself. I think I can get out of this building myself. I think I'm going to wait, or I'm going to try another route. If we do that, then we are rejecting God's provision of salvation. We must come to Him as we are, as sinners. Sometimes people often get this notion in their mind that they've got to kind of clean themselves up. And they gotta drop some old habits and establish some new habits and patterns of living. And if they do this and they really get their act together, then they can present themselves to God and He will receive them. Kind of like before you sell your house or you sell your car, you know you wanna you you wanna polish it a little bit and get things ready and get rid of all the clutter in your home and you want it to look as good as possible. And that's the way people think sometimes about salvation. But that is a lie and a delusion of the wicked one. You can't clean yourself up. God's not going to be impressed. You're not going to be contributing to your salvation in any way. You have to come as you are. You have to come with all of your sin and all of your hang ups and all your addictions and you have to bring them to the foot of the cross. And accept the fact that you cannot save yourself and that you need a savior. And the Savior that you turn to must be Jesus Christ. And I think this passage tells us a marvelous truth, that Jesus did not just come to save us from the penalty of our sin, which is hell. But there's allusion here, I think, to the fact that he came to save us from the power of our sin. Charles Wesley, who wrote, My favorite Christmas carol, Hark the Herald Angel Singh, also wrote a wonderful hymn entitled, And Can It Be. And in that he has a verse that says, He breaks the power of canceled sin. He sets the prisoner free. His blood can make the fowls clean. His blood availed for me. One of the lies that people believe is that they're too sinful to come to Christ. They've gone too far. They've gone too many years in sin and in darkness, and they can never be saved. But the scriptures tell us that the blood of Christ can cleanse the most foul , the foulest sinner that ever lived. The most degraded, wicked person that you know, God can save them by his grace. But there is a person that God will not save, and that's a person who thinks they're good enough. But things are really not that bad. In fact, you might say, well, I certainly don't think I'm that horrible of a sinner. I don't think I'm very bad at all. In fact, most people think I'm a person of fine character. I'm a man of integrity. I'm a woman of honor and dignity. I'm not a wicked, horrible person. I'm not addicted to any substance that I know of. God will receive me as I am. I don't need a savior. But our passage says he came to save And so until you come and recognize that you are a sinner and that you desperately need a savior, you cannot be saved. He came not only to save us from the penalty of our sin, but from the power of our sin. Over 2,000 years ago, a baby was born, and that baby was born to die. Maybe it was the hope of the world, the desire of nations, the bread of life, the light of the world, and the savior of the world. His name was Jesus. And he would save his people from their sins. My question to you this morning is very simple. Is he your Savior? Has he saved you from your sins? I mentioned to you earlier that this word savior has the idea of to rescue or deliver. You know, when someone rescues you from a crisis, Where it's a matter of life and death, you tend not to forget those things. It tends to be like a turning point in a person's life. So has there been a time in your life when you were saved by the Savior, when you were rescued from your sins This is the gospel. This is why Jesus came. He came to save sinners from their sin. Someone wrote, if our greatest need had been information, God would have sent us an educator. If our greatest need had been technology, God would have sent us a scientist. If our greatest need had been money, God would have sent us an economist. If our greatest need had been pleasure, God would have sent us an entertainer. But our greatest need was forgiveness. So God sent us a Savior. My question to you this morning is, is He your Savior? If he's not, would you seek the Lord? Don't put this off. Jesus came to save sinners, but you must recognize that you are a sinner and that you cannot save yourself. And you must come to believe and understand that Jesus died in your place and he rose again and he is who he claimed to be, the Son of God. And when God does that work in your heart and you come to understand that in a way that you never have before, then my friend, you can truly call him your Savior. And that will change everything. He came to save his people from their sins. Let's close in prayer. Father , We thank you for the name of Jesus. How precious it is to us. How marvelous it is to consider all that it means. He is fully man and fully God, and he is the Savior of the world. I pray, Father, for those who might be here this morning , you're still in some way trusting. and their own righteousness and their own good deeds, thinking that they're not that bad after all. I pray that you would open their eyes they might see that though they may restrain their actions to some degree, that their thoughts and their words And the very bent of their life is thoroughly sinful and is offensive to you, that they can in no way atone for their own sins. And Father, for those who might be here who think that they are too far gone, that they are too sinful, or that they need to clean up their acts. Before they can come, I pray that you would show them the folly of this. And that they would, like a drowning man , Or like a man in a burning building, flee to the Savior and see Him as their only refuge, their only hope. Oh Father, we pray you'd work in our midst. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.