If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to John chapter 12? John chapter 12. The history of the world is the history of powerful men seeking to rule the world. From Alexander the Great to Caesar Augustus to Napoleon, throughout the ages, men have Dreamt of conquering the entire planet. The man who actually had the largest empire in history was a man named Genghis Khan. He lived in the early 13th century, and at his height, he ruled nearly 5 million square miles. The Mongol Empire stretched from Eastern Europe to the Sea of Japan. He accomplished this great feat through military strategy and fear. His people were horsemen. They could ride long distances and at very fast speeds on horse horses They would attack settlements quickly and fearlessly, and before the people knew what was happening, they were defeated. And any who offered resistance were killed in the most brutal ways, so that the word spread, you don't want to fight against Genghis Khan and his people. But in 1227, Genghis Khan died, and his empire was soon divided and eventually disappeared. But this morning I want us to consider a king who is infinitely superior to any ruler the world has ever seen. I'm referring, of course, to Jesus. The royal entry of Jesus into Jerusalem is one of the only events recorded in all four Gospels. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John all speak of this event that took place on the Sunday before what we call Passion Week or Holy Week. These different accounts help to fill out a big picture of what happened that day Now, you probably know that John is the last of the gospel writers. He, Matthew, Mark, Luke all wrote within a decade or two of each other. But John was written at least 30 years after them. He had much time to reflect on that event because he was an eyewitness. And so what John is always trying to do in his accounts of events that happened in the life of Christ is find the deep theological significance of what occurred. And we see that phenomenon again in this record. You'll notice the key verse really in this whole account is verse 16, which says, his disciples did not understand these things at first. But when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things had been written about him and had been done to him. There are a couple other times that we read things like this in the Gospel of John that tell us that the disciples didn't understand at the moment what was happening. But reflecting back on it years later, they were able to make sense of what God was doing. And in this case The meaning of the prophecies that were uttered, the fulfillment of those, not only in words, but in actions of Jesus. And so there's more here in this record than at first meets the eye. This is kind of like an instructive parable. that tells us some very precious truths about Jesus. What we see in this account is that Jesus is a great king, a different kind of king. The Bible reveals that he is our prophet, priest, and king, these three offices. And in the triumphal entry, the focus is on, of course, him as a king. You'll notice in verse 13. Speaks the people saying, even the king of Israel. In verse 15 it says, your king is coming, quoting the prophet Zechariah. We often call this event the triumphal entry, but in many ways it was not triumphant. The people were looking for a political revolutionary who would fight the great world power at that time of Rome. They were not looking for a redeemer from their sins. So even the people who lined the streets and waved their palms And said wonderful things about Jesus that day, the vast majority of them did not have a true and living faith They had a superficial faith. They were caught up in a wave of nationalistic pride and desire for a better future. And then we have the religious leaders who are always in the background at this time period plotting to murder Jesus. We'll read of them plotting to murder Lazarus in our text this morning. That doesn't sound very triumphant. And even the disciples, his followers who had been with him for three years, even they did not fully understand what was happening this day until years later. But in another sense, this was triumphant because Jesus' royal entrance into Jerusalem points to the triumph of the crucified one. Jesus would not conquer with great armies and with violence. He would conquer with the cross, but conquer he would. I'm going to preach to this morning on this truth that Jesus' royal entrance into Jerusalem reveals that he is the ultimate king despite the misconceptions of the people. I want you to notice with me, first of all, that Jesus is a king who is worthy of praise. Look with me at verse 12, please, of chapter 12. The next day the large crowd that had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. This verse provides the setting for this event. The next day is a reference to the day after the Sabbath This is the day that we often call Palm Sunday. This is the day that Jesus entered into Jerusalem. The first day of what is often called Holy Week, the most significant week in the history of the world. Now I want you to notice I always try to bring out the emphasis of the writer. I want you to notice how John emphasizes the size of the crowd. He says up in verse 9, which we will get to in time, when the large crowd of the Jews learned that Jesus was there, that is in Bethany. And then if you look again at verse 12, we read here of the large crowd. And then in verses 17 and 18, each of these verses talks about the crowd. And then in verse 19, we read, The world has gone after him. A hyperbolic statement. The whole world had not gone after him, but it seemed that way on that day. Jesus was never more popular than he was on this day in Jerusalem. Now the normal population of Jerusalem. In the life of Christ, most scholars estimate to be about a hundred thousand people. But on the Passover Those numbers would more than double or triple. Some scholars estimate that as much as a million people would gather into that city. We can't know for sure. But we know that it became incredibly crowded. And this year, there were perhaps even larger crowds because people heard that Jesus was coming. And they heard that he had recently raised the man who had been dead for four days from the tomb. There was electricity in the air. People were excited. What's going to happen at this Passover season? And so the word gets out that he's just a couple miles away, and people start going out to meet him, even as people are flooding into Jerusalem for this significant festival week. Look with me now at verse 13. So they took branches of palm trees and went out to meet him. crying, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel. When it says they went out , To see him, it means that the res the people in Jerusalem that had already come early for the feast. When they heard the news from those who had been at that special banquet that we read about early, the first paragraph of this chapter when they heard that Jesus is actually just two miles away in Bethany, the people said, well I'm going to go out there to see for myself. And so they begin walking out towards Bethany, and they're lining the streets. We don't see this in our part of the world. We all drive around in our little cars on highways and roads, and every once in a great while we'll see someone by the side of the road. In most third world countries, everywhere you drive, both sides of the streets are lined with people walking, coming and going, who do not have cars. And in the ancient world, that's the way it would be on every street. There would be lots and lots and lots of people walking. There were people coming into the city, people going out of the city to see Jerusalem. Now the waving of a palm branch was a common symbol of victory in the ancient world. If you look at ancient coins from the Mediterranean region of the world, they often have palm branches on them saying, victory, we are a victorious people. And this was true of the Jewish people as well. We read about the palm branches being used in the Feast of Tabernacles in Leviticus 23. But in time the waving of a palm branch became like the waving of a flag. And the Passover, though it was an intrinsically religious, God-given feast. was sort of like our 4th of July, when they were celebrating the fact that they were the people of God, they were the Jews. And they would wave palm branches like we would wave a flag. They had a history of this. In the second century, there was a man named Simon Maccabees, a revolutionary. who defeated the Syrians and pushed them out of Jerusalem. And the people came out in the streets and they waved palm branches. Something like this happened with his brother Judas Maccabees as well. And so this was a symbol of victory. This was a symbol of their country. This was a symbol that showed that God was going to do something incredible. It seems that many of these Passover pilgrims believed that at this season, at this Passover , Jesus would reveal that he was the Messiah. Perhaps he would perform incredible miracles. And perhaps he would reclaim the throne of his father David and the Romans would flee before his miraculous powers and Israel would be great again. That is what the people wanted to occur this week. But instead, in just a few days, Jesus would die on an old rugged cross. And undoubtedly, we can never say how many. But undoubtedly, some of the people on this day who were crying out, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, would in a few days' time be crying out, Crucify Him. This was not a mass conversion event, although thousands and thousands of people lined the streets. I want you to notice how John summarizes the ministry of Jesus a little bit later in John chapter 12. Look with me at John chapter 12 and verse 37. John 12, 37. It says, though he had done so many signs before them. They still did not believe in him. So although he was very, very popular this week, they did not have a true and living faith in Jesus. As their Savior. Yet what is interesting is that though certainly for most part the people's praise was superficial and ill-informed, Jesus did not reject them. He did not tell them to stop praising him. He received it. In fact, some of you may recall that in Luke chapter 19 in his account of this event, The Pharisees say to Jesus, tell your followers to stop saying these blasphemous things. And do you remember what he said? If they are to be silent, the stones themselves would cry outs. He's using a figure of speech to say there that it is appropriate, it is necessary that Jesus Christ be praised. You say he accepted their praise because he is worthy of praise. All the other kings, all the other leaders, all the other despots of the world who have demanded that people praise them. have all failed and we're not worthy of that praise. This is one reason why we instinctively get angry and bend out of shape when someone demands that people praise them and say they're a great person. You know why that bothers us so much? It's because we know they're not worthy of it. We know they're just another human being like we are, and they have their weaknesses. and their limitations and their flaws and their sin. And we know that they're not worthy of that kind of praise. It's not appropriate. Sometimes when a politician or world leader begins, people will be very, very excited and enthusiastic, especially young people, in the way they cheer for that individual. But as time goes on and that leader shows himself to be just a man, they often, or I should not say often, they always are disappointed. some degree. But Jesus does not disappoint. He's worthy of our praise. God made us so that we instinctively seek to praise what we value and prize. And so for the believer, we should seek to praise him. When we gather to worship and sing praises to God, this is not like some formality that we do That, you know, we're just kind of filling time until the sermon. This is not something that just a few people with really good voices do and the rest of us just kind of watch and admire and maybe a few people will mouth the words along. No, no, no, no. That's not the biblical concept of worship. The biblical concept of worship is that we all participate and we all sing praise to God, whether we have a good voice or not. Because Christ is worthy of praise. And there's something in the heart of every believer who is truly walking with God that has a desire to praise his name. You rejoice. And when you gather with the people of God in a church like this, and we sing praises to God, it should stir your hearts. It should warm your affections for God. It should be like a taste of what heaven will be like. Oh, just a dim taste. But it's a taste when we that great multitude of the redeemed surround the throne and sing, worthy is the Lamb that was slain. The praise that Jesus received here on this day was a foreshadowing and a picture of the praise that Jesus will receive someday. Let me show this to you. In Revelation chapter 12 John, who writes this gospel, also wrote the book of Revelation, and he says, After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number. from every nation and from all tribes and peoples and languages standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes with palm branches in their hands, and crying out with a loud voice Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. Did you notice that they were holding palm branches? You see, that this event was kind of like A dim rehearsal of what will occur someday when we are with all the redeemed in heaven Because Jesus is a king who's worthy of praise. Jesus is also a king who came to save. Look with me at verse 13. The people cry out, Hosanna. Which comes from Psalm 118 and verse 25. It means, save now. And they say, blessed be the king that comes in the name of the Lord. This is a modified quotation from Psalm 118. It was understood as a blessing for pilgrims who were journeying to Jerusalem. But here The people speak of Jesus as the ultimate Passover pilgrim, the man who has come, who is even the king that the Passover is all about. This passage would have been fresh in their minds because the Passover pilgrims traditionally sang from the Hala, which is kind of like a hymn book within the hymn book. It's Psalm 113 through Psalm 118. And they would sing these psalms as they journeyed to Jerusalem. And as they entered the city of Jerusalem, they sang Psalm 118, which became like a national anthem for Israel. And all those centuries of singing that psalm as they entered in at this traditional time of year all pointed to this Passover season. When Jesus would be there and they would cry out, save now, Hosanna. But the people were looking for a political liberator. But God sent them a redeemer to redeem them from the bondage of their sin. Jesus is a king who came to save, you know, when people have a world leader or national leader that's coming. They often want someone who's going to deliver them from the fear of their enemies, from the foes that surround them, give them safety and security. But Jesus came to save his people from their sins. That is our greatest problem. That is our greatest foe. Jesus is a king who came to save. And thirdly, Jesus is a king who has come to bring peace. Look with me now at verse 14. And Jesus found a young donkey. and sat on it just as it is written, Fear not, daughter of Zion. Behold, your king is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt. John here condenses the account that we find much more detail in Luke's gospel about how they procured the donkey. Some of you remember that story. John 's focus is not on how they got the donkey, but the meaning of the fact that he rode on a donkey. So he doesn't address those details. And then he quotes here in verse 15 from Zechariah chapter 9 and verse 9, except the first phrase is not from Zechariah, but it's actually from Isaiah chapter 40 and verse 9. Which says, Fear not, daughter of Zion. And the idea is the coming of this king is not something to be feared. He has not come to oppress the people, he has come to bless them. And then this quotation goes on to describe this king as the ultimate king when they say, Behold your king. Israel, of course, had had many kings. Starting with Saul, and then David, and then Solomon, and then the division of the kingdom, kings of the north and of the south. But all of those kings, even the best of them, like David, were profound disappointments and did not live up to the office that God had given them. But now God says, behold your king. This is the true king. This is the ultimate king. This king would excel them all. And notice this king would come in humility, sitting on a donkey's colt. John's quotation of this verse picks up the fact that Jesus entered Jerusalem on a donkey. What a contrast this is to the triumphal entry of ancient warriors. Those pr processions were filled with impressive-looking horses. Today, when a person wants to convey to people that they are a person of wealth and status, they will drive a very, very expensive car. That's very well kept. And people will say, wow, that person has made it. That person's an important person. In the ancient world, of course, they did not have cars, but they had very expensive and impressive-looking horses. And so the way of the world was to impress people with horses and carriages and opulence that would That would impress people with the wealth and power and influence that that king possessed This has always been the way of the world. Do you remember what the law said about Israel and their coming kings? There were two things they were not to multiply. Do you know what they were? They were not to multiply wives. That's what kings in the ancient world did. They had great harems of beautiful women, and this was a reflection of their power and their wealth. And then they also had huge stables with very impressive horses. And they would ride around in great carriages. Pulled by very impressive teams so that everyone would know how powerful they were. God said to his people, I don't want you to be like the world. I don't want you to have harems. I don't want you to have impressive horses But they didn't obey him. Think of Solomon. He had a thousand wives, essentially, wives and concubines, and then he had, we know, great stables with very impressive horses from all over the world. But Jesus comes in humility. He didn't come on a charger. He didn't come in a great carriage. He came, a man dressed in humble garments, riding upon a borrowed donkey. And this also, of course, points to the fact that Jesus came in peace. When a king came on a war horse, it was clear that he was on a military campaign. But when he rode on a donkey, it was indication that he came in peace. Jesus did not come to bring revolution, but to bring redemption. He did not come to bring violence, but peace. Isaiah 9:6 calls him the Prince of Peace. We know the Hebrew word for peace. Everyone here knows it's the word shalom. It's a very broad word that describes wholeness and well-being. It was a person who was blessed by God. Everyone, every human being desires peace. And this can mean one of two things. And kings and leaders throughout history have always often promised peace. Like I'm going to end wars. I'm going to bring stability and safety to people. This is what the Romans were able to achieve, ironically, through violence and warfare What's known as the Pax Romana, about 200 years, where no other nation seriously resisted them because they were just too powerful. And it was a time of prosperity and security because there were very few wars because Rome was so powerful. People today in the modern world, when they think of peace, I think they primarily think not of cessation of wars, although they do think of that. But they think of internal peace, of not having turmoil in your heart, of not being filled with anxiety and fear and panic. This is a huge problem we have in the modern world. Though we have had many inventions. And though we have progressed so far in our medical understanding of how to treat the human body We haven't done so well with how to treat the inner man. And so we live in a world and in a place where people in America and this very advanced culture have never been more anxious and fearful. And there's a thousand different factors that we could talk about that have led to that and increased that. One, of course, is the internet, as everyone knows. But the only way that we can enjoy peace and comfort internally in our hearts is when we have a steadfast faith that God is in control, that He is sovereign, and He has a purpose in what He is doing, not only in the world, but in our lives. And we can only have this peace if we know that we are right with God. The Bible teaches this morning that if you are not a follower, a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, then you are actually at war with God. And his wrath is abiding on you. And therefore you cannot be at peace with God. But Romans 5:1 says, being justified by faith, we have peace with God. And we can only find that peace by putting our faith and trust in Jesus Christ as our Savior. We also see in this passage that Jesus is a king who has defeated death. And this is where I come to that little paragraph at the very beginning of this passage. Look with me at John chapter 12 and verse 9, please. John 12, 9. We read, when the large crowd of the Jews learned that Jesus was there, they came not only on account of him, but also to see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. So the chief priests made plans to put Lazarus to death as well, because on account of him, many of the Jews were going away and believing in Jesus. This is an incredible passage. It tells us that many of the Passover pilgrims were coming to see Jesus, but also the man he had raised from the dead. Lazarus was like a curiosity. Like the strange people that they often had in the ancient in the past century in uh and traveling circuses He's a man who had been dead for four days, but now he's alive. Come and see him. And people were flocking there to see him with their own eyes, so they could tell their friends when they got back home. I saw Lazarus alive, that man that Jesus raised from the dead. And the religious leaders were very, very upset about this. And they said to themselves, this is their plan. We're just going to have to kill him as well. You know, if it wasn't so wicked, it would be humorous, right? This man who was dead, who they raised, Jesus raised from the dead, now they're going to kill him? They ever think that maybe Jesus would raise him from the dead again? Doesn't seem like a very good plan. They literally wanted to bury the evidence. That Jesus was the promised Messiah. But John's going to connect back to Lazarus again. If you look back with me at verse 17, it says. Now the crowd that had been with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead continued to bear witness. That is, the people who saw Lazarus and Jesus We 're going around at this Passover season telling everybody who would listen. So this was stirring up expectations and excitements And it says the reason why the crowd went to meet him was that they heard he had done this sign. So again, before Jesus comes in, John is explaining that people were going out to him at Bethany. The road was lined with people coming to see him because they heard of this miracle. And notice the response of the Pharisees And verse 19, so the Pharisees said to one another, You see that you are gaining nothing. Look, the world has gone after him. Now the point that I want to make from this Is this, I think that John is, again, and his emphasis on Lazarus is pointing out the fact that Jesus is a king. who has conquered death. He conquered death not only in raising Lazarus from the dead Which I said to you at the time when we covered that passage was a foreshadowing that in a few days Jesus himself would come forth from the dead. He would conquer death. This is why Jesus said, he didn't say, I am the one who raises people from the dead. He said in chapter 11, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me shall never die. Jesus is a king who conquered death. All of the great kings in the history of the world, from Alexander the Great to Caesar Augustus to Napoleon to Louis XIV. All these proud, egotistical men who had this incredible desire to gain more power and influence, all of them are dead. And their bodies have been reduced to dust. But this king, this Jesus, conquered death, and he is alive today. He is the right hand of the Father, interceding for his people. He lives and reigns as king. And finally, would you notice with me that Jesus is a king who has and who will overcome the world? This passage of the triumphal entry ends with a very unusual verse. We have the reaction of the Pharisees, our Lord's antagonist. The Pharisees said to one another, You see, you are gaining nothing. That is, they're talking amongst themselves as these leaders of the nation. They're saying, All of our strategies, all of our plans have come to nothing. Look at his popularity. Look at all the people streaming into the city and out of the city, all talking about Jesus, all wanting to see him. And they're in despair. And they say in a hyperbolic way, all the world has gone out to see him. Of course, not true. It's not all the world. It's not even all of Israel, but it's a lot of people of Israel. When people are really upset. And desperate, they intensify their language. They use a lot of always and nevers Which technically are not true almost always or never. But they're upset and they want to get their point across. So they say, the whole world Everyone is going to follow this man if only it were true. But in saying this, they said more than they knew. We've seen this phenomenon before in the Gospel of John. Remember Caiaphas? Remember when they had that meeting of the Sanhedrin about chapter 11 of what they were going to do with Jesus? And he says to them, You guys don't even know what you're talking about. And he says it's expedient that one man die, then the whole nation perish because of Roman oppression, because of the uprising. And John adds his commentary and he says, Caiaphas being the high priest actually prophesied. He actually said more than he meant. Because when he said it's right that Jesus would die for the nation, he uses the wording that's used for substitutionary atonement of Jesus dying in place of sinners. And that's not what he meant, but that's what God meant in recording his words. And here when these same leaders say the world's going after him, they were saying more than they knew. more than they meant. They said it in desperation, exasperated, and his popularity that they could not seem to stop. But it's John who likes to use this word world. At the beginning of his gospel, he says, behold the Lamb of God. Who takes away the sin of the world. And of course, that famous verse, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. This does not mean that all people will be saved, but it points to the fact That salvation will not be confined to one ethnicity or one little group of people. It means that people of all kinds will make up the people of God. people of every tribe and tongue and nation of different ethnicities, of different language groups, of different ages Of different genders, people will be different, who make up the people of God And this is why the very next thing that John has in his gospel, if you look at chapter 12 and verse 20, is among those who went up to worship the feast were some Greeks. These are Gentiles. And this is a foreshadowing of the fact that there would be the gospel going to the Gentiles after the day of Pentecost, and that many Gentiles would come to believe and be saved. This is the beauty of what God is revealing even through the words of the enemies of Christ. But how is it that the gospel would conquer the world if this man is not going to use violence? If he's not going to coerce people to follow him, how will it help it happen? Well, look with me at chapter 12, verses 32 and 33. We read, Jesus saying, and I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. He said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. That is a death by crucifixion. He's going to draw all kinds of people to himself through his death on the cross. And what is it? that God has used to take the gospel to the ends of the earth. It's the message of a crucified Redeemer who was high and lifted up. It's through the preaching of the cross that Christ would conquer the world. In just a few days, Jesus would say in the upper room, the night before his crucifixion, in the world you will have tribulation. But take heart, I have overcome the world. Now I want to move to some points of application as we conclude this morning. And my question for you is this, is Christ your King? Is Christ your King? Is He your sovereign, the Lord of your life? There are many people in the world and in this country that would profess to be followers of Jesus. But Jesus is like an additive to them. He's not Lord. He's like something that you put in your gas tank to get you a few more miles to the gallon. But you're the one who drives the car where it wants to go. There's a lot of people who want the Lord to improve their life. and give them an advantage that maybe other people don't have, but they don't really want the Lord. They want what He does for them. This is not what it means to follow Christ. To follow Christ means that we trust in Him as our Savior and our Lord, that we recognize that He is our King and that what He's commanded us to do, we will do. Now none of us will obey Him and follow Him perfectly. But we don't say that it's my life to live however I want. No, he is our king, and we must follow him. I want to secondly add that Christians should remember that Christ will triumph in the end. Do you believe that? I think there's a lot of Christians, at least, they don't seem to believe that Because they go around and they talk about how wicked and how evil and how bad the world is and how it used to be so much better. And And what's going to happen? And they are filled with anxiety and care and despair about the future. To them, the future is bleak. And so often it is because they've been filling their mind with 24-hour cable news or the internets Instead of God's truth. Have you ever thought about this? We know the final score We're not sitting here in suspense saying, you know, who's going to win this great contest of the ages? Is it going to be the devil or is it going to be the Lord? We don't know how it's going to turn out Oh, it's going to be a nail bite. It's going to be really close. No. Read the last book of the Bible. I don't care what kind of interpretation you take of it. You can't help but see that Jesus wins. And he is triumphant. I remember years ago. This is in the dark ages. This is in the early nineties. All right. When I was in college, I was very interested in in uh like sports and football and the NFL and everything. You know, it it was And and and there was this this very important game that was played that involved a team that I liked a lot, but I was not able to watch it. And you know what young people, what people would do back then? They would tape it on a VCR. They would tape the game. And I did watch one play of the game, but I heard the final score And I knew that my team won. And then one day I sat down at my leisure and I watched the game on the tape that I had. And you know what? The game started out horrible. My team was losing by two touchdowns. And the announcers were saying, oh, it doesn't look good. And and I, you know what? I just had a smile on my face. Because I knew the final score. And the fact that things were going on in the game that looked like my team had no chance of winning didn't bother me in the slightest because I knew how it ended. Folks, we know how it ends. We know the final score. We know that Jesus will triumph. We have promises like this. The earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. We have Jesus saying, I will build my church. We have verses like, every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. We have these promises. So why so often do we walk around as if righteousness and the cause of Christ will lose? We have to see the big picture. We have to have a better perspective, a perspective of faith. And this is true even on the microscopic level of our lives. Some of you here are going through some very, very difficult times right now. I know. Some of you I know, some of you I don't know, but you're going through very difficult times. And you look at your life And it looks like things are going to go bad, and you can't see how they're going to go any better, and it looks like your life is going to end in a very sad and depressing way. I want you to know something. It's not the end of the story. If you are a child of God, it ends in glory. It ends in triumph. This is not just something that's true for the big picture. This is true for the small picture of your life as well if you're truly a child of God's. And then I want to conclude with this. Beware of having a superficial interest in Christ that comes short. Of genuine conversion. Jesus was very popular on this day. There were thousands and thousands of people who cried out, Hosanna, and waved palm branches. But Jesus says in Luke chapter 19 that many of them would experience profound judgment in this earth at the fall of Jerusalem in AD 70. And many of them would find ultimate judgment in a place called hell because although they claimed in some way to be followers of Christ, it was a superficial faith. They just wanted Jesus to make their life better. This is kind of an ancient form of the prosperity gospel. Lord, I'll follow you if you give me good health and a wonderful family and lots of money. But I don't really want you. I just want the benefits that come from knowing you. It doesn't work that way. You know, when kids are really little. And they go to grandma's house. We excuse them for maybe being fixated on the cookies that grandma's baking for them. And that's really what's motivating them to go and see grandma. But when they become 22 years old and they're adults, and the only reason they want to go see grandma is because they want her cookies. There's something wrong there. By this time they should know they should have a relationship with her and they should love her and care for her. And it's not a matter of she's providing something I want, is I actually want to be with her And true followers of Jesus Christ love him not because of the blessings that he gives, but because they know him and they love him. He is our Lord and master. There's a false gospel that's preached in many churches today that invites people to come to Christ to fix their marriage, to fix their finances. To provide security for them, but they don't really want Jesus. They want the benefits of knowing Jesus. But Jesus will not be used. And he cannot be manipulated. He is our Lord and our master. So my point is this, beware of trusting in a cultural, sentimental, and superficial version of Jesus that does not exist. Jesus is Lord and master, and we must know him as he has revealed himself to be. And only those who repent of their sins. and trust in the Savior's sacrificial death will experience eternal life. May God help you to trust in him alone. And understand that he is the ultimate king who comes to bring salvation and peace and joy. And is the praise of his people. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for this time we have spent together this morning. I pray that you would use Your word that we have considered today for our spiritual good. Help us, Father, to be a people of faith who have the joy of knowing that you are in control and that in the end Christ will triumph. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen