We're looking at verses 17 through 25, Lord willingness evening, the end of this chapter. And if you notice, if you've noticed Our pulpit or our table Bible here has been going along in the book of Isaiah as we've been going along in the book of Isaiah, and now Jeremiah is visible. For the first time, the book of Jeremiah is actually visible on the pages. So we are very near the end of the book of Isaiah. Now, I still think we're probably going to have at least four more. lessons in Isaiah before we're done. But there's light at the end of the tunnel. And it's it's a it's a glorious light. It's it's the light of the new heavens and the new earth. So hopefully it's an encouraging light. We are entering into the final section of the book of Isaiah. And the theme for the book of Isaiah is return and rest in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. And we're going to see this as the ultimate unfolding of our salvation is discovered and revealed for us in the pages of chapter 65 and chapter 67. But this section is an exalted section that sheds more light on the culmination of God's plan of redemption. And explains how the Lord will finally deal with the sin problem that separated man from his holy creator in the garden and that brought death and the curse and disease and destruction on the entire planet. It's the sin problem that caused Israel and Judah to be taken into captivity. It's the sin problem that causes all creation to groan and travail even till now under the curse. But God will ultimately bring an end to this sin and death through his anointed warrior, our Savior Jesus Christ. So this final section actually has five subdivisions, five subsections within it And they alternate on themes. It alternates on the theme of hope and judgment. It begins with a message of hope and then it goes to judgment, then hope, then judgment, and it ends on a message of hope. So we have the final subsections here. We have in chapter 65, like we're looking at tonight, 17 through 25, it's a message of hope about the new heavens and the new earth and the millennial kingdom. Then beginning in chapter 66, verses 1 through 6, it's a message of judgment. Then in chapter 66, verse 7 through 14, another message of hope. And again, of judgment in verses 15 and 16, and lastly a message of hope. So let's begin tonight just by reading Isaiah 65, verses 17 through 25. For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former things shall not be remembered or come into mind. But be glad and rejoice forever in that which I create. For behold, I create Jerusalem to be a joy, and her people to be a gladness. I will rejoice in Jerusalem and be glad in my people. No more shall be heard in it the sound of weeping and the cry of distress. No more shall there be in it an infant who lives but a few days, or an old man who does not fill out his days. For the young man shall die a hundred years old, and the sinner a hundred years old shall be accursed They shall build houses and inhabit them. They shall plant vineyards and eat their fruit. They shall not build and another inhabit. They shall not plant and another eat. For like the days of a tree shall the days of my people be, and my chosen shall long enjoy the work of their hands. They shall not labor in vain, or bear children for calamity, for they shall be the offspring of the blessed of the Lord, and their descendants with them Before they call, I will answer. While they are yet speaking, I will hear. The wolf and the lamb shall graze together. The lion shall eat straw like the ox And dust shall be the serpent's food. They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, says the Lord. God calls us here in these verses to behold his plan to create a new heavens and a new earth, to pay attention, to look at, to consider. And in doing this, he calls us not only to behold, But he also calls us to rejoice. And we're going to look at that. But the theme of joy and rejoicing is a major theme in this passage of Scripture. That the new heavens and the new earth are cause for us to rejoice. But this is the first of four passages that are found in the Bible that explicitly describe the new heavens. And the new earth. But this these four passages are the only four that explicitly mention new heavens and the new earth. And Isaiah 65, verse 17, is the very first of them in the pages of Scripture Where he says, For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former things shall not be remembered or come into mind. But be glad and rejoice forever. in that which I create. For behold, I create Jerusalem to be a joy, and her people to be a gladness. So we look at this, we're just going to look through these four passages very briefly this evening and then see what they tell us about the new heavens and the earth. I think pretty clearly The first thing that we observe about the new heavens and the new earth is that it is a place of joy and it is a cause of joy. Because of what God does in the new heavens and the new earth, it is something that even now, before we experience fully this understanding and this reality, we are to be rejoicing in it. But it is a place of perpetual joy And it is a place where her people will be a gladness. We also see that there will be a Jerusalem. In the new heavens and the north. We're going to find out a little bit more about that than some of the other passages that describe the new heavens and the the new earth. But he says For behold, I create Jerusalem to be a joy, and her people to be a gladness. And so we're going to find out a little bit more about that. The very next place we find it is in the next chapter, Isaiah 66. Verse 22. And it's kind of like a bookend. The passage of scripture we'll look at this final section of Isaiah begins with a description of the new heavens and the new earth, and it ends with a description of the new heavens and the new earth. And it's a bookend to help us say this is a unit of thought. And he says here, for as the new heavens and the new earth That I make shall remain before me, says the Lord. So shall your offspring and your name remain. So this new heavens and the new earth are described as something that is eternal It's an eternal state. We saw that a little bit even in the first passage where he says, be glad and rejoice forever in that which I create. But here he says That the as the new heavens and the new earth that I make shall remain before me. It means it will endure permanently. It is a permanent state. It is an unchanging state. So it's helpful for us to differ differentiate between the new heavens and the new earth and what is commonly called the millennium. The millennium in the millennial kingdom is not eternal because it lasts how long? Brilliant. Yes, a thousand years. Now we obviously know that by the name, uh the millennium, but we also know that because what's Revelation 20? Tells us that explicitly in the first seven verses of Revelation 20, we are told six times that the millennial reign, this kingdom will be a thousand years. It is a thousand years , although the millennium is described in many, many places in the Bible, many, many places even in Isaiah, the The designation of the thousand years of it is only found in Revelation chapter 20, but it isn't just found once, it's actually mentioned specifically six times. And so we have the pretty clear understanding of that reality. The next place that we find the mentioning of the new heavens and the new earth is in 2 Peter. The writing here is a little bit smaller because I wanted to add a few other verses just to flesh out the context, but in 2 Peter chapter 3, verses 10 through 13, and it's in a description of the day of the Lord. He says, but the day of the Lord will come like a thief. And then the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved, and the earth and the works that are done on it will be exposed. So all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be set on fire and dissolved, and the heavenly bodies will melt as they burn. But according to his promise, we are waiting for a new heaven and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. This is an amazing passage of scripture that is It is even difficult for our minds to really fully wrap ourselves around to understand what does it look like for for the current world that we live in to be burned up. We can't fathom that. But we are described in great detail that that is the case. The new heavens and the new earth will follow the destruction of the current heavens and the current earth. They're described as being burnt up and being dissolved and as being set on fire and dissolved and melting away. Their existence is entirely changed. There are people that that deny this and they say there's just going to be a remaking, but the language here seems to be pretty uh pretty drastic. pretty significant regarding a a final um annihilation by fire and then from After that, we have the new heavens and the new earth, which is a new creation of God. So this new heavens and new earth is described also in this passage as a place of perfect righteousness. He says, the new heavens and the new earth in which righteousness dwells. Even that is hard for us to understand because we kind of swim in the water. We're like a fish who doesn't know he's wet. We swim in the water of unrighteousness. We swim in the water of wickedness. We live in a world where we live and breathe unrighteousness and ungodliness and sin and wickedness, but the description of the new heavens and the new earth is a place where righteousness alone dwells. Sin will have no place. And it may be even hard for us to imagine that and to even comprehend what that looks like. There may be a part of us that says, I don't know what it'll be like, and maybe a part of you that says I'm pretty sure that's a good thing, but it's hard to imagine. It's hard to even fully comprehend because we live in the milieu of sin and wickedness everywhere. But I think our our spirit cries out, I want that. I want that new heavens and the new earth wherein perfect righteousness dwells. Then the last passage we have is in Revelation chapter 21. Revelation chapter 21, verses 1 through 4. And he says, Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. So again you see this description of the removal of the old heavens and the old earth, and it is entirely passed away. It is gone. And the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. Prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more. Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain any more, for the former things have passed away And in that language, you can see a lot of the illusion and the referencing of Isaiah 65, verses 17 and 18, being brought in by John into Revelation 21. There is a significant loaning, or barring, I should say, of Isaiah by John in Revelation 21, or even you might say by the Lord himself, as he He uh makes use of Isaiah in his description of the new heavens and the new earth. We said that there is a Jerusalem in the new heavens and the new earth, and we're just told a little bit about it right here. Where he describes it as a new Jerusalem that comes out of heaven, comes down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband, meaning glorious and beautiful. And then there is further description of it in Revelation 21. And then the place that is, again , Difficult to comprehend with the mind, difficult to wrap our minds around. We're given just a little bit of information that tells us it's a glorious place. It's a marvelous place. But it's hard for us to fully understand it. What we're told is that in the new Jerusalem, in the new heavens, in the new earth, God dwells with man. God himself dwells with man. They will be his people, and he will be their God, and he himself will wipe away their tears from their eyes. We're also told that death will be no more. That death, that perpetual enemy of all humanity from the beginning of the fall till today, is finally destroyed. That is exciting. That is the ultimate culmination of the victory of Christ over sin and death. 1 Corinthians 15 , verses 25 and 26 explains that Christ must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death. And so even now as believers in Christ, we know we will rise again, but the death of our bodies is a a reality, and it is it is an enemy to us. It is the last enemy that is to be destroyed. And so we look with a degree of intrepidation, a degree of fear at the reality of death, even though we know that to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. The going through of death is fearful and painful. But we find here Christ reigns throughout the millennial kingdom But death has not been fully defeated until the new heavens and the new earth. Because not until then will sin be fully defeated. The wages of sin is death, and not until sin is fully defeated will there be the ultimate end of death. So what we learn if you were to look at Revelation chapter 20, there is a bit of a chronology, or I'm sorry, Revelation 21, there is a chronology that helps us put some things in order. We know the new heavens and the and the new earth come after the current heavens and earth are destroyed and they are burnt up. But we also are told from the chronology of Revelation is that the millennium, the millennial kingdom, which is in Revelation chapter twenty. Verses 1 through 10, that is preceding what we find is the new heavens and the new earth. We also find the final rebellion and defeat of Satan In Revelation chapter 20, verses 8 through 10, that is described the final rebellion of Satan, precedes again the new heavens and the new earth, and again, prior to the new heavens and the new earth, is the great white throne judgment. These three realities come before the new heavens and the new earth. And so if we go back to our passage of scripture tonight, Isaiah 65, verses 17 and following. You may be asking yourself, are we talking about the new heavens and the new earth? Or are we talking about something else? Is this the new heavens and the new earth, or is this the millennium? I thought you said the millennium precedes the new heavens and the new earth. The new heavens and the new earth are the final event in the calendar, you might say, of our redemption. You probably noticed some things as I was reading this passage of scripture that didn't seem to fit with what you would think of the new heavens and the new earth. He starts off the passage saying, For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former things shall not be remembered or come into mind. But as we continue to read this passage of scripture, you'll notice things like death being described. In verse 20, there still appears to be death. Notice it says, the young man shall die, a hundred years old. So death is not gone. Death is not entirely wiped away. The last enemy is not destroyed. Death is still in existence at this point in time. Sin still seems to be in existence. In verse twenty again, it describes the sinner dying at a hundred years old and being called a curse. So you have The curse in some form still in existence. So a sinner is brought to judgment at a hundred years old and Everyone says, oh, that was a swift meeting out of justice. He died young. God must have been angry with his sinful lifestyle. And he was brought to judgment at a young age of 100 years old. We'll look at that in a little bit as we continue down. Also, childbirth. In verse 23, it describes them bearing children that are blessed of the Lord. But what did Jesus say about the eternal state, the new heavens and the new earth? He says, For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven. So there is no more marriage, there's no more bearing of children. But here in this passage of scripture, it seems to indicate in verse 23 that there is Childbirth, there is the bearing of children. So this is a challenge. Is this the new heavens and the new earth? Or is this something else? Is this the millennial kingdom? What is being described here? The challenge is regardless of where you stand in your eschatological position. We take a position here at Calvary Baptist Church that we teach from a premillennial position And there are, if you know what that means, great. If you don't, that's fine as well. You may be coming here from a different uh perspective. You may come with the the view of amillennialism, which refers to those who do not believe in a literal millennium. Rather they believe the millennium is a metaphorical period representing Christ's spiritual reign from heaven through the church. Beginning at his ascension and going even to his second coming. So they would say, right now we are in the millennium. Those who are a millennial. You know, there's many good Christian men and women who are a millennial, and they would say, right now we are in the millennial period, and they would have to redefine things differently than maybe you or I would. But all millennialists believe Christ is currently reigning and overcoming evil, and the final judgment will occur after his second coming. And Oftentimes they don't like the the term a millennial because ah means no. So no millennial. They like to say we are we are in it. Some people call it a now millennialism. We are in the millennialism. We are in the millennial right now, millennial kingdom. A non -millennialist will believe that Satan has already been bound in Christ's death and resurrection. I personally see that as a problem because of verses like 1 Peter 5. 7, which say Satan prowls around like a roaring lion seeking someone to devour. But there are many who hold this position. Another position that is described is post-millennialism, and it's the view that believes that the millennialism the millennium is, some people say literal, some people say symbolic, but Others view this as a rough time period, just meaning a long period of time. The thousand years doesn't literally mean a thousand years, but that the church is going to gradually bring in righteousness and justice and peace on earth and we will enter into a thousand-year reign. or a thousand years of righteousness and then Christ will come after that. The term post millennial. He will come after that period known as the millennium. But it is not it is not ushered into by Christ, rather he comes after that. It's a very optimistic view. Things are getting better and better. The church is is evangelizing the world. People are going to be converted in mass and the gospel is going to spread to the world, and righteousness in large will take over the world It was much more popular prior to World War I and prior to World War II and the the devastations of the 20th century, where many, many millions of people were killed, and then many people began to abandon that view. Premillennialism, what we teach here is that Christ will return after the tribulation and before the millennium to establish a literal 1,000-year reign on earth. And we get that from numerous passages in Scripture. In particular, Revelation 20, which describes that in great detail. Also, many passages in Isaiah. But when you come to this passage of Scripture, we see the new heavens and the new earth being described, and then What appears to be death, childbearing, sin, curse , still in existence, although greatly minimized, still in existence. And that is somewhat of a challenge with this passage of scripture, regardless of the eschatological position you take. Because we're trying to figure out, is this the new heavens and the new earth, or is it something else? Most Bible students see this as another example of what we've seen several times in the book of Isaiah. of a prophetic condensation where the prophet Isaiah sees multiple things as peaks like in a mountain range and he describes them at one particular time. I believe I have a slide for this. Let's Okay. Making a fool of me here. Huh. Turn it off and turn it on. Let's try this again. He's looking up and he's seeing these mountain ranges. And if you've ever climbed a mountain, there's times when you think, wow, when I get over this hill, I'm going to be right at the peak. And then you get there and you're like, oh. There's a long way to go. That peak was a lot further than I thought. I remember when he climbed a mountain in Tanzania called Hanang, and we got to the top, and we're like, yeah. And they said, oh no, it's that. Like, oh , it's still a long way to go. And we had a lot more climbing and hiking to do. And in a very similar way Uh the prophet many times has prophesied about mountain peaks of prophecy. And by the way that they're described, they almost feel like they are gonna be coming one right after the other in very close proximity. But in reality, they're separated by significant amounts of time. Franz Dielich, who is a well-known commentator, said that Isaiah amalgamates or he combines several aspects of the kingdom of God that are chronologically distinct, but spiritually similar. So they're chronologically different, but they're very spiritually similar. And this is part of the reality of in in the Bible what we've talked about the already. and the not yet aspect. There are parts of our salvation that are already. There are parts of the kingdom of God that are already in existence. But then there is the not yet. There are other parts that Christ tells us to pray. Thy kingdom come. We are still looking for and praying for and longing for the full culmination of his kingdom. So we could talk about being New creatures in Christ Jesus. We are experiencing this new creation as believers in Jesus Christ. We've been made new creatures in Christ Jesus, as 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says. So there's a sense in which we have already begun to experience the new creation, but not yet fully Not in its fullness. There's also a millennial kingdom that is described in detail in many passages of scripture in which the world will be largely redeemed and the curse will be largely removed, and there will be a Vast renewal of the world, but not fully. But finally there will be the new heavens and the new earth that will come after the current heavens, and the current earth have passed away. So it seems like Isaiah telescopes these realities into one, especially the final two into this one passage. without making a clear distinction. Most commentators would come to, especially premillennial commentators, would come to verse 20 and say, from verse 20 on, he is talking about the millennial kingdom. But what is what is God calling us to do in this passage of Scripture? That's enough of all the the uh the theory and the theology that is a little bit difficult to get our head around. But what is God calling us to do? He's calling us to rejoice over this reality of the new heavens and the new earth. The new heavens and new earth are a new creation, an entirely new creation by God. The word create is used three times in this passage of scripture. I circled them myself in my Bible just so I would see This word create. It's the same word you'd when you'd read this, you would if you were reading your Bible, you'd came to this, you'd think, Genesis 1-1. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. God says, For behold, I create a new heavens and a new earth. You'd very quickly think back to that. out of nothing, that ex nahilo creation that God did in Genesis 1, where he now does creation again. You might say 2. 0, a new heavens and a new earth. The same word create that's used in Genesis 1 is the same word that's used here. It's found 55 times in the Old Testament And almost every single time it's used to describe the unique work of God in the six days of creation. But every time it's found in this Hebrew form , It is describing the unique work of God. God alone is the subject. God alone creates. We talk about people being creative or creators. We know what what you're talking about, but the reality is we don't we don't create like God creates. We are made in the image of God, so we take existing creation and we make. We form, we design, but we don't create like God creates. Only God takes nothing and makes something. And God describes doing an entirely new work, and that will be his greatest creative work yet. And in this we are called to rejoice. In the new heavens and the new earth, former things will not be remembered. Now, I don't know how that strikes you. Some of you might be like, there's a lot of things I'd like to forget. That sounds wonderful. Others might be saying, there's a lot of things I'd like to remember too. I don't know how that strikes you. I I some have interpreted this verse as saying that we will have no memory of our previous earthly lives, almost like Amnesia strikes us and we're boom. We don't recall anything. I don't think that's what the Bible is talking about here. I don't believe that is is the intent of this verse. I do I I do believe we will understand, remember, the cross. The cross would be something that that is from our obviously our previous lives. We are aware of what what we will be aware of what Christ did. It'll be our eternal praise. We will not forget the cross. It'll be our glory throughout all eternity that God himself became a man and died on the cross for us. It is in the cross of the depth of the redemption that Christ purchased for us. And so I don't believe all these things are going to be forgotten. In fact, just one verse earlier in verse 16, we looked at it briefly two weeks ago. He said at the very end of it, because the former troubles are forgotten and are hidden from my eyes. I think that catches the idea here. The former troubles. The former troubles will be forgotten. It's likely our former troubles will be forgotten, not all of our memories. Our memories will eventually be cleansed and redeemed and healed and restored, but not erased. Strictly speaking, the the the former things re in Hebrew refers to the former heavens and the former earth. And the idea of that as I as I read through this, it seems to be That the new heavens and the new earth will be so great that there won't be any homesickness for the former things. Have you ever gone someplace? Maybe you've lived overseas for a time? And while you're there you're thinking, what is what is wrong with this place? It's not like home. And maybe that's a fair characterization, maybe it's not. It's like the Egyptians going through the wilderness and like, oh The food, the fish that we could eat, perpetually there, and they were thinking fondly of those times. We're not going to have any fond desire to return to the former state. of our existence because the new heavens and the new earth will be so vastly superior to anything that we have experienced here. We will remember it, but we will rejoice in that we are now in the new heavens and the new earth. The reality of a new heavens and a new earth is a cause for immense rejoicing. It's almost hard for us to imagine a world that is free of sin. Our movies, our songs, our novels, our newspapers They're so full of wickedness that we almost don't even recognize the depravity in the air we breathe. Which makes the humility of Christ all that great much greater. That the holy Son of God would become a man and live in this world to redeem us from it. Imagine a movie without sin. It's no lies told, no deception, no war, no death. Like I mean even Bambi dies. I mean we can't really fathom this. But this new heaven, the new earth will be so pure, a world free from sin. Now we can see this world only by promise, but there is coming a day when believers in Christ will see it and experience it and enjoy it unendingly, and that is to be our great delight in this day. Praise God that He has not abandoned us to this world. He has not abandoned us to our sins, to our deaths and disease and destruction and vanity. He will make all things new. And that is cause for great rejoicing. That's why we say, joy to the world. The Lord has come. Let Earth receive her king. This is the great hope. The fact that we see here as well is not just that we're to rejoice, God Himself rejoices. God Himself rejoices. Notice what he says. He says in verse 18, but be glad and rejoice forever in that which I create. For behold, I create Jerusalem to be a joy, and her people to be a gladness. I will rejoice in Jerusalem and be glad in my people. Is that not beautiful? God Himself rejoices. In us. In his new creation. God himself rejoices. And this should thrill our hearts. Technically, we see here that God rejoices in Jerusalem and her people. But remember what we discovered about the new heavens and the new earth. Jerusalem dwells there. The new Jerusalem comes down out of heaven as a bride prepared for her husband. And what do we know about the new Jerusalem? It is where the redeemed of all the ages, both Jews and Gentiles, live in joyful fellowship and continual praise and worship to God. Notice that God is not just rejoicing in the geographic location of Jerusalem, but the inhabitants of Jerusalem. Which is you and I. That is an amazing thing. In Revelation chapter 21, we have further description of the New Jerusalem. It says it had a great high wall with twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and on the gates the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel. So we see very clearly this encompasses The nation of Israel, the redeemed are the nation of Israel. And the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel were inscribed. And then skipping a verse. And the wall of the city had twelve foundations. And on them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. What is this? The redeemed in the church age. The redeemed of all ages are brought into one fellowship. One kingdom, one city, a place of great rejoicing. But God is rejoicing. God Himself is rejoicing. This is just an amazing thing. Just a little bit earlier in that chapter it says, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people. and God himself will be with them as their God. God himself delights in being with his people. The greatest joy of the new creation is that God is forever with his people and delighting in his people. It's like a parent. Whose greatest delight is the delight of his child, and seeing the child light up with their attention and their fellowship with them, or like that of a groom who looks at his bride with joy. And basks in the look of love that she gives to him. God delights in his people. We saw this already in the book of Isaiah, in Isaiah chapter 27, verses 2 and 3. And it describes the The emotion of love that God has for his vineyard. In that day a pleasant vineyard. Sing of it. I the Lord am its keeper. Every moment I water it, lest anyone punish it, I keep it night and day. God's describing his tender love and affection for his people. One of my favorite verses is Zephaniah 3, verses 16 and 17. On that day it shall be said to Jerusalem, fear not, O Zion. Let not your hands grow weak. The Lord your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save. He will rejoice over you with gladness. He will quiet you by his love. He will exalt. The word exalter has the idea of twirling, spinning with joy. He will exalt over you with loud singing. I don't know what your view is of God. Austere, distant, disappointed, maybe. You know, I just fail him so often. This verse is a verse that tells us we have a God who quiets us by his love. He exalts over us with loud singing. That ought to be a great comfort. Not because there's something special in us, but because of what Christ has done in us and through us and is making us. This is a beautiful truth. And we're going to stop there. We have halfway through this passage of scripture. I was afraid that would happen. I was prepared for more, but uh There's no way. The next one will talk about rejoicing in the millennial reign of Christ. And we'll see four major transformations that are described in those verses. But we do not have time tonight to do that. But I hope you are encouraged. I hope you're rejoicing that God Is working out his perfect plan of redemption, which will culminate in a new heavens and a new earth wherein righteousness dwells. And he will rejoice in us and we in him forever. Let's pray. Lord God, we thank you that you are so gracious. Lord, we we must, we are compelled to praise you for your grace to us, that you would make us recipients of such marvelous Glory. Such such blessing. Father, we confess that in our minds we have trouble even understanding what this looks like. But Lord, I pray that you would help us to rejoice, to be glad, to sing for joy. at what you are doing. Help us, Lord, to pray and work and to desire this. Lord, would you make this reality Thrill our souls, and may we then purify ourselves because of it. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.