Well, welcome to our third week in the study of Jude. Well, I want to start off just doing a brief reminder with one of the delights of having such a short book like Jude's that we can recap really quickly on what we've covered in the book getting us going. So we'll kind of jump into it. Tonight. Some of you I think have been with us the whole time, but some of you are joining us for the first time tonight. So it'll be a little bit of a speed tour, but there's a lot of good stuff here as we get into our message for tonight. But I chose those songs, obviously our theme song. I'm just enjoying that more and more as we sing. But um even the steps of a good man is something we should be thinking about and we'll talk about the steps of those who are not good men tonight. So there's the connection for you as we get into it. But remember our theme for the book of Jude, which is contending for the faith once for all, delivered to the saints. We talked about this positive, kind of uh battling, wrestling in a sense for the faith, the faith that's been delivered, that it is complete in its knowledge and understanding delivered to the saints. We also talked about our author Jude, brother of James, obviously then brother of Jesus, and this message to the believers, those who are called, those who are beloved. And those who are kept for Christ. We saw a little bit last week, and we'll maybe see a little bit an allusion this week to that idea of being kept for Christ and by Christ in the message. But we got our theme of this study from verse 3, where it talks about how Jude was eager to write. about the common salvation, but he found it necessary, and he kind of holds us out for that reason, to write, to appeal to you, to contend for the faith. once for all delivered to the saints. And this may sound like a kind of just a catchy line or kind of a neat way of saying this, but this once for all delivered to the saints has an important component as we think about the idea of heresy, the idea of adding to the gospel, Judas reinforcing the foundation of a faith that's been once for all delivered, not being added to, not being adulterated. but once for all delivered and we can be assured of that. But his reason for this was because of these certain people. These certain people have crept into the church who were long ago designated for this condemnation ungodly people. who pervert the grace of God into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord Jesus Christ. We see here as Jude begins explaining and describing these people, he goes on Many descriptions of these apostates, these false teachers throughout this book. He likes to give multiple descriptions, multiple adjectives in terms of what these people are like. And what's unique about this is he does continue to call them kind of certain people or those people or these people in contrast to the beloved, those beloved in God the Father. Last week, when we got together, we started looking at Jude's kind of method of kind of explaining this faith once for all delivered as he looked at kind of Old Testament references about apostasy and sin and made a connection between those references and the apostate teachers. He talked about, again, reminding you that he once fully knew it, again, this full knowledge of the gospel, about those who were saved out of Egypt. Here he talks about the Israelites in Exodus 12-15. A people saved from bondage, chosen to be his people, but not all of them believed from that exodus. Unbelief in God's word brings certain punishment even to those who might be gathered together, even in the case. He built on this three illustrations. The second one he talked about the angels who did not stay in their own position of authority but left their dwelling, and he has kept them in eternal chains. under gloomy darkness until the judgment of the great day. These angels were people who were given authority by God. and put in a place, yet they did not keep it. They did not sustain it. They did not they in a sense denied the Lord his gift And descended into sin, and thus became a punishment for them that they could not keep their place, God now keeps them in eternal chains for judgment. And in his third illustration, he talked about Sodom and Gomorrah, the people who rebelled against God's will, but in a different way, through lustful sexual relationships that were unnatural, going against God's plan. for heterosexual covenant marriage. They indulged, they were fully given over. Romans talks about the reprobate Person, this person is fully given into their sin. This wasn't a stumbling. This is someone who desired this, craved it, and it was part of who they were. They pursued it like an animal. And they too serve in the example of punishment and eternal fire. With these three examples, he then It brings us up to speed when tends at least look at these three examples of of the Israelites, the angels, and Son Gomorrah, and yet in a like manner, meaning in the same way, these people here how he starts talking about the retrobate again This might be a bit different, but they still fall inside this category. They relied on their dreams, the instigate kind of the instigating here that they are bringing other information into the gospel. They're relying on a false sense of authority. They're looking at their dreams in addition to the gospel word. They defile the flesh. This is where it talks about the immorality. that they bring, they reject authority. You remember from last week talked about this rejecting authority structurally is the same idea of denying the Lord, denying the master And they blaspheme the glorious ones, which gets into this illustration of the Archangel Michael, which we talked about in his contention. with the bones of Moses. Did anyone go home and look at or look for the assumption of Moses for research last week? Okay, inspect you would. But it's an interesting story. But again, the the story, the element here talks about presuming judgment, blasphemous judgment, taking the place of the Lord. Which these people do, because these people blaspheme all that they do not understand and are destroyed by all that they, like unreasoning animals, understand instinctively. This last point kind of drives the whole lesson home from last week. In a sense, they're speaking of judgments. They're doubly condemned. They're doubly condemned because first they're condemned by the speaking of blasphemy about the things they don't understand of God and angels, but then they're also condemned by what they already do know. They're destroyed by their lustful passions. And they understand this through their fleshly instincts. So we got wrapped up pretty quickly there. But Jude is laying out really just the character understanding of these apostate men and the direction of their sin. They've rejected all authority of God, and they've replaced it with themselves, both in revelation and indeed They are sitting on top in a sense of what the Lord has said, effectively adding to the revelation, feeding their desires. Now this is a very first century kind of application when we think about, in a sense, when this book was written, about the early 60s, possibly 70s. The spread of the gospel was happening pretty quickly at this point. We didn't have a lot of the canonized literature in a sense they didn't have an actual Bible kind of collected. The letters were there, but they're working on canonizing this. You can understand in this climate There was an understanding of which ones are we going to listen to? How are we going to understand the gospel as it's full? What letters are we going to let in and let out? And so these false teachers use this leverage to bring in revelation. But the authority of the gospel applies to us today. We too must be under the authority of God in every aspect of our life through thought and word and deed. See, sin and apostasy roots back in a sense to sitting over Scripture, this play of authority. If any of you have known someone who would be an apostate. They tend to have a sense where they sit over the scriptures. They comment on them. They will say, well, I've done my own research, I believe this to be true. They are denying the authority inherent in the Word of God, and they come to it. And instead of bowing the knee underneath of the Scripture, they go above it thinking they are the authority over the word. This is why we have great confidence that those who are apostates never believed. To believe is to make Jesus your Lord. To make him your Savior. It's to recognize his divinity, his godliness in heart and mind, directed by the power of the Spirit. Because if you think you're above Jesus, you never have bowed the knee to Jesus. Jesus. But they will. And that's what brings us to our topic tonight. So tonight I want to start tackling verses eleven through thirteen of this book. And we're going to come into a similar kind of situation. This second phrase here, Jude's going to go through three additional illustrations from the Old Testament. And he's going to do the same thing and apply this to the apostates in terms of how they look. So tonight we're in that middle section 11 through 13. Lord willing, after VBS, we'll cover the second to last section 14 through 16. And in our last lesson, we'll cover 17 through 24, which is actually his turning then to the beloved and instructing them in how to contend for the faith. So before I get too far though, I was as I've been wrestling with this in my own mind and realizing as I've listened to my my own lessons and my own thoughts in my head. It would be good to stop a second before we dive into this and just talk about false teachers and apostates. Because it's very easy in the book of Jude to use these two terms interchangeably. So I just want to be very clear and accurate with my language, but in a sense they can be used in the case of these people. But I just want to talk about the difference real quick just so we can have a clear understanding. False teachers are primarily recognized by what they teach. They distort the Word of God to manipulate it for personal gain. They may profess Christ outwardly, but their truth of what they believe is delivered in their false teaching. In the sense that they have a false gospel, they don't have a saving gospel. They are false teachers. They may profess Christ, but the Christ they profess is not the Christ of the gospel. Apostates, on the other hand, are really recognized more so by how they act. They may not teach anything, but they've abandoned the truth, often reverting to immorality, pride, rebellion. Apostasy includes both doctrinal and moral abandonment. So you can be an apostate and a false teacher. You could just be a false teacher. You can just be an apostate But really they both have similarities in that sense, which is why it's so easy to kind of use them interchangeably in this study. Both have left the authority of God. That's what we talked about as our concluding thought last week. They both leave the authority of being under the Word of God, under his reign, just like the examples he talks about of Israel and the angels. They've left the authority of God. And in a sense, they've changed that for a self-driven desire. Well, when there's they've kind of made themselves God of their lives. And of course, judgment waits for both of them and how they approach their life. One other question kind of comes up though, as we think about false teachers and apostates. Maybe you were thinking this throughout the study, but how would we, as a body of Calvary, if we believe in the perseverance of the saints, how do we handle the idea of apostasy The kind of catalog definition of apostasy is someone maybe who believed and then fell away. But if we hold to once saved, always saved, how do we think about apostasy? Well, the way we would acknowledge apostasy, we would not acknowledge it as someone who believed and then fell away. Rather, we would think of this as someone who maybe represented themselves of having a faith, but in the end through testing fell away and proved not to be so. The parable of the sower comes to mind when we think about this idea. Those who fell away. There are many verses to explain this. Pastor preached on this a little bit in Hebrews, so I'll refer to you that sermon if you have more questions. about this idea. But we think about apostasy, we have to understand that this is something that infoles teachers that They are unsaved, unregenerate people, sometimes masquerading in the church as those who belong. In the book of Jude, it is very tempting to use these words interchangeably, as I've already mentioned. He makes the case for them being apostates through their deeds, their actions, and tonight we'll see more so he makes a case For them to be false teachers as they teach and they utter things which not only are false and untrue, their drive is to turn others away from the Lord as well. I think of the um the verse when it we talk about the uh elders of the church are worthy of a double honor because they serve and they preach and teach. Well, these apostates are worthy of a double condemnation. Not only do they walk apostately, they then teach and direct others into sin as well. So I will try to use the labels correctly as I go through the study, but forgive me if I go back and forth in some of these because they do have some overlaps. But let's jump in. If you haven't turned in the book of Jude, please go ahead and turn with me to Jude. We're going to start in chapter 11. Hopefully you've been scrolling along with us as we've gone here. So again, what Jude's going to do here in chapters 11, 12, and 13 is he's going to go through three more examples, and he's going to then share about how these apostates function. He wants to continue this kind of polemic against the false teachers, and he's going to repeat the formula. These people, as he's going to get into, and he's given us these more uh more poetic descriptions as we get into it. So the first part We'll talk in verse 11 as he gets through his three examples. He starts off by saying, woe to them. Now we're familiar with this phrase. We've heard our Lord say this. In this context of woe, though, this may not be necessarily a curse or a declaration of their state, but maybe more of an emotional outburst Jude is giving here. The reason why I say that is because he just got finished talking about giving a uh of the Archangel Michael not giving a false judgment or a judgment ahead of the Lord upon someone. So for him to be pronouncing a judgment right after that Seems a little questionable. But it still stands. Woe to them. This woe is something of a denunciation of the people based on what he's about to say. This woe kind of hangs over this whole verse. It says, woe, and listen to what he says. Woe to them. It says, for they walked in the way of Cain. This is our first illustration. And they abandoned themselves for the sake of gain to Balaam's error and perished in Korah's rebellion. So this is a little different. He gives a shorter kind of three examples in this illustration, but he gives them for good purposes. Firstly, he talks about they walked in the way of Cain. So most of us know the name Cain. This is not a strange name to us. We understand Cain and Abel. What's interesting about this though is he doesn't give any indication of what Cain's sin was in this context. So we have to kind of think about this critically and dig in And we know Jude is speaking to a Jewish audience. He understands what relationships they're going to already have, references. Just as we talk to friends, we can use shorthand or reference stories that they already know. He's doing this. What we do know about Cain is that he was a murderer. But more so, Jewish tradition tells us that he was a self-seeking man who refused the word of God and the truth about judgment. I found this in the research, I believe I put it in your notes. There's an Aramaic paraphrase of the Pentateuch that presents Cain as saying this, which is quite revealing. There is no judgment, no judge, no future life, no reward will be given to the righteous, no judgment imposed for the wicked. Wow. That is a prototypical skeptic. Denying the judgment, denying the reality of God, denying all these things, denying the authority of God, and blaspheming him. He's pointing to them that they are walking in the same way. He's given ample evidence so far that supports that claim. They're walking in blasphemy. They're walking as those who deny the Lord fully. It's fair to say that these men also are selfish men. They're going after their desires rather than the will of God. These men walked in the same way. But his second illustration, he talks about they abandoned themselves for the sake of the gain to Balaam's error. So this is a strange way of kind of phrasing this. Maybe if you remember Balaam and Balaam's error, the sin of Balaam was offering a service to the Lord for financial gain. He offered this for his own personal gain, his own personal wealth. This comes from Numbers 22 through 24. The idea here is that this abandonment is that they've given themselves over to a riotous kind of living. This sounds familiar as this has been Jews kind of phrasing for the way they live. They're this almost animalistic, riotous, ravenous kind of approach to their sin, they've abandoned any sense of moral obligation. Any sense of understanding of the Lord. They abandon all of this for the sake of gain. In the case of Balaam, though, Similar to these men, it was not an accidental kind of giving over. It was an intentional breaking of God's will, just like the illustration of the angels earlier. But this also of Balaam is that Balaam's sin was not just in the sense of his own sin, but it was in teaching others to sin as well. In Numbers thirty-one sixteen it says this Behold, these, on Balaam's advice, caused the people of Israel to act treacherously against the Lord, an incident of Pior. And so plague, the plague came among the congregation of the Lord. So Balaam's heir is not just in his greed for his own gain, yet that greed also drove him to create others to sin and teach them to sin and direct them to sin as well. The sin is doubly evil, heaping judgment on himself, but also for the enticement of others. We think of Matthew 18. Where it says, Whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him to have a great millstone fastened around his neck and be drowned in the depth of the sea. The Lord does not take causing others to sin very lightly. Clearly, this level of sin requires a greater depth. of sin and depravity than someone who is just stumbling in their own sin. We talked about a little bit last week, this idea that it starts with unbelief and then rebellion and then complete kind of anarchy. This is someone who's crossing over that line. Not only their own unbelief and their own rebellion, but now desiring to crush others in the same way. And he tops all of that off. It didn't get bad enough. He says they perished in Korah's rebellion. The story of the rebellion of Korah goes back to Numbers 16. And the primary grief, you remember this story, I remember it because I think it's a phenomenal illustration. is that Korah and his clan, part of the clan of Levi, were were in rebellion because he and others did not respect God's authority in choosing the line of Aaron as priests. They were part of the house of Levi, and the house of Levi was set aside for the Lord, but then only the line of Aaron could be priests. They didn't like that idea. But their sin was not just against the line of Aaron, it was against God's chosen people, his chosen choice, his authority in a sense of how they made this choice. The connection here is that these men are doing the same. In some way, they are also rejecting who God has created to constitute, in a sense, constitute authority in the church, likely the church leaders. They're rebelling the same way against them. This is that rebellion component. These men will face the same fate of this tribe. If you remember the fate of Korah was that They were sent back, they were pushed back from the congregation, and Moses declared that the Lord would do something amazing, and he did. He opened the earth and it ate the clan, or it devoured Korah and two other clans as well. It's important to say that because it talks about here, and you may have noticed this, these are all past tense verbs as he talks about this. He says, woe to them for they walked. They abandoned. They perished. Well, how can he say they've perished if they're still doing this? This case here have perished is is something that's called the prophetic perfect, in a sense, it's a way of saying, oh, they will perish. This is a done deal kind of situation. All of these judgments are perfected in the Lord's judgment, in his knowing of his word, that Jude can say this with great prophetic confidence. So here he gets through his three examples much quicker than last time. He hasn't used a couple verses, he gets it all in one verse to get This kind of repetition, this speed going through it. But the culmination of these three things really starts to highlight that they were not just apostates, but they were also false teachers. Genkorah's rebellion was rebelling against teachers, those who had authority. We understand Balaam's error was instructing others to sin, and walking the way of Cain was rejecting complete authority. points them greater to this idea of false teachers. But I like also just adding this comment, how one scholar points out that these three examples illustrate a great dimension of unbelief. Cain who shows the arrogance, malice, and false piety of the apostates, an example of religious unbelief. Balaam, who shows arrows, subversiveness, seductive character of the apostates, an example of covetous unbelief. And Korah to show the fastidiousness and sedition towards rightful authority, an example of rebellious unbelief. This is just stacking it pretty deep for these guys. They're being accused of a quite a deep apostasy, a rebellion, a almost hatred towards God and his people. I think it's worth saying before we go to the next verse, as we think about this, as we just meditate on the severity of this judgment, that the sin of apostasy is never content in itself. It must ultimately work to entice others into that sin. They're not content with their own destruction, but are busy working to destroy others. This is, of course, the great sin of false teaching. Zitok spoke again last week, that progression of unbelief and rebellion is truth, and then finally anarchy and morality. This is all about rebelling against God, but then ultimately now destroying his people in the later part of this. When you get to the point of your hatred and your apostasy is so great that you want to destroy the people of God, that is when they say you are doing the devil's work. He's getting very close to saying that. So he sets up this illustration. He sets up these things that kind of prime us for what he's about to tell us next in verse 12. So verse 12 is kind of a unique way of him expressing his views of these apostates. It's a bit poetic. And last time he just kind of went through directly saying they defiled the flesh, they reject authority. He was very literal at these apostates and the judgment of these apostates. But this time, he gives some kind of poetic or metaphorical flourish here. Not sure why. It just changes the way that he thinks about this, but I think it's his way of continuing to further richen the view of these apostates and what they're doing. Gives us a a mind to think about. Sometimes when we use metaphor, it lets us think broader than just the limitations of a literal word. But he goes through five, six different uh metaphors here. So we're going to walk through them briefly as we get to the final thoughts here. And some of these may seem a bit kind of strange as they go through, some of them are hard for us to understand, but really they're simplistic in many senses as long as we have context of the you know, Middle East and how that works through things. But I think most of you probably get this as you look at it. It's not terribly hard. But he starts off by saying, these are the hidden reefs at your love feasts. This idea of a hidden reef, if you've ever been to the beach, you understand reefs are rocks underneath the sea that you can't see unless the waves are moving or they're really just out of sight, and if a boat hits them. It causes massive damage. That's how that oh reefs. Talk about Paul being shipwrecked, hitting reefs. This is all part of that. But he describes these men as these hidden reefs at your love feasts. See, there's nothing hidden about these men. Their sin is open and flagrant. It's just, it's right in front of them. It's clear what they're doing. So I don't think he's saying that they're hard to find. I think his intention, again, is more of this metaphor of a danger lurking below the surface. There's this unexpectedness to what they're about to cause. And Jude sees it, and he's declaring to these people, look, there's something going on here. There's something in the water. I I've laid it out pretty clear to you at this point, but there's a great danger awaiting you. But it talks about the love feasts. Now, for us in our our ears, when someone says, Hey, I'm going to a love feast, you might kind of cock your head a little bit and be like, Okay, you want to tell me what that is? Um But this idea is actually the word agape, it's it's just simply the meal that Christians had together before they would have service on a Sunday. It was very common in the early church they would come together, have an actual meal that would fill their belly. And then they'd proceed to having some kind of service or have communion together. And that's what this love feast was. They call it love feast because the word that's used is agape, which we know is love, but it really points to this idea of a meal. We know this has happened a lot in the church. The church in Corinth did the same thing, and they, of course, had some struggles with this. We read in the book of Corinthians that they People were coming and just eating. They weren't really there to you know to participate. They weren't being filled. They were causing divisions. So this was a pretty riotous meal, in a sense, for the Corinthians. But they were held in homes because again there wasn't church for believers. They were meeting in people's homes. And so they'd be sharing the Lord's table, going through this, again, all part of their normal ritual. But the idea here is that they're inviting these people in, and they're a hidden danger in their in their world. They're lurking, they're dangerous, they're ready to shipwreck the faith, as Paul would say, of others. This whole illustration, these three points saying these guys are out to destroy themselves and others, they're like hidden reefs. They're there waiting to destroy the believers. He says, as they feast with you without fear. Now of course they're eating. Makes sense because they're at these feasts. But their sin has become so indignant that they can do all of this without any fear of the Lord. That's quite amazing. They're sitting among true believers, yet their focus was on themselves, and they were so far gone, so indulged in their sins, so broken that they had no fear of the Lord. And he continues and says, they were shepherds feeding themselves. Again, further illustrating this point, but there's something that comes up in this as we think about shepherds. Now when we think of shepherds There's some some thoughts here that maybe this is talking about these guys were were pastors, that they were pastors or shepherds in the church That's not necessarily true. Um there's lots of argumentation back and forth about this, whether they were true shepherds. But I think in the metaphorical sense, you know, as we read scripture based on kind of the genre of what Jude's using here, he's using this as a metaphor. What we know about shepherds is that their entire drive and their life is the care for something else. Right? The shepherd stays in the field and cares for the sheep. They endure the weather. They fight animals. Their sole purpose is to feed and care for the flock. I think Judah's using this to show the extreme contrast that these shepherds are feeding themselves. They're so twisted in what they're doing. They're like shepherds who've gotten the flock and they're just all about themselves. That's this metaphor he's trying to use. He goes on. He says, they are waterless clouds swept along by the winds. Now, waterless clouds, in a sense, is saying clouds about rain. We don't have that problem today. We've got our rain. But you can imagine in kind of first century Middle East. A cloud bringing rain was a was a boon to life. You needed rain. There's not a lot of rain there. So seeing rain and having rain in your property and for your crops was a great thing. They relied on it heavily. But if you had a cloud come that looked like it was going to rain and then it didn't, it's quite a disappointment. That's the waterless cloud. It was a hope dash, a promise unfulfilled. And the way Judah is saying this, it's almost like these guys looked promising in a way, but they're empty. There's nothing there. It's a dashed promise. These men may seem good with their words, they may seem good with what they're doing, but it's empty. There's nothing there. There's no true spiritual value, no true refreshment. I like how Proverbs 25 says, like clouds and wind without rain is a man who boasts of a gift he does not give. This was a known phrase to the believers. But it says they were swept along. This idea really talks about the instability of these men. They were swept along by the wind. There's nothing stable in them. They're just kind of by chance, by their desires. We've seen this. They run around like animals, they're feeding their desires. They're swept around by chance by the wind. They're not rooted. They're not grounded in anything. They've lost the anchor of authority. We talk about Christ being our anchor of the scripture being our rock. These guys are cast aside. They're blown by the wind. I like how James says, if any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God who gives generously without to all without reproach. And it will be given him. But let him ask in faith, with no doubting, for the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind. This idea of these men are now empty, no promise, tossed around by chance and by wind. He adds to that, keeps adding to it. He says they're fruitless trees in late autumn, twice dead and uprooted. Now this he really lays it on them. He gives them four kind of adjectives here to understand these guys and further describe them. These men ultimately, his point is that they are lifeless men. They are fruitless trees. They are men producing no fruit in their lives. There's no good coming from their lives. They're fruitless trees. But not only are they fruitless, they're trees in late Aum In late autumn in Judea, in that area, a tree that was in late autumn would be kind of dry and craggy and looking dead on the outside as well. So this late autumn tree is a tree that's not only just not going to produce fruit, it's barren, it's dry, it's notably unproductive. The way that they work is seen as being unproductive. He says they're twice dead. There's a few different understandings of what this might mean, but here it may be more idiomatic, meaning kind of they're doubly dead, or like emphatic, like they're dead, very dead. But it may also mean that they're both dead physically and dead spiritually. Could be the case. Jude doesn't quite illuminate that to us. And we don't see a lot of reference back to have a double dead, but we do see both some different levels of judgment. But in any case, they're aligned with the context that they will be dead in their sin and dead in the future in judgment. And uprooted. These men are lifeless. The idea of being uprooted is used all through the Old Testament, Deuteronomy, Psalms, Amos. And the way that this works, this uprootedness, is that this is a state that they are in and will be in judgment. They're lifeless, they're taken out. Similar to Sodom and Gomorrah, these people are being uprooted. They're in eternal chains. They are without hope. They have no way of ever bearing fruit again. They are fruitless trees in late autumn. twice dead, uprooted. He's just further illuminating this idea of how far gone these men are and how sure their judgment is. He's got just a couple more. He says they are way wild waves of the sea, casting up foam of their own shame, wandering stars from the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved forever. These wild waves, this idea of these men speaks to their actions. Sorry, it doesn't speak to their actions, it speaks to the quality of their men. Because we have that in the actions below. They're wild waves, they're wild men. These men are restless, carrying on in their unrestrained desires. The same phrase for wild is used of wild animals in contrast to domesticated animals. It says they're wild waves of the sea, but they're casting up foam of their own shame. This picture we understand as waves come to the beach, they cast up debris and things to the beach and foam. While these guys go around in their life, their character is so rotten, so um apostate that when they clash against society, what comes up is just shameful acts. Imagine this wave hitting again and again as they go through life. Shame is the foam that they beat as wild waves. And he calls them wandering stars. Now this is a strange text. There isn't a whole lot of wandering stars in the Bible. A lot of scripture uh scholars think that this idea uh is not so much a planet, but probably more of like a comet, think about a wandering star or a shooting star. Because the idea fits. In a sense, this idea is that They are there for a moment, bright and visible, but are slowly and going to fade away into darkness. And they're going to fade into the gloom of utter darkness. This phrase is actually the same phrase we looked at earlier when it talked about um the angels in verse six, this idea of gloomy darkness, this judgment, this um kind of captive this eternal place of great darkness. They are like those wandering stars, seen now, but for whom utter darkness, as they fade away, will be reserved forever. This reserved sense, again, is this idea of this perfectness. It's reserved. It's done. They are destined to go there. There is, this is their judgment. This is where they go. I like how one commentator said, It is not the pleasure of God that any should perish, for he would have all men to be saved. But it must be his purpose also to judge sin finally and forever. All who refuse his way must fall under condemnation of sin for sinners. For which there is only ruin and doom forever and ever. So as I step back and I think about these verses, as he describes these apostates and their false teaching, And he talks about this character and he poetically kind of draws this picture for us of just their their moral character, their actions, how they handle life and just this vision of them. I've kind of recreated this in my mind and I've kind of explained it again and I want to just read this as a thought of how we interpret this. And you can maybe read through 11 through 13 as I read this and kind of hope you see this as well. These apostates are dangerous men among you, intent on shipwrecking the faith of others, while they dine with you at your communal meals. They eat and dine with you not for the love of others in community, but to fill their bellies and delight in their benefit. And they do this with no fear of the Lord. When they fellowship with you, they care only about their well-being, not caring for others, but the feeding of their flesh. They speak of promise and they have a false sense of piety, but in the end they're unstable, tossed by human nature in the world, and they're taking others with them, making them unstable in the faith. These men show no true sign of regeneration and never will. They are destined for destruction. Their judgment is truly set. These men are wild, riotous in their character. Their actions go against the scriptures and the teaching of our Lord to their shame. They might be popular now, attracting a lot of attention. But be sure that their destruction is coming and it is set for eternity. That's not, I say that's I I don't know if someone anyone popped into your mind as you heard that description, but this is not just a first century problem. There are false teachers in our world now. There are people who are apostate who are trying to battle and destroy the people of God. Some are popular now, can be a lot of attention, especially on YouTube. But we can be sure their destruction is coming. Set for eternity. So Judas, he nurtures, as he contends for the faith, he's not only describing these people, but he's giving them this assurance, and the basis of this assurance is a bit of a long view. There's stuff happening now. I see that these guys, hey, they're kind of popular, things are going on, they're making a lot of noise, you know who they are, but they're very dangerous. Do we not have the same problem in our world? I want to close tonight talking about kind of the elephant in the room as we've got. As we've gone through this study so far, there's been a whole lot of conversation about judgment, condemnation, and judgment. This is probably the ninth or tenth at we get to this point in the in the verse as you It depends how you want to interpret some of these things. The ninth or tenth mention of the fate of man being destroyed or being judged in just thirteen verses. All of them share these same words. Destroyed, judgment, gloomy, utter darkness, eternal. So it raises the question, how does this judgment really fit into our lives and in sharing the gospel? See, the very nature of the moral judgment of God is the foundation for the Christian faith. Denominations that have compromised this truth have compromised the gospel as a whole, and they no longer represent the teaching of our Lord. In essence, if there's no hell, there's no judgment, what did Jesus save you from? Your bad habits, maybe? Maybe he saves you from a bad marriage? The only way you get to best life now theology is to be like Cain and dismiss the idea of eternal judgment where the sheep go to glory and the goats go to the eternal fire. This life becomes your focus. You've missed the point of the gospel. This judgment that lasts for eternity. I know it's what we don't necessarily like to talk about. But Jude does, I think for good reason. So I want to address this with two audiences here tonight. Christians. And those who may be seeking the Lord. But Christians, our current culture, the idea of pronouncing a moral judgment on someone is like relational suicide. To go up to someone and pronounce immoral judgment on them would likely be maybe the end of that relationship. But at the same time, to deny the judgment of man by God's standards Is to deny the Lord's command to love our neighbor. How can we love them without sharing with them the fate that awaits them? There's a uh famous magician, comedian, um Juliet Penn, who share said, as an unbeliever that if you believe this is true, how much do you have to hate someone not to tell them this? That's pretty convicting from an unbeliever We can be tempted at times to sell people a lesser gospel, a gospel that cleans up your life, or a gospel that helps your marriage or helps you through addiction or how to raise kids, but it's a knockoff gospel. It might look like Christianity, but it misses that essential truth. The truth is that God saved us from our sin and sin that destined us to eternal punishment. Now we know in this book, if we've read it so far, Jude doesn't use the word hell, Jesus used the word hell. But we should be prayerful and conscientious about how we share this reality with others. The current secular culture has made a caricature of hell, distorting it, trying to diminish its power, breeding confusion. I think Jude is clearer in his theological understanding. What is still clear is that a just creator God demands justice for sin. Sin must be punished. And without Christ, we are all destined for eternal punishment based in the scriptures. All this to say, we must embody the grace of our Lord. As we share the truth about eternal judgment with the lost. I like how one commentator put it when he said, when you speak about hell, you need to speak of it with tears in your eyes. That is a love of Christ for those who are lost. Not in any kind of declaration of righteousness of your own, but in great mercy that the Lord had for us for the judgment that awaits. This love for the lost should be what shapes this conversation as we talk about the judgment of God. But for those of you who don't know Christ here tonight, you might be struggling with this topic of judgment. It's not what you thought you were going to run into on a Wednesday night. You're not alone. This was exactly the way of Cain as well. The way of most people who in rebellion against God is they don't want to hear about the judgment. They don't want to believe in the judgment. But the love of God compels me to share the judgment with you. You see, this big universe we live in is no accident. It is not evolutionary chance, it's the work of a loving Creator God, made with care and great purpose. And it was the sin of man that brought sin into the world, and because of that one sin we're all sinners. Romans says, For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. You can't look around this world for one minute and not see the impact of sin in your own life and in others and in this world. Scriptures say that this life in sin leads to one place, fiery eternal judgment, where there's a weeping and gnashing of teeth This eternal separation from God, the Creator, it is clearly a frightful thing if we understand it truly. You might be thinking to yourself, how can a loving God do something like this to people? If he loves people so much, how can he punish them like this? But you see, God's love and his justice are together. He cannot be unjust just as he cannot be unloving. His justice must be appeased for sin, and punishment must be given where it is due. But his love is present in that he sent Christ to die for your sins. So that his justice and his love would meet in perfect unity. If you have your scripture open, you can turn to John 3. 16. If you know it, you can just listen. But if you don't know the Lord, I would encourage you to turn there. It says, For God so loved the world. That he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned. Whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. And verse 19 says, And this is the judgment that light has come into the world, and people have loved the darkness rather than the light because of their works were evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light, hates the Lord, and does not come to light unless his works should be exposed. But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God. The judgment is there. It is pending. It is real. And it is awful for those who do not believe in Christ. I'd implore you tonight, if you do not know Christ, do not blow this off. Do not go the way of Cain and be a skeptic. Do not go like Balaam and teach false things about this gospel you've just heard. But to fall and bow the knee before Christ and be saved. To not suffer the judgment, but to know that Christ has paid that judgment for you And you now can be with him forever. What a glorious truth this is for us. If you do want to know Christ tonight, please come talk to me, one of the pastors, but it's very simple. You just need to turn from your sin, call it what it is. A sin that is against God. Repent of that sin and believe that Jesus is Lord, the Savior of the world. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for this study tonight. Lord, help us to revere your word, to trust in your promises, to be present to this world and this reality around us. Father, let us not be vindictive or rejoice in the truth that others are going to judgment. But let us have a yearning and a burning in our hearts to reach the lost, to share the love of Christ, the love that came for us. And that is coming for them. You've commanded us to do this in your commission. Father, give us these great hearts to do this. And for those that don't know you tonight, by your spirit, Father, convict them of their sin and turn their hearts to you that they might have peace that flows like a river. And join the chorus of saints in your kingdom forever, and escape the judgment that awaits mankind. And I ask all of this in your glorious name. Amen.