If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me once again to John chapter 21, looking at the passage that we read together a short time ago? Florence Chadwick was the first woman to swim the English Channel in both directions. But perhaps her most impressive feat took place on the west coast of the United States. On the 4th of July in 1951, she attempted to swim from Catalina Island to the California coast. The challenge was not so much the distance as it was the cold water of the Pacific. To complicate matters, there was a dense fog over the entire area. Should not be hard for us to imagine since we had a lot of that yesterday, making it impossible for her to see the land, her goal. And so after 15 hours of swimming, she quits less than a half mile from the shore. When she was told this afterwards, she said, if I could have seen the land, I would have made it And not long afterward she attempted the feed again, and once again it was very foggy, and she could not see the coastline. But this time she persevered. She kept moving forward, telling herself with every stroke, it's just a little bit further to shore. And with that confidence she made it. So much of our success in life depends upon our focus. What we believe and what we are moving forward to and whom we follow. This was a lesson that the Lord taught Peter throughout his ministry to him. This morning we are going to conclude. our study of the life of Peter that we began back in the fall. Now it is true that the scriptures still record a great deal about this man, Peter. We read about him often in the book of Acts. The fact is he would live another 35 years or so after this event. And of course, Peter would mature and grow as a man of God. He was the preacher that God used in the day of Pentecost to usher in a new era. the era of the church. And in one sermon, 3,000 people were saved. He became the leader of the early church and the First half of the book of Acts, we see him as the dominant figure. He took the gospel to the Samaritans and to the Gentiles. And he, of course, would write two epistles. However, the focus of our study, as I've mentioned to you, has not so much been on Peter the man as on the Lord's discipling of that man, Peter. It's very instructive to see how the Lord dealt with him. and how the Lord taught him throughout those three years. This is the best example we have in Scripture of how the Lord makes a disciple. And this morning we come to the final conversation that's recorded in the Bible between the Lord and Peter. This is one of the ten post-resurrection appearances that 's recorded in the New Testament. And although the Lord has appears to seven disciples on the shore of the Sea of Galilee here in John chapter 21. It's very clear that the primary reason he came was to minister to this man Peter. This is all part of the Lord's plan to restore him to ministry. Remember, Peter denied his Lord several weeks before this incident. The Lord met him after his resurrection and forgave him. And now he comes and recommissions him to ministry. Someone once asked Spurgeon, when can a preacher who has fallen into serious sin return to the ministry? And his answer was, when his repentance is as well known as his fall. This was certainly true of Peter. The scriptures do record in all four Gospels his denial of the Lord. But it also records his restoration and return to ministry. Now, last time we were together, we looked at verses 15 through 17. where the Lord will question Peter about his love for him three times. And then three times he will recommission him to service, telling him to feed my sheep. The conversation was intended to both correct Peter and to comfort him. And now the paragraph before us, Jesus calls Peter. to continue to follow him. I wonder if you noticed in our reading this morning that on twice in this very briefs span we have the Lord calling him to follow him. I want you uh to notice this. He says uh at the end of verse 19, follow me. And then at the end of verse 22, follow thou me. Many scholars see this repeated call to follow as a verbal indicator. that the Lord is completing his earthly ministry to Peter. Now why would they think that? Because in this very gospel of John In the very first chapter, we see the Lord meeting Peter for the first time. And in John chapter 1 and verse 42, it says, And he brought him to Jesus, referring Andrew bringing uh Peter to Jesus. And when Jesus beheld him, he said, Thou art Simon, the son of Jonah, thou shalt be called Cephas, which is by interpretation a stone. The day following Jesus would go forth into Galilee and findeth Philip and saith unto him, Follow me. And so we see here in this passage that the Lord caused Peter to follow him. And now he's reaffirming that call here at the very end of his ministry to Peter. And literary scholars would say that this serves these two calls serve as like bookends on a bookshelf The very beginning of the Lord's ministry with him, and here the end of his ministry on earth to him. You see, Peter's life can divide it up into three phrases. Three phases, I should say. First of all, there's Peter the fisherman. This was Peter before he met the Lord. And then there's Peter the disciple. That's during the three years that the Lord ministered to him. And then there's Peter the apostle, the man that we find in the book of Acts, and the man who wrote. those two epistles in our New Testament. Although Peter will become an apostle, he never stopped following Christ. Now this command in our text here in John 21 to follow is expressing continuous action. It could be rendered, keep on following me. This is God's will for all of his disciples, that we would keep on following him. Now, how do we do that? Now the scripture answers that question in many different ways. But this morning I want us to see two answers to that that are found in this paragraph before us I believe that we have two important keys that will enable us to keep following Christ. I want you to notice, first of all, that in order to keep on following Christ, You must be prepared to accept your share of suffering. I take this from verses 18 and 19. Look with me at this passage. The Lord says, Verily, verily I say unto thee, when thou wast young, thou girdest thyself and walkest whither thou wouldst. But when thou shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shall gird thee, and carry thee whither thou wouldst not. This spake he, signifying by what death he should glorify God And when he had spoken this, he saith unto him, Follow me. Now what exactly is going on in this conversation? Well, I want you to notice it was a significant statement. The Lord begins this with this expression, verily, verily. This is the way Jesus alerted his hearers that he was about to say something very important. It indicated an authoritative declaration. Now, verse 18 seems very enigmatic and nebulous to us. And this is why John provides an interpretation. He knew that his readers would scratch their heads about this. The Lord says that in the future he would stretch forth his hands, and another shall gird thee and carry thee whither thou wouldst not. Now, I'm real glad that Peter recorded his interpretation of this or else we would still be wondering perhaps what it meant. Now we know from first century literature that the expression, stretch forth your hands was a euphemistic way of referring to death by crucifixion. Because crucifixion was such a brutal form of death, polite people in normal everyday conversation did not refer to it directly. They used euphemisms to refer to it. They would talk about somebody stretching forth their hands. And it was a reference to crucifixion. So Peter would have understood what he was saying, and John helps us to understand as well. Now you might wonder why would the Lord do this? Maybe you're different than I am, but I personally, if I was going to face an agonizing death by crucifixion. I'm not sure I would want to know about it 35 years before it happened. You know? No, that's at the end of my life. Execution by crucifixion. Now let that stir you to follow the Lord. I mean, it sounds counterintuitive to us that the Lord would say that to him. So why does he do that? I think that this was actually a comfort to Peter. Now, why do I say that? But what has this conversation been all about? It's been all about the Lord restoring Peter because Peter has been so shaken and traumatized by his denial of the Lord. Now, what happens to us when we have a traumatic experience in our life? What do we fear? We fear that it's going to happen again. That's what I hear from people when I talk to them and they've gone through a traumatic experience. You know what they fear most? They fear it's going to happen again And I want to suggest to you that the Lord knew Peter's mind, and in Peter's heart and mind he is thinking, Yes, Lord, I denied you when the pressure was on, and yes, you have forgiven me. I'm so thankful for that. But what happens? if it occurs again. What disgrace I would bring upon my Lord's name again and upon my name. And he knew that there was going to be persecution to the followers of Christ because the Lord revealed that to his disciples. And so he's thinking, what happens if I I'm captured and I'm tortured and I deny my Lord again. And that thought just paralyzed him, I believe. And so the Lord, in an ironic way, reveals to him, I want you to know, Peter, you're not going to deny me again. You're going to be willing to accept the most brutal and torturous death imaginable. The kind of death that I faced, you will accept as well. You will indeed follow your master. You see, I think that was a comfort to him. Now what we find here, I think, has parallels to our own experience. Although you may not die as a martyr, it is God's will that you face suffering in life. This is a very important thing for us to consider. For two reasons. Number one, this is a great obstacle to some people in coming to Christ. So often when I engage in conversation with atheists or skeptics, usually the very first thing they mean They say is, how could there be a God? Look at all the suffering and pain and warfare and violence that are in the world. How could any God allow that to occur? You see, there must not be a God. That is the first argument that is usually presented. Another reason that we have to look at this matter of suffering is because there are a number of false teachers. Who peddle a false gospel called the prosperity gospel. And they say that it's not God's will that any of his people face any difficulty, any suffering, any pain. Or any poverty, God wants his children to be spoiled, you might say And they rip verses out of context to establish that truth. It's absolutely false. The scripture from cover to cover does not teach this at all in any place. Let me mention a few verses to you. Psalm 34, verse 19 says, Many are the afflictions of the righteous. Matthew chapter 16 and verse 24, something the Lord repeated on several occasions. He said, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. Following the Lord is all about Denial. In John chapter 16 and verse 33, the night before he died, he would say, In the world you will have tribulation. Paul giving instructions to new converts in Acts 14, 22, says that he exhorted them to continue in the faith and that through much Tribulation enter into the kingdom of God. Can you imagine that today? Someone comes to church, they get saved. And then they meet afterwards, and the pastor says, I just want you to know, let me tell you what you're going to face. You're going to encounter much tribulation. You're going to have a lot of problems. You're going to have a lot of suffering. That's what Paul did. Paul would go on to write in Philippians 1. 29, for unto you is given in behalf of Christ not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake And in 2 Timothy 3. 12, he would write, Yea, and all who live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. There are many more passages that teach the same truth. Hopefully, this is enough to convince you that part of what it means to follow Christ is to accept the suffering. That comes with following Christ. This is a huge problem for many professing Christians. Whether they realize it or not, they have kind of bought into the prosperity gospel. And they think that somehow coming to Christ means that God's going to remove all of their problems, all of their pain, all of their suffering. And when it doesn't work out like that, they feel that God has somehow failed them and they become bitter and disillusioned. But the Bible teaches categorically that following Him will involve suffering. Why is that? Well, some suffering comes because of your own sinful choices. Some suffering comes from the sinful people who surround you. And some suffering comes because you live on a fallen planet. And that's why we have disease. That's why we have decay. That's why things break down. You see, the scriptures do explain and give us understanding into why the world is the way that it is. So every believer will face the suffering that comes with living on this fallen planet around fallen people. We will face disease and sickness and disappointment and death just like lost people who live here. But in addition to that, we will face some persecution that comes from following Christ. Remember the verse that I read: All who live godly in Christ shall suffer persecution. Now, for us who live in the United States of America at this time, that will be incredibly small and insignificant compared to the way millions of Christians face in the world today. You see, rather than what many people think that coming to Christ will at least eliminate a lot of your suffering But the scriptures actually teach that it actually may increase the amount of suffering that you face in life. So how are we to accept this harsh reality? Well, we need to understand that this is part of what it means to follow Christ. If you would like, you can turn back just a little further to the front in John chapter 15. The Lord shared this with his disciples the night before he died. He said in John chapter 15 And verse 18, these words , if the world hates you, you know that it hated me before it hated you. If ye were of the world, the world would love his own, but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth You. Remember the word that I said unto you, the servant is not greater than his Lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they have if ye they have kept my saying, they will keep yours also. But all these things will they do unto you for my name's sake, because they know not him that sent me. And then in chapter 16, he says, These things have I spoken unto you that ye should not be offended. They shall put you out of the synagogue. Yea, the time cometh that whosoever killeth you will think that he doeth God service. And these things they will do unto you because they have not known the Father nor me. And the fact of the matter is that Peter learned this lesson of suffering. He wrote an entire epistle instructing believers how to deal with this matter of suffering in life. I want to read from his first epistle, 1 Peter chapter 2. And verse 21, listen to these words. He says, For even hereunto were you called, because Christ also suffered for us. leaving us an example that ye should follow his steps, who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously, who his own self bare our sins in his own body on the tree that we being dead to sin should live unto righteousness by whose stripes ye were healed. And he would say a little bit later in First Peter chapter four, verses twelve and thirteen, listen to this, beloved. Think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you as though some strange thing happened unto you But rejoice in as much as ye are partakers of Christ's suffering, that when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding joy. You see, the Lord is not asking us to do something that he did not do himself. He's asking us to follow him. But there's another way that we can accept our suffering as God's will for our lives, and that is when we view our suffering as an opportunity. to glorify God. Did you notice what the Lord said to Peter in John 21 and verse 19? We have John's explanation here. It says this he spake, signifying by what death he should glorify God 's. That's an amazing statement. He was telling Peter, Peter, you are going to glorify me in your martyrdom. In your death, you will magnify my name. And Peter would write and echo this and expand this in his epistle in 1 Peter 4 and verse 16, he says If any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God on this behalf. So you see, what the Lord said to Peter has application to us. You can glorify God in your suffering and even in death. How do we do that? How do we glorify God when we face suffering? Well, first of all, by not responding like those who do not know the Lord We must not face suffering as if the most important thing in the world is our comfort and ease. And so when our life is disrupted. We just go to pieces because how could this happen to me that I am suffering? We must not be filled with anger and bitterness. We must not become complainers. Who selfishly make everyone miserable around us. No, we are called by God to face our suffering and even our death with courage, peace, and joy. How can we do that? Only by the grace of God. Have you ever noticed what the scripture calls us to do? Can I say this? It's impossible for you to do. apart from God's grace. Listen to these verses as I read them to you. Romans chapter 5 talks about this matter of dealing with our suffering. Romans chapter 5, verses 3 through 5 say, and not only so, but we glory in tribulation knowing that tribulation worketh patience, and patience experience, and experience hope, and hope maketh not ashamed, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us. And in the book of James, chapter 1, it begins in this amazing way. My brethren, counted all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this. that the trying of your faith worketh patience or endurance. And Peter in his first epistle would also at the beginning say this. Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for season, if need be ye are in heaven, is through manifold temptation. knowing that the trying of your faith being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. So how are you going to respond to the suffering in your life? Gonna feel sorry for yourself? You're going to get angry at God? You're going to complain to every person you meet? Or are you going to adopt a biblical approach? The biblical approach is this. We remember that suffering is part of what it means to follow Christ. Our Savior suffered. The Son of God died the most cruel death that humanity can face. Why would we think that he's going to take us to heaven, as the hymn writer put, on flowery beds of ease without any difficulty or trials? We need to remember that God is going to bring something good out of your pain and suffering. God is refining your faith. He is at work in your life. He's using these external pressures to purify you internally and to turn your focus away from the things of this life and this world to him. And you need to remember it is your opportunity to bring glory to God. When you are facing suffering. When you are facing trials and your peers and your friends and your family know about it, they focus their attention on you. And it's an opportunity for you to bring glory to God in the way you respond, and they see God's work of grace, that it is supernatural. And you magnify the Savior. That's what God wants his children to do. That's part of what it means. to follow Christ. You must be prepared to accept your share of suffering and secondly, in order to keep on following Christ, You must be content with God 's calling for your life. Look with me now at verses 20 through 22. It says, then Peter, turning about, seeeth the disciple whom Jesus loved following, which also leaned on his breast at supper, and said, Lord, which is he that betrayeth thee? Peter seeth him, saith to Jesus, Lord, what shall this man do? Jesus saith unto him, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? Follow thou me. At this point in the narrative, it seems that Jesus and Peter are walking along the beach, and the other disciples are following close behind. And as Peter has just been told about his future death and what is in store for him, he becomes curious. You know, there's nothing we like to know more about than the future, right? We're intrigued by what's going to happen in the future. We spend so much of our time worrying about or speculating or trying to project and plan for what might happen in the future. And so Peter's just heard about his future, and he wants to hear more. And so as they are walking along, he glances back, and not far behind him is John. And in verse uh uh 20, which is kind of a uh confusing verse in a way, goes on to explain that John, of course, does not want to give his name as the writer, and so he describes himself in a rather lengthy description here as the one who was there in the upper room next to the Lord. And Peter says, what's going to happen to that guy? Just curious, Lord, how's he going to die? Now this is a very interesting dynamic here, I think. Peter and John, it seems, were close friends. We see them often together And we'll see them often in the New Testament, the book of Acts, together, ministering together. But they were very different from one another. You ever have a friend that is the exact opposite of you? But yet they're a very close friend to you. John was quiet, reflective. He was a real thinker. Peter was loud, impulsive. He was a man of action. And although they were fond of one another and they worked together and they loved one another, there was, I think, a little bit of rivalry. between them. Peter was the leader of the twelve. No one disputed that. But John was the beloved disciple. Everyone knew He was the one that was closest to the Lord. He was always near him. And so there was this dynamic going on. And perhaps Peter suspected That John, who perhaps in his mind seemed to be the one the Lord favored, was going to have an easier time of it in the future than he was. And so he's kind of following up, perhaps, on some of his suspicions that just perhaps the Lord is going to give him a more favorable ending than he was facing. Now notice this question. It's very interesting. In the King James text, if you look carefully there, you will see that the words shall and do are in italics. That's because they were added by the translators to smooth out this awkward-sounding question. But if you remove them, it could be literally rendered, and this man what? What's going to happen to this man, Lord? Peter wants to know what John will face. What kind of suffering will he face? What kind of death will he endure? And notice the Lord's response is quick and pointed. He says, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? Follow thou me. Now, how would we express this today in our language? What is that to thee? We would say that's none of your business. That's none of your business what my plan is for his life. Have you ever noticed that suffering and problems do not seem to be evenly distributed? Ever occurred to you that some people, it seems, their whole life is plagued with suffering and disappointment and difficulty? They face one crisis, one problem after another after another after another, and other people seem to just skate free and they seem to have no problems at all. Now that is not exactly the way it works. Everyone does have some problems. No one gets off, gets through life without any suffering. But it is true. That the burdens, the problems, the suffering are not equally distributed. God in his infinite wisdom has a different plan for different disciples. Peter was called to a pastoral ministry of some 35 years, and he would face martyrdom at the end of that time. John was called to a much longer ministry. He probably lived into his 90s. And he's the only one of the twelve disciples who did not die by martyrdom. Now he did suffer. He was tortured. He was imprisoned. He was exiled. He didn't have an easy life of it. But he didn't die as a martyr. And he had a very lengthy ministry. And of course, we have five New Testament books that were written by him. God had a different plan for these two disciples. And it's not because the Lord loved one or favored one over the other. It's because God has given different gifts and different tasks to his followers. And he has a different plan for each of us. This is a very, very important truth for disciples to grasp. And so many Christians struggle with this. So many problems occur when you foolishly compare yourself with others. If you come to church without your spouse, you might be tempted to view husbands and wives together as an indication that God has some kind somehow failed you Or perhaps that God is somehow punishing you. If you're unable to have children, you might find large families almost to be an offensive reminder of your plights. If you are unemployed, the work-related stories you hear in the lobby could plant a seed of bitterness in your hearts and remind you of your own unemployments. I want you to know that God is good to all, but God does not treat everyone exactly the same with the same situations in life. He has an individualized plan for all of us. You notice what the Lord says to Peter right after this rebuke. That you could render, that's none of your business. He says to him, follow thou me. In the Greek text The word you is emphatic. You follow me. Don't worry about how John is going to follow me. You follow me. Your focus must be on me and not on others. But how do we do that? How do we follow the Lord without looking around and wondering why the Lord is dealing with different disciples in different ways? Well, I think the answer, at least in large part, is found in the very last verse that Peter wrote. It's found in the book of 2 Peter, chapter 3, and verse 18. If you'd like, you can turn there. If not, just listen. This is how Peter concludes his ministry. This was written shortly before his death. It seems that Peter did die of crucifixion around the year 64. And this is how he concludes. These are his last words to us as followers and to others who would read his epistles. But grow in grace. And in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, to him be glory both now and forever. Amen. He says that we are to grow in grace. How is it that we grow in grace? Well, let me make some comments about this. First of all, not to be obvious, but you must be alive in order to grow. This is a very important fact that we must consider. This is the reason why some Professing Christians never grow. They never advance in their Christian walk. Not one step And that's because they're not alive spiritually. They've never passed from death unto life. They've never truly been born again. They may have made some type of profession that they are now going to follow Christ, but they've never really taken up their cross and followed him. The second point I would make under this is that you have to eat in order to grow. In 1 Peter chapter 2, Peter would write this, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the world, of the word, that you may grow thereby. If so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious. He is calling here for believers to have a voracious appetite. For the Word of God. Just like little babies have an instinctive appetite for milk, children of God should have an appetite for the Word of God. We put an emphasis on this at our church. This is why we have Bible reading plans that we put out at the beginning of the year. This is why in our Sunday school classes Uh the vast majority of our classes are going through a book of the Bible. They're going verse by verse. They are studying, and those who are doing topical approaches are still Grounded and rooted in the Word of God. This is why we encourage our young people and others to memorize Scripture. This is why our services are primarily expositions of Scripture. Because what we need to grow and really become the disciples of Christ that God has called us to be is the word of God being put in our hearts. And so this is what we must hear, not the opinions of men, not the speculations of teachers. But the undiluted word of God, this is our nourishment. This is what will enable us to grow. But you know what else you need to do if you want to grow is you must exercise in order to grow. And this could be viewed in several ways. You know, if a person wants to build up their body, and so they say, all right, I need to be very careful about the diet that I take in, and so they carefully regulate their diets. Make sure they get the right nutrition, but they never ever do any exercise. They're not going to achieve the results that they want. Because you have to have exercise. And you can view this in several different ways. One way that God provides spiritual exercise for us is by putting heavy burdens on our shoulders. That may seem counterintuitive to you But this is one reason why God sometimes in the middle of nowhere we're going along in life, everything seems great, and then it seems like disaster comes in. indoor life, some great problem, some crisis, some difficulty that vexes our souls. And what does that do? It can't It turns us to the Lord. be It turns us to prayer. It turns us to his word and to his promises. It turns us to the people of God. And we look for support. What is the end result of that burden on our shoulders? The purpose of that burden is not to crush us, but so that we would. Be strengthened by his grace and grow in our faith. You know how our faith grows? This is the irony of it. Our faith only grows when we encounter doubtful situations. Isn't this not true in your life? Have you never found that your prayers are much more earnest when you have a problem that you cannot solve that is just crushing you? And all of a sudden you find you're spending a little more time in prayer and you're a little more earnest and you're crying a few tears and you're turning the pages of scriptures looking for answers. Because when it's smooth sailing, we rarely pray with that kind of earnestness and desperation. You see, that's why God allows, one of the reasons God allows suffering into our life, to turn us away from the things of this earth to turn our attention to God and to strengthen us just as a bodybuilder will tear down his body In order that it may be built up stronger, God sometimes puts us in situations that seem to be destroying our faith, that tear us down, that make us feel like a little child, like we haven't even gone. Any distance at all in our Christian experience, but he's doing that to build us back up by his grace. We need exercise. Peter was a stronger disciple because of the failures and the difficulties that he faced. And God rebuilt him and remade him and restored him to a place of service. But another way that we exercise is not just by facing and dealing with those crushing burdens in our life. But by ministering to others. That is an exercise of our faith. Because what you find when you minister to others Is that other people are facing similar challenges that you're facing, and you soon find that you quickly run out of answers and solutions in order to minister to others. I do that, I feel that way every week. People come with complex, difficult Chronic problems and they want answers, they want solutions. And so often I find myself just scratching my head saying, I don't know I can't I can't unravel that. And what does that do? It causes me To fall back on my knees and to ask for God's wisdom. That's what God wants us to do in our own lives when we're ministering to others. When we're serving the Lord, when we are truly engaged in ministering to others, we often will find that we desperately need God's help. And God wants us to grow in grace by becoming more and more dependent on his grace. so that we serve him, we minister to others, not out of our own reservoir of strength, not out of our own experience and knowledge of Scripture. Yes, that is helpful, but we minister from the grace of God That supernatural bestowal of power to do the will of God's. So we grow in grace, but then the passage goes on and says, in the knowledge. of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And some have suggested that this could be phrased by the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Now the Greek word used for knowledge here speaks of a personal relationship. We must grow in grace by growing our relationship with Christ. This is really not saying two different things. These are these are parallelism here. We have two phrases that are essentially saying the same thing. We grow in grace. Or to put it another way, we grow in our knowledge of Christ, we become more and more dependent on Him. Now, what's involved? In developing a relationship. There's two crucial things. One is companionship, and the other is communication. There is no substitute for time. You can't say to me, oh, I have a great marriage, and I never spend any time with my spouse. I never do, but we have a great marriage. No, those two things don't go together. Or you can't say we have a wonderful relationship. Now we never talk to one another, never communicate, but it's wonderful. If you say that, I'm going to really wonder what you mean by that. See, any kind of a relationship involves companionship, commitments. And communication. This is why we must walk with the Lord each day. We must study His word. We must pray to Him. We must communicate with Him. And what happens? When we do that with our hearts. How can you tell if you're really growing in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ? I want to conclude with this truth you will become more like Christ. You know what happens when you really intertwine your life with another person? Like someone, like a married couple that have been together day in and day out for 50, 60, or 70 years, you know what happens? They start to become like each other. They finish each other's sentences. They know how the other person's thinking. They know how the other is going to respond in a given situation. Because they've spent their life with that person. And when we spend our lives with Christ, when we immerse our minds in his word and listen to him, and we talk to him and we walk with him, you know what? In time we become more and more like him. We are changed, as the passage was read this morning, into the same image from glory to glory That's what the Christian life is all about. That is the end goal of a disciple of Christ. What happens when we follow him closely Day after day, month after month, year after year, we become like the Master. And then we join the Master in His heavenly home. That is the prospect for every true disciple of Christ. That is what God wants for all of his people. May God help us to be disciples of Jesus Christ. Let's close in prayer. Our Father. We confess that we do not follow as closely as we ought I pray that something that has been said this morning would be used by you to motivate us to follow in our Savior's footsteps I pray that the suffering that we face, the comparisons that we make with others, would not derail us, would not be obstacles and hindrances. But would be stepping stones in our following of you. And Father, for those who are here this morning who are not your children, who are not disciples of Christ, I pray that they would see the beauty of the Savior and the beautiful logic of the gospel. And they would come to be disciples indeed. They would come to trust in Christ alone. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.