This short little epistle of First Thessalonians tonight. We've come close to it several times, but I believe tonight will be will be the conclusion. Before we get into it, let's go over our memory verse again. We'll just sink this deeper into our memory one more time. Would you join me in standing as we say this through two times? From 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verses 9 through 11, we'll say the reference and the verse through twice. 1 Thessalonians 5, 9 through 11. For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. who died for us, so that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with him. Therefore, encourage one another and build one another up, just as you are doing. 1 Thessalonians 5, 9 through 11. For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. who died for us so that whether we are awake or asleep we might live with him. Therefore encourage one another and build one another up just as you are doing. Thank you. You may be seated yesterday when I began to think about preparing for tonight. Of course, the events that of this past week have been heavy on all of our hearts. And just Contemplating what should I do? Should I continue on with First Thessalonians or should we go elsewhere and look for comfort in the Word of God elsewhere? And I opened up First Thessalonians and read through it again. And the first line of this passage just jumped out at me and gave me the confidence that we can come through this and find the encouragement we need at this time. in our in our lives as a church family as we mourn for someone that we love and for the family that we love dearly and I was reminded as we read through this, or as I read through this, just the fact that we do have a God who is the God of peace. And that that reality that the God we serve is the God of peace. He is the God who makes peace. He is the God who gives peace. And we have peace in the times of turmoil and hardship. And so just I'll read through these verses and then we'll look into this passage of scripture this evening. This is the final closing paragraph of this letter from Paul to the Thessalonian believers, and he says, now may the God of peace himself Sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He who calls you is faithful, he will surely do it Brothers, pray for us. Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss. I put you under oath before the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Let's just go to the Lord in prayer this evening. Father, we thank you for the privilege we've had of studying this book of your scripture, for the instruction and help it has been. And Lord, we pray at this time as we remember that you are the God of peace, that we would find encouragement in this reality. I pray, Father, your blessing upon this time in Jesus' name. Amen. We find here this reality that we are kept by the God of peace. Kept by the God of peace And Paul begins this closing by describing how we are sanctified, we are set apart by the God of peace himself. And when you think about this, our great need in this world and in life. Is peace. The absence of it is felt keenly. Four times, four other times in the New Testament, we find God being described as the God of peace. And those are all very instructive for us if we were to take time to look at it. But the reality is that as humans, the world craves peace. And perhaps this is because we so long for true and lasting peace that there never seems to be much of. We talk a lot about it. There's the proliferation of peace treaties. There's the Nobel Peace Prize that's given out annually. There are UN peace -keeping forces. There's the Peace Corps. And the President Trump's new Board of Peace. Peace is something that we talk a lot about. Yet for all the attention I think that we give to peace, the world seems to be farther from peace than ever before. And we are longing for the Prince of Peace, who will come and establish true and lasting peace. in this world. And all this lack of peace is not surprising because even as the book of Isaiah repeatedly says, there is no peace, says the Lord, for the wicked. And the the earth, the world, the nations of the world are like raging seas. Their waves toss to and fro, and they bounce up against each other, and there seems to be no peace. When you think of peace, I think oftentimes we think of peace as a lack of conflict or the absence of conflict. But when the Bible speaks of peace, especially in the Old Testament, when the Bible speaks of peace, It's the Hebrew word shalom, which is a much fuller term for peace. It refers to wholeness, completeness. One critical aspect of peace is order. It's right relationship. Things are in their right place, and people are rightly related to one another. When God created this universe, he created a universe that was rightly ordered. It was in harmony with its creator. Everything functioned as it should. Everything was in order. But when Adam rebelled against his creator and sinned against his commandment, he ruined that harmony and that order, the wholeness that God designed to be a blessing for mankind. And he brought disorder, and he brought chaos, and he brought enmity. And now, as a result of sin, we have devastation and disease, we have destruction, we have death. And it's the presence of those things that causes us, I think, to feel so keenly the loss of peace, the absence of it in our world, in our lives. And the sad fact is that we have no means of correcting this loss of peace. This loss of peace with God. Adam's sin plunged all humanity into hostility with their creator. And whether we realize it or not, whether we like it or not, we are sinners by nature and by choice. And it's because of this that we are at war. With our Creator. We are born at war with our Creator, and every sin that we commit is another act of rebellion, another act of hostility against our holy God. The Bible describes man at before. Before Christ, outside of Christ, as alienated and hostile in mind, doing evil deeds. That's our state apart from Christ. So when we read here, now may the God of peace himself sanctify us. We find that our God is the God of peace because he made a peace for us that we had no power to make, no ability. To bring about by our own working. I'm going to just run through a few slides here real quick. We've done this many times, but Isaiah 53, 5 is this precious passage of Scripture that we come to many times as we think of our Easter celebrations. He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. And God in Isaiah is saying, the lack of peace that this world knows with me, I am going to provide. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. And with his wounds we are healed. It is the sacrifice of Christ that made a peace for us. Those of us who were at war with our holy Creator, we have been brought near. We have been given peace. But the cost of that peace Was an expensive cost. And although we were far off, God has brought us near. In another passage I'd like us to think about is Ephesians chapter 2. But now in Christ Jesus, you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ, for He Himself is our peace. What a beautiful reality. Christ Himself is our peace, who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace, and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross. Thereby killing the hostility. Praise God that the hostility, the enmity, the lack of peace that we all know. Christ corrected and he provided for us. He is our peace. What hostility describes here the hostility that Christ He removed the dividing wall of hostility. What is the hostility that he's talking about? What is the hostility that Christ killed? It's the hostility of the law of God which left both Jew and Gentile condemned. Left both Jew and Gentile with no way to come into the presence of God. How did God make peace for us? By the sacrificial death of Jesus Christ on the cross. Isaiah 9. 6 calls Jesus wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Principal. peace. He is the Prince of Peace for us. So although we were in the wrong, God paid the price for our peace. Although we were his enemies, God made us sons. God made us sons. Because of the sacrifice of Christ on the cross, all who come to God by faith in Jesus Christ are no longer enemies, but we are sons of God In Romans 8, we have this beautiful passage. We have received the Spirit of Adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba, Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God and fellow heirs. with Christ. I remember being in the airport in Tel Aviv and hearing two children crying out to their dad, asking him to to do something for them, crying out, Abba, Abba, Abba, Abba And it was a really tender expression of two children looking at their dad lovingly. And it reminded me of this reality that because of the peace that Christ has made for us, we're not just no longer enemies. We have been brought into this intimate relationship where we can cry out, Abba, Daddy. We have that that level of intimacy with the Almighty. The entire relationship has changed Because of our relationship to God, the Almighty God is our Abba. Therefore, we have not only peace with God, but we have an internal peace. Surely the Almighty Father can care for his children. Does that mean we have no problems? Of course not. Jesus himself says. I have said these things to you that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But be of good cheer or take heart, for I have taken and I have overcome the world. So our God is the God of peace. He's not only the God who made peace, but he is our God of peace because he gives us peace. He gives us internal peace, external and internal peace. Sometimes commentators like to debate whether Paul here, when he speaks of the God of peace, is referring to positional peace, the peace that Christ has made for us with God. positionally, the peace with God? Or is he talking about internal peace, the peace of God, the peace that that we have internally, freedom from anxiety because of the relationship that we have with with God through Jesus Christ. And I believe the answer to that question is yes. It's both. In this passage of Scripture, I don't believe he's isolating one over the other. I believe he's bringing both of these realities because we have peace with God. And we are able to call him Abba. We have peace, the peace of God. And we have that in a special way. And I think some ways we can see this, we have peace in trials. When we think of these commands that we went through in the last couple weeks, these three commands in particular, rejoice always, pray without ceasing, give thanks in all circumstances, what does that indicate? It indicates that there's trials. If you have to be commanded to rejoice always, it's the implication that we don't have to be commanded to rejoice in good times. That's natural. But we do have to be instructed to rejoice in trials. We do have to be instructed to give thanks in trials. We tend to be very naturally thankful when things are going well. But we have to be instructed to give thanks when things are not going well in all circumstances. And so we see that this assumes trials. The command assumes difficulties, which requires faith to respond with rejoicing. It's interesting as we think of these things, we actually find a passage that's very similar to this in Philippians chapter 4. Oh, I'm going to go ahead. Philippians chapter 4, verses 4 through 9. You'll notice I I highlighted some of the same commands that are found within this passage of Scripture. He says, Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. And then just one verse later. What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. So we have the peace of God and the God of peace. The peace of God, which is the internal peace that we have, because we have the God who is the God of peace who is with us. You notice these similar commands. We had the commands in verses 17 and 18 to rejoice always. And here we have rejoice always. We have the command to in everything to give thanks, and we have with thanksgiving. And then we have the command to pray without ceasing. We have by prayer and supplication and request. We have three words that are used for prayer. And in that, then we have this instruction and information that when we do these things, we have the peace of God that surpasses all understanding We can have peace in trials that surpasses all understanding because it doesn't make sense. When we compare it to the trial we're facing, the trial remains, but the God of peace gives the peace of God an inner calm. An inner assurance that He is with us, even when the storm is raging. I read recently about a submarine that had been built and was being taken out for some testing. And they took it out into the deep ocean and they brought it down below four hundred feet and they were testing how it would respond. And when they came back up several days later, they asked them, How was how did it handle in the storm? And they said, what storm? Because they were in the envelope of the ocean. They didn't experience any of the storm that was raging on top. And as believers, there's a bit of a parallel to that when we are in Christ. That we are kept with an inner peace, even when the storm is still raging. In this passage in Philippians chapter 4, you notice the three different words for prayer. And there are many ways, there are synonyms. Prayer, supplication. Requests. These are all words that we use to think of of asking something. But the first word, prayer, is actually a little broader. It has the idea of more of worship. Any communication that we have with God. The second word, supplication, is a very intense word. stronger word which involves earnest pleading. So the idea here is that as we come before God, we pray, we communicate with Him, we worship Him, we remember who God is. who we are in relationship to him, the peace that he has brought to us, the fact that he is the God of peace. We remember his sovereign control and his goodness and his wisdom. And we're able then to come and make our supplications, our earnest requests for Him And we remember his loving kindness towards us. And we bring our needs to him. It's in those times of trial that we're able to come into the presence of God. And as we worship, We have the calm assurance that He is good and He does good. And He gives us the confidence to ask with boldness because He is our Father. And we can come into His presence. As a child to his father. We can have peace in trial that surpasses all understanding. We flipped past this verse earlier, but in Isaiah 26 it says, You keep him in perfect peace. Whose mind is stayed on you because he trusts in you. It's in these times of trial and storm that we need to have our eyes fixed on Christ. Remembering the character and the nature and the promises of God that gives us a tranquility in the storm. That He is guiding, He is guarding, He is protecting, He is directing. And we can rest in Him We can have peace in trials that surpasses all understanding as the world sees that they don't know how to understand that type of peace. And it points to the fact that there is a God who is walking with us, who is keeping us in that time. We can have peace in trials because we have the presence of God. Verse 9 here. Says, what you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. He will be with you. He will not leave you. His presence guarding and carrying you in the very midst of the trial. You may be asking, what about my future? Well, God is already there. And the future is not gray and dark and unknown to him. It is perfectly ordained by him. And he who guided the past will guide the future. Philippians 1:6 says, He who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. And that will not fail. What if the trial is too great? Well, we can go back to 1 Thessalonians 5, where he says, Faithful is he who called you, who also will do it. He will not allow the trial to be great. What about death? Christ, who is our peace, has already conquered death. 1 Corinthians 15 says, Where O death is your victory? Where, O death, is your sting? The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God. He gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. And so we have the God of peace who is with us, that walks with us through these times of trial. I just found tremendous encouragement as I read these verses this week in my own heart, knowing that we have This peace, a peace that passes understanding, we have this God, who is the God of peace, who walks with us through these times. We have this Father that we can come to and we can cry out to him, Abba. And he cares for us. And he knows us, and he will never leave us or forsake us. As he continues on here, he mentions, now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely. The word sanctify means to set apart for holy purposes. If you read through Leviticus, you see Tables and altars and lampstands and many things that are set apart for holy purposes. As Christians, we have been set apart to God for holy living. We have been set apart for the purpose of holiness. And the reality is that peace. And holiness are intricately linked. Peace and holiness are intricately connected. It's impossible to have true peace apart from holiness. And holiness Always brings peace. Peace and holiness are, in many ways, two sides of the same coin. It was Sin, the absence of holiness or the opposite of holiness, that brought chaos and enmity and death into the world. And it's only through the imputed holiness of Christ given to us by faith that we are able to have peace with God, that relationship Of peace is restored. And it is through lived-out holiness that we can experience more and more the peace of God in our lives as we walk in holiness. We come to experience more of God's peace day by day. This connection is found actually in Hebrews chapter 12 where it says, strive for peace with everyone. And for the holiness, without which no one will see the Lord. Holiness and peace here, peace with men, because we have peace with God, is connected with holiness. Imputed, but also practical holiness. We are to strive for peace. We are to strive for holiness. And in these verses here, Paul is saying that God Himself. is the source of our sanctification. He is working complete holiness in us. Notice that where he says, now may the God of peace himself Sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. In verse twenty four he says, Faithful is he who called you, he will surely do it That is the God who himself is the God of peace, who himself is sanctifying us. He is the one who is faithful, who will complete this work of sanctification in us. He is the one who does this. Ultimately, God is the one who is doing the sanctification in your life and in my life. God is the one who is doing this transformation. And so there's a temptation to say, well, then I can just wash my hands and let God do it. Let go and let God, I have nothing to contribute to my own sanctification, because he says God himself And he who calls you is faithful, he will surely do it. So if he's going to do it, then I don't have any participation in this. That's a wrong conclusion. There's an inseparable link between human effort and divine power. That's why leading up to this, there are all these commands, these instructions of how we are to live out this practical holiness in our lives. We see this in several places. In Colossians chapter 1, verses 28 and 29, Paul says, Him we proclaim, warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom, that we may present everyone mature in Christ. For this I toil. So we have Paul toiling, struggling with all his energy. Interesting. I toil, struggling with My energy? No. His energy that he powerfully works within me. Paul toils in the energy of the Spirit, the power of God in the ministry that God has given him. And not just in ministry, in Philippians chapter 2. It says, Therefore, my beloved brethren, or my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now not only as in my presence, but much more in my absence. Work out, you work out, you bring out the the effects of your salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God Who works in you both to will and to work for his good pleasure. Work it out. God is at work in you. God is at work changing your will. And enabling you to do his good pleasure. So you realize that there's this connection, this human effort and divine power that is essential in living out the Christian life. And as we yield to God and diligently pursue holiness and humble dependence on God, we are enabled to find growth and sanctification. The temptation is to kind of excuse our lack of progress in sanctification by saying, well, I guess God hasn't done his part. God hasn't enabled me because I'm just waiting for him to do the work. The fact is, the power of God for our sanctification is always available. And it's abundant. It's for us then to take the step. The God of peace himself sanctify you completely. And may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He who calls you is faithful. He is faithful. You can't blame God for the lack of enablement. He who calls you is faithful. He will also do it. He will surely do it. So God is the source of our sanctification, and God is working complete sanctification. Do you notice what he said in these verses? The goal of our sanctification is complete Christ-likeness. Notice the three words that Paul uses here to describe the completeness. He says, now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely. And then he says, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless. And then the word blameless. He is after Complete, entire sanctification, entire Christ-likeness. So God is not merely cleaning up around the edges with us. He's not doing just a little bit of work. He's doing a complete transformation. He's transforming our thoughts. He's transforming our actions and our words. He's transforming our affections. And it's really as we come through these times of trial that we find our affections are changed. And this world grows dimmer, and the joys of this world, the pleasures of this world, dim in comparison to what God has prepared for us. He changes, he transforms our affections so that we live for the eternal and not for the present. And it's through these times of trials as we work in coordination with His Spirit in us. Ultimately, this transformation will not be complete until we are brought into the presence of Christ. Either through death or through the rapture, but ultimately that's when we will see this completely. Well, in Philippians chapter 1, you know the verse where he says, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. But he is doing that work progressively, radically, transforming us, making us new Now I don't know if you caught this. This may not be the I don't think this is a a very significant uh concern for for most people, but this is one of two verses in the New Testament that are frequently used to defend what is called trichotomy or a trichotomous view of mankind. You say, why I don't really know what you're talking about. And that's fine. Tricotomy means that man is made of three essential parts, body, soul, and spirit. And we say, well, isn't that what it says here? That your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless? Typically, soul, if you listen to a lot of people that hold a trichotomous view, they'll say this describe the soul of man as the immaterial part of man, like our mind, our will, our personality, that part of man that's just We can't you can't see it, but you know it. It's it's those things, the mind and the emotion and the will and the personality. The spirit would be described as the immaterial part of man that has relationship to God. And of course, the body is the physical that we can see. Most Bible students would would hold to what's known as a dichotomous position, not a trichotomous position, which simply means Mm-hmm has two elements, the body and the soul, or the material and the immaterial. And there's several reasons for this, and I don't think you can say either one is heretical, but this is one of the passages that people will go to when they want to hold to a trichotomous position. When God created man However, he breathed into man the breath of life, and he became a living soul Became a living being. And there's nothing there describing soul and spirit, but that simply the immaterial part was directly given by God. In some places in the New Testament, if you look up these words soul and spirit, they're used interchangeably. You'll find one passage describing the soul, and then another passage describing the exact same thing using the spirit. And so when we come to a passage like this where they're divided, I think what we need to understand is Paul is simply saying, your entirety of your being. And he's just lumping words together that speak of the entirety of your being being kept. pure, blameless at the coming of Christ. It's kind of like what we read in Luke chapter 10 when Jesus speaks about loving God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind. He's speaking of the entirety, the totality of our being, that we are to love God with the totality of our being. And then another reason why many people hold to a dichotomous position is that soul and body are described as the whole of man. In Mac in Matthew chapter 10, verse 28, that that that is the totality of man's soul and body. So again You may not have any care about this. It may not even bother you, but maybe you maybe you've you've heard this, so I just thought we're going through this verse. I'm just going to mention this. Most Bible students would be dichotomous. There are some who are trichotomous, and this is where they would come to this reality. We're not going to make a whole lot of a fuss over that. You won't be a heretic regardless. When we come on, as we continue on in this passage of scripture, we find the Apostle Paul coming near the end, and he says, brothers, pray for us. Brothers, pray for us. He's speaking to a young church, young Christians, and he is the Apostle Paul. I think he teaches us the importance through this of being dependent on God who answers prayer. Being dependent on God who answers prayer. He doesn't specifically say what to pray for here. You notice that he just says, pray for us. Perhaps they know enough of the challenges that are in the Apostle Paul's life. They don't need specific instruction, but he says, brothers, pray for us. But there are many places in the New Testament where Paul Specifies things that he would like them to pray for. And maybe as we look at some of them, it might surprise you some of the things that the Apostle Paul asks prayer for. He asks prayer for boldness and witness. Have you ever felt like I wish I was like the Apostle Paul, had that boldness? I could just, you know Go into a town and just start preaching the gospel and not be afraid of anybody. But interestingly, Paul himself asks God For boldness, and he asks for the Ephesians to pray for this in Ephesians chapter 6. He says, making supplication for all the saints, and also for me, that words may be given to me in opening my mouth boldly. To proclaim the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in chains, that I may declare it boldly as I ought to speak. He says, There's a temptation towards timidity. To pull back. Pray for me that I be bold, that I be unashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I do this with boldness. Have you ever felt like you struggled to make the gospel clear? When you're presenting the gospel to someone, you're like, I just m just tumbled over my words and nothing seemed to come out clearly. Have you ever felt that way? I have. I felt that on many occasions where I'm I'm sharing the gospel with someone and I'm like, if they got anything from that Then it's of the Spirit entirely because I'm not even sure what I said. Well, it's interesting, we don't often think of the Apostle Paul as someone who needed clarity in his gospel presentation. But he asked for prayer in that area. In Colossians chapter 4, it says, pray also for us, that God may open to us a door for the word to declare the mystery of Christ. on account of which I am in prison, that I may make it clear, which is how I ought to speak. Is that an encouragement? To know that the Apostle Paul told the Colossians, pray for me, that I can proclaim the gospel clearly. He even asked for prayer for deliverance from wicked men. In 2 Thessalonians chapter 3, we read this. Pray for us that the word of the Lord may speed ahead and be honored, as happened among you, and that we may be delivered from wicked and evil men. So he prayed. Pray that we get delivered from wicked and evil men. And ultimately, the Lord allowed wicked and evil men to take his life, but not until his course had been run, not until he had finished the course. And so he said, pray that I be delivered from wicked and evil men. This simple request from the Apostle Paul, brothers, pray for us. So instructive for us. How easy it is for us to think, I got this. I know other people need prayer, but I don't need prayer. If the Apostle Paul could say to the Thessalonian believers who were young Christians, pray for me. How much more so you and I should be willing to come up and say, would you pray for me? Would you pray that God helps me to be bold, to be clear, to be faithful? To do right, to walk in holiness. We need to cultivate a God dependency in our lives. Where we walk day by day, not in the power of the flesh, but in the power of his spirit. Think about this. If our Lord Jesus could spend hours and even nights in prayer, Why do we think we can go without it? He is God in human flesh, sinless son of God. And he spent nights. in prayer. You would wake up early and go out into the wilderness and pray. If the Apostle Paul could repeatedly ask for prayer of others, Why are we often too proud to ask for the prayers of our church family? I love Wednesday nights. It is really a precious time. And I'm preaching to the choir here. But it is a joy to come together and frequently, nearly every week, someone says, What can I pray for you about? And I love that. That we pray for one another. And then I'll frequently get messages from people. I'm praying for you today. We need the power of God to walk in holiness, to be faithful witnesses. To love our families as we ought to? To live in obedience? To be bold in the gospel? Do we really believe, as Jesus said, apart from me you can do nothing? Not apart from me you can do hardly anything. Apart from me, you can do nothing I've told you this before, but I used to have a little plaque on my desk, or not a plaque, just a little thing I printed out and taped on my desk that said, Ministry in the flesh will fail. Have you prayed. And it was just a daily reminder. You can be busy in ministry and it's nothing. Ministry in the flesh will fail. Have you prayed? Have you earnestly sought God? I love the Apostle Paul's humility to do this. Here's some final instructions in this passage. Verse 26, greet all the brothers with a holy kiss. I was going to ask Bradley to come up here and help demonstrate this This is a frequent instruction in the New Testament. This is not the only place where we find this instruction. It's actually at the end of several epistles. Romans 16, 1 Corinthians 16, 2 Corinthians 13. And Peter does it in 1 Peter 5, verse 4. He doesn't call it a holy kiss, he calls it the kiss of love, of agape. And it's instructive because he calls it a holy kiss. So it's something that is cultural, but it is supercultural because he calls it a holy kiss. It is the kiss of agape, as Peter describes it. Indicating that there was no inappropriateness in this. This was culturally normal, but beyond that. It is the greeting. Of those who have been brought together in Christ. And that that that affection was revealed in this. It's also a universal sign of affection. Paul says, greet all the brothers. This is not to be selective of the ones that you like the most or the closest to. Christians are to live at peace with one another, and the holy kiss was a demonstration of that. It later became known as the kiss of peace. In church history, they called it the kiss of peace. And it was used to symbolize unity, that we w great greeted everyone. There was no exclusion. Believers Together would greet each other with the holy kiss. In Tanzania we did something very similar. It's just a cultural thing. I don't think it's going to go over in America. We did a holy handshake. Bradley sometimes does the holy hug, as you've seen him do bear hugs, and uh appreciated that. But it's a sign of affection. And it's supposed to be something that there is no distinction. Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss. The kiss was a common greeting. Actually, that was and began to be an introductory element of the Lord's Supper, that they would greet one another with a holy kiss before they took the Lord's Supper, to say, we are united in Christ. Paul is not mandating the kiss here, Howard. That was a cultural thing that he then added the element above it. You know, I've I read commentators that we can correlate with a with a handshake today. Um cultures are different. There are many cultures in the world today that still do this, that still practice this. It's not it's not inappropriate if it's done if it's done uh in this method. But in our culture, I think a handshake probably is the more the more common uh means of demonstrating this affection. But what what the instruction is here is there is to be no Partiality within the body of Christ. If you have something at odds with another believer And you refuse to greet them, there's a problem. Became known as the kiss of peace because it was it was a sign of that affection. That we have as brothers and sisters in Christ. And if you cannot greet your brother or sister in Christ, there's a problem. And that needs to be dealt with. And this could be an indication. I don't want to shake his hand. I don't want to shake her hand. You've got a problem and it needs to be dealt with. And you cannot be right with God, and you should not be taking communion if you refuse to greet another brother or sister in Christ. And then he says, I put you under oath before the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers. Which we did. If you remember when we began this study on First Thessalonians, we read the entire epistle together in one sitting, and because of this injunction that he he says, I put you under oath before the Lord to have this letter read. This is a very encouraging thing that that this letter is going to be read to the entire congregation. It is instructive. It is the word of God and they all, we all need it. It's for this reason that we've studied this epistle these last several months. Because it is the word of God. In the last benediction, Paul began this letter with a greeting of grace, grace to you and peace. And he concludes it with the same greeting. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. When we begin our Christian life, we begin by the grace of God. As we grow in our Christian life, we grow in grace. And we are brought to completion through the grace of God. We are dependent upon the grace of God. for every step of the way. I was thinking through this and I was remembering the words of amazing grace that John Newton penned Twas grace that taught my heart to fear. And I used to think about that line as a kid, and I couldn't quite figure it out. How does grace teach us to fear? It's grace that opened my eyes to understand my sin and to fear the judgment of God so that I would come to Him. And grace, my fears relieved. Ah, it made a whole lot more sense when I took some time to think about it How precious did that grace appear, the hour I first believed. Through many dangers, toils, and snares I have already come. Tis grace has brought me safe thus far And grace will lead me home. Paul begins his letter and he ends his letter with a word of grace. We live in dependence upon the grace of God. So I say now may the God of peace Himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He who calls you is faithful. He will surely do it. Let's pray. Father, thank you that you are the God of peace. You are the God who sanctifies. You are the God of grace. And you are doing your work in us. You began this work and you will complete it. I thank you, Father, for these precious promises. Help us, Father, to walk in dependence upon you, to come before you with prayers and supplication and thanksgiving, making our request before you. And may we know the peace that surpasses understanding. A peace in the midst of a storm. Thank you, Father, for the peace of God. And that you are the God of peace. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen