Thank you so much. Well you have our sermon text in your handout this morning on our song sheet. We're going to be looking at Colossians chapter 3. For the first time in several months This week, the top news story has not been coronavirus. But that doesn't mean it's been a good thing. Of course, you've all watched the coverage of various riots and responses to the Death of George Floyd and all the fallout that's come as a result of that. It reminds me of a similar incident in the 90s when I was in seminary. And there was a great deal of rioting taking place and unrest because of uh a video concerning a man named Rodney King who famously said Can't we all just get along? And the answer to that question is no, we can't get along without the grace of God That's a very sad thing. From the beginning of time, man has wondered why there's violence, contention, and strife among human beings. If you doubt that, just consider the fact that the first two brothers that were born on this earth, the one killed the other. And ever since then there's been violence in the world. And I wish I could say that there's only unrest. And contention in the world, but not the church. But the reality is that there is difficulties in the Church of Jesus Christ as well. This morning, as we look at Colossians chapter 3, I want us to understand that this is a great chapter on sanctification. It's very practical. It's also very convicting. It begins with this wonderful call to a new way of living. Colossians chapter 3 and verse 1 says, if ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above. Where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affections on things above, not on things on the earth, for ye are dead. And your life is hid with Christ in God. These are sublime ideas Of living the resurrection life as Christians. But then Paul goes into the nuts and bolts of our sanctification. in the verses that follow and what he does in this chapter is he has a number of lists and I have to As for your indulgence because we're going to look at some of these today and it's difficult to preach from a list of items. So, bear with me on this. We have a list in verse 5. Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth. Fornication. uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness, which is idolatry Now these sins listed in verse 5 are what we would call fleshly, sensual, material sins. Then we come to another list of sins in verse 8. It says, But now put off these, anger, wrath. Malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth. This is another category of sins. These sins are relational sins. And Paul is going to continue to talk about this aspect of our sanctification Notice as he follows in verse 9, he says, Lie not one to another, saying that ye have put off the old man with his deeds, and have put on the new man which is renewed in the knowledge of him after the image of him that created him. And then we read these significant words in verse 11, where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, barbarian, scythian, bond, nor free, but Christ is all and in all So Paul is calling the church to unity, but not uniformity. He mentions many different ways that people are classified, and verse 9 And what he wants his readers to understand is that the Christian church is a gathering of people who find their identity in Christ. You see, what brings us together is not our race or our nationality or our status in society, but our relationship to Christ. But how do we practically live out this new identity? How do we communicate a loving community? That will be a powerful witness to the world. How can a local church maintain its unity despite our different perspectives? Our different backgrounds, our different personalities. Well, the answer I think is found in verses 12 through 14, which will be our text. this morning. Look at these verses. Put on therefore as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bows of mercy. kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering, forbearing one another, and forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do Ye. I want to preach to you on this beautiful Sunday morning on how to develop unity in the body of Christ. I think there are four keys that are found. In these verses. And the first one would be that we must learn to be gracious towards one another. Look with me at verse 12. First of all, he addresses us and reminds us of who we are, as the elect of God, as holy and beloved. And each of those turns deserves some deep exposition. But I do not have time for my purposes this morning to do so. So I want us to look at the five virtues that are mentioned here. So in verse 5 he mentions 5 sins. And in verse 8, he mentions 5 sins. And now in verse 12, he mentions five virtues. Throughout Paul's teaching on sanctification, he's very clear that we do not just remove wicked things from our lives, but we replace them. with something that's different, something that's pleasing to God. We can't just say in our lives, well, I don't do this and I don't do that. and I have a list of prohibited activities, but our lives should be characterized by new virtues, by new graces, by new ways we comport ourselves. And so this is what we find here. You see, God is not calling us simply to check our speech or curb our actions, but to fundamentally change who we are and how we relate to one another. So let's look at these five things quickly. First of all, we have a response of compassion. We have in the King James Version it says bowels of mercies. It's a very accurate literal translation there because in the ancient world of the intestines, the bowels were considered symbolic of compassion and pity. And so we read expressions like this often in the New Testament. We use the same kind of verbiage. We speak of loving someone with all of your heart. Well your physical organ, the heart. Does not somehow possess all of your love despite what we say at Valentine's Day and things like that. But we understand it's symbolic. Now, the Lord here is calling us to a supernatural mercy and pity of others. Real heartfelt compassion. The question is, are we growing in this? We should be the most compassionate people on the face of the earth. There's one way that we can test this, whether or not we're growing in this, and that is by the way we respond to the needs, the suffering of others. I've mentioned to you many times before that this virtue of compassion is the number one emotion that is ascribed to Christ. We read of Christ seeing the multitudes and being moved with compassion. And so if we are to be like Christ, we must be compassionate. But what's interesting, if you look at about those dozen times that it says that Christ. responded to compassion to someone's need, you will see that in every case he did something to meet their needs. In other words, this is not just a matter of feeling something and saying, well, I'm a really good person because I feel compassion. No. The root test of whether or not we are becoming like Christ is if we do something to meet the needs of those who are suffering and in need. Listen to what John says in his epistle. Who has his world's goods and seeth his brother have need and shutteth up his bowels of compassion, the same terminology used in our text. How dwelleth the love of God in him? Christ has called us to be compassionate to the needs of those around us. And then there is this response of kindness. It says, it's translated kindness in our King James text. This word is often rendered goodness. It's a word used to describe God Himself. God expresses Himself with gracious acts and words, and so should we. The idea here is that we are to treat people better than they deserve. Even Christian people can fall into a trap when someone suffers or someone is experiencing something to think to ourselves, well, you know, he got himself into that mess. Or he made his bed and now he's got a lie in it. In other words, he's getting what he deserves. But Christ has called us To be compassionate and to be kind to people and to be gracious with them, to treat them better than they do deserve. This is calling us to be, to respond in a way that is the opposite of being harsh. And then we have the response of humility, humbleness of mind. Humility is primarily a matter of how we think about ourselves. It's not a call for us to respond in self-deprecation. It's call for us to accept reality. We live in a society today that Teaches that people should be told, that our children should be taught, that they are exceptional, that everyone's better than average, that everyone has incredible potential. And so I've seen many statistics that say that 80 to 90 percent of people think that they're exceptional. Guess what? It's not true. The reality is, is that you are a flawed, fallen human being just like everyone else And you can do some things reasonably well and other things not so much. That's true of everyone. You see, a humble person is not a person who looks down on themselves and thinks lowly of themselves all the time. It's a person who doesn't think of themselves very much. They're thinking of others and the needs of others. When we really compare ourselves with who God is, when we really expose ourselves to the glory of God We will have a profound sense of humility because we will recognize how weak and how wicked and how insufficient we are. So let me ask you, are you growing in humility? Humility is like an oil that removes the friction between relationships. People who are humble get along with others very well. People who are proud are always encountering conflict. This is taught clearly in the pages of Scripture. So let me give you three biblical tests about your growth and humility. Number one, do you often find that you have conflicts in your interactions with others? Is your life filled with relational drama, if I could put it that way? If it is, there's only one reason for that, and it's not the other guy. It's because you are a proud person who insists on having your way, and therefore there is conflict wherever you go. And Christ has called you to a different way of living. Number two. Do you find that your mind is often occupied in your own little world where you're thinking about your goals and your problems and your needs and your agenda and your plans? And the suffering and the needs of people around you are irrelevant. They don't touch you. You don't think about them. You don't seek to solve them because you live in a universe of one. Number three, do you often feel that you deserve better circumstances than you are currently enjoying? Do you walk around and think I deserve a better marriage? I deserve to have a better job. I deserve to have a larger home. I am not living up to what I deserve. It seems that everyone around me has a better family or a better car or a better home. They have better things than I do. Those are all manifestations of a deep-seated pride. God has called us to humility, to humbleness of mind. You see, pride is not some struggle of a few wicked people. It's a challenge for every human being. And part of the measure of our growth in grace is our growth in humility Then we have a related virtue, the virtue of meekness. We are to respond to others in meekness. Meekness is often confused with weakness. A person who is meek is able to control their passions even in trying circumstances. Let me give you quickly three biblical applications of meekness. A person who is meek Will often not bother in defending him or herself from the attacks of others. It is not always wrong to defend yourself. From personal attacks. The Apostle Paul does that in the book of 2 Corinthians for those who were saying he was a false apostle. He defends himself, he gives his credentials. But there are many cases where we become infuriated with some unfair characterization Or assumption of someone else, and we are ready to go to war when really we, if we were more meek, if we were more like our master, we would just let it roll off our backs. Remember that Moses was called the meekest man on the face of the earth. We read of this in Numbers chapter 12, and you remember how even his sister And his brother attacked him. And God defended himself. And m the the text there explains why Moses didn't defend himself. And it's because he was the meekest man on the earth. He left the matter with God, and so often that's what we need to do. That is counter to everything in your flesh But it's a manifestation of meekness. Secondly, a person who is meek is qualified to restore a brother or sister who has fallen into sin. Because their approach is, but for the grace of God, there go I. Says this in Galatians chapter 6 Ye which are spiritual, restore one another one who has fallen in the spirit of meekness. Nothing brings out the flesh of someone else like a manifestation of your own flesh. Did you know that? When someone gets up on their high horse and they denounce you, everything inside of you wants to match them. And maybe go a little bit more. God calls us to meekness even when we correct those who have fallen. And a person who is meek Will apply the preaching of the Word of God to their lives. They are a person who is teachable We read in James chapter 1 that this person receives with meekness the engrafted word. They are not just a hearer of the word. They are a doer of the word. They let the word of God penetrate their hearts. This is all response of grace. If we are growing in humility and in meekness, our relationships with others would be enriching, not infuriating. Then he mentions what we might call here in verse 12, it says long-suffering, or we would often term it patience today. The Greek word that's translated long suffering, which is a wonderful idea because it brings out the idea I used to know a preacher who would pronounce this long suffering. To get the point of cost. This Greek word is made up of two smaller words, long and temper. It's the opposite of someone who has a short fuse. I like the definition that Jerry Bridges gives to this term. He says it's the ability to suffer a long time under the mistreatment of others without growing resentful or bitter. The ability to just endure it joyfully That is what Christ has called us to do. Now out of this list, we come to verse 13, which calls us to forbear and to forgive. So, secondly, we must learn to forbear one another. What does that mean? We don't really use that term much today. It simply means to put up with them. Okay? If we are going to have unity in the Church of Jesus Christ, there's a certain level of forbearance that we must exercise toward one another. This is what Christ has called us to do. It's impossible to be around another human being for any length of time without being annoyed, irritated, or disgusted by something they do or say. And many of you are nodding your heads because for several months you've been locked up in your home with your family. And something your spouse or your children have done has infuriated you The fact of the matter is nothing reveals the depravity of man like our inability to get along with those that we love the most. Well, how is it that we can forbear one another? I'm going to bring out three details from this text. First of all, this is This participles in the present tense. This is something we must do habitually. This is not something we must do occasionally. This is something we have to do every day of our lives. We have to practice forbearance. We have to just deal with some things in people's lives that may irritate us. Every time you come to church You have to practice forbearance. There might be someone whose personality is just grading to you The way they speak with a certain harshness just drives you crazy. You just have to put up with that This is also secondly a reciprocal relationship. This is one of the one-another commands in Scripture. We are to be forbearing of one another. And the idea here is that this is a two-way street. Just as you have to put up with other people, guess what? They have to put up with you. This might be news to you. But there are people out there in the world who find you annoying and irritating. And they might even be sitting close to you right now. That's just the reality. So how in the world can we possibly do this? The answer is by loving one another. Many of you know that the twin epistle to Colossians is is the book of Ephesians. And there in Ephesians chapter 4, Paul calls us to forbear one another in love. You see, when you truly love someone, you can put up with a great deal of what others might consider offensive behavior. Have you ever known a woman who was married to a difficult man and yet she was able to put up with his faults? Because she loved him so deeply. Have you ever known a grandmother who so all saw only the best in her grandchildren, even though everyone else thought very lowly of them? She thought they were a treasure. Because she loves her grandchildren. Christ has called us To love our brother and sister in Christ, even though we may not agree with things they say and the way they do things. Thirdly We must learn to forgive one another. It says in verse 13, the second half, that we are to forgive one another. If any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ. forgave you, so also do ye. Now what's fascinating about this word, forgiving here Is that it's just another form of the common New Testament word for grace. You see, the most gracious thing that you can do for another human being is to forgive them. Your flesh will rebel at this suggestion Everything in your flesh will want to get even. When you are hurt by somebody else, your flesh says, let's make them hurt too. Let's maybe shut them out with icy silence, or maybe blow up in their face and give them a peace of our minds. Or let's better yet go and tell everyone that we know in common and poison the waters for them so that they are pariah They are not welcome in our circle of friends anymore. This is what the flesh instructs you to do. But Christ has called us to forgive. Now there may be times when you need to confront someone who has sinned against you. Luke chapter 17 verses 3 and 4 speaks of this. The Bible also says that a love covers a multitude of sin. It may be that what they have done is not worth You pursuing by way of confrontation, and you're just going to let it pass, and you're going to continue on with your relationship with them because you love them. Reconciling a relationship takes two people to work on it, but forgiveness can be unilateral. So there's never an excuse for us to not forgive someone and say, I'm just going to hold on to this grievance. Now, your relationship, because of some horrible sin they have committed, may mean that your relationship is not everything that it could be, because they refuse to repent and turn from their sin? But God never gives us the right to hold on to a grudge and treasure up bitterness in our hearts. We always must leave the matter with the Lord. But what is so astounding in the biblical call to forgiveness is the analogy that is used, and that is, even as Christ forgave you. What a tall order that is. Let's think about this for a second. What does this mean? It means that we should forgive others graciously. What do I mean by that? I mean even when they don't deserve it. Many times in my life I've counseled people who are obviously eaten up with bitterness, and I will say to them, you need to forgive this individual. And they will say instantly, he doesn't deserve it. And I will say, you're exactly right. That's what forgiveness is all about. Giving people what they don't deserve. Secondly, we should forgive others repeatedly. You may recall that Peter once asked the Lord if he should forgive his brother seven times. The rabbi said two or three times. Then you could let him have it. So Peter thought he was being very gracious by saying seven times. And the Lord says, not seven times, but seventy times seven. And he wasn't even saying four hundred and ninety times. He was saying you are to forgive and forgive and forgive and forgive. And if someone sins against you even seven times in a day, you are to turn and forgive them. And of course, the analogy here is because how many times has the Lord forgiven you? How many times have you sinned and failed the Lord and had to go to Him and say, Oh, Father, forgive me. I've sinned today. I did this. We must do this. We have to repent, as it were, every day of our lives. And so we should be willing to forgive people every day, because this is how Christ has forgiven us. And thirdly, we should forgive others sincerely in that great parable in Matthew 18, the Lord says in his conclusion And applying that truth, this man who owed this great debt, and the king forgave him a sum of like a billion dollars The Lord says that we have to give everyone from your heart. In other words, it's not just enough for you to say, all right, all right, I forgive you. And then you go around with a certain tone in your voice that reveals you really haven't forgiven them. You have to legitimately from your heart Forgive them. Let it go. One of there's there's two different Greek words for forgive. One means this word that has that as its root grace, and the other means to just just to let it go. You're no longer holding it. It means you're giving up your right. to hurt someone who has hurt you. And then fourthly, we should forgive others eagerly. I take this from many scriptures, including the parable of the prodigal son. You remember when the prodigal returned, the father saw him often in distance, and he ran and he embraced him. That was so scandalous to the Fair Sake audience that heard our Lord tell this parable He should have made his son stand outside the home for a few days and repent before he would even show him his face. But that's not the way God responds to repentant sinners. He runs and he embraces. He is eager to forgive. We should be eager to forgive when someone comes to us who has wronged us. And the offer of some word of confession or, you know, I was wrong, or I I shouldn't have done it that way, I shouldn't have said those things. We should not be there scrutinizing their confessions saying, yeah, but what about the other parts? Or that doesn't even cover half of it. No, we should be eager to forgive them. Have you ever had someone that you felt bad, that God convicted you about something that you had said or done in their presence? And so you went to them and you asked for forgiveness and you didn't even hardly get the words out of your mouth and were saying, listen, I forgive you. It's don't worry about it. It's covered by the blood. It's all gone. Everything's good between us. And they were so eager, they just pounced on the first words of your confession to forgive you. That's the way we should be. That's what Christ has called us to do. And fifthly, we should forgive others completely. We have all these beautiful pictures and scriptures of how God forgives us It says in several places that he remembers our sin no more. That is, he deals with us on the basis of the cross just as if we had never sinned. I've heard many people over the years say, I will forgive, but I'll never forget, which almost always implies they haven't really forgiven. I've had people ask me about this before, and they've said things like, I cannot cause myself by an act of will to forget what they did. And that is true. But there are three things that you can do, and three things that you're agreeing to do when you understand biblical forgiveness. Number one. It means that you're not going to bring up the incident again with them. If you've really forgiven someone for the sin that they've committed You don't keep bringing it out like a weapon every time there's a disagreement and using it to beat them down. That is not biblical forgiveness. The Lord doesn't do that with us. Number two, you should not allow your mind to dwell on the offense. Because of our fallen nature. we find a perverse sense of pleasure in replaying the transgression of someone else against us and analyzing it from a million different perspectives. We're like someone rolling videotape and looking at it in slow motion and stopping those single frames to analyze just how egregious their sin was against us And then we fantasize about these ways that we could just destroy them with our words. Christ has called us to something much better when you find yourself beginning to think about and to meditate upon the the wrongs that others have committed against you and you have asked the Lord to for to forgive them and you've spoken to them about it. You need to quickly turn your mind to something else and say to yourself, no, I've forgiven them. I will not think about that. I'm going to think about something else. You have to retrain your mind, or it will naturally fall into those sinful ruts again. And thirdly, you should never gossip about this incident to others. There may be, the only exception I would give to this is there may be times that you have to bring this up to a pastor or a counselor It was asking you about the nature of your relationship or problems you've had in the past. But otherwise, despite that disclaimer, you must keep yourself From telling to friends and to others, let me tell you how this person sinned against me. Let me tell you what they did. Let me tell you what they said. I want everyone to know how horrible their sin was. Now I've forgiven them about it, but I want you to be aware of it. No, if you have Forgiven them and you truly care for them, you're going to want to hide and cover that transgression Just like if you had sinned against someone else in an egregious way, your desire would be that they would cover it, that they would not expose it to the whole world, because you're embarrassed and mortified about your sin. That's the same kind of consideration we must show to others. But the most important key to spiritual unity is found And verse 14. And above all these things, put on charity, or I will translate it love. It's this word agape. Which is the bond of perfectness. Paul has been using the analogy in this chapter, of putting on, o of putting off and putting on, of of of viewing our sinful conduct and behavior of the old life as like an old, dirty, torn garment that's filthy, that you take off. And then you put on the garments of grace. And now he's saying to complete that ensemble, you must put on this belt of love that holds it all together. That's the idea of above all here. Notice Paul provides a reason why we should put on love, which is the bond of perfectness. It's the only thing that will enable us to maintain and cultivate loving relationships with one another. We looked at this list a moment ago in verse 12. And you'll see that love is the key to all of this. You see, if you really love someone, you'll be compassionate to them. If you really love someone, you will show kindness to them. If you love someone, you will not treat them with arrogance and contempt, but with humility. If you love someone, you will not insist on your rights with them. And if you love someone, you will be patient with them and their shortcomings. And you will forgive them. You see, love is absolutely essential in our dealings with others. The Bible puts a premium on love. I want to just remind you of how much the Bible underlines, highlights and puts in bold print the command that we love one another. The Bible says that love is the key to fulfilling all your obligations. To God and man. Do you remember how Jesus characterized and summarized the two tables of the law? Love God with all your hearts. And love your neighbor as yourself. It's the chief way That we identify ourselves to the lost world. Remember what Jesus said in the upper room the night before he was crucified, recorded in John chapter 13, verses 34 and 35. By this shall all men know that you're my disciples if you have love one for another. This is our defining characteristic. The world should look at us gathered up here outside on this hill and say, look how those people love one another. They just love to be together. They just love to meet one another's needs. Look at the harmony they dwell in. Love is the most frequent command given to us in reference to others. Thinking it's, if I remember correctly, like 11 different times, we are commanded in Scripture to love one another. Did you know that love is the clearest evidence of our salvation that's enumerated in Scripture How could a person know if they're truly a child of God? You know what the number one answer in the Bible is? Do you love one another? That may not be what you thought the answer would be. Well, are you really trusting the Lord? Did you make a profession of faith? Have you really repented of your sins? I'm not saying that those things are irrelevant, but the number one answer the Bible says if you want to look at the evidence A fruit that you've truly been changed, it will be that you love your brother and sister in Christ. Love is to be the believer's continual pursuit. Love is the way we must speak in all things. Speak the truth in love, it says in Ephesians 4. 15. Love is to be the controller of our Christian liberty. Love is the first fruit of the Spirit. It's not a coincidence that when we have that listing of the fruit of the Spirit in Galatians 5, the very first thing on the list is love. And love is the greatest of all Christian virtues. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 13, and now abideth faith, hope, and love, these three. But the greatest of these is love. But how is it that we can love our brother and sister in Christ? I want to turn to, I think, the key passage to answer that question in conclusion this morning. And 1 John chapter 4, a passage that Pastor Nathan preached on not that long ago. See if you can find the answer in these verses. 1 John chapter 4. I want to begin reading at verse 7. Beloved Let us love one another, for love is of God. And every one that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. And this was manifest the love of God towards us because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him. Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. Then I want to skip down to verse 19. We love him because he first loved us. If any man say I love God and hateth his brother, He is a liar, for he that loveth not his brother, whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? And this commandment have we from him. That he who loveth God loveth his brother also. The answer that John gives as to how we can love our brother and sister in Christ is that we must go back to the cross. We have to remember how Christ has loved us. Even that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Many of you know that the Apostle John was certainly the last living apostle. There's strong church tradition that says that he lived into his 90s. He was at the church at Ephesus. He was greatly infirmed. He had Many scars and limitations and disabilities because of torture that he'd endured throughout his life. Of course, he was exiled on the Isle of Patmos as well. But when he was well over 90 years old, he would still on special occasion address the believers at the church at Ephesus. And they would bring him there, this weak, infirmed old man. And he was so weak that he could no longer walk. He is so weak that he could no longer speak with any strength of voice. And they would say that in his final years, the only message that he had for the people of God was this. Little children love one another. And then his sermon was over. And so I would say to you, on the basis of the scripture that we have seen this morning. We need to love one another. That is the key to maintaining unity. And we do that not by power of will but by the grace of God, by the Spirit of God that works in our lives, and by keeping our focus on the cross, on our Savior. Who loved us so much that he died for our sins. Let's close in a word of prayer this morning. Father. We thank you for all that you have done for us. Thank you for allowing us to gather here today. Thank you for these beautiful surroundings. Thank you for our brothers and sisters. That enrich our lives and encourage us and that strengthen us. I pray, Father, that you would help us to do that to one another today. I pray for even our brothers and sisters who are watching at home. I pray that you would encourage their hearts, that you would strengthen them by your word today. And that they would feel part of this assembly of believers. Father, I pray that you would help us to respond in faith to what we have heard today. And Father, for any who might be here this morning who find it impossible to love their brother and sister. Who find it impossible to forgive others, find that their heart is filled with bitterness and anger, Father, I pray that you bring them to repentance. And Father, for those who are yet lost, In their sins. I pray that they would seek you while you may be found. And I pray that you would draw them to yourself even today. And Father, that throughout the world, There would be a great harvest of souls on this Lord's Day, even as there were nearly 2,000 years ago. We commit these things to you, Father, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.