If you have your Bibles, please would you turn with me to the book of Jeremiah? I know we read from 1 Corinthians chapter 1, but I'm going to be preaching to you from Jeremiah chapter 9. Especially verses 23 and 24. Several years ago, a story ran in the Grand Rapids press about the owner of a small foreign car. Seems that he was irritating his friends by bragging incessantly about his car's remarkable gas mileage. So they decided to solve this issue. Every day one of them would sneak into the parking lot and put a couple gallons of gas into his tank. The man continued to track his mileage and he would come in each day and proclaim that his car was even more efficient than he thought it was because now he was getting 90 miles to the gallon. And he was very excited about this. And then they stopped doing it. And of course his gas mileage continued to go down, and he could not figure out what had happened to his supercar. Boasting in the wrong things makes a person look foolish Jeremiah chapter 9 verses 23 and 24 refers to this matter of glorying or boasting. The prophet writes, Thus saith the Lord, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory In his might, let not the rich man glory in his riches. But let him that gloryeth glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth me That I am the Lord which exercise loving kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth, for in these things I delight, saith the Lord. The idea of glory here is boasting. What you boast about reveals what you value. It determines how you spend your time and your money. It will determine what you daydream about and what you worry about. It will influence how you measure other people. In short, what you glory about or what you boast about says a great deal about your hearts. These are some of my favorite verses in the Old Testament. And one of the things that makes them especially precious is that this two -verse passage forms like an oasis in a desert. I want us to understand the context a little bit. Jeremiah is often known as the weeping prophet. And if you look at the first verse of this chapter, you'll see why. Look at Jeremiah chapter 9 and verse 1. He says, Oh, that my head were waters and my eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep. day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people. Jeremiah was weeping because he loved the people that he was ministering to. And he knew that severe judgment was about to fall. And that many of these people that he ministered to would perish. He ministered to Judah on the eve of the Babylonian captivity. Jeremiah's message was simple. Repent. For the judgment of God is coming soon. But like most of the prophets, the people ignored his cry. Let me get a running start at this passage. Notice in verse 13 of chapter 9. Verses 13 and 14, he talks about why this judgment was coming. And the Lord saith, Because they have forsaken my law which I set before them, and have not obeyed my voice, neither walked therein. But have walked after the imagination of their own heart and after Balaam, which their fathers taught them In verse 15, he talks about the bitter judgment that's coming. Therefore, thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Behold, I will feed them, even this people, with wormwood, and give them water of gall to drink. He uses this imagery to say the judgment will be bitter. And then in verse 16, in the first part, he refers to the coming exile, and I will scatter them also among the heathen. And verse seventeen, he he calls for a national day of mourning. He says, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, consider ye and call for the mourning women that they may come and send for cunning women that they may come. He's referring to professional mourners, which would be hired to wail loudly at someone's funeral. He says, the nation is about to die. And verse 21, if you'll skip ahead to that, he says, For death has come up into our windows and has entered into our palaces to cut off the children from without and the young men from the streets. Death here is personified as an unwelcome intruder that slips in through the windows and comes and takes the young and the strong and the hopes and the dreams of the nation. And verse 22, the verse preceding our text, it says, Speak, thus saith the Lord, even the carcass of men shall fall. as dung upon the open field, and as the handful after the harvestmen, and none shall gather them. He is saying here that death will come like the grim reaper. to gather his harvest. And then right in the midst of this doom and gloom Because in verse 25, he's going to pick up with the judgment theme again. But in between these verses of judgment, we have this oasis of hope. And it is filled with instruction for us. I want to make two preliminary points from this You'll notice from this text that God's judgment often comes because we have wrong values. The people of Judah had adopted the false values of their pagan neighbors. They had come to believe and to worship and to sacrifice to these idols of the world. And so God is going to correct them. And we also see here that when disaster strikes, what is really important comes into sharper focus. Have you ever noticed that? All the toys and the phony status symbols go out the door when you think you're about to die The things that people live for when they're healthy and everything is going well, those things don't seem nearly as important when death is staring you in the face. All that matters then is your relationship with God. I want to ask you a question this morning, a very basic question. It's this: do you know God? Now the vast, vast majority of Americans claim to believe in a God. I think it's something like 90%. But the question I have for you is, do you know the God that has revealed himself in Scripture? And David Tozer says in his classic book, The Knowledge of the Holy, that what comes into a man's mind when he thinks about God is the most important thing about him. Do you know the God that truly exists, the God who has revealed Himself in His Word? Because your relationship with the Lord is the most important thing about you. I want to preach this morning on this theme that knowing God should be our ultimate quest. Knowing God should be our ultimate quest. And this proposition is true whether you are a believer or an unbeliever. The most important thing that you can give your life to is knowing God 's. Why is that? Well, first of all , Because knowing God is far superior to where the world looks for satisfaction. Look with me at verse 23 of Jeremiah 9. Thus saith the Lord, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might, neither let the rich man glory in his riches. Jeremiah here is addressing the people of Judah. He is pointing out what they have come to trust in for their national security. They believed that because of their wise men, their strategists, and their money, their treasury, and their military might, that they had nothing to worry about from other nations. But Babylon was about to crush them. And what Jeremiah said to these people over 2,500 years ago is still relevant for us today. Because you see, people have not changed. And God has not changed. Do people come to trust in the three elements that are mentioned in verse 23 today? Absolutely. This is the big three of the world. It's been called the Trinity of the World. Speaks of intellectual capacity or ability , physical mites And and then of course uh we have riches, wealth. What Jeremiah is saying Is not his opinion. Notice what he says in verse 23 to frame this discussion. Thus saith the Lord, this is the message from God Almighty. These have always been the items that impress people in the world. This is what the celebrities possess. This is what our sports heroes possess. This is what our cultural icons are all about. Power. Money, being attractive and healthy and strong. This is the good life. This is what everyone strives for in the world. But are these the pursuits that should dominate our life? Let's look at these three items. First of all, we have wisdom. Now, when he speaks of wisdom here, he's speaking really not of biblical wisdom, because the biblical wisdom, which begins with the knowledge of God, is a good thing. What he's talking about here is the ability to analyze information and then make adjustments and decisions that are wise and skillful We would call the wise men of today perhaps strategists or consultants. We live in a part of the country where there are many people who make their living as consultants A man can go into a company that is not working right, where they're they're not uh really making money the way they They should, and a man will come in there and he'll make a number of changes, he'll analyze the situation, and in no time they're up to peak performance. Because that is a wise man. He knows what he's doing. He has insight. He has wisdom. He has discernment to know what needs to be done. Every industry has their wise men. They're consultants, they're experts who can come in and in a very short time know exactly how to fix things. And those people are paid a premium, of course, for their services. But this is referring to this whole area of our intellectual ability. Now I want to be very clear about this. The Bible is not anti-intellectual. God is the one who made us, who gave us these minds. Education is indeed a noble pursuit, and scientific advancements have been a great blessing to humanity, but they have not solved our deepest problems. Because our deepest problems cannot be solved by man's wisdom. Our deepest problems are not intellectual hindrances, they are spiritual in nature. There are many people here this morning under the sound of my voice that have very good minds. Some of you astound me at the things you can do, the things that you know about, the expertise. that you possess. But I want you to know that according to this passage, it is nothing to glory in. Why is that? Well, for one reason, whatever brains you have have been given to you by God. The Bible says, what hast thou that thou didst not receive? And the other reason that you should not glory in is that your astounding abilities unfortunately, are only temporary. They will fade in time. Some of you here ever have a senior moment? Or something that you know that you know, and and all of a sudden it's just not there, and it's frustrating to you because you're an intelligent, competent person, and you can't even think of this. That's a little reminder that you should not boast or find your value in your mind. And the fact of the matter is, if you need another reason, is your wisdom is nothing compared to God's knowledge. Everything that you know, you may be the smartest person that you know, but everything that you know is just tiny and infinitesimal compared to the knowledge of the omniscient gods. And finally, your intellectual abilities will not save you from the greatest problems of life, and they will never save your soul. Can I say this bluntly? There are a lot of really intelligent people who go to hell. They have a great mind. God has gifted them with great abilities. But they have trusted in their mind and their reasoning rather than in God Let's turn to the second of these, which is might or physical ability. Or I think you could even lump being physically attractive unto this. He says, let not the mighty man glory in his might. In case you didn't know, we live in a culture obsessed with fitness and athletics and being physically attractive. It's a huge part of our culture. So many people feel that they don't measure up because they don't look like a celebrity. They don't have the ideal look And they will nearly kill themselves to try to gain that. And of course, we have a nation that is obsessed with athletics, sports Now let me just say this. I do not come to you as someone who hates athletics and sports. Alright? I I come to you from the perspective of someone who 's played many, many sports and enjoys it immensely. But I want you to know that athletics makes a horrible gods. Whatever athletic ability you have is going to fade fast. Every man knows here who's perhaps an athlete that that your peak as an athletic performer doesn't last very long and it goes downhill pretty steeply One day you're out doing something and you try something that you have always been able to do, and all of a sudden you can't do it anymore That's a sad reminder that your physical might, your athletic abilities should not be your God's I'm afraid that many times we pass on the wrong message to our children parents. Let me be pointed about this. Dads, if the only thing that you ever get excited about is athletics and watching sports and taking your kids to sporting events And and that's like the one commitment in your life that you you're really all in for. You are setting an example for your children that says the most important thing in life is athletics. There is nothing that can touch it. And that's a wrong message. It's a foolish message to give our children. What else impresses the world? Money. Money. He says, let not the rich man glory in his riches. I think that most people, if they were asked, do you want to be physically strong? Do you want to be intelligent? or do you want to be rich? I think most people, if they couldn't choose all three, they'd say, I'll take the latter. We live in a nation that is so materialistic in our focus. And we call this pursuit the American dream. We are the wealthiest country that has ever existed in the history of the world. We are taught through commercials, through examples, that our security, our satisfaction, and our identity is found in our possessions. And millions of Americans every day will work day and night to achieve some level of financial security and status. Because in their minds, that's the measure of success. That's what life is really all about But you know what Jesus said? Jesus said a man's life does not consist of the abundance of things that he possesses. Did you know that? The measure of your life is not how much stuff you have or how nice of stuff you have. The Bible says that living for wealth is a foolish way to spend your life. Do you remember the story of the successful farmer in Luke chapter 12? laying on his bed at night. He's thinking about this bumper crop that he's just harvested and he can't fit it all in his barns. And he says, I know what I'm going to do. I'm going to tear down my barns and I'm going to build larger barns. I'm going to have huge barns. And I will put all of those crops stuffs in there, and I will be financially secure and successful, and I'll have nothing to worry about for days to come. Because whatever famine comes my way, I am set for life. And you know what God says to him? He says, Thou fool, tonight thy soul shall be required of thee. You see, all of that planning, all of that boasting, all of that sense of security was foolishness because that night he was going to die. Somebody else is going to eat those crops You see, the pursuit of money is a poor way for a man who has an immortal soul to invest his life. Jesus said in Mark chapter 8 and verse 36, For what shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul? And he said in Mark chapter 10 and verse 24, how hard is it for them that trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of heaven? You see, being wealthy is not an advantage, God says. It's a disadvantage. Because people who are wealthy tend to trust in their money and say, I don't need God 's I've got everything I need here. I've got my heaven on earth here. I know that this is countercultural, but it's the plain teaching of the Bible. 1 Timothy chapter 6, Paul charges Timothy to tell those who are rich not to trust in uncertain riches. If you have, if your sense of stability and security is based on your financial resources, I'm telling you, you are building your life on quicksand. Because it can be gone in a moment. It's not a very wise investment of your life. So we are not to find our value. We are not to boast about our intellectual capacity or our physical strength. Or our financial resources, these are not good reasons for you to live. This is not the purpose of your existence. And giving your life to pursue these things is a foolish way to live. And that brings me to my second point. We should make knowing God the pursuit of our life because knowing God is the greatest blessing that a human being can experience. Look with me at verse 24. But let him that gloryeth glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth me, that I am the Lord. Which exercise loving kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth. For in these things I delight, saith the Lord. The alternative to boasting in the things that man naturally boasts in is that we are to boast. We are to find our meaning in knowing God. Now this is kind of ironic. Who would really boast about knowing God? No one. Because the more you know God, the more humble you will become. And in fact, the more you know God, There's a sense in which the more you realize how little you truly know of God Sort of like you know some people think they're really, really smart, and then if you continue on in advance education, you come to the realization how ignorant you truly are. It's just you didn't know enough to know that you didn't know anything. And the more that you know about God, the more you realize how little you really know of Him. So what is Jeremiah talking about here? Jeremiah is saying, this is what we will value. To put it this way, when you really know God, you will want to talk to others about God. Because He is your joy. He is your ground of security. Sort of like grandmothers. You know any grandmothers who like to show pictures of their grandkids? That's what they boast about. That's their glory. That's their joy. That's what they want to talk about. They enter into a conversation with you. They see see somebody in the grocery store. They don't even know who they are. They Start rock up a relationship and next thing you know, they got their phone out and they're showing pictures of their grandchildren. You see what you boast and you talk about. It reveals what's really in your heart. Now our text mentions two things here that are really referring to one whole, and that is, he says here, them that knoweth me, that understandeth and knoweth me. This is a literary phenomenon where two things are used to refer to really one whole item. And the first one, the first half of it, is really on more on the intellectual. You see, if you're really going to have a relationship with someone, you do have to know some things about them, right? That's the basis of it. to know who they are, what they like, and what they're interested in to have a real relationship with them. So in order to know God, you do have to know some things about God. You have to know the God That is revealed in the pages of Scripture. Now, the natural man who perhaps does not immerse his mind in the Word of God Creates a God of his own imagination. In Psalm chapter 50 and verse 21, the psalmist writes, Thou thoughtest that I was altogether such a one as thyself. The God that many people worship or believe in is simply a projection of their own fallen imagination. They have ironically made God in their own image. This is the way ancient peoples and mythology, their gods, were simply amplifications and extensions of them. They were like their person, you might say, on steroids. They can do more, they can run faster, they can do incredible things, but they're flawed just like they are. That's the way the ancient people thought of their gods often. But the God of the Bible who has revealed himself in this book is vastly different. He's not like us. He's a God of holiness, a God of omnipotence. And we can only Know him by knowing him as he has revealed himself. We can't find out about God on our own. We have to go and look at how he has revealed himself in the pages of Scripture, especially. And then he talks about this is not just an intellectual quest or relationship, but that second term, knoweth me , speaks of an intimate personal relationship. You see, it's not enough to know some facts about God. You have to know some facts about God to know Him. Just like to have a relationship with another human being, you have to know some things about them. But knowing some things about another person does not constitute a relationship. We live in a society That is so focused on celebrity. And there are millions of people in America who have a celebrity, whoever that might be, maybe a sports star, maybe a singer. whatever, and they can tell you incredible amounts of information about that individual. They can tell you their birthday. They can tell you what hobbies they enjoy, where they were born, what high school they went to, every movie they starred in. They can tell if there's a sports star, all of their statistics. They know incredible amounts of information about that person. But they don't really know that person. They've never met them. They've never interacted with that person, but they know a lot of facts about that person. And there's some people like that in their relationship with God. They may know their Bibles to some degree. They may know some facts but they don't really have a personal relationship of trust with God because having knowing God and having a relationship with God is different than just knowing facts. You must know some facts about God, but it goes beyond that. And that's what Jeremiah is saying. There were many people in Judah who knew some facts about Jehovah. They could tell you the Old Testament stories. They could tell you that Jehovah was greater than all the false gods of the nations around them, but they didn't really know God. They didn't really trust in God. And then Jeremiah mentions three terms here. He's telling them why they should want to get to know this God and have a real relationship with him. Because he is a God which exercises loving kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth. And these three terms are said in contrast to the three idols of the world. Wisdom, intellectual abilities, might, physical prowess, and attractiveness, and then money or wealth. That's what the world lives for. He says, no, no, no. Your question should not be that. It should be God. Because let me tell you who this God is. He is a God who possesses these characteristics. And he relates to his people in this way. Jeremiah uses Three of the most important Old Testament terms to describe God here. The first word is this term, loving kindness. It's one of the richest words in all of Scripture. She is 245 times in the Old Testament. And it's really difficult to adequately grasp it and translate it into the English. Let me give you some different ways it's translated. It's translated as steadfast love or unfailing devotion or merciful love or covenant loyalty. It's a word that speaks about the relationship that God has with his people, a relationship of unending love. And Jeremiah is saying to these people, this is why you should get to know this God, because he is a God who has faithful, unfailing love for his people. And then he goes on to use this next term, judgment, and and when we think of judgment, we think always of a negative thing. But the idea of the term judgment here, we would put perhaps today in this term of justice. He's a God who always does what is right. He's a God who is just. He's a God who never fails his people. He protects his own. He vindicates the just and he punishes the wicked. And thirdly, God demonstrates his righteousness to his people. This idea is closely related to the previous term. Something that is righteous conforms to a standard God is righteous because there is no higher standard than himself. He is always righteous. He always does what is good. He always does what is best. He never bends the rules, as it were. He's never a little bit off. He is the great I am, the God who will never change. But this description of God and his relationship with his people raises a very important question. How is it that God can give his Have a relationship of love and of justice and of righteousness to sinful people. How can God deal with his people in this way? How can he Treat people far better than they deserve and still be considered just himself. Now Jeremiah does not really answer that question in this passage. But the New Testament certainly does. And this naturally leads us to the third reason that knowing God should be our ultimate quest, and that is because knowing God is the only way to enjoy eternal life. A very important verse in connection with this is John 17. 3. Jesus said this. And this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. Eternal life is essentially knowing God through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. In John chapter 14 and verse 6, Jesus said this: I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. No man, no person can come to really know God, he says, except through Jesus Christ. Now, I don't know if you call it that or not, but that's a very exclusive claim. This is why Christians cannot hold to the veracity of Scripture and be pluralists and say that all religions are the same and they all lead to God's. Because Jesus said the only way to God is through Him. He is the only Savior that God has provided. He is the sinless Son of God who died in place of sinners. And the Bible describes him as the righteous one or the just one. You see, this is how God the Father can forgive sinful people like us. This is how he can deal with us. with an unfailing love with justice and with righteousness, and yet be just and righteous himself It's because the perfectly righteous Son of God died in our place. He took the punishment that we deserve upon him. He paid the penalty for our sins. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 puts it this way, for he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. So how could you know if you really know God? Well, let me give you one test. How do you feel about the cross? How do you feel about Christ and his death for sinners. I started out this message talking about the fact that what we boast about or brag about says a great deal about who we are and what we value. Well the man who explains the gospel more thoroughly in the New Testament than anyone else was the Apostle Paul. And he said in Galatians chapter 6, And verse 14, God forbid that I should glory, that I should boast, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. You see, all true believers love the cross. They love the Savior who died in their place without exception. Perhaps you're still confused and wondering whether you truly know God. So let me ask you some simple questions. Do you realize that you are a sinner? You see, until you realize that you have a huge problem of sin, you will never feel that you have the need of a savior. You see, if you don't think you're lost, you're never going to have someone help you to be found. If you don't think you have a horrible disease, you're never going to seek medical attention and help with that because you don't think you have a problem. And until you come to see that you have a huge problem called sin , That separates you from God's and will eventually send you to a place called hell, you will never seek the Savior. So do you know the shepherd, the Lord Jesus Christ? I'm going to read some passages primarily out of the book of John. As I conclude this message in John chapter 10 and verse 14, he says, This: I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known of mine. That's why I ask you if you know the Lord Jesus, because Jesus says that everyone who is truly his follower knows him. He knows them, and they know him. How does one begin to know Jesus? Well, he says earlier in this very chapter that he is the door. He says in verse 9, I am the door. By me, if any man enter in, he shall be saved and shall go out and in and find pasture. He is the only door that God has provided, the only way in. So have you entered into a relationship with Jesus Christ by faith? I want to read a few more verses from the Gospel of John and John chapter 5 and verse 24. We have this significant verse. Jesus says, Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life. And shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. This verse says that at the moment we believe, we are transferred From a standing of death to spiritual life. Has that ever happened to you? Where everything changed? The next chapter in John chapter 6 and verse 37, it says, All that the Father giveth me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will no wise cast out. And verse 40 it says, This is the will of him that sent me, that everyone which seeth the Son and believeth on him may have everlasting life, and I will raise him up at the last day. So have you come to Christ? Has there been a change in your life? In John chapter 10, he gives An evidence that you know this the shepherd, and that is that if you really know the Lord Jesus You will follow him. He says in John chapter 10 and verse 27, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life And they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My father which gave them me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. The sheep who know the shepherd, they will follow him. They will listen to his voice, and they are secure. These wonderful promises are made only to those who follow the shepherd. So have you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ? The most familiar verses in John, the Gospel of John, are found in chapter 3. It says in verse 14, as Moses lifted up his serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world. but that the world through him might be saved. And this chapter concludes with this solemn verse. He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life, and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. This verse tells us that all of humanity can be divided up into two categories. Those who have eternal life. are those who presently have the wrath of God abiding on them. Now people don't naturally think that way. You may have never thought of that before, but this is what the scripture teaches. We like to think that there are many options That there are many paths, that there are people in many different situations, but the scripture narrows it down to just two So which one? Which path are you following today? Do you know God through Jesus Christ? Do you have eternal life? Or do you have the wrath of God abiding on you? Over a hundred years ago, there was a woman in England by the name of Charlotte Elliott. It's during the Victorian era. She was a woman of high station. And one day there was a famous Swiss minister named Cesar Milan famous preacher, writer. And he was at the dinner that she was attending. And he made a side comment to her that he said, I hope that you truly know the Lord. And she took great offense at this and replied that she did not want to discuss this matter with him any further. And he met her again some three weeks later at another social occasion. And she told the minister that ever since he had spoken to her and said, I hope that you know the Lord. That she had been troubled. Because as she examined her life, she realized that she only had really a cultural Christianity. But she didn't really know God. She didn't have a relationship with him. And so she said to this famous preacher, how do I come to Christ? I don't know what that means. I don't know how to do that. And Dr. Milan said to her, just come as you are. And she did by faith. And she received Christ and she went away rejoicing. And shortly after this, she wrote these words in a poem. Just as I am, without one plea. But that thy blood was shed for me, and that thou bidst me come to thee, O Lamb of God, I come. Let me ask you this morning, have you come to the Savior? Do you truly know the Lord? Let's close in prayer Our Father in heaven, you know the need of every heart here. You know those who are your children, who are your sheep, you know those who are not. I pray, Father, that you would draw sinners to the Savior. I pray that you would open the eyes of the blind. I pray that you would unstop the ears of those who have been deaf to the gospel. I pray that today would be the day of salvation for someone. That they might come just as they are, not trusting in what they have done, but coming to the Savior who has done all for them. Oh Father, work in our midst we pray, for it's in Jesus' name. Amen.