Well let me go ahead and begin with a word of prayer this evening. Father, we thank you that we can come into your house tonight to hear the word preached. I pray that you would be with me in spirit and truth, Father, and give us ears to hear. And that we would be encouraged by this message, Father, strengthened and put on watch, Father, as we know that temptation is lurking and Satan is willing, and we are but needing of you. And so we ask for your wisdom and discernment in this message tonight, Father. Amen. Well, at eleven forty PM, there was a bang. Quickly, put on this life jacket. These are the first words heard by seven-year-old Eva Hart as she was awakened in the middle of the night by her mother. Get dressed warmly, she said. She told the startled girl, as she woke her. You see, but nothing was wrong yet. The ship they were on was indestructible, the pride of the Atlantic. And this pride was reflected in the cavalier attitudes that everyone on board was boasting in. The bump that the ship experienced was written off in everyone's mind seconds after it occurred. But not Esther, her mother. She believed something else about the reality of what just happened on the ship they were on and the consequences of being overly confident. She recognized the reality of danger while others dismissed it. Eva and her mother escaped from the RMS Titanic that night. while many others, including her father, died. You see, the tragedy of the Titanic is not that people lacked life jackets. But many never thought that they would need one. History teaches us that destruction rarely comes because the danger was unknown. Rather, it comes because danger was underestimated. And Scripture tells us the same is true of us spiritually. You see, we are so prone to the ignorance of self-confidence and the illusion that everything is fine, we fail to acknowledge the real spiritual danger in front of us. Tonight we come to a verse in the Lord's Prayer that is all about this reality of spiritual danger in front of us. And we must seek the Lord's and the Lord in prayer for protection from this danger because Satan will tempt us, but God will deliver us. Please turn with me in your Bible to Matthew 6, verse 13. Matthew 6, verse 13. So we've reached it. We've reached the end of the series on the Lord's Prayer. And I at tonight am wrapping up the final of the three petitions to God. In the end, the petitions of dependence. I've made the point in previous sermons that this prayer, the Lord's Prayer, is given as a pattern of prayer. In contrast to those sub-par prayers of the Pharisees discussed earlier in chapter 6. This is the model of true prayer, as the Lord intended it, one that is theocentric for God, for his glory in all things, and our dependence on God in all things. So tonight we're at the last of the three petitions of the believer, and these petitions are all about dependence in different areas and needs of our life. The first we talked about was the dependence on our physical needs. Then we talked about the spiritual needs, namely forgiveness. And now we move into the last of these, which is a moral need. Moral in the sense that we are praying in this last petition not for the debts of our sin. But for deliverance from future moral failure from sin in the face of a great and glorious God who can deliver us and a powerful enemy that wants to destroy us So tonight I want to turn to our text and explore two powerful dualities of the Christian life. When it comes to our prayer lives, the inevitable work of Satan and our dependence on God for deliverance and protection. The first of these is that God tests, but Satan tempts. And the second is that God delivers, but Satan destroys. So let's look at the first one of these. God tests, but Satan tempts. If you look at Matthew 16, or 6. 13, the first part of the verse says this. And lead us not into temptation. Well, right away, if you know your Bible, this verse strikes you with a challenge. Why are we praying to God to avoid temptation when in James 1. 13 it says this? Let no one say, when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one. God tempts no one. So clearly, we need to understand what this verse is saying before we seek to apply it. James says that God does not tempt us. So why will we be praying to God to not lead us into temptation? Let me walk through two points that this verse will help us understand this intent. The first of these, again, is God tests. So the first thing we have to understand with God testing is this definition or this word periasmus, which is translated in your text as temptation. You see, this word is also translated throughout the New Testament as testing. It's a tricky word to translate. Because it has multiple connotations, and it requires the context of the verse to understand it. Right? Just like when we say something's cool, it can be like the weather outside and be physically cold. Or it can be cool, like Pastor Aaron 's cool. Right? Means the same-two different meanings, same word. You see, in all of Matthew, it's translated as temptation. The focus is in a negative sense. So this negative versus positive sense comes from what we know is true about God and what is true about Satan. See, God does not tempt men, James 1. 13, but he does allow us to be tested. James 1. 2 says, Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds. Throughout Scripture, God's testing is not easy, but it's nothing that we are to pray against. In 1 Peter 1, it says this, in this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. So that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in the praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus. Jesus Christ. God tests us in order to prove us and bring us to maturity. These tests should not be feared, nor should we pray for God to withhold them. God tests us, and these tests are good. So a prayer to not be led into trial or tests from the perspective of God as the actor Does not really align with the character of God and what we understand from Scripture. So to understand this, we have to go to the second point. Satan tempts. Let's look at the last word of this text. You go all the way to the, probably in the middle for some of you, to the end of this verse, there's this word delivered from evil. Depending on your version, it may say something slightly different. Some of you might have this translated as the evil one. This is actually a better translation. The ESV just says evil. That's because this is not a general evil that we're asking to be delivered from, but the author of evil himself, Satan. In the Greek, there's a use of the article that makes it explicit that this is a subnative. This is a the evil one. Scripture uses this terminology to talk about Satan frequently. Five times in Matthew, in John, Ephesians, Thessalonians, 1 John, this is a reference to Satan in this verse. So now when we look at the whole context of this verse, we can see where this prayer is going. It contains two petitions, one positive, one negative, with the implication that Satan is the one that we are being asked to be delivered from, and the translation of periasmos as temptation makes more sense. Satan, the evil one, is the one that tempts us. See, temptations are the work of Satan. He is the one that we are to be delivered from. In 1 Corinthians 7, Satan is the one who tempts the congregation to sexual immorality. In 1 Thessalonians 3, Satan would tempt the congregation to unfaithfulness. In Matthew 4, Satan tries to tempt Jesus in the wilderness. Satan desires to devour the people of God, not simply through violence or destruction, but through temptation that leads to the destruction of compromising sin. See, God tests, but Satan tempts. So we're not praying that God would not lead us into temptation. but that God would spare us from a testing that might become a temptation because of Satan and our own sin. You see, God will put tests into our lives and trials before us. You see, but it is the work of Satan in our own flesh to fail that test through temptation. James continues actually in verse 14 and says, but each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Then desire when it is conceived gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown brings forth death. And Satan, the tempter, knows this. He knows your weakness, your desires for sin, and he will use this against you. So the prayer to God here is one like this. It says, Lord, to the trials of life, let not that trial become a temptation. Protect me from the work of the evil one and my flesh that would cause me to sin. In a sense, I'm claiming the promise of 1 Corinthians 10. 13. Where it says, No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your own ability. But with temptation, he will also provide a way of escape that you may be able to endure it. You see, the idea here that Jesus is trying to express to the disciples in this prayer. Is that the disciples should be keenly aware of their weaknesses, and they should pray to be spared from their weaknesses. To be spared from the sins that could potentially ravage their hearts and bodies, that this lead us not to temptation, is a prayer of mercy before God. The prayer is to be spared, times of great pressure, times of testing that may prove us to fail. The prayer reflects one's own sense of limitation, our vulnerability to our weaknesses and our sins or situations where we may fail. It's a preemptive strike of prayer, if you will , of the temptations that may await you ahead of your days. We see this principle repeated many times in Scripture. Proverbs 30 says this. Two things I ask of you. Deny them not to me before I die. Remove far from me falsehood and lying, give me neither poverty nor riches, feed me with the food that is needful for me, lest I be full and deny you and say, who is the Lord, or lest I be poor and steal and profane the name of my God. Here the request is to be led from temptation of physical needs, of money. The author knows that the trial of poverty or riches or wanting food could lead him from a trial into a temptation to die. sin against God. He's praying that he would not have to face that temptation. Also in Matthew 26 In the garden, Jesus tells the disciples, pray that you may not enter into temptation, implying that prayer was needed against this kind of effective uh temptation that's coming in the entering in actually means falling or failing into temptation. This temptation for them was an active disobedience. To Jesus' command, to stand watch and guard. See, standing watch was not just a physical activity of stamina, but one of spiritual need to strengthen the disciples against the temptation really to spiritual sloth. And thirdly, even Christ prays to the Father That the Father would protect the disciples from temptation in the work of Satan when he says in John and the priestly prayer, he says, I do not ask that you take them out of this world, but that you keep them from the evil one. Even Jesus knows what's about to come ahead of these disciples and for us. You see, praying to God not to be led to temptation of Satan is a real spiritual need for the people of God. That we are dependent on Him for this kind of protection. So, how should this affect our prayer? I have four imperatives to challenge us about this. First, we must be concerned about tomorrow's sin as much as we are about today's and yesterday. It's common for us to pray confession of sin, confessing for the sins that we have occurred, for our past sins. But we must also pray that we would avoid sin, because all sin is detestable to God. Are you dependently praying that you be protected from sin's forthcoming from the God who has defeated Satan? Or are you assuming on the grace of God for your sin when it happens? Yeah, I might bump into it today, we'll see. Or are you trusting your own willpower to defeat the temptation? What is needed is a heart that is repulsed not only by our past sin, but the thought of future sin in our lives. If we're honest, if we're really honest, we know it's coming. I think anyone's walking out the door in the morning thinking, I'm not going to sin today. How foolish not to pray for that. Second, we must take the enemy very seriously. It is the error of many Christians that we all live, in a sense, in a practical materialism. We kind of forget about the spiritual reality happening around us. Do you believe, honestly , That there's someone out there who's ready to destroy you. That he knows your weaknesses He knows your temptations, knows your sin. He's skilled in deception, in lies, in murder, and more so, he hates you. And wants to destroy you. And if God did not limit his power, he would destroy every one of us on the spot. You see, if there was a murderer sitting in the pew next to you right now, I bet you'd be praying. Maybe sliding over. But we cast off the reality of this murderer in our lives on any given day In our prayer life, we need to pray for the protection against the temptations of Satan. Even the Archangel Michael prayed for God's provision to overcome Satan in the book of Jude. How much more would we need that protection? Thirdly, we must have a humble, realistic view of our own weakness and where we are prone to sin. Pride goes before destruction. Proverbs sixteen, eighteen. Oh, how many of us have fallen to temptation, not by the overwhelming nature of the situation, but by our underwhelming dependence on prayer and the strength of God. God does not redeem the hearts of man and make him holy. He does do this, but he never does it to the point where he's no longer dependent on God. This is much of the whole point of the Lord's Prayer: dependence on the Lord. There's hardly been a mighty man of God that was not a mighty man of prayer and dependence, and we must be likewise. You see, we have to have an accurate view, a realistic view of our weaknesses, and pray to God for his mercy and protection. Yes, we must build our spiritual and physical fortifications around us that we may not be tempted. But we must pray. There is probably not a person in this room, if we surveyed everyone, that has not seen someone they know. underestimate the power of sin in their lives to their own destruction. Lead us not into temptation is a prayer for those who know the power of sin and their weaknesses apart from God. And fourthly, we also have to pray this for others. Lead us, is what the verse says. The prayer is for the whole body of Christ. For yourself, yes, but for your brothers and sisters, those who've entrusted their lives to you in prayer, as we've covenanted together. Those you know have certain struggles, those who fall to certain temptations. Ask yourself, do you regularly prayer for others to be protected from future sin, from the sins of this day? What about your spouse or your children or your parents? Do you pray for their protection from sin more than you rebuke them for it? Let us do this for each other with great resolve. So now we've seen that God tests and Satan tempts. So we turn to the second aspect of this petition, which will orient us to another duality. If we enter into sin, if we fail to fall to temptation, there is only one who can help us And that is that God delivers, but Satan destroys. Look at the next part of the verse. But deliver us from evil. The petition takes a different perspective now. Second part of the verse, we can see this coordination connection here with the word but. The logical flow comes out a bit more now. We pray, Lord, keep me far from situations that my weaknesses would fall into Satan's snare of temptation. But if we are tempted, deliver me from the author of that evil. Satan. This echoes 2 Timothy 4, where it says, the Lord will rescue me from every evil deed and bring me safely to his heavenly kingdom. If we are tempted to sin, our prayer gets directed to God to be delivered from that evil. Humility and honesty of this prayer are heart-revealing for the disciples and for us. It requires humility because it acknowledges the dependence on God from delivering us from sin. We see God delivers. We know we've already read 1 Corinthians 10, 13, where it says, God is faithful, he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation, he also provides the way of escape that you may be able to endure it. You see, God promises to provide a way. He gives a way of deliverance from that temptation and sin. Hebrews 2 says, For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. In the story of Abraham and Abimelech in Genesis 20, God came to Abimelech in a dream. He called Abimelech a dead man. Because for he took Abraham's wife, even though it was Abraham who gave it to him. Interesting story there. Abimelech pleaded his innocence, and he accused the two of them for what they did. Like they lied to me But God was the one who delivered Abimelech from sinning. Listen to what it says. In Genesis 20, verse 6, it says, Then God said to him, Abimelech in the dream, Yes, I know that you have done this in the integrity of your heart. And it was I who kept you from sinning against me. Therefore I did not let you touch her. It is God who has the power to deliver man from the sin from temptation and deliver him from sin and evil. Paul, in speaking to the Corinthians, says this in 2 Corinthians, For we were so utterly burdened beyond our strength that we despised or despaired for life itself. Indeed, we felt that we had received the sentence of death. But that was to make us not rely on ourselves, but on God who raises the dead. He delivered us from such deadly peril, and he will deliver us. On him we have set our hope that he will deliver us again. But you must help us by prayer so that many will give thanks on behalf of the blessing granted us through the prayers of many. Paul knew that God was the one who delivered him from evil. Throughout the Bible, God is referred to as the deliverer. 2 Samuel 22, the Lord is my rock, my fortress, and my deliverer. Even more amazing, it is God who delivered all of mankind from sin by sending his son to die on the cross for our salvation. It was not the value of what we did for him. We did not s he did not see anything in the culmination of our works. He was not looking down on the earth saying, well, a few of these guys have kind of turned it around. I'm going to go down there and kind of help him out, you know. They deserve it. No. The deliverance of God for our sins points only to the glory of God and the beauty of Christ. In Colossians 1. 13 he says, He has delivered us from the dominion of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son. God delivers. It's in his character. It's in his promises to those who trust him, to those who seek him in prayer. You see, but God doesn't deliver anyone who doesn't call him Lord. Only those who believe in the Son of God. But if God delivers, the other reality that this verse presents to us is that Satan destroys. You see, the Lord could have just used Satan here in the verse, but he spoke of the evil one. implying that it's not just the person of Satan that he's being delivered from, but the active work of Satan that we are to be praying to to be delivered out of, the one who does the evil. That you're being delivered from. You see, this word deliver in the verse is implies that you're in a situation. Right? The other definition of this word throughout the scripture is rescued. You're being pulled out of. You're in that evil right now. But what is that evil? What is that evil that we are being delivered from? I want to present seven brief ways in which Satan seeks to destroy us. The first is tempting to sin. Satan actively entices people towards disobedience. Think of Adam and Eve. You can think of Christ in the wilderness. It's the point of our verse. Second, he deceives minds and blinds us to the truth. Satan obscures spiritual understanding and distorts truth. He does this in subtle ways and can even take the forms of religion and false righteousness. In 2 Corinthians 4, it says, In their case, the God of this world has blinded the minds of unbelievers. To keep them from seeing the light of the gospel and of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. Thirdly, he's the accuser He accuses God's people. Satan functions as an accuser seeking condemnation rather than repentance. His accusations target assurance, conscious, standing before God. We can think of the story of Job. And Satan accusing him. Or even in Zechariah 3, he gets called out. It says, Then he showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of the Lord, and Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him. That's why he was there. To accuse him. Fourthly, Satan oppresses and afflicts within limits. Satan may cause suffering, he may cause illness, hardship But only by divine permission. Many were disabled with disabling spirits that Jesus ministered to. Some were bound by Satan in affliction. That's how Luke describes it in Luke 13. Even Paul experienced this. In Second Corinthians, he says, So to keep me from being conceited because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations, a thorn was given to me in the flesh, a messenger of Satan. To harass me, to keep me from being conceited. He can oppress and afflict. Fifthly, he can enslave through sin and fear. Satan exploits sin to produce bondage and fear, particularly fear of death. In Hebrews 2. 14 it says Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he likewise partook of the same things that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is the devil. and deliver all those who fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. He uses fear to enslave people. Sixthly, he undermines the word of the church. Satan seeks to remove the word's impact, disrupt unity within the church, division, distraction, discouragement, all common strategies. Paul says this again in Corinthians. He says, For such men are false apostles, deceitful workmen, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ. And no wonder, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light. It's no surprise if his servants, meaning Satan's servants, also disguise themselves as servants of righteousness, their end will correspond to their deeds. Amen. And lastly, by opposing God's redemptive work, Satan resists the advance of the gospel as much as he possibly can in God's servants. Even though he will not succeed, his work impacts God's people. Paul accuses Elimas, the magician, of opposing God's work in Acts 13. He says, You, son of the devil, you enemy of all righteousness, full of deceit and villainy, will you not stop making crooked the straight paths of the Lord? Again, the son of the devil, the one opposing God's redemptive work. All of this simply to point that Satan destroys. It is his prerogative, it is his goal, and all of these are not exclusive to unbelievers, but believers as well. Even those who are righteous and are mature. If we're not immune to his destruction and tactics, we are very vulnerable, so vulnerable without the Lord. So when the evil of sin gets a foothold in our lives, it is prayer in the power of the Spirit. That we plead with God to deliver us from Satan's evil and his destruction by prayer. So how do we do this? How do we roll this into our prayer? How does this affect our prayer? Well, first, to pray for this, we must seek awareness of our sins. That way we can be delivered from them. There is a reality in the Christian life, I was actually just talking to a brother about this yesterday, that if God showed you all your sin at once, it might crush you. Some of us are kind of it unaware of our sin in some ways. We know from experience as we grow in grace God shows us sin in our lives, and we think, oh my goodness, that's been there the whole time. I've just been ignorant to it. But He's gracious to open our eyes. We were blinded to that sin, but now we see. But the secret to this, the path that Scripture has laid out for us in this, is that we can find and see our sin more clearly when we look to God first to see our sin. We must behold Christ to get that assessment of ourselves and our sin. John Calvin famously said that true and solid wisdom consists almost entirely of two parts. Knowledge of God and knowledge of ourselves. But I'm going to paraphrase the next point he says because it's kind of wordy He says, we never really know ourselves until we look to God first and then look to ourselves. You see, because in our pride, we always see ourselves as just, upright, holy, wise, until we are convinced of the clear evidence of the When we look at God, we see that we are vile. We are impure. We are wretched. You see, because God is the standard in the way that this conviction is produced. Since we are so easily content with the self-deception of our own righteousness, rather than the real thing. You can be blind to the sin that everyone else sees in your life We will not pray from deliverance from sin that we don't see. We must ask God to open our eyes, deliver us from spiritual blindness, and look upon God and his perfections, his character. and see the true nature of ourselves in the light of a holy God. Then we can pray to be delivered from that temptation. to sin. Second, we must pray against the evil, the schemes and the tactics of Satan in our lives. This is an act of prayer to be girded with the armor of God. In Ephesians 6 it says, Finally be strong in the Lord, and in the strength of his might, put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. We know the armor of God, truth, righteousness, faith, salvation, the word of God, and prayer. All of these are bits of the armor that we put on, weapons we use to prepare for the spiritual battle. And we should strive to gird ourselves up for this kind of spiritual battle. Yet Paul ends that list In Ephesians 6, with a call to prayer. And not just prayer, but constant prayer. And prayer against the schemes. of Satan, these seven things we talked about. If we are not praying, we are effectively not putting on the armor that God has provided. We're leaving vulnerability to that We are since walking into the battle unarmed. You've heard the phrase walking into a taking a knife into a gunfight. Well, this is a far greater enemy, and the only weapons we have are God's, not our own. You are foolish not to gurge yourself by taking sin and Satan seriously So I hope with these two applications we can be better prepared to be delivered from the evil one. But we've seen that God tests and Satan tempts. And God delivers and Satan destroys. These two dualities help us better understand the nature of this prayer in our dire need. to have a dependence on God for protection from future moral failure and deliverance when we do fall to sin. Before we conclude the sermon and the series, many of you might be looking at your Bible and seeing that we have not reached the end of the Lord's Prayer in your Bible. Maybe you have another verse. And that verse is in brackets, likely in your version. And it says this, For yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. If you're looking at a Pew Bible or you have an ESV, this isn't in there. But it's in the NASB, it's in the LSB, it's in the King James. So just quickly answer the question: why would this not be in the ESV? Why would this be removed? Well, this section of the scripture. has a substantial witness in the manuscripts. About 85, or sorry, 95% of the manuscripts that contain Matthew 6. 13 have this text in some variants. The issue that causes kind of all the hubbub with this and not being included in the ESV is that it's missing from some of the few early witnesses, meaning the documents, the manuscripts. The Botanicus, the Synaticus, these are like kind of flagship big manuscripts, some of the early codexes and the minuscules. So basically it just raises some doubts. It's like, eh, you know, the scholarships, like, I don't really know. It's hard to kind of answer that. And so when when scholars take questions, it ends up in brackets. That's basically what happens in our scripture. But it's worth mentioning that most historians would attest that a Jewish prayer without a doxology would be unthinkable in history. Just part of the prayer. So here's a collision of textual criticism and historical understanding kind of bounding together in our scripture. But the text is true nonetheless. And for our purposes, it's fitting to end on a doxology, a prayer to our Lord, because his is the kingdom. the power and the glory forever. So I want to come to the close of the sermon tonight and we're closing the series. And so I want to make a few concluding marks about the Lord's Prayer, its application, its consideration, thinking of all we've gone through. Congratulations for enduring this series. First, we have a pattern in the Lord's Prayer. We've been chipping away at it, kind of building it bit by bit, but let me kind of lay it out in one big picture for you. The petition is laid out in six different petitions, three to the glory of God, three to our dependence on God. To the glory of God, we pray that he is a father, the unique relationship we have, the intimacy we have to him in prayer, that he would be revered as holy. Second, that he brings fulfillment of his kingdom. It's already begun and it continues. And third, that his will be done on earth by his people. That more would desire to follow him, that his will would be done in obedience and in salvation. The other three, for our dependence on God and his glory. for the provision of all of our physical needs. Food, shelter, clothing, water, relationships, jobs, everything. Physical, of this world. Second, for the forgiveness of sin and for us to forgive others. So important to Christ to tell us this. What an anchor this is for us spiritually. And lastly, for our spiritual protection, that we would not be blinded to the reality of sin in front of us and our dependence on Him for that protection. The second big observation in this Lord's Prayer is that God gets all the glory in the Lord's Prayer. It's all about one person. It's all about God and His glory. Even in the last three petitions of our own, we don't seek these items like defiant children. Give me that. We we we seek it as dependent children. Coming humbly, knowing that He's the only one that can provide our needs. His glory is ascribed specifically in the first three, and it's ascribed implicitly by our dependence on Him in the last three. petitions. He gets all the glory in the Lord's Prayer. Third, the prayer is a means to God's ends. By the abounding mercy of God, God does answer prayer. But he always answers it in his own time, in his own ways. Prayer does change our hearts, it aligns them to his will, but he is merciful to hear us and to answer us when we speak to him in truth. Prayer is always a means to God's ends. Fourth, and this should be abundant after six sermons, but I heard Pastor went more than that. We should never be short on things to pray to God The scope of the requests in the Lord's Prayer, if you look at them, is immense in the pattern It's presented here in a condensed format, but to elaborate on the implications of each petition is virtually infinite. All of your needs, all of your protection, all of your dependence, all the glory God. God's glories can fill volumes. Even if you think topically through your needs for the day and you reach the end of the list, then you realize The petitions say us. And it expands to everyone that the Lord has put on your heart for the same things. It's not a prayer of self-dependence. It's a prayer for the body of Christ. You pray these things for everyone. The prayer is not of self-need, but the glory of God for the needs of all of us. We would never run out of things to pray for. If we bring this prayer to mind as we pray, as we think about the pattern, it should fill our thoughts with much Much to pray to God for. Fifth, Christ gave this prayer that we would be known as Christians. So you remember this prayer was given in contrast to the Jews of the time. Early in chapter 6, in the first part of our series, we talked about what Jesus was reacting to. But that goes even further now in 2026. The Jews did not pray to God the Father. In fact, no religion shares the intimacy and theology laid out in this prayer. The relationship that we have with God the Father is in stark contrast to deism or kind of the faiths and forces of other religions and beliefs. That we worship him over our needs rather than for our needs. Much of the world sees God as a cosmic piggy bank just trying to get what they need from Him. That is not the Lord's Prayer. In praying for his will, it shows that the world that we pray teleologically, that the world is moving towards a conclusion in God. We're not hoping on man's progress, we're not looking for evolution, but that God is in control and he's moving it towards an end. He will be the end of all things and will dictate that end. We pray in a God-dependence, not a self-dependence. Also thinking about forgiveness and forgiving others is right up there with your material needs. How strange is that to the world? And that we need and desire to be spared from sin and to live holy lives. Think about this. If you pray the Lord's Prayer, this pattern, in a secular environment, you'll be speaking against the culture, its beliefs, and its sins. It's in stark contrast to the world and its lies. If someone asks you to pray for them and you pray the Lord's Prayer, you're likely going to offend them. If they don't want what God wants, they want what they want. Of course, if they're not a believer, I say that. This prayer is a prayer of Christ and for those who truly know him It is a Christian prayer. As we close, may the Lord help us then to pray like this: to pray to the Father. To pray that the world would call him holy, to pray for his kingdom, to pray for his will to be done That we pray to him for every need, physical and spiritual, and he protect us from the evil one. Pray then like this, that Jesus Christ would be glorified Let's close in prayer. Father, yours is the glory and the power forever. Father, you are to be revered as holy. Help us, Lord, as we go from here to think upon the Lord's Prayer, to adopt it as we pray to you, Father, we would pray for your kingdom. That we pray for your will to be done on earth as is in heaven. That we'd seek you daily for our needs in all manner of needs. That we would ask for your forgiveness. And that Father, you would help us to forgive others. We'd walk in obedience in this. And that you would protect us from all sin and the snares of Satan. And if we do fall, Father, that you would deliver us from that evil and restore us to you. Father, you're gracious to give us this prayer, help us to go from here, to pray more, to pray faithfully, and to pray for your glory. And we ask all of this in your Son's name. Amen.