Matthew chapter 26. Coins are mentioned several times in the ministry of Christ. You may recall he praised the widow who put in her might into the temple offering that very tiny, nearly worthless coin. The Lord told a parable about day laborers who worked in a vineyard in Matthew chapter 20. They were each paid, it says a penny or it's a denarius. We know that Peter once paid the temple tax, which was a half shekel, with a coin that he found in the mouth of a fish that he caught. That of course was a miracle. But surely the most famous coins that are mentioned in the Bible are the 30 pieces of silver that Judas took to betray his Lord. And that's what I want us to consider tonight. These coins would have been shekels minted entire under the authority of Herod the Great. We know this to be the fact because they were the only shekels that were accepted in the Jewish temple. You may recall there were money changers there. those who came from Gentile lands that had images of uh various Caesars and emperors and so forth, that was and the minds of the Jewish people, idolatry and an idol, and so they had to exchange that pagan money for these Jewish shekels. Of course, it was only days before Judas was given these coins that Jesus overturned the tables of the money changers. We can't say for certain, but perhaps These very shekels of silver were overturned and thrown to the floor and in a few days later used to pay off Judas. The shekels contained about a half ounce of silver. You can actually buy one of these coins from this time period on the internet for about $550. Tonight as we prepare our hearts to the Lord's table, I want us to follow what the scriptures teach about these infamous coins. These silver pieces are silent witnesses to the greatest drama the world has ever known Although they are inanimate objects, they bear witness to eternal truth. One thing they do is point to the guilt of Judas. And there is indeed a message that they have for us. So I want us to consider three lessons that we can learn from these symbols that surround the cross. The first thing I would say is that this money reveals the depravity of the human heart. If you're in Matthew 26, I want you to look with me at verse 14. Then one of the twelve called Judas Iscariot went into the chief priest and said unto them, What will you give me? And I will deliver him unto you. And they covenanted with him for thirty pieces of silver, and from that time he saw an opportunity to betray him. Bible scholars over the centuries have speculated on Judas' motive for betraying our Lord. For some reason there has always been some sort of sympathy for Judas. And it seems that people have constantly tried to figure out an honorable motive for why he did what he did. Some have said that he betrayed his Lord not out of malice, but because he was trying to force Jesus into a position where he would display that indeed he was the Messiah. And so that as they came to arrest him and so forth, he would perform great miracles and set up his kingdom. And because Jesus was so humble and it seems reluctant to do this, Judas felt that he needed to force him to do this. He never intended that Jesus would be killed. Others have said that Judas was a violent revolutionary, and finally he has realized that Jesus was a man of peace and not a revolutionary, and so he cuts his losses. And gets out while he can. Others speculate that Judas, as it were, saw the writing on the wall that Jesus was going to be arrested and eventually murdered. And so Judas is going to get out before everything collapses. Others have foolishly suggested that Judas was a real patriot, that he loved his country. And he came to realize that Jesus was actually a real danger to Israel, that he might cause a civil war, and so to spare his nation, he sells out his master. But the Bible provides no evidence for any of these conjectures. It does, however, provide two clues as to his motives. I want you to notice how Matthew arranges his materials in this narrative. What does Matthew record right before this transaction? Well, in Matthew chapter 26, verses 6 through 11. We have the story of Jesus in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper and of this woman coming and anointing his feet, and she's anointing it for his burial. And what's significant, what I want you to notice, you might recall that it says In verse 8, and when his disciples saw it, they had indignation, saying, To what purpose is this waste? For this ointment might have been sold for much and given to the poor. When Jesus understood it, he said unto them, Why trouble ye the woman, for she hath wrought a good work upon me. Now we know from John's account that the disciple, it says disciples, but the one who spoke up and said, Why are you wasting this valuable substance? It was Judas who said that. And so there's essentially here Judas is being rebuked by our Lord. And Matthew arranges his gospel so the very next thing that you read about is the betrayal by Judas Iscariot. And yet this is not chronological. We know that there were at least four days in between the anointing and the betrayal. But Matthew wants to put them together to establish a lake that this event has something to do with this event. I'm sure that when Judas was rebuked by the Lord, he was embarrassed and angered at this rebuff. He was offended because his true heart was exposed. And I suspect that Judas brooded over this event like human beings tend to do when they've been wronged. We replay it and we think about it and We become more and more outraged that someone would do something to us. Of course, the Lord was not singing against him, but actually showing love by warning him that he knew what was in his heart and that it was time for him to repent. But in time, bitterness began to dominate his thinking. And his bitterness, I believe, was quickly transformed into a desire for revenge. This is how wicked the human heart is. This is how self-centered we are. We have a genius for justifying the most wicked of actions. Apart from madmen, if you talk to individuals, and I have on numerous occasions at detention centers and jails, And sometimes in my office of people who have done absolutely despicable and horrendous things, there's one thing that you will always find. And that is in their own mind it was justified. In their own mind it made sense. In their own mind it was it was rational. It was the thing to do. It was justified because look how horrible I've been treated Look how I have been let down. Look how I have been hurt. It seems that revenge was indeed a clear motive. And here we see Once more the wickedness of a fallen human heart But John and his commentary on this, I want you to turn with me, if you would, to John's account of this anointing, if you would, John chapter 12. John adds something writing many years after the events, a divine commentary on Jesus' motive. John chapter 12, verse 3. Let me read this. Then took Mary, a pound of ointment of spiked nerd very costly, and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair. And the house was filled with the odor of the ointment. Then said one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, which should betray him. Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence and given to the poor? And this is what John is going to say about that. This he said, not that he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief and had the bag and bare what was put therein. Then said Jesus, let her alone against the day of my bearing hath she kept this, for the poor always you have with you, but me you have not always John writing 60 years after the event says the reason why Judas made this protest is because he was a thief. And for some time he had been stealing from their common fund, their treasury, and he wanted to get his hands on this money as well. There is no sophisticated psychological theory needed here. Judas, at least, was in part betrayed his Lord for money. He was ready to murder the man who had treated him better than any man he had ever known. Jesus had been so patient with them. He had warned him frequently. He even gave Judas a sop of bread in the upper room, which was a symbol. of friendship and of acceptance. But Judas would not turn. He went out into the dark night with a dark heart filled with bitterness and greed. And when he came out to arrest Jesus, Matthew records that Jesus greeted him with these words, friend, wherefore art thou come? He used a term of affection, and he wasn't being sarcastic. It was his last pleadings with Judas to turn from his wicked ways. The Lord was pleading for his soul even to the very end. But Judas' heart was dark. The Bible says that Satan had entered into his heart. He was controlled by bitterness and anger and greed and revenge. You see those shiny pieces of silver belt bear eloquent witness to the darkness of the human heart. I think also that this money reveals the world's rejection of Christ. Please turn with me back to Matthew 26 where we started. Notice how the text mentions that the man who did this was one of the twelve. He was one of those hand-picked followers. And notice where he goes. He went unto the chief priest. And he says to them, in essence, what will you give me? Like a merchant selling his goods in the bazaar, Judas negotiates for the life of Christ. I want you to look a little earlier with me at these priests in Matthew 26, verse 3. Then assembled together the chief priests and the scribes and the elders of the people unto the palace of the high priest who was called Caiaphas and consulted that they might take Jesus by subtlety and kill him. But they said, not on the feast day, lest there be an uproar among the people. The religious establishment had already decided that Jesus would die very soon. But they were reluctant to do something at the Passover because there were many Galilean pilgrims. in town and they feared a riot and violence and the intervention of the Roman governments, which was the last thing that they wanted. So they wanted to just lay low and wait for their opportunity when things had gone and the pilgrims had gone back to their homes, then they would make their move and arrest him But then something unexpected took place. One of his own disciples offers to sell him out. How they must have howled with laughter, the idea that a servant, a student would negotiate to betray his rabbi, which they considered a sacred trust. They must have howled with laughter at the thought. What a disgrace. Mark 14 and Luke 22 tells us that the chief priests were glad when he made this offer. It was better than they could have imagined. An unexpected surprise, and they jumped at it. And it was Judas' betrayal that providentially determined That Jesus Christ would be offered up on the Passover, thus showing that indeed He is our Pastor. The Lord used the treachery of Judas to fulfill his timetable. Now the value of those 30 pieces of silver is difficult to equate to our modern currency. It's somewhere around The value of $200 to date. Access 2132 Says that if a man's ox gored a slave so that he died, the owner of the slave would be compensated with thirty shekels of silver. So Christ was valued at The worth of a common slave. But there is another passage that we know has prophetic significance. It's in one of those minor prophets. If you can find it, I invite you to turn to the book of Zechariah. Zechariah Chapter Eleven And verse 10. This is a rather confusing and unusual passage. The prophet here is talking about his staff that he has actually named. He says in verse 10, I took my staff, even beauty. and cut it asunder that I might break my covenant which I made with all the people. And it was broken in that day, and so the poor of the flock that waited upon me knew that it was the word of the Lord. And I said unto them, if ye think good, give me my price, and if not, forbear. So they weighed for my price thirty pieces of silver. And the Lord said unto me, Cast it unto the potter, a goodly price, that I was prized at of them, and I took the thirty pieces of silver and cast them to the potter in the house of the Lord. Zechariah is ending his ministry here with Judah. He breaks his staff, which apparently he had named beauty. The breaking of his staff symbolizes that he was no longer a shepherd to them. He was no longer their spiritual pastor. He symbolizes that because they have rejected his ministry, they have not heeded his warnings, that his ministry has come to an end just as he has broken that staff. And he says to them, give me my price. What is he talking about here? Well, in modern parlance, we would call this a severance package. And so they weighed for my price that says 30 pieces of silver. This was an insult. In essence, they were saying symbolically, you know, your ministry to us has been about as valuable as if a common slave who labors in the fields, who cannot read, who has no wisdom, as if he ministered to us. That's how much we value your ministry that you have given to us. It's as good as any illiterate person would give us. And so the prophet Zechariah refuses Their severance package. He takes it, but he does not use it for himself. Instead, he gives it to a potter in the house of the Lord. And this is prophetic. of what would happen with the 30 pieces of silver. But what I want you to see is the rejection of God's shepherd to the people here, Zechariah, was a foreshadowing of Israel's ultimate rejection of the good shepherds. And we see these details of the potter's house and of the 30 pieces of silver making that connection And indeed the New Testament makes that equation as well. What we see here is that the world places little value on Christ. He indeed was despised and rejected of men. He was betrayed by his own disciple. He was murdered by the religious leaders of God's chosen people. And he is still rejected today. The third thing I would like you to see that this money reveals to us that the wages of sin is death I'm going to invite you to turn with me now to Matthew chapter 27. Matthew 27 Matthew twenty-seven verse three. Then Judas Which had betrayed him. When he saw that he was condemned, repented himself and brought again the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders, saying, I have sinned in that I have betrayed the innocent blood. And they said, What is that to us? See thou to that. And he cast down the pieces of silver in the temple and departed and went and hanged himself. And the chief priest took the silver pieces and said, it's not lawful for to put them into the treasury because it is the price of blood. And they took counsel and bought with them the potter's field to bury strangers in. Wherefore that field was called the field of blood unto this day. Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremy or Jeremiah the prophet, saying, They took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him that was valued, whom they of the children of Israel did value. And he gave them for the potter's field as the Lord appointed me. Let me make one point that might confuse you He says that which was spoken by Jeremy or Jeremiah the prophet. We just read from Zechariah. Does the Bible have a mistake here? No, it does not, because the Jews had divided the Old Testament into very segments, the the the law, the writings, and the prophets And they called the prophets sometimes, the entirety of them, the book of Jeremiah, because he was, in their estimation, the leading prophet. And so he, Matthew here writing, Jews is using the type of description of that section of the Old Testament and the way they would describe it However, we know, as we just read, that specifically it was the prophet Zechariah that makes this prophecy. It seems here that the reality of Judas' actions finally began to plague his conscience. He was eaten up with guilt. Judas was no callous monster. He was a man who was driven by his own sinful desires, but yet often felt guilty for that. And he felt trapped and destroyed. And when he realized What was happened, the Bible says in one place that he repented himself. The idea there is not that he turned from his sin and turned to God, but that he regretted what he had done. And he returns to the chief priest on the morning that Christ was to be crucified. His conscience is plagued, and so he makes this confession in verse 4. I have sinned, and that I have betrayed the innocent blood. This is one of many confessions that we have surrounding the death of Christ to his innocence, his sinlessness. He was innocent. I betrayed the only truly innocent man who ever walked the face of the earth. And as wicked and as horrible as the actions of Judas were We have a picture here that reveals to us that these religious leaders were more wicked still. What is he doing when he comes back with them for the money? Where would you turn if you were a Jew in the Old Testament and your conscience was plagued with guilt and you felt like you had Committed some horrible act and you didn't know what to do, you didn't know where to find help, you would turn to the religious leaders of your nation. He was looking for them to give him counsel and perhaps to take the money back. But they provide no help. They say to him, What is that to us? In other words, what do we care? With a smirk on their faces, perhaps. You think we're disturbed about the fact that this man in a few moments is going to be murdered and executed on a cross? You think that bothers us? And it says, and he threw those accursed coins down on the temple floor. The floor would have been, of course. made of some type of tile or stone, so this would have echoed. Silver has a very distinctive sound to it, by the way And when it fell down and was thrown down on that stone floor, it would have made a sound that would have reverberated throughout God's house that morning. It was as if these silver coins were giving out a fitting protest to this unholy act. But these religious hypocrites were not pricked. by Peter's or by Judas's distress. What they were concerned about was following their pious procedures. Therefore, they would not put them back in the temple treasury because Deuteronomy 23, verses 18 and 19 indicated that they were not to use blood money, money that Was used in some way for the death of someone else. Never mind that they had taken this money out of the treasury To purchase information and identification for a man to murder him. So what would they do with this filthy lucre? Well, they do often what people do in such a conundrum. They took the money and decided to use it for a charitable purpose. It says that they bought a potter's field. Probably a field where a potter would go and dig out his clay, you know, really high-quality clay for making pottery, it's difficult to find places like that. You have to find just the right type of clay. And apparently this field had it, and perhaps it had all been dug out, and all the clay had been taken out, and now it was pock marked with holes where it had been dug in, and it really was worthless. It was a worthless piece of real estate. Nobody wanted it. No one wanted to purchase that. And so a rather small amount of money would purchase the spields, but what could they use it for? No self-respecting Jew would want to be buried there. This was not consecrated ground. This was not an especially ideal location, so they would set it up for foreigners who came to the city and died and had no place to be buried because They were foreigners, and so they would be buried in this potter 's field. Now how did this story come out? Perhaps Word leaked out from one of the temple servants and shared it with some of his family members and they shared it with others until it became the stuff of legend there in Jerusalem. of how that field got to be purchased. It was purchased with the money that Judas used to betray the Lord Jesus Christ. But there is one final reference to Judas and his story, and that's found in the first chapter of Acts. Turn with me to the book of Acts, the history book of the New Testament. Acts chapter one, verse fifteen And in those days Peter stood up in the midst of the disciples and said, The number of names together were about a hundred and twenty. Men and brethren. This scripture must needs have been fulfilled, which the Holy Ghost by the mouth of David spake before concerning Judas, which was guide to them that took Jesus. For he was numbered with us and have obtained part of this ministry. Now this man purchased a field with the reward of iniquity. And falling headlong he burst asunder in the midst, and his boughs gushed out. And it was known unto all the dwellers at Jerusalem, insomuch that the field is called in the proper tongue Akhodama, that is to say, the field of the. of blood. For it is written in the book of Psalms, let his habitation be desolate, and let no man dwell therein, and his bishopric let another take. Coming from Psalm 69, verse 25. Judas could never have known That with those shekels of silver he was purchasing his own burial plots. In verse 18, it describes that with the reward of his iniquity Now in the Gospels we read that Judas hanged himself, but apparently the branch or rope that Judas used eventually broke and his body fell. And was broken in this field of blood. And ironically, his blood money purchased a place where his blood would be spilt. And so we see here that the wages of sin is death. To reject Christ is to bring death. A very troubling meditation we've had tonight. But on that very day That Judas ended his life. Perhaps during the same span of time, there was some other blood that was being spilt. In and around Jerusalem. And I'm referring, of course, to the blood of Jesus. And this blood was far more precious than all the silver and gold in the world. In 1 Peter 1, verse 18, we read, For as much as you know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold. received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ as of a lamb without blemish and without spots. And perhaps when Peter wrote those words, he was thinking about those 30 pieces of silver, or perhaps the price that someone would do to purchase their freedom from slavery. So these horrible payments. For Judas' betrayal points us once more to the cross and to the priceless redemption that we have in the Lord Jesus Christ. I trust that you have come to put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ alone and that you know that the blood of Christ has cleansed you from all of your sin. And so that you can gather with us here this evening around this table and reflect and remember what Christ has done for you. Let's close in prayer. Father. We thank you for the supreme sacrifice that you provided for us at Calvary. We thank you. That we were not redeemed by silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ. We thank you that in your providential plan you even took the wicked conspiracy of religious leaders and the betrayal by one of his own followers to bring about our redemption We thank you, Father , that you and your grace have saved sinners like us. And Father, I pray that you would help us to rejoice on the cross this evening, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.