Give your Bibles. Would you join me please in John chapter 11? One of my heroes of the faith is the British Baptist preacher, Charles Spurgeon. He had a plaque on the wall of his bedroom that had Isaiah 48. 10 inscribed on it. It said, I have chosen thee in the furnace of affliction. Spurgeon faced suffering in his life. He had a series of health issues that plagued him throughout his life and kept him often out of the pulpit. He had a wife who, for most of their married life, was an invalid and was not able to minister or help him in many ways. And he was uh he paid a dear price for standing for the truth and the gospel, was cast out of his own denomination, and was um slandered in many ways. This morning we come to a passage of Scripture that reminds us That life, even for the believer, is filled with difficulty, with disease, with suffering, and death. The death of Lazarus will set the stage for our Lord's most spectacular miracle recorded in the four Gospels, the raising of Lazarus from the dead. I've mentioned to you many times in our study of John that John structures his gospel, at least the first half of his gospel, the first twelve chapters, around the seven signs or seven miracles. that testify to the identity of Jesus Christ. We see Jesus turning the water into wine in chapter 2 and then healing a nobleman's son in chapter 4. In chapter 5, we have him healing a lame man by the pool of Bethesda. In chapter 6, we read of him the feeding of the 5,000 and of Jesus walking on the water. And then in chapter 9, the healing of the man born blind. And then finally in chapter 11, this chapter, the raising of Lazarus from the dead. John likes the number seven. There are lots of sevens in the Gospel of John and in the book of Revelation. And this seven is the climactic one. In other words, he saved the best for last. the raising of Lazarus from the dead. But before we come to this spectacular miracle We have to look at the circumstances surrounding the death of this man. In order for there to be a resurrection, there must first of all be a death. And that's what we have here. We find in this wonderful chapter many instructive lessons. We have a beautiful portrait of Christ before us. We see his omniscience. We see him having the power to raise the dead. We see also his tenderness and his compassion and his patience with his people. All of these things are found in this chapter. But we also have some very important teaching on suffering and death, especially that believing people face. Why is it that even Christian people, even people who walk with the Lord, face great suffering and tragedy and death? This is an age-old question, and Jesus is going to address this question in the text this morning. The fact is that our perspective on our suffering is often very different from God's perspective on our suffering. We see this in John chapter 11. We see it also like in the book of Job. Uh Job, this man, probably lived during the time of the patriarchs, who had great wealth and health. and a beautiful family and God took all of that away from him. And Job doesn't know why, but the reader knows because in the opening chapters of that book, we see of this contest as it were between Satan and God. about Job and about why he's following the Lord. But Job doesn't know anything about this. He doesn't know why he's suffering. It's the same here in the suffering that we look at in this chapter. Mary and Martha And the disciples do not understand why Jesus is responding the way he is or why he's not responding to them. It doesn't make any sense. But Jesus has a different perspective that we will see in this passage than they do. So often when we go through a dark trial and a tragedy in our lives, We ask the question why? And so often we don't come up with real good answers. It isn't apparent to us what God is doing And what's very important for us is to keep some important truths in mind. In other words, we have to go back to what we do know instead of focusing on what we don't know. And what we see in this opening paragraph of John 11, before we get to our Lord's famous words about him being the resurrection, the life, and then the resurrection of Lazarus, we have a wonderful chapter that gives us some important truths to remember when we face suffering as believers. So I'm going to speak to you on five things every Christian should remember when they suffer. Number one, we must remember that the Lord ordains suffering even for those he loves. John begins with the setting for this event. Look at verse 1. Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary, and her sister Martha. The name Lazarus is simply a condensed form of the Old Testament name Eliezer. It means God helps. This man, Lazarus, is seriously ill. In fact, he's about to die. He lives in the village of Bethany with his two sisters. Mary and Martha. Bethany is about two miles outside of the city of Jerusalem. Now Mary was a very common name. It still is today. It's just the derivation of the Old Testament name Miriam. And so in verse 2 John is going to specify about the Mary he's talking about because there's like four four or five Mary's mentioned in the New Testament. Look with me at verse 2. It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill. This is the Mary he's talking about. Now what's curious about this is the account Of Mary anointing his feet is found in the next chapter in chapter 12 So why is John mentioning something that he hasn't mentioned yet? Well, he is assuming that his readers have read some of the other gospels and they've read about Mary's anointing either in the Gospel of Matthew or the Gospel of Mark. Now it's likely that Mary and Martha were well known in the Christian community, so that some of the original readers would say, I know who Mary is, I know who Martha is, I know who he's talking about. It would also seem from Luke chapter 10 that when Jesus was in Jerusalem, he often stayed in this household. With Mary and Martha and Lazarus. He had a close relationship with them. It's clear that they were followers of Christ. They believed in Christ. But it was more than that. He was friends with them. He loved to spend time with them. And so Jesus is off on the other side of the Jordan River in an area called the Transjordan. Where John the Baptist, remember, used to minister. That's where he is now because he's recently left Jerusalem. And so When these sisters recognize that their brother is seriously ill, they send a messenger to get word to Jesus. And the very brief message is this, Lord, he whom you love is ill. It's interesting they didn't mention Lazarus, just he whom you love. They assumed that Jesus would know who they were talking about because he had a close relationship with Lazarus. Before we come to our Lord's unexpected response to this message , I want to make this point from this verse. And that is that the Lord brings suffering even into the lives of people he loves. He loved Lazarus, but Lazarus is sick. He's suffering and he's about to die. And yet the Lord loved him. Now this brings us to an important thought that we need to consider here. There is a sense in which God loves everyone. Alright? We have a famous verse in this book of John. You know what it is? John 3:16. For God so loved everyone. The world, right? And what I think of that world is it includes everybody in the world, alright But there's a special relationship that God has with his children. All right? Every parent, I think, can identify with this, right? You you you have children that maybe are friends of your children, and when they're over at the house, you care for them, you provide food for them, you treat them kindly and and with respect and all of that. But it's not the same in your relationship with your children. You have a special bond with them That that's just just the way it is because they're your children. It's the same with the Lord. He has a special bond with his people. And Lazarus was one of his followers, one who had come to trust in him. He has a special bond with him. And so we see here this special relationship. The point I'm trying to make is that God sends hardship even to those he loves. Now, why is this an important point for us to grasp? Because sometimes when people are in the midst of affliction and suffering, guess what they question? They question if God really loves them. Because from their perspective, it doesn't seem like he loves them. Sometimes Christians who come to the Lord later in life And maybe had lived a very wicked life in their youth, and later as an adult they came to trust in Christ. Sometimes when difficulty comes in their life, they will think this, God is punishing me for the sins of my youth. But that is not true. Because if you're truly a believer, all of your sins were paid for at the cross. He is not making you pay for your sins. He paid for your sins. Now it is true that there can be consequences to your sin, but it's not God punishing you. It's him perhaps. correcting you as a father lovingly and for your good. And so we must never ever interpret are suffering as the fact that God is getting me. He's getting me back. He's he he doesn't really love me. He's kind of shunned me. And this is why he's treating with me treating me the way he is. We must never interpret it to mean that God's not aware. I'm not one of the important people, and so he's not aware of the anguish and the sorrow that I'm going through. Because maybe he's he's too busy doing other things with really important people. That's never the explanation either And there's another thing we see in this. And that is this cuts right at the heart of what is known as the prosperity gospel. Do you know what the prosperity gospel is? It's the gospel that if you come to Christ and follow him, that all your problems will go away, that he will give you good health and wealth, and you'll have a wonderful family, and everything will go well if only you follow the Lord's. That is a horrible distortion of what God's Word teaches. In this very book, in the upper room, Jesus will say to his disciples, in the world, you will have tribulation. So the next time something really bad happens in your life, don't say, Lord, why have you brought this into my life? Say, Lord, you've done exactly as you promised you would do. You have brought tribulation into my life for my good. In our suffering, we must never question God's love for us, because right here we have an example of someone he had an exceptionally close relationship with, and yet God brought disease and death into his life. Second point. We must remember that God has a good purpose in our suffering. The suffering that we encounter in life is never random or arbitrary. It is always intentional with a good purpose. We have a very important verse to this end in verse 4. But when Jesus heard of this, that is that message that Lazarus is sick. He said, this illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. This is very similar to what Jesus says in chapter 9. Remember the man who was born blind? And his disciples say, Who sinned this man or his parents that he was born blind? And Jesus answered, It was not that this man sinned or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. We have a very similar statement here. Now this verse could be confusing to you because in verse 4, remember what it says here? This illness does not lead to death. But in just a few verses, what are we going to read? That Lazarus dies. Look at verse 17. Now when Jesus came, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb four days. So did Jesus not know what was going to happen to Lazarus? Was he mistaken here? Absolutely not. When he says it will not end in death, he's saying that's not going to be the end of the story. That's not where it's going to end because he's going to raise him from the dead. And in that resurrection, he will be glorified. People will see who Jesus is. Lazarus had to die so that Jesus could perform this spectacular miracle. That would be the final sign in this gospel that Jesus is indeed the Son of God. And we read later in this chapter that many believed in Christ. So, what is God's ultimate purpose in your suffering? Whatever that suffering might be. It is that you would glorify God in your suffering. Now that is counterintuitive the way we think. When we're suffering, we become very self-focused. We think only about ourselves and our pain and our grief and We tend not to think about things from God's perspective or what he's doing or how it's affecting other people. We become very self-focused. But God wants you, in your suffering , to demonstrate to everyone around you that Christ is your treasure. John Piper has a little booklet that I sometimes give out to people entitled, Don't Waste Your Cancer. Strange title, huh? Don't waste your cancer. He wrote it in 2011 when he was going through a cancer treatment And his point is that God is sovereign. God has brought cancer into your life. Now don't waste this opportunity. And he talks about in that little booklet how you could waste your opportunity. One way would be just to feel sorry for yourself. Another way would be to complain to everyone who comes to you how awful your life is. Another way would be to become bitter at God and to think that he has been unfair to you. These are all ways that you are wasting the opportunity that God has brought into your life. Instead, he says When you have cancer and everyone asks you about it and everyone's praying for you and everyone that you haven't even heard of for years is checking in with you, you have an opportunity to say, God is being faithful to me And God is giving me strength, and God is showing me his faithfulness. You have a platform for testifying to him. Because God has a good purpose. in your suffering. The third point I want us to see in this passage is that we must remember That God delays in removing our suffering for good reasons. Do you know what our very mature spiritual response is when we suffer? We cry out to God and say, I want it to stop now. Isn't that right? We have zero tolerance for suffering. I wanted to stop now. Look with me at verse 5 Interesting verse. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. Verse 6. So when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. Why has John included verse 5 in there? It kind of breaks up the flow of the narrative. Because he knows that when the reader reads verse 6 about Jesus delaying, when he hears this. message that his friend is seriously ill and he doesn't go, he doesn't leave, he just continues doing what he's doing, that the reader would say, oh, Jesus must not have cared for them very much. So the the author, John, the narrator here tells us, no, he really had a close relationship with them, despite what I'm going to tell you next. Just think about the situation. Mary and Martha. They start to see that Lazarus is ill, and it's not just a run-of-the-mill cold or something. It could be a life-ending illness. And they say to themselves, oh, if only Jesus was here. Jesus would definitely heal him. Jesus would spare him. Jesus could very easily take care of this very serious situation. So they send a messenger, the fastest messenger they have. And he goes, he travels a day's journey to where Jesus and the disciples are located. And he gives them this message, he whom you love is sick. They don't ask him to do anything, but it's implied. You need to come right away. This is the equivalent today of a 911 call, right? In the ancient world, they of course didn't have phones or the instant communication that we have. We can't imagine being in a world where if you wanted to communicate a desperate message, you'd have to send a messenger. and it'd be a day before they received it. We can't conceive of a world like that. But that's the way it's been in most of the history of the world. And what they expect, of course, is that when Jesus received this message, that instantly he would drop whatever he was doing with his disciples and he would go as fast as he could back to Bethany. But he doesn't do that. Look at verse 6. It says, so when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. Can you just imagine like the messenger going back to Mary and Martha and they see him coming and they say, where's Jesus? Isn't he coming with you? And he said, He he just he just continued ministering and doing what he was doing. He he didn't respond at all. And I can just imagine that Mary and Martha are saying, that is so strange. Why would he do that? We know that he loves us and he loves Lazarus. Why would he stay there? Why wouldn't he promptly and as fast as he could come? But he doesn't come. Why did he wait an additional two days? I want to give you three reasons. The first one is not the main focus. But I will put it this way. It's likely that when Jesus received the message of Lazarus' illness, Lazarus was already dead. It took a day for the messenger to travel to see Jesus. We read that Jesus remained in the Transjordan for two more days, so that's three days. And then he travels back to Bethany. That's another day, four days. And look at what we read in verse 17. Now when Jesus came, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb. How long? Four days. In the Jewish tradition, they will bury a person on the day they die. They didn't have any waiting period. You're buried the day that you die. So it's very, very likely chronologically that as the messenger was making his way to Jesus, telling him this information, Lazarus died. And when the messenger arrives to tell Jesus, Lazarus is already dead. And of course Jesus knows this. But this is not the primary explanation for this delay. I'm going to give you two additional ones that are more important. Jesus wanted Lazarus to be dead for four days so that the miracle could not be discredited. In the ancient world, they did not have the medical technology that we have. And there were often people that people assumed were dead who were not dead. They were like unconscious or in a coma or something like that. And so sometimes when a person would they thought was dead revive , they would say, well, we thought we were dead, but obviously we know now that they were not dead. And so We know that like even with the death of Jesus, there are liberal unbelieving scholars who say that Jesus didn't actually die. He only revived in the tomb and came back to life. That of course is absolute nonsense. The point being that when Jesus got there, we read that his body was already decaying. There was an odor It was unmistakable evidence this corpse is dead. And Jesus raised him from the dead. He wanted this to be an irrefutable miracle that no one could say, oh no, I don't think Lazarus is even really dead. And so he waited an additional time. But the primary reason is what we find in verses 14 and 15. And Jesus told them plainly, Lazarus has died, and for your sakes I am glad that he was not there, so that you may believe Jesus wanted the people to believe. Now he's referring here primarily to his disciples. You may say, well, I thought that they already believed. They did. But he wanted them to believe and trust him more. And we also read later in this chapter that many would believe when Jesus raised Lazarus from the dead. Now just consider how the sisters must have thought about this. Their message to Jesus is very similar to our prayers to God. When we face a crisis, we cry out to God. And you know what sometimes happens? God, it seems, doesn't answer us, at least not right away. And that is a difficult thing to deal with when you're in a desperate situation. I've so often talked to Christians in crisis, and they will say, I cry out to God, but it seems like He's not listening. I don't sense His presence. Everything I pray about, it seems like the opposite happens. And it's a real test of their faith. Often in the midst of the storm, when the winds are howling about us, we don't , sometimes we don't feel his presence. But that doesn't mean he's not there. And that's when we have to trust in him, even when we can't see what he is doing. This brings me to my fourth point. We must remember that God's plan in our suffering may not make any sense to us. God 's plan and our suffering may not make any sense to us. Notice the disciples' response in verse 7. Then After this he said to his disciples, let us go up to Judea again. The disciples said to him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you, and are you going there again? Jesus answered, are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble because he sees the light of this world. The disciples' reaction when he says they're going to go back to Judea is they can't make any sense of it. Because in chapter 10 and verse 31, we read of the Jews, the Jewish leaders taking up stones to stone him. So why would Jesus go back? And then he employs this idiomatic expression, are there not twelve hours in a day? You might say, well I thought there were 24 hours a day. Well, it's a reference to sunlight. It's a reference to sunlight. And it's interesting, the Jews and many people in the ancient world They divided the length of the sunlight of a day into 12 units. So an hour might be a little longer or a little shorter, depending on the time of the year. And when he speaks here of the light of the world, he is referencing the sun in this verse, verse 9. And the idea is not hard to grasp, it's just put in an imagery that is foreign to us in 21st century America People walk around and work during the day because they have light, light from the sun to see what they're doing. But at night that all stops Because they can't see what they're doing. Again, we have an incredible technological advance. We have electricity. We have lights at night. We illuminate our homes. We illuminate our streets. We illuminate our cities. But in most of the history of the world, when the sun set, whatever you were doing, that's it. It's done now. This is very similar to what Jesus says in John chapter 9 and verse 4 when he says, We must work the works of him who sent me while of this day. Night is coming when no one can work. We understand this. There's an old ancient English saying that you still hear sometimes, make hay while the sun shines. In other words, while you have daylight, you've got to work. You have to take advantage of this opportunity that you have. And Jesus here is saying to his disciples that his twelve hours of sunlight, that is, of his ministry, are almost over. In just a few months' time, he will be crucified. But he's also indicating that until his hour comes, the day of his death, he is immortal until that time. Have you ever thought about that? I don't think we think about that very much. I have to be careful what I say here because you have to be balanced, right? You can go in any direction too far. Sometimes people think that like by taking certain supplements or exercising or doing certain things, they're going to extend your life. I want you to know that God knows the number of your days and you're not getting one more. All right? You're not getting any more. I'm not saying that that means that you shouldn't exercise You should take care of your body. You want to be productive and serve the Lord well. I know, I understand that. But the point is that you cannot add to your life. The converse is also true. You can't subtract from your life. That doesn't mean you shouldn't do something foolish. Obviously, God's called us to be good stewards. But we must not look at this from a pagan worldly mindset that says that I need to live as long a life as I possibly can and and and by making these choices I can control as it were my destiny my life on earth you can't God 's out ultimately in control of that But there's something very empowering about this that has empowered many Christians over the years. Have you ever thought about this? You are immortal until God is done with you. We talk about a person dying before their time. No one has ever died before their time. They died exactly when God ordained that they would die. And so we should not live our lives in great fear and trepidation Always taking our pulse and monitoring our health and worried about the fact that we might die someday. Guess what? You are going to die someday unless the Lord returns. You know, death has very impressive statistics. One out of every one people die. All right But until our day of death comes, we will live. And so we can live with boldness and with courage. But the disciples completely misunderstand him. The disciples said to him, verse 12, Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover. Now Jesus had spoken of his death, and they thought that he meant taking rest and sleep. Then Jesus told them plainly, Lazarus has died. And this is a strange thing here, and for your sakes I am glad. That must have been jarring to their ears. But then the rest, so that you may believe. The disciples misunderstand him. He talks, as the scripture often does, about death asleep. And they take it literally instead of as a euphemism. Throughout this section, verses 7 through 14, the disciples do not understand what Jesus is doing. They don't understand why he doesn't go when the messenger arrives. They don't understand why he wants to go later. They don't understand his reference to Lazarus being asleep and about him waking up Lazarus, a reference to his resurrection. They don't understand any of that. And Mary and Martha, the grieving friends at Bethany, they couldn't figure out why Jesus didn't return right away. All of the Lord's followers in this passage have no idea what he's doing. It seems strange and difficult for them. We even have the melancholy Thomas, I love verse 16, and Thomas called the twin Said to his fellow disciples, let us go also that we may die with him. He was a very optimistic sort of fellow You can you can see that there. And you know, I I think he was he was courageous and sincere when he said this, but he says, all right, I guess we got to go to Judea, and I you know we're all just gonna be slaughtered there You know, and sometimes people face, think of God's will this way. You know, I guess this is what God wants us to do, but it's going to end in disaster. And you know what the Lord wants to do? He wants to raise Lazarus from the dead and for them to have the privilege of seeing this incredible miracle. And that brings me to the final point that I want to bring up to us. And that is we must remember that the Lord brings suffering into our lives. so that we will trust him more. He says in verse 14, Lazarus has died, and for your sakes I am glad that I was not there. So that you may believe. That is, if he was there and he had healed him before he died, then you wouldn't have this privilege of seeing this resurrection. But let us go to him Jesus, at first glance, sounds very insensitive here. Lazarus has died, and I am glad. There's an important point I want to make from this. God has plans for you that will involve your mental distress and your fear and your confusion. Why does a God who love us put his children through situations that are horrific and difficult and agonizing? Doesn't he care? Yes, he does care, but he cares for some other things even more than your sense of comfort and ease. Let me use this analogy which isn't that great. Perhaps you had a child and your child is playing as a very rambunctious children sometimes do and they dislocate their shoulder. And you go over and you want to help them and they say, Don't touch my arm. It really hurts. And you just barely touch their arm and they scream out in pain. Now what do you do as a parent? Do you say, I'm not going to do anything to my child because I don't want to hurt them? No. They can't stay that way. The situation they're in is already painful, and yes, they're going to have to go through some more pain before they have relief, but I can't let them stay in this situation. And so perhaps you take them to a doctor and there's an adjustment made and it's excruciatingly painful, but now their arm is right back where it belongs and it's functioning properly. You see, we understand that sometimes pain is necessary in order to get to a priority that's greater than that pain. And the priority that God has for everyone here is that you would come to trust in him more. Now for some of you, that means to trust in him initially, because you have never ever repented of your sins And put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ so that you walk with him by faith. The Bible says the just shall live by faith. That's something foreign to you. You don't know what it's like to live that way. And God will bring tragedy and suffering and pain into your life so that you will come to the end of yourself and you will turn to Him. There are thousands of people, I'm sure there are people here today that could give testimony that it was in the midst of a crisis that they came to trust in Christ. That's why he's brought this into your life, so that you will turn to him in saving faith. But this passage is primarily for people who already believe. And you know what God wants for all of his disciples, for all of his followers, what one of his great priorities in our life is, and that is that we would come to trust in him more. You don't trust in him enough. That is why so often you respond in unbelief. Every sin that you commit is rooted in unbelief. This is why when difficulty comes into your life, so often you respond immediately in unbelief that God has a good plan for you. So God wants you to learn to trust in Him more. And we never get out of This situation in our life, as long as you're alive on this earth, the Lord will bring situations into your life To get you to respond in faith. And it's sort of like exercise. Sometimes People who who decide maybe it's a New Year's resolution or something we're going to get in shape and they go to the gym and they overdo it and they like work out for like two hours and the next day, you know, they can hardly bring a cup of coffee up to their mouth because their their muscles have been so torn down. And they're hurting. God will bring situations into our life that initially, in the opening moments, will, as it were, tear your faith down. But he does that so that it will be build up stronger than it was before. Tearing it down so that it will build up stronger than it was before. It's the same way in the spiritual life. God wants us when we face vexing crisis in our life. That though initially we might respond in unbelief and say, I don't believe that God's brought this into my life. Why would he do this? What is his purpose in this? And then as it were we gather ourselves and say, wait a minute, what do the promises of God tell me? What is God doing here? I'm sure I don't see the big picture of what God is doing. I can't put it all together. So my exhortation to you, if you're in the fire right now, if you're like Martha and Mary wondering where Jesus is. Is that you recognize what he's doing. He wants you to trust him more. So that even when you can't make the connections, you trust in God that he has a good plan. God wants you to interpret your suffering in light of his revelation. So often, naturally When difficulty and pain comes into our life, we we always instinctively want to know why, and we start to work out some kind of scenario in our minds. And sometimes we interpret it by our own understanding, and it's almost always wrong. We have to come to the place where we recognize that God does not owe us an explanation and we simply trust in Him and all that we know about Him. So, what are the five things that I want you to remember? God ordains suffering even for those he loves. God has a good purpose in your suffering. God delays resolving your problems for good reasons. God's plan in your suffering may not make sense to you And God brings suffering into our lives so that we will trust him more. May God use his word to strengthen you today. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we thank you that you have given us a wonderful Savior, one in whom we can trust. Thank you that he's worthy of our full dependence. And Father, I think of those here today who are not your children. But yet may be going through difficult times in their lives, I pray that they would turn to Christ, that they would trust in him, and they would see that he is indeed the Son of God, the Savior of the world. And Father, for those of your children that are here this morning, that are going through dark valleys, difficult and painful circumstances, I pray, Lord. That they would remember these truths, that they would trust in you even when they cannot understand what you're doing. But they know that there's a good reason behind it And I pray, Father, that they would not allow their trials and their suffering to push them away from you and for their faith to weaken but that it would be strong and robust, founded and rooted in the promises of God. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.