If you have your Bibles, you may turn with me to Luke chapter twenty-three The place where Jesus died is filled with a lot of speculation and superstition and tradition. One ancient tradition says that Noah took Adam's skull upon the ark. And that Melchizedek was entrusted with its care, and that he took it and buried it on a hill in the environs of Jerusalem And it was called the place of the skull or Golgotha. That sounds apocryphal to me Some ancient scholars would say that Calvary was the exact center of the world. It's not. Others have maintained that Mount Calvary was the exact spot where Abraham nearly sacrificed his son Isaac. Now he did sacrifice him on Mount Moriah, which is the area of Jerusalem. That's the closest one to the truth, but we still don't know. It's a big ridge. It was the exact spot. Some early Christians claim that Golgotha was the place where Zechariah, the last martyr of the Old Testament, was killed. His shed blood was considered a foreshadowing. of the blood that Christ would shed on the same hill. The traditional site of Christ's crucifixion Was established by the mother of Constantine, a woman by the name of Helena. She supposedly made a trip to Palestine in A. D. 325. and located what is presently the site of Calvary. And in 333, some eight years later, Constantine ordered the building of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. And this site is still covered with a very large church to this day. There have been four different buildings built, one on top of another. And if we could all get into a time machine or a transporter of some sort and go directly there today. I know some of you have been there. I think most of you would be very disappointed and perhaps disgusted because there's all these different so-called Christian factions there. fighting over their little piece of Calvary filled with relics and superstition and you would see all manner of people lining up to kiss stones and so forth Evangelical Christians are not enamored with relics and sacred places. The Bible never encourages that kind of superstition. We read of warnings of this. In the Old Testament, you may recall that Moses lifted up that serpent in the wilderness. But over the centuries, it became an idolatrous item of worship until Hezekiah finally destroyed it. I've hopefully demonstrated to you over the years that there's an awful lot of revelation in the symbols, in the incidental details connected with the cross. The Lord has spoken to us in many ways. We've examined objects like the crown of thorns and the divided garments. And of course, these are prophecies, and they're spilled with analogies in Scripture that are helpful for us to interpret what the meaning is for us today. Now these objects are not in and of themselves sacred, but they are significant, and they do give us information about our redemption. They help us to more fully understand the meaning of the cross in many ways. And tonight I want us just to consider what little revelation there is in the fact that he died at a place called Calvary or Golgotha. This is a little knoll where probably the most significant event in the history of the world took place Here, Jesus, the Son of God, died in place of sinners. I've mentioned to you before that a Dutch theologian by the name of Klaus Schilder wrote a classic trilogy on the crucifixion of Christ. In this monumental work, he states that there were three significant landmarks in Jerusalem. One was Mount Zion. The place where the temple was, the temple mounts, a place of worship, a place of fellowship between God and man. On the opposite extreme, there was a place called the Valley of Henam, better known as Gehenna. It was a garbage dump. That became a picture of God's ultimate judgment, a place that symbolized abandonment and separation from God. And he goes on to say that in between these two, the place of worship and fellowship and the place of judgment and abandonment, there is Calvary. that symbolized the only path where we can go from the place of abandonment to the place of fellowship to Zion, the beautiful city of God. So I want us to consider briefly tonight the significance of the place called Calvary. Now the text that I've had you turn to tonight is Luke 23, 33. And it very concisely says that when they were come to the place which is called Calvary, there they crucified him. And the malfactors or the criminals, one on the right hand and the other on the left. And nearly these identical words are found in Matthew 27, 33, and Mark 15, 22, and John 19, 17. All four Gospels tell us The name of the place where Jesus died. They refer to it, most of them, as Golgotha. The only place that refers to it as Calvary is here in Luke. And whether it's the from the Latin Calvary or Golgotha, they all refer to, they all mean the place of a skull, the Greek word that's used here. is the origin of our English word cranium. Now it may have been given this name because of some ancient story connected with the site, or it may be due to the shape of this rocky knoll. Or more likely it is due to the fact that this was a place of execution, and the bodies were left there to decay on the spot, and so over time There were skulls that were strewn about. And so this notorious place of execution was known as the place of the skull. Luke in our version calls it Calvary. For some reason our King James translators, I've never been able to figure out why, from many of the scholars, named it Calvary and decided to take it from the Latin. instead of from the Greek or the Hebrew. But that's all right. Calvary sounds so much better to us, doesn't it, than cranium or skull or golgotha Now I think that one of the reasons why all four gospel writers mention the name of the place is because the original readers of the gospel who were reading these books just decades after our Lord's crucifixion, many of whom were Jews, would have known that place. They would say, I know exactly where that is. I know where that hill is located. I've seen it before as I've come into the city of Jerusalem And so what is being established here for the reader is that this was a real place and a real event that took place at this location. Now, we cannot be 100% certain of this location. There are two places that vie for this distinction. One is the Church of the Holy Sepulchre that I mentioned to you earlier. This place that is layer upon layer of ancient church building. And most scholars, to be honest with you, most scholars are convinced that this is the place. There's records that Christians, just decades after our Lord's crucifixion, would gather at this spot for prayer. And how that would be appropriate, right? Pretty significant location. And some of them undoubtedly were witnesses who walked by and saw him die there. So they knew exactly where the place was. And this continued generation after generation. And so when this woman Helena came to find the spot, all the locals told her, well, it's right there. And it was only less than three centuries since our Lord had died there And so it's logical to conclude that they had the right spot and the church that was built over there was indeed probably the location. And you can't see the actual place because it's so obscured. But most scholars, conservative and otherwise, believe It's very likely that location. The other site that vies for this is known as Gordon's Calvary. It's named after a General Gordon who in 1883 identified this site. as the location of Christ's crucifixion because the rocky cliff face looked like a skull. Now, the earliest suggestion that this was made, that this was the place, was in 1842. So if the likelihood that it was only in 1842 that they discovered the location because of the uh the way that it looks And the fact that the weathering of that rock face that makes it look like a skull would probably have looked much different some 1800 years earlier would make that very unlikely. Now most evangelicals like to think of that as the place because it's so much better than that crowded church where all of the people are going around kissing stones. You look at it from a distance, it's picturesque. It's kind of like what you might picture it, but it's very unlikely that that was the location It is a very popular tourist spot. In fact, if you ever take a trip to Israel, you will undoubtedly see Gordon's Calvary. And the garden tomb , the place where they take tourists, is also very close by. The fact is that God does not want us to prop up our faith based on sacred spots or relics. It is good to remember what occurred in different places. I remember when I went up to Pastor Steve was talking about his recent trip up d New England and one of the some of the places they saw were in connection with David Brainerd. They saw his grave and everything. Well I went to the place where his cabin was where he wrote his journal In someone's backyard, we asked for permission to go there. And we knelt there and we prayed and it was wonderful, but it's just dirt. There's nothing sacred in a sense about it. But what the Lord is communicating to us through the four gospel records Is that this was a real place? This is not some fairy tale invention. Jesus was condemned by a real governor named Pontius Pilate. You can go and see the house that he lived in today. And he's in the record books in Roman history. Pontius Pilate, prefect of Judea. He was tried before a real king named Herod, who's also in the record books, in the history books. And he came before a real high priest by the name of Caiaphas, who is prominently found in Jewish history books. And he was tried before a council of men called the Sanhedrin. Comprised of Sadducees and Pharisees, and that's exactly the way the books of Judaism describe it. And he died at a real place that the first readers would have said, I know where that is, the place of Calvary. I want to invite you now to turn with me to John chapter 19. The second thing I want you to notice is that the place of Christ's death indicates that he was rejected by the world. John chapter 19, I'd like to begin reading at verse 17. And he bearing his cross went forth into a place called the place of the skull. which is called in the Hebrew Golgotha, where they crucified him and two others with him on either side, and Jesus in the midst. And Pilate wrote a title and put it on the cross, and the writing was Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. And verse 20, this title then read many of the Jews, for the place where Jesus was crucified was nigh to the city, and it was written in Hebrew and Greek and Latin. This expression, nigh to the city, hints the fact that this was not within the city proper. It was not within the ancient walls of the city. And this certainly makes sense. The Jewish leaders did not want Jesus to be crucified within their city walls, it would be to defile it. And this on the sacred weekend of the Passover. Certainly they would not allow this in the holy city of Jerusalem. The Romans, however, wanted executions to be as public as possible. And so perhaps there was a compromise that was reached. They put it just outside the city walls, but also by a major thoroughfare so that there would be the maximum number of people would see it. There may be an Old Testament passage that points to this fact that Jesus was crucified next to a major road. If you would like, you can turn with me to the book of Lamentations. Which of course is right after the book of Jeremiah. Lamentations chapter 1, verse 12. Says, Is it nothing to you all? Ye that pass by, behold and see if there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow which is done unto me wherewith the Lord hath afflicted me in the day of his fierce anger. Here the prophet Jeremiah is describing the painful cry of the people of Jerusalem as it was being destroyed by the Babylonians. Some of you undoubtedly have recognized this text as part of Handel's Messiah. And some scholars believe this to be a prophecy of the cross. And I concur with that. There are three reasons. It seems to fit because, first of all, most people who passed by the cross didn't understand what was going on. And it's as if Jesus was saying, Is it nothing to you all, ye that pass by? The Gospels record that most people mocked Jesus as they passed by his cross on the way into the city. He also says here, if there be any sorrow likened to my sorrow, and Christ's sorrow was the greatest that any human being could possibly experience. And Jesus made a confession of the depths of his sorrow with his disciples that night in Gethsemane. And then it also says that he experienced the fury of God's wrath like anyone else in the day of his fierce judgment. And so this picture, this passage I think is pointing us to the fact that where he was located, on top of that little knoll, outside the city walls Right on the main thoroughfare going into the city was a place where many people would see and they would reject him, they would mock him. They would be representatives, as I've mentioned to you before, of all classes of people, of all races of people, of all ethnicities. They would all come by and they would add their mocking and their scorn, representing all of humanity. The book of Hebrews tells us a great deal about the meaning of the cross. And here we have further confirmation that he was crucified outside the city walls. Turn with me to Hebrews chapter 13, the last chapter in Hebrews. Hebrews thirteen verses eleven through thirteen It says, For the bodies of those beasts whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin are burned without the camp. Wherefore Jesus also that he might sanctify the people with his own blood suffered without the gates, without the city walls. Let us therefore Go forth, therefore, unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach. These early Jewish believers to whom this book was written would have been able to visualize exactly where that was outside the gate, outside the city walls. And it would have been a precious thing to them because they were the ones who were being cast out and rejected and sent out beyond the city walls and saying, you are not welcome here, you will not be a part of our community And they are reminded here by the author of Hebrews that that was true of Christ as well. He was cast out. Of the city. He died outside the city walls as a common criminal, and so we should be willing to bear our reproach Now those who did this were the Jewish leaders and they were considering what the Old Testament taught. I want to give us a little bit of this background. Turn with me to Leviticus chapter 24. Leviticus chapter twenty four. I want to begin reading at verse 10. This is an alarming occasion. If you never read through the Bible, this might disturb you. The son of an Israelitish woman whose father was an Egyptian went out among the children of Israel, and this son of the Israelitish woman and of the man of Israel strove together in the camp. And the Israelite this woman's son blasphemed the name of the Lord and cursed, and they brought him unto Moses, and his mother's name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, the tribe of Dan. And they put him in board that the mind of the Lord might be showed them. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Bring forth him that hath cursed without the camp. And let all that heard him lay their hands upon his head, and let all the congregation stone him. And this shall speak unto the children of Israel, saying, Whoever curseth his God shall bear his sin. And he that blasphemeth the name of the Lord, he shall surely be put to death. And all the congregation shall certainly stone him as well as the stranger as he that is born in the land when he blaspheme the name of the Lord shall be put to death. Now look with me down at verse 23. And Moses spake to the children of Israel that they should bring forth him that has cursed out of the camp. and stone him with stones. And the children of Israel did as the Lord commanded Moses. He was taken out of the camp. He was no longer recognized as among the people of God. Turn with me now to Numbers chapter 15. Numbers chapter fifteen, verse thirty two Another disturbing passage. And when the children of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man that gathered sticks upon the Sabbath day. And they that found him gathering sticks brought him unto Moses and Aaron and unto all the congregation they put him in ward, because it was not declared what should be done to him. And the Lord said unto Moses, The man shall surely be put to death All the congregation shall stone him with stones without the camp. And the congregation brought him without the camp and stoned him with stones, and he died as the Lord commanded Moses. This is what they did with those who did something worthy of execution. They brought them outside the camp. Truly the words of Isaiah 53 were fulfilled. We did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. The author of Hebrews tells us that his death outside the city was an expression of reproach. Everything about his death spoke of shame and reproach. He had to carry his cross before a jeering crowd. He was crucified with the basis of criminals. He was crucified on a major thoroughfare. He was killed in the most degrading way imaginable. And he died at a notorious place. known as the place of the skull outside of the city walls. It was the final indication that he was indeed an outcast. He was despised and rejected of men. The place of Christ's death indicates that his death was a real event And that he was secondly rejected by the world. And finally, the place of Christ's death hints at the effect of his death. If you would please turn with me back to Hebrews chapter 13. Verse eleven For the bodies of those beasts whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin are burned without the camp This is a reference to the sacrifice in the Day of Atonement. The sacrifice was not to be eaten, but was taken outside the camp and burned. Ironically, it's by the death of Christ outside the camp that the people of God are sanctified. He was cast out that we might be brought in. He shed his blood and washed away our sins, and thereby satisfied the wrath of a holy God. Some scholars believe there may be another allusion in the Old Testament to this being outside the camp. I've mentioned to this to you recently Sermon, but if you'll indulge me, I want us to look once more at Leviticus chapter 16. Leviticus 16 reveals to us what took place on the Day of Atonement Leviticus sixteen, I want to begin reading at verse five. And he shall take of the congregation of the children of Israel two kids of the goats for a sin offering, and one ram for a burnt offering. And now look with me in verses seven and following, and he shall take two goats and present them before the Lord. at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and Aaron shall cast lots upon the two goats, one lot for the Lord, and the other lot for the scapegoat, and Aaron shall bring the goat upon which the Lord's lot fell, and offer him for a sin offering. But the goat on which the lot fell to be the scapegoat shall be presented alive before the Lord to make an atonement with him, and to let him go for a scapegoat into the wilderness. And then skip down to verse twenty. And when he had made an end of reconciling the holy place and the tabernacle of the congregation and the altar He shall bring the live goat, and Aaron shall lay both his hands upon the head of the live goat, and confess over him all the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their transgressions. and all their sins, putting them upon the head of the goat, and shall send him away by the hand of a fit man into the wilderness, and the goat shall bear upon him all their iniquities unto a land not inhabited and he shall let the goat go in the wilderness. The one goat pictured atonement By pictured the means of atonement, that is, by the blood of Christ, and the other symbolized the effect of atonement, that is, that our sin has truly been taken away, that it is gone forever And like that goat, it will never be seen again. This is why the scriptures constantly remind us. As far as the East is from the West, so far hath they removed our transgressions from us. Our guilt is gone And because he was cast out of the city, we are invited into the city, the New Jerusalem, a city whose builder and maker is God. Perhaps no one has ever depicted the powerful effects of the cross better than did John Bunyan, who rode from his prison cell in Bedford, England Those very famous words in Pilgrim's Progress. He says, Now I saw in my dream That the highway up which Christian was to go was fenced on either side with a wall, and that wall is called salvation. Up this way therefore did Christian run, but not without great difficulty because of the load on his back He ran thus till he came at a place somewhat ascending, and upon that place stood a cross, and a little below in the bottom a sepulcher. So I saw in my dream that just as Christian came up with the cross, his burden loosed from off his shoulders, and fell from off his back and began to tumble, and so continued to do till it came to the mouth of the sepulchre. Where it fell in, and I saw it no more. A wonderful thing to think of our guilt, our sin disappearing, gone at Calvary This is what we should learn from Calvary. It was the place where our sins were dealt with, where our transgressions, wicked though they are We're taken care of and satisfied as Christ bore the wrath of God in our place. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that every detail is significant. We thank you for what was accomplished at the cross at that place called Calvary. And we thank you that because of what took place there, our lives are different today. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.