If you have your Bibles, you can turn to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. We'll be looking at 1 Thessalonians 5. We're nearing the end of the book of 1 Thessalonians. This is lesson number 19. Compared to Isaiah, I mean, this is really rather quick, so that's that's fantastic. But we're looking at verses 12 Probably through 14 this evening is I believe is as far as we will make it. It's great to have you here this evening. We're going to be looking at verses 12 and following. And this is a clear transition towards the ending of the book of 1 Thessalonians, and we've talked about the breakdown of this epistle already on several occasions has two main divisions. The first three chapters are a backwards look. The work that God has done among them, the work of the apostles and his team, how they labored among them. The grace of God as it came into that community and transformed idol worshippers into worshippers of the one true and living God. And then, beginning in chapter 4, he encourages them to live in faith and in expectancy of the coming of Christ. the imminent return of Christ, and as a result, to grow in holiness, to grow in love, to grow in hope, looking towards that reality. And then he gives a number of commands towards the end. of this epistle that we begin to transition into that. So there's a new new topic that begins here. He starts in verse 12 saying, we ask you, brothers. to respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you. The connection, when you read it, is not immediately clear. If you remember the last couple weeks, we've been looking at them, the admonition to watchfulness in light of the imminent return of Christ. To be alert, to be awake as they wait for the coming of the Lord. They're to be sober. They're to be watching. They're to be living with an expectation that transforms their daily life. But that's not something that is done in isolation. We are to be doing this as a congregation, as a body. We're to be encouraging one another towards watchfulness, towards. soberness towards living holy lives in expectation of the coming of the Lord. So the church, as the family of God, as children of light, as we've been talking about here. We are children of light. God is light. We are the children of God. We are to, as a body, as a family, be encouraging one another towards greater holiness, greater faithfulness, greater sobriety, greater watchfulness. This is something that is expressed in Hebrews chapter 10 where he says, and let us consider how to stir one another up to love and good works. Not neglecting to meet together as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another and all the more as you see the day drawing near. So as we look towards the coming of the Lord every day, we're getting closer to that day, we are to be stirring each other up. We are to be encouraging one another up and and to love. When you go over that, a lot of people say, well, doesn't that mean like to stir up in anger? Here it's to stir up to love, to stir up to love and good works as we look towards the coming of Christ. In these verses, beginning in verse 12 and following, the believers are encouraged to respond a certain way. To spiritual leadership. This is dealing with a believer's responsibility to the leadership in the church. And the church is a vital institution that is ordained by Jesus. I think sometimes we think of the church as something that is not not very important. You know, if I have time to go to church, that's great. If I don't Then I don't. But it's not very important. You can kind of take it or leave it. I recently had a conversation with my neighbor, and he told me that you don't need to go to church to worship God. And I said, well that that is true. You can worship God and you should worship God everywhere. But let me ask you, when was the last time you worshiped God? And he kind of looked down. And I said, so you're probably not worshiping God a whole lot outside of church, are you? No, not really. So the the the fact is yes, you can worship God, you should worship God everywhere, but we do need, as this verse Encourages us here and tells us we do need to worship God together as a body of believers where we challenge one another and we encourage one another. We build each other up to greater faithfulness. It's interesting immediately after giving the instruction about the character of the people that are to be in leadership within the church. the the pastors and the deacons who are to serve in the church, the nature and the character of these leaders, Paul tells Timothy that it's important who is in those positions. Because of the nature of the church. He tells him in 1 Timothy chapter 3. So I hope to come to you soon, but I am writing these things to you so that if I delay you may know how one ought to behave. in the household of God. So when we come together as a body of believers to worship the Lord, we are coming together to the household of God. Then he says, which is the church of the living God. This is the possession. We are the possession of the living God. And so how we relate to one another is extremely important. Who is put into to leadership in the church is extremely important because as he describes here, it is the pillar and the buttress of the truth. That is why not just anybody that walks off the street can be given the opportunity to speak and to teach the Word of God and to be in leadership in the church. It is the possession of God. And therefore, it demands greater accountability. Paul addresses them here in these verses in a very friendly way, but he is pointing them back to their responsibility. Towards the spiritual leadership in the church. He addresses them friendly, saying, We ask you brothers. We ask you brothers. You notice he doesn't use the term of a command. He doesn't say, we command you. as the Apostle Paul, he says, we ask you brothers. He's using a family term. Throughout the remaining verses, he says, he calls them brothers, I believe, five times in the rest of this chapter. He's expressing a love for them, a family love, a family dynamic. He's not commanding. The Apostle Paul, if you read the rest of his epistles, he's not afraid to use his apostolic authority. He's not afraid to command. But he'd rather not. It's kinda like in the home, Mom and Dad shouldn't be afraid to use commands But we'd rather not use commands. We'd rather not have to command. So many times with our children we'll we'll say things like, Would you go out and take out the trash? It's a command in the form of a c of a request. It's a pull I'm trying to use friendly terminology, friendly language to show that I don't want to have to command here And a couple times my kids will jokingly say, yeah, I don't feel like it. Okay, take out the trash. Now we have to change the tone a little bit, because that isn't appropriate. But Paul is addressing them in this very family-like tone. We see it earlier in the book of 1 Thessalonians in chapter 2. Notice what he says in verse 6 of 1 Thessalonians 2. He said, Nor did we seek glory from people, whether from you or from others, though we could have made demands as apostles of Christ. But we were gentle among you, like a nursing mother taking care of her own children. So being affectionately desirous of you, we were ready to share with you not only the gospel of God, but also our own selves. Because you had become very dear to us. You see that affection, that family affection that Paul has, like a nursing mother to his children as he is speaking to them and living among them. And he says, we ask you brothers now in verse chapter 5, verse 12, to respect those who labor among you. And so he's talking about here, recognizing These leaders and the diligent efforts that they have as they labor among you. Now it's an interesting, just This word here that's translated respect is interesting. It's one of those words that translators have come to and said, how do we properly translate this? into into this verse. Here's several examples. The word in blue is the same word. The ESV says, we ask you brothers to respect those who labor among you. That's what we read in our ESV. The King James says And we beseech you, brethren, to know them which labor among you. New American standard. But we ask you, brothers and sisters, to recognize those who diligently labor among you. And then the NIV says to acknowledge. So one word, four different translations, four different translations of that one word. What is the right word? Well, the correct word is actually the King James, to know. It is the word to know. It's translated over 200 times in the Greek to know. But the reason why in these other translations it's translated differently is they're saying here it's carrying a little bit of a different weight. When you say, we want you to know your leaders Do you think Paul's saying we want you to know their names? You know, what what what who they are? You know, there's a list of leaders. We want you to know that so we have our bulletins, and inside is the the pastors and the deacons. We want you to know their names. Is that what Paul's saying? No. He's asking them to do more than that. And so the word no is carrying more than just knowledge. It's carrying the idea of relationship, but it's also carrying the idea of knowledge about the work they do. The position they hold, to acknowledge, to recognize, even to respect the work that they're doing. And he says, I want you to do this because they one, they labor among you Two, they are over you in the Lord. And three, they admonish you. They have this threefold Responsibility among them. So Paul is simply not saying that these are men who who are in leadership in the church, and I want you to be able to quote their names. I want you to be able to know who they are and be able to point them out in the lineup. He's saying I want you to understand. their vital function. I want you to understand to know the worth and the work that your leaders do. I don't want you to be ignorant of the work that they are doing among you. And I want you to work in cooperation with and in submission to the work that they are doing. I want you to know that and esteem that. So that's why you have four different translations, four different Words that are translated here of this simple, simple Greek word, because it seems to be carrying a much larger weight than that. And he describes them here in this first part of this verse. To respect those who labor among you. They labor among you. The word labor means to work to the point of exhaustion. When they were translating the Old Testament into Greek, they used this word to translate the exhausted work of a slave in Psalm 107, verse 12. It says, so he bowed their hearts down with hard labor, talking about the slaves, the Israeli slaves in Egypt. He bowed their hearts down with hard labor. They fell down with none to help. That's the same word. The same word that's described here. This is to be understood as hard work that they are doing. Paul is asking them to recognize that the work of their elders. is not light work. It's not an eight to five job where you can check out and leave it at work. It's work that carries a burden. It carries a responsibility. It's a burden that simply shouldn't be ignored. It can't be ignored because it's a work that demands and has responsibility for eternal souls. And so it is a weighty responsibility. In Hebrews chapter 13, at the end of the book of Hebrews, The author of Hebrews tells us about this weight. He says, obey your leaders and submit to them, for they are keeping watch over your souls. As those who will have to give an account, let them do this with joy and not with groaning, for that would be of no advantage to you. It's a terrifying thought when you stop and consider it. It's something that keeps pastors awake at night. I know personally there are nights that you wrestle with this responsibility. Have I taught the word accurately? Have I warned and loved and prayed appropriately? Have I been a proper example? Have I rebuked when I should have? Have I been an encouragement when I should have? And wh how how will I give an answer to God for this situation? I was at a conference recently where a pastor was speaking and he said that he had been the pastor of a megachurch. And when he thought about this verse, he resigned. And he said, I don't know most of the people in my church. How can I give an account for their souls? He said, I decided I wanted to pastor a smaller church where I could know the people that I would give an account for. I can respect that. I can respect that. I want to know their names. He said, I literally didn't know the names of all the people in my church. How was I supposed to give an account for all these people then? James says that not many of you should become teachers, my brothers, for you know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness. So he's asking, Paul is asking the Thessalonians, I want you to recognize, I want you to know, I want you to respect and acknowledge the nature of the work that they do. They labor among you in this way. Paul described his work in Acts chapter 20. He says, I testify to you this day. He's speaking to the Ephesian elders as he was planning to go to Jerusalem on his on his way that he thought he'd probably never see them again. I'm innocent of the blood of all. That's an interesting statement right there. That tells you a little bit about the weight that the Apostle Paul felt for his ministry among them. I'm innocent of the blood of you all, meaning that he had responsibility for the blood. Of them, in some sense. For I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole counsel of God. Pay careful attention to yourselves and to all the flock in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers. to care for the church of God which he obtained with his own blood. Then he talks about there will be some who come in and will from among them and will lead people astray. He says, therefore be alert. Remembering that for three years I did not cease, night or day, to admonish everyone with tears. I love the heart of the Apostle Paul, who Speaks about his ministry, but he does so saying, I did it with tears. I labored among you night and day Praying for you, admonishing you, and doing so with tears. Just a few verses later, he tells them, you yourselves know that these hands ministered to my necessities. And those who are with me, in all things I have shown you that by working hard in this way, we must help the weak. Remember the words of our Lord Jesus, how he himself said, It is more blessed to give than to receive So when Paul says here, we ask you brothers to respect those who labor among you, he's telling them, this is the responsibility that they have over them. And I want you to recognize that and to work in coordination with. To work in tandem with them. Don't make their work difficult. There's a sense in which Paul is urging the Thessalonians to recognize the seriousness of the work of these leaders, but there's also a sense in which he is warning the leaders. Are you laboring this way? Are you working tirelessly? Are you Carrying this responsibility, this burden, whatever ministry you have, do you labor tirelessly in that ministry? Do I labor tirelessly as it is required? Recognizing that we will give an account for the ministries that God has called us to. The fact is that the ministry is no place for laziness. I'm very thankful for the example of Pastor Lehman, who has been faithfully laboring in prayer and in preaching and in counsel and in rebuke and in administration and in encouragement. For decades here. I'm very thankful for that example. We as a church are blessed to have that pattern before us on a regular basis. And as a church, I have seen that appreciation, that recognition, that acknowledgement, that respect that comes because there's an understanding of the weight that is carried. And the prayer that goes into praying for our pastors and for our deacons and that respect, that's a beautiful thing. That's what Paul is urging here. Not that they weren't. That's why he uses the friendly tone. We ask you, brothers. But continue and grow and make this a continual habit. He describes them as well, now recognize not only the labor they do, but their leadership over you. And what's interesting here is the church is still very young. Probably not much more than a year and a half old. The Apostle Paul probably didn't have an opportunity to be there for longer than six months before he was run out of town. But it seems already that they had obtained elders, as was the pattern of the Apostle Paul's ministry, that they had ordained elders in Thessalonica who were responsible, who were over them, who were leading them. This was the typical pattern of the Apostle Paul in his missionary journeys. You can read um Oh, next one. Acts 14, 23. Says, when they had appointed elders for them in every church. Having prayed with fasting, they entrusted them to the Lord in whom they had believed. So they appointed elders very quickly on in this ministry. Titus 1, Paul tells Titus For this reason I left you in Crete that you would set in order the things that remain and appoint elders in every city. Everywhere there is a congregation, there needs to be elders. Sometimes we may wonder why it takes so long for missionaries today to ordain elders in churches. You ever thought about that? Why was the Apostle Paul able to ordain elders? So quickly. Within six months of ministering there, he had elders in the church. Why did it take Aaron Scheip seven years? to get an elder qualified man in Tanzania. Why do Paul and Paul Schleyline and Seth Myers talk about the challenge of raising up Elder qualified men that takes years, sometimes a decade or more, to find men. If you read Seth Myers' most recent update, he's describing the challenge there in the village of Valdesia where the church has no married man in it. No couple. I'm sorry, no couple, no married couple in the church. It's a challenge. Why is it that Daniel Ford at Moldova has been laboring for over 20 years? And every time he thinks he has someone, they fail or they move away. And he says, I have no elder qualified man to leave the ministry to. They're just not effective workers. They should ax them. Is that the issue? Not at all. The fact is, the founding of these churches had the benefit that most of the churches in uh In the unreached world today don't have. They have the benefit of multi-centuries of Judaism. And so very quickly, the Apostle Paul has elder-qualified men in the villages, in the towns where he's planting churches. That's why he went to synagogues first. That's why Jesus told the disciples in John 4, I have sent you to reap where other men have labored. Saying, I'm going to send you out to work. You're going to receive massive conversions. You're going to establish churches in areas. But others have done the hard work of planting and weeding and watering. You're gonna reap where other men have labored for centuries. Who labored for centuries? Well, the prophets labored for centuries. Faithful men and women serving the the the the Lord in these communities, raising up children to know the Lord and to know his word. John the Baptist and many others had been faithfully preaching, where it could be said that in Acts 15 that Moses had been preached all through Rome. All the Roman world knew the teachings of Moses because there were synagogues in most of the cities. And so elder qualified men could be raised up very, very quickly. So at this point in time, j that was kind of aside. It helps you to pray for our missionaries. Helps you to pray Knowledgeably, knowing that raising up men. I was talking to Daniel Ford recently in Moldova, and I said, when's your next furlough? And he said, I don't know. He said, every time I raise up a man, they move. He said, you know that when we moved to Moldova 20 years ago, it was a country of four million people. Now it's less than two and a half million people. He said, every time anybody can get out of this country, they do. He said, so if someone gets trained up and they're prepared to lead, they get an opportunity to go somewhere else to provide for their family, they're going to do it. He said it's very hard. So it gives you an appreciation of how we can pray for our missionaries who are trying to raise up plant churches and raise up elder qualified men to lead those churches. The word here that's translated over you has the idea of standing in front, giving direction. It speaks of the leader's responsibility to manage, to lead, to direct a congregation, a group of people in the things of the Lord. It's a word that is actually found several times in the passage dealing with the qualification of pastors and deacons. In 1 Timothy chapter 3, we have that section of the qualification of elders and the qualification of deacons, and he says, he must manage his own household well. with all dignity, keeping his children submissive, for if someone does not know how to manage his own household, how will he care for the church of God or God's church? Same thing is true said about the deacons. It's that same word. That same word is being used here. The one to lead is to manage, to direct. And the responsibility to be able to manage the house, to lead your own home, to lead your children, have them in submission, to lead your wife faithfully. Is a requirement for one who leads in the church, because if you can't lead in your home, you won't be able to lead in the church. And so that is a requirement that is given. It's interesting. Well, I'm going to skip this section here, but the the the the term when I I use these terms a little bit loosely. When I say pastors, you'll hear me say pastor, you'll hear me say elder, you might hear me say overseer. It's it is It is biblical to use these terms to describe the office of the pastor, the elder, or the bishop. You can see this even in 1 Peter chapter 5, where These three terms are used to describe the singular office. Someone who is a pastor, someone who is an elder. Peter's describing, he's talking to the elders. I urge elders among you. And he uses the word to shepherd the flock. That's the word for pastor. And then to exercise oversight, which is the word for bishop, to be a bishop over them. So in these off in this one person are these three responsibilities. And the idea is that the pastor shepherd is one who is to care. The overseer defines his administration responsibilities. And the elder speaks of the character of the person who has this office. So if you hear me say elder qualified, pastor, or overseer, it's all referring to the same office. Biblically, they're used interchangeably. But the leadership that these men have is derived leadership. It's not intrinsic leadership. It's derived Not from themselves, but from the Lord. Notice how he describes them. He describes them as those who are over you in the Lord. They're over you in the Lord. They have this authority because of the fact that God has called them and placed them in that position of leadership. They are being led in the Lord. His Lordship underlies, you might say, their leadership. They will give an account To the great shepherd, as Peter mentions in 1 Peter chapter 5, the great shepherd, Jesus Christ, is the one who watches over his sheep, and he watches over his elders. And they will give an account for how they they utilize and exercise the authority that they have been given. But it's also a warning to church members that derived authority of the pastor is derived from. Christ, the great shepherd. And therefore, obedience to the pastor is important because he is exercising authority. From Christ. Just like in Romans 13, where he says, all authority comes from God. And that he calls the civil authorities the ministers of God. And we're required to obey civil authorities. Because that authority is from God, and when we disobey civil authorities, we are disobeying God Himself, who put those civil authorities into place. He also says, not only recognize their authority over you, but their responsibility to admonish you. To admonish is a word that means comes from the idea of instructing. With warnings. Instructing with warning. It's the idea of correcting charging people. That 's the idea of changing a person. You instruct them so that they change their behavior. So it's not just teaching you facts, but it's teaching to change. The idea of preaching, we often talk about the definition of what's the difference between teaching and preaching. Preaching is teaching from the point of authority, the Word of God, with the intent To persuade, with the intent to persuade you to live differently, because it is the Word of God. So it's not just a matter of imparting information, it's Teaching from the point of authority the Word of God with the intent of persuading you to live in accordance to it He says, recognize that they have this responsibility to admonish. It's not the kind of admonishing that is judgmentalism or callous , distant indifference. But it is a loving instruction that often is accompanied with tears. I remember an older pastor when I was young in the ministry, he came to me and he said, If you can exercise church discipline on something, someone without weeping. You're not ready. And that was good counsel. If you haven't wept over that, the soul of that person and the seriousness of the situation , You're not ready to exercise church discipline. You're probably more vindictive and not in the right spirit. I thought that was very helpful counsel, and it's been a check in my spirit many times along the way. Paul says the word esteem them. He says, very highly in love. The word very highly literally means beyond all measure. And now Paul's not encouraging hero worship or some cult-like mentality. But he's saying recognize the work they do, recognize the responsibility they have, recognize the authority that they've been given from God, and esteem them. very highly because of that. They are to faithfully execute the work of watching for your soul. And teaching you the Word of God, they deserve abundant honor because there's nothing more important than that responsibility. And lastly, he says, be at peace among yourselves. It's not, there's debate over how this connects with what he's just been saying. He's been talking about the believer's responsibility to the the the leadership of the church. Then he says, be at peace among yourselves. It could mean be at peace church member with church member. Saying, you guys be at peace with with amongst yourselves. As a pastor, personally, one of the harder things to deal with is when church members are fighting or at odds with one another. And you're called in to try to bring peace. It's a responsibility that that is unfortunate but is necessary And if you want to be a blessing to your pastor, live at peace. Live at peace one with another. I I'm so thankful for our church because we don't have this. I've been to churches where this is a constant challenge. We don't have it like in we obviously we still are sinners, but not to the degree. That many other churches have. But if you want to be a blessing to your pastors, live at peace, one with another. Forgive. Walk in humility. Learn to swallow pride. But it also could refer to living at peace with those that are in authority over you. Living at peace with those who have to admonish you. I don't know about you, but being admonished is hard. And sometimes you don't want to live at peace with a person who admonishes you. You want to Take up a grudge and have some bitterness in your soul. And so when he says, Be at peace Among yourselves. It could be referring to that relationship. Either way, it's true. It's not very clear from the text, but both are true, and both should be encouraged. Beginning in verse 14, there's a transition that takes place. Now he's talking about the believers' responsibility to each other. He was talking about the believer's responsibility to the leadership. Now he's saying here's the responsibility to believers to believers. Now there are some who see this next section as Paul addressing the church leaders, talking to the church leaders about their responsibility to the church. It's possibilities. It's an old interpretation. Chrysostom felt that way. And the reason they say that is because he says in verse 14, and we urge you brothers, admonish. the idol. Well, who's been given the responsibility in this text for admonishing? The pastors. Remember those who admonish you. It's the same word. Now he's saying admonish the idol. But he just says in verse 14, We urge you brothers, admonish the idol. It's a very general term. If he was talking directly to the pastors or only to the pastors, he probably would have used a very different term, a more specific term. And so at most most Bible students have understood this as being a responsibility of believers. to believers. After all, believers have a responsibility to admonish each other. In Colossians chapter 3, believers are called to admonish one another. It is our responsibility as believers when we see another believer going astray. We're not to say, well, that's not my problem. Well, that's the pastor's job. Well, you know, everyone's got their own freedoms. No, he says you have a responsibility to admonish your brother in love. To care for him enough to tell him when he's going astray. And so he starts off in verse 14. He says, Admonish, and we urge you, brothers, admonish the idol. Some have wondered what exactly was Paul speaking against when he wrote to admonish the idol? What is he talking about? Well, thankfully this word is used very clearly in the next epistle with a lot of explanation. If you have your Bibles open, turn to to uh 2 Thessalonians chapter 3. Do I have this here? No, I don't. Whoa. Hmm. Something there's a few slides missing. So we're just gonna have to go forward without it. In Second Thessalonians chapter three Verses six and following, these same words are used, and Paul says I am skipping over 2 Thessalonians chapter 3. The pages are sticking together. Okay, verse 6. Now we command you, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you keep away from any brother who is walking in idleness. There's our word, and not in accord with the traditions that you receive from us. What does that mean? In what way are they walking in idleness? For you yourselves know how you ought to imitate us, because we were not idle when we were with you. There's our word. There's others, some who are walking in idleness. Remember how we lived among you, we were not idle when we were living among you. Nor did we eat anyone's bread without paying for it But with toil and labor we worked night and day that we might not be a burden to any of you. It was not because we did not have the right That right, but that to give you an in ourselves an example to imitate. For even when we were with you, we would give you this command. If anyone is not willing to work, let him not eat. For we hear that some among you walk in idleness, not busy at work, but busy bodies. So we get a clear understanding of what he means by admonish the idol. There were some within the Thessalonian church who were not working. He contrasts that with how he lived. You saw how we lived, how we worked, how we didn't take food from anybody, but we paid for our own food. They say, now there are some who are walking around eating other people's houses, not doing their job, loafing off The church. And he said, admonish them, warn them, that is not right. It seems that these Thessalonians were impacted by what's often called an over-realized eschatology, thinking that imminency meant immediacy. That Christ is coming back today. Christ is coming back today. They were to live and work with this everyday expectancy. Paul wanted them to be almost on their tiptoes with expectancy. But not to live idly. They were to live as if Jesus could come back today, but not as if Jesus is coming back today. There is a difference. Live as if Jesus could come back today. But we don't know. When we talked about immanency, we talked about the fact that a certain event, an uncertain time. So live with that expectancy that it could happen today. But it doesn't mean quit your job and go stand on the hollowest hill and start jumping up and down. He's saying, live with expectancy, faithfully do your job, and be found working when Christ comes. Paul says that they are to warn them. And then if you remember what we read here in 2 Thessalonians chapter 3, he says that if they don't listen to that warning, You're to stay away from them. You're not to have fellowship with them. You are to turn away from them because they are not living in accordance with the teaching. And he says if anyone doesn't work. And he's able to work, obviously , then he shouldn't eat. That's that's how serious the Apostle Paul takes this This instruction. He says, warn them. But the next next thing he says is also very important. He says, encourage the faint-hearted. Lest you think Paul is just always this guy that's dropping the hammer. He's always liking to rebuke. He says, encourage the faint-hearted. Not everyone needs to be rebuked. Not everyone needs to be warned. Others need to be encouraged. Others need to be strengthened. The word faint-hearted literally means little souled. There's a person who's struggling to believe. Not every physical illness requires surgery. In a similar way, you go to the doctors, he he if he said he's surgery happy, you got a problem. But you might just need to rest. You might just need medicine. In a similar way, he's saying there are those within the congregation who don't need to be warned, they need to be encouraged, they need to be built up, they need to be strengthened. to believe the promises of God. It can refer to a person who's naturally fearful, naturally timid. They need to be encouraged to trust the word of God. To trust the promises of Scripture. And when we come into the body of believers, it's important to recognize within the congregation there are people that are in different stages and they need different ministry. There are those who need. To be admonished. There are those who need to be encouraged. And we need to be looking, as Pastor mentioned even last week, don't come to church just to be encouraged. But looking for those who are struggling and that you can say, how can I pray with you? How can I encourage that person? What's their need? What scripture can I help them with? Not to beat them over the head of the Bible, but to say, remember the promises of God and encourage them with these great promises. So that they are built up to trust God more. Don't tear down, but build that one up in Christ. He could refer to a Christian who's facing some persecution or a trial in their life. And he needs to be strengthened with words of grace. I love how it describes our Savior in Isaiah 42. It says that a bruised reed he will not break. And a faintly burning wick, he will not quench. He will not extinguish. Christ didn't come in there just slashing. He had slashing words for the Pharisees and the Sadducees. But for those who were struggling with sin, he had words of encouragement, words that built up, words that drew them to a life of obedience and faithfulness. And we need to have that same attitude as well. So he says, encourage the faint-hearted, reprove the idle, encourage the faint-hearted, help the weak. The word weak here could refer to those who are physically weak, to those who are sick. It could also refer to those who are weak in faith. Most of the time Paul uses this word, he's talking about those who are weak in faith, but it's not it's not really clear. Both are would be true. The person who's weak in faith Is someone who has not let the gospel of grace work itself out fully in his life. Many see this as those who are battling some sin in their life. They're not overcome with sin. They're battling it, but they're struggling with it. And he says, help them. Come alongside of them. Minister to them. If there's a brother or sister that is struggling with sin, they need instruction, but they also need someone that's there to help them. It may mean they call you at 11 o'clock at night and say, I'm really struggling. Are you there to be able to help that person? Peter tells us that we are to love one another earnestly. Earnestly. That means it's work. The church is full of sinners who are weak and need encouragement and need to be built up, and also sinners who need to be admonished. But we need to be coming together to build each other up. When Peter asked Jesus how many times he was to forgive his brother, he said, Lord, even seven times, like expecting Jesus was going to say, man, Peter, well done. You know, seven 's really going above and beyond. And Jesus says, no, no, no, no. How have you been forgiven? You're called to forgive in that same way. Not seven times. Then he says, but seventy times seven. That's why this last instruction here in verse 15, verse 14, he says, help the weak, be patient with them all. Be patient with them all. In the body of Christ. We need to be exercising patience. Why? Because we are all sinners who need patience. Praise God, He is patient with us. If God was impatient with us, where would any of us be? We would be in a hopeless condition. Praise God he was patient with us. And he is patient with us. How many times have we had to come back to God and say, God, I failed again in this area? I said I wasn't going to let my tongue get ahead of me anymore. And then I did it right away. And he forgives us. Thank God he is patient with us. In the church, we need to be exercising patience in that same way. Think of how Jesus was patient with his apostles, the disciples. Look at that example. How many times did he say , Are you still not understanding? Why are you so weak in faith? How many times do I have to tell you? And he was patient with them, even though they saw the miracles, they saw the feeding of the five thousand. They saw the feeding of the 4,000. They saw him walk on water. They saw him cast out the demons. They saw him raise the dead. And yet they're arguing amongst themselves which one of us is actually the greatest. Who's going to be in the position of authority? And he was patient with them. Praise God, he was patient with them because he's also patient with them. Let us show that same type of patience. I want to give just a few points of encouragement here in application as we finish up. First of all, encourage you to recognize those that are in leadership over you by praying for them. Pray for your church leaders. Recognize that the work that they do sometimes demands a wisdom that we don't have, and we need it from God. And it the seriousness of it is great. The work is vital. It can be heavy. And I want to thank you for the way as a church you express encouragement to us. I've received emails and notes and words of encouragement on many occasions. And I want to thank you for that. That is a very beautiful thing. And like Paul says, I want to encourage you to continue doing those things. Because that is something that God uses to strengthen our hands in ministry. Think of the deacons. We have amazing deacons. And many of them serve in ways you don't see. Be an encouragement to them. They carry weights that oftentimes you don't know. But I I have been in various situations with various churches and I has I have never seen deacons as faithful as the ones we have here. I am so thankful for our deacons Be in prayer for them as they carry the weight of responsibility in this church as well. Secondly, take responsibility for church unity. Called to be patient with one another. It means refusing gossip. It means loving earnestly. It means forgiving as you have been forgiven. Take personal responsibility for that. Thirdly, admonish the idle and the wayward with love. Galatians 6:1 says, You who are spiritual, restore such a one. in a spirit of meekness. Refusing to admonish is not love. This is where our our generation struggles. We want to say, oh, church is not to be judgmental. You're right, judgmentalism was a tone of condensation is not biblical But admonishing and warning and restoring is. James 5 says, If anyone among you Wanders from the truth, and someone brings him back, let him know that whoever brings back a sinner from the wandering, from his wandering, will save his soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins. Love earnestly by lovingly admonishing. Considering your own self. Galatians 6 says, do it in a spirit of gentleness, a spirit of meekness. But when you see a brother going or sister going away that's dangerous, don't be afraid to admonish. And then encourage the weak. Look for those who are struggling. Pray for them, pray with them, point them to scripture, point them to scriptural hope. Hope. That's why I say don't beat them over the head of the Bible. Point them to biblical hope. Ground their faith in the promises of Scripture. Listen. Consider Job's friends. You ever think about Job's friends? They weren't perfect. Miserable comfort, as he calls them. But for seven days they sat there in silence with him. Seven days. And they just sat there. They were showing, we are with you. And they wept with him. That was a good example. The rest of their example may not be the greatest. But in that they set a good example for us. May God help us to do this faithfully. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this instruction. I pray that you would help us to take it to heart. And to apply it to our lives. Thank you, Lord, for the church. Thank you, Lord, that you have been patient with us and that you have been so gracious. Help us, Lord, to do this one to another. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.