If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Romans chapter 8? Romans chapter 8. If you're visiting with us, we have been making our way verse by verse through this triumphant chapter. On January 6, 1850, a 15-year-old boy made his way through a heavy snowstorm to a primitive Methodist church. Didn't normally attend that church, but he his family church was further away, and so he went to this one which was closer. There's a little chapel on Artillery Street. There were only about a dozen people there because of the snow. In fact, the preacher wasn't able to make it. So a simple man in the church who was a tailor, an uneducated man decided to preach a sermon He preached for about 10 minutes from Isaiah 45, verse 22, Look unto me, and be ye saved all the ends of the earth. The sermon was poor. The man had nothing much to say but to repeat the text. And the main reason he preached the sermon is because there was a visitor there. And he thought correctly that he may be lost in need of the gospel. And the gospel was powerful that morning. In fact, it changed history because that 15-year-old boy was Charles Spurgeon. And on that day, he put his faith and trust in Jesus Christ. He would become the greatest preacher of his generation. And his life changed forever. On that moment in 1850. Why does conversion change the course of a person's life? What does it provide? New perspective, a new purpose? There are several biblical answers to this question, and one of them Is because every born-again believer at the moment of conversion is indwelt by the Spirit of God. The Bible teaches that the Holy Spirit At the moment of salvation takes up residence in our hearts. Look with me, please, at our text this morning. We're looking beginning at Romans chapter 8 and verse 9. We're looking at verses 9, 10, and 11, and I want you to note right at the beginning here that the indwelling of the Spirit is mentioned three times in these three verses. It's mentioned first of all in verse 9 He says, if it be that the Spirit of God dwell in you. And then in verse eleven, he mentions it twice towards the beginning of the book. Uh beginning of the verse, excuse me, and then in the last phrase. I want to remind you the logical train of thought in this passage. At the end of verse 4 Paul says that all of humanity can be divided up into two categories, those who walk after the flesh and those who walk after the spirit. And so Paul, to provide more explanation of this, in verses five and six, he contrasts these two spheres of living. He says, For they, verse five, that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh, but they that are after the spirit, the things of the spirit. For to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life. And then in verses seven and eight, he's going to further explain what it means to live in the realm of the flesh. He says, because the carnal mind is enmity against God, or it's not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be. So then they that are in the flesh cannot please God And those two verses were really an explanation of the first phrase in verse 6 that says, For to be carnally minded is death. And now he's going to go back to that last phrase in verse 6 that says, but to be spiritually minded is life. And peace. And now he's going to explain what that means in verses 9, 10, and 11, the verses that we are considering this morning. Now, in this chapter, Paul is seeking to encourage Christians at Rome with the assurance that nothing can destroy God's gracious work of salvation in their hearts. And in this passage, he's going to explain that one of the things that brings assurance to believers is that we are in the Spirit, that we have the Spirit of God dwelling within us. This is true of every child of God. I don't think we often think about that in a Christian experience. But the Bible teaches it very plainly and says that it should have a tremendous impact in our lives. So I want to talk to you this morning about the blessings and benefits that come from being And dwelt by the Spirit of God. I'm going to preach to you on life in the Spirit that Christians should rejoice in the blessings we enjoy because of the indwelling of the Spirit. What difference does it make? I mean it may sound to you like an esoteric doctrine But it's a very practical thing that we are indwelt by the Spirit of God. The first thing I want you to see in our text is that because we are indwelt by the Spirits, We know that we belong to God. Look with me please at verse 9. He says, But ye are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you. Now if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his. Notice that Paul begins verse 9 with the word, but he's making a clear contrast. with those who cannot please God because they are in the realm of the flesh, those individuals he described in verse 8. In contrast now, those who live in the spirits are alive. What does it mean to live in the realm of the spirit? Well, first of all, it means first and foremost that we are dwelt. By the Spirit of God. Now, when he says, if so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you, Paul is not questioning whether or not his readers in Rome are truly believers. He is assured that they are. He is giving them the benefit of the doubt. He is simply saying that all who live in the realm of the Spirit are indeed indwelt by the spirits. Now, let me very quickly try to condense in broadest strokes possible what the Bible teaches about the indwelling of the Spirit. And then we'll come back to this passage, which is one of those key texts. In the Old Testament, we do read of leaders like Joseph. and Joshua and David and Daniel being indwelt by the Spirit of God. But if you read those texts and examine those passages, you will see that it seems that the Spirit of God came on them for a specific period of time to accomplish a specific task. And there's no indication that this was given to all believers, the indwelling of the Spirit. What is crystal clear is that there was a change that occurred in the ministry of the Spirit in the life of a believer when the day of Pentecost occurred. There are two key New Testament texts that explain this change. One of them was mentioned in John chapter 7 on the great day of the feast when Jesus stood up and with a loud voice said, If any man thirst, let him come unto me and drink He that believeth on me, as the scripture hath said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. And the reader may ask, what does that refer to? And so John provides this inspired commentary, but this spake he of the Spirit. Which they that believe on him should receive, for the Holy Ghost was not given, because that Jesus was not yet glorified. Now we know that the Holy Ghost was at work in the lives of people before Pentecost, but in a different and unique way, the Holy Spirit came upon believers. After the day of Pentecost. And that's what's being referred to there. The Lord makes mention of this again in John chapter 14 in the upper room discourse, the night before his crucifixion, when he says this. He says to his beleaguered disciples, And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever, even the Spirit of truth. whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him, but you know him, for he dwelleth with you. And shall be in you. That last phrase is key. He's saying at that moment in the upper room, the Holy Spirit was dwelling with them. But in the future he will dwell in you. There would be a change of his ministry. And that was a reference. to the day of Pentecost. On the day of Pentecost, we read of the Holy Spirit coming and indwelling every true believer. It didn't matter if they were leader in the church. or not a leader. If they were man or woman, if they were Jew or Gentile, it didn't matter. The Holy Spirit came upon every true born-again believer. And that is the case still today. If you are a Christian here this morning, the Holy Spirit of God right now dwells in your heart as a permanent residence. The New Testament speaks of the Holy Spirit's indwelling as the earnest of the Spirit. And the word earnest speaks of a down payment. a deposit that guarantees the completion of our salvation. Listen to Ephesians chapter 1, verses 13 and 14. It says, after that ye believed Ye were sealed with that Holy Spirit of promise, which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession under the praise of his glory. And then notice the converse of this is stated at the end of verse 9. He says, Now if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his. Now, I want you to notice something that's instructive for us. We see in our text, first of all, in verse 9, it speaks of the Spirit of God. And here it speaks of the Spirit of Christ. Both of these are references to the Holy Spirit. One of the titles of the third person of the Trinity is the Spirit of Christ. Because he ministers Christ to us in a very real fashion. We're going to read more about this in verse 10. But I want you to notice that this language, when we read of the Spirit of God, the Spirit of Christ, or the Holy Spirit, we should not think in our minds That the the persons of the Godhead are indistinguishable or interchangeable. They're not. But often what we find in Scripture, we find all the members of the Godhead at work. In different ways in the same ministry of God 's. And that's something that we see here. Now let's not forget the point that Paul is making. All Christians are positionally in the Spirit and practically indwelt by the Holy Spirit. The Spirit is the fountain of our spiritual life. Remember how Jesus said in John chapter 7. referring to the Holy Spirit, that we would have within us a fount of flowing water. The idea is that the Spirit of God would be refreshing, would be evident, and it would spill over to other people with whom we have contacts. Jesus promised in John chapter 10 that he would give abundant life to his people And one of the ways he provides that higher quality of life is through the Holy Spirit that indwells us. But there is another amazing benefit that comes from the indwelling of the Spirit. And that brings us to verse 10. Look with me, please, at verse 10. Now I'm going to encourage you, please, to listen to me. We're looking at some some some truth of Scripture that is somewhat confusing and difficult to follow in some respects You know, we have a cloudy Sunday afternoon. It's towards the end of the morning. It'd be very easy for you to just kind of check out and take a little bit of a nap right now. This is the word of God, and there is vital truth that we need to know in this passage. And verse 10, Paul writes, and if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin, but the spirit is life because of righteousness. Now once again, Paul uses a conditional clause, but not to cast a question as to whether or not his readers really have Christ. dwelling in them. It could be translated, since Christ is in you. Now perhaps if you're thinking carefully, you would say to yourself, So I thought in verse 1 of this chapter it says that we are in Christ. Now here in verse 10 it says that Christ is in us. Which one of those is true? The answer is they're both true. We live in the sphere positionally as a representative. We are in Christ. That is our righteous standing. But the Bible also teaches that the Spirit of Christ dwells within us. The Bible also teaches a mutual indwelling, that we are indwelt by the Spirit of God, that is, by the Holy Spirit, and also by Christ Hims, the Spirit of Christ. Now there are many verses that speak of Christ dwelling in our hearts. The most famous is Galatians 2. 20. I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. There is some sense, some way in which the Holy Spirit's indwelling helps us to have communion with Christ Himself. This is what this passage is teaching in others like John chapter 14. And this, of course, is something that every believer cherishes. that communion with Christ that is brought about through the agency of the Holy Spirit. Now look with me at the next phrase in verse 10. It says, the body is dead because of sin. What exactly does that mean? It is saying that although Christians are dwelt by Christ, That doesn't mean that we don't die physically. Yes, it is true that we are no longer slaves to sin, as he said earlier in this chapter. But we still have a sin nature. We still have the effects of the fall on our bodies. And we will someday die. That does not refute the wonderful truths that he is saying here. The Bible explains why it is that every one dies. Romans chapter 5 and verse 12, wherefore as by one man Sin entered into the world and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men for that all have sinned Every funeral is a painful reminder of the universal problem of sin and is intended to drive us to the Savior. You know, death has some pretty impressive statistics. One out of every one people die. Okay? That's a statistic we don't like to think about. And yes, it is true, the Lord could return in a moment of time, and we would be spared that physical death. And we look with eagerness for his return. But apart from that, we will all die. And the reason why human beings die is because we have been cursed. In the fall, we have a sin nature. We are sinners by nature and by choice. Now Notice there is a balancing phrase in verse 10 to this because of sin. And that is the last phrase in verse 10 says, but the Spirit is life. Because of righteousness. Those two phrases are meant to be parallel to one another. And Paul is making a point of contrast here. He's saying that because of our sin nature we will all die, but because of righteousness we will all live. But whose righteousness is spoken of here? It certainly is not speaking of our righteousness. Because our righteousness always comes short. It's speaking here of the imputed righteousness of Jesus Christ. This is one of the great doctrines of Scripture. This is reveals the beauty of the gospel. Sometimes when I'm sharing the gospel with someone, I will try to explain this doctrine this way. The Bible pictures sin as a debt, like you're in financial debt. Let's say that you're like a person that for all their life does not pay taxes, and somehow you got a tax bill from the IRS that says that you owe one billion dollars. An amount that was staggering that you could never hope to pay. But then this very wealthy billionaire company comes forward, he hears about your story on the news, he feels sorry for you, and he writes out a check for one billion dollars. And you're so relieved you don't have that debt burden hanging over your head anymore. But right now, I ask the individual when I'm presenting this, presenting the gospel, how much money do you have? And the answer is zero because you were a billion dollars in the hole and you've been given a billion dollars. But the gospel does not leave us at zero. The gospel of grace pictures as if that same man felt sorry for you and he wrote out another check for a billion dollars and he said, Here, here's something for you to live on. The Bible teaches that at the moment of salvation we are credited with the perfect righteousness. of Jesus Christ. Remember, he always did those things that pleased his father. He never sinned. He lived a perfect life in those 33 plus years that he lived on earth. And that imputed righteousness has been credited to our account. This is why, through the indwelling of the Spirit, we have this understanding and this sense Of being free to live the Christian life in its fullness. We do not live as those who are trying to earn God's favor because it's already been earned for us through Christ. We are not those who are powerless in our own strength to live the Christian life. We have the Spirit of God that dwells within our hearts, as we sang today, to keep us from sin. But Paul goes on to provide another reason why the indwelling of the Spirit is such a blessing in our lives. Look with me, please, at verse 11. It says, but if the spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you , He that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his spirit that dwelleth in you. The third wonderful truth That we can enjoy through the indwelling of the Spirit is that we know that we will triumph over death. Now the logic of this verse is easy to follow. The same Spirit of God that raised up Jesus from the dead is the Spirit that dwells in our hearts as believers. And it's that same Spirit of God that will someday raise up our mortal bodies from the death. Does that sound too good to be true? Do you think that that is so incredible and so beyond our experience that that could not happen? I run into a lot of Christians I find that I think really struggle to grasp that truth. I often hear Christians talking about it doesn't matter whatever happens to my body. They can throw me under an old shade tree somewhere. I don't care because I'll be with the Lord in glory forever. This is just some old empty shell. It doesn't matter a thing. They may have good intentions in saying that. I can remember years ago before I came here as pastor, I was in a Sunday school class and of of about forty adults and we were talking about the resurrection of the body and what came clear is that by their statements most people in that room, a wonderful church Did not believe fully in the doctrine of the resurrection of the body. This is one of the unique doctrinal truths of Christianity. We believe in the resurrection of the body. In fact, there's an entire chapter of Scripture devoted to that truth. 1 Corinthians chapter 15. It's not a minor little detail that matters. Not at all. It is a important doctrine of s of truth. We read here Several things that I think deserve comment in verse 11. First of all, Paul uses the name Jesus here to emphasize to his readers the humanity and the historicity of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus of Nazareth is not some construct that was developed by the church centuries later. He was a man who lived. There are references to him in historical documents outside of the New Testament. And that man. Died and rose again from the dead. And was seen of many witnesses. This was an historic event. Christianity, contrary to popular opinion, is not based on some type of esoteric doctrine that somebody came up with to make us feel better and to cope with the difficulties of life. It is based on historic realities that can be investigated. Notice in verse 11, the bodily resurrection of Christ is mentioned twice. Talks about the spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead, and he shall quicken your mortal bodies. What we see here is that the resurrection of Christ is a foundational doctrine of the Christian faith. Every founder of every other world religion, you can visit their tomb. They have perished. But our Savior rose from the dead. The Bible here in verse 11 speaks of quickening of our mortal bodies, and the word quicken means to make alive a reference to our bodily resurrection. There is a wonderful triumphant passage of scripture that is traditionally read at Christian funerals that I want to read to you. From 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verse 51. Listen carefully. You'll notice similar language to what we have here in Romans 8. Paul writes, Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed in a moment in the twinkling of an eye at the last trump, for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written. Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin. And the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding and the work of the Lord, for as much as you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord's This is the wonderful truth of the gospel. Let me ask you a question. How much of you has God redeemed? I think a lot of Christians think, well, they would say he redeemed my soul or he redeemed my spirits. But the Bible teaches that he redeemed all of you. including your body. He redeemed your body. It is his. First Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse 23 Three, listen to what Paul says, and the very God of peace sanctify you holy, and I pray, God, your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless under the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now, whenever you mention this doctrine, people come to me with a whole boatload of questions. Like, how can God reassemble someone's body that's decayed and turned to dust who died like two thousand years ago. I mean how is he going to resurrect every part of that body and and what will that body look like and how will he glorify it? And they ask question after question that I can't answer. But you know what? God can do whatever he wants to do. And he can reconstitute your body and he will glorify it so that it is so much better than your body has ever been. You will never be weak and tired or in pain or suffer. You will have a glorified body, but it will be a refurbishing of your current body. Now you might look at your body that's falling apart daily and say, I just can't see how that could happen. Well, you know what? God's not limited by your imagination. He can do it and he will do it. This is the great teaching of the bodily resurrection Death will not win. Death won't even claim our bodies. Ultimately, if you're a child of God, your body will be glorified. And that is a wonderful truth that should comfort our hearts. Romans chapter 8 is a passage that proclaims the believer's triumphant assurance even over death. And all of this is related to the fact that we are indwelt by the Spirit of God. That is the wonderful promise. that this will occur. So let me make some applications now from this passage this morning. Four applications. The first one is this, because we are dwelt by the Spirit, We should remember that we are never alone as Christians. One of the great sources of sorrow in life on this fallen planet is being alone. Being alone. There's a lot of lonely people in the world. When you minister to people, As a pastor, you have a little bit of an insight on this that most people don't have. But I want you to know there are a lot of people that are very, very lonely that just want to talk to somebody. Sometimes people come to talk to me and they don't really have anything they want to talk about. They don't really have a problem. They just want to talk to somebody. Because they're all alone. The reason why people are alone are many. Some are because of sin. Sometimes it's because of dysfunctional relationships. They've cut off themselves from their friends and their family. Sometimes it's because of death. We live in a fallen planet. But if you are a child of God The Bible teaches that you have the Spirit of God living inside of you who can minister to you in very tangible ways. Listen to what Jesus said to his disciples, his fearful disciples in the upper room the night before he died. I will pray the Father. And he shall give you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever, even the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him. But ye know him, for he dwelleth with you and shall be in you. And then he says, I will not leave you comfortless. I will come to you. And I believe that as a reference, he says, I won't leave you as an orphan, is the Greek word he uses. I will come to you. How would he come to them? He would come to them through the Spirit of God dwelling in their hearts and giving them comfort. So we can enjoy fellowship even when we're in loneliness. Because we have the Spirit of God dwelling within us. We can enjoy that communion. that lost people do not. The second application that is not brought out so much in our passage, but in other passages about the indwelling of the Spirit. And that is because we are indwelt by the Holy Spirit, we should and we can live lives of sexual purity. Paul writing to the church at Corinth says, Know ye not that you are the temple of God and the Spirit of God dwells in you? Corinth was a city known for its wickedness. It was like Sin City in the ancient world. And there was a church there that was surrounded by paganism. But Paul says to them, Don't you know that you folks, that church there, you are the temple of God. Not like those false temples around you where there's idols. You are the true temple of the living God. And then in chapter six, he makes this application about the fact of the Spirit of God indwelling in a believer. He says, flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body, but he that committeth fornications sinneth against his own body. What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit which is in you, which you have of God, and ye are not your own, for ye are bought with a price Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. We live in an age of sexual depravity. We live in a pornographic culture. So did the church at Corinth. And the same Holy Spirit that enabled those first century believers. to live lives of purity will enable us to live lives of purity even in the 21st century. The third application I want to make is this. Because the Holy Spirit dwells within us, we should recognize that death is not the end for us. We have a lot of dear people who have left us in the last few years in our assembly And there are many in our congregations who are grieving in every service I look out on people who have lost their parents, lost a brother or sister. Or lost a spouse. I want you to know that the Bible provides great comfort for us Not only are our loved ones with Christ, but one day they will receive a glorified body, and we will recognize them because we will see them again. This is the great comfort that comes from Scripture, from the return of Christ, and also from the doctrine of the Christ. of bodily resurrection. Because this doctrine is not some esoteric truth for us to debate or to think about. It's a practical source of comfort for us. Listen to Paul's words in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. He says, But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep, that is those who have died, that you sorrow not even as others which have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with them. For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain under the coming of the Lord shall not prevent or precede them which are asleep. For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, and with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort one another with these words. This is our great comfort. Not only will we see these people, but we will recognize them because their bodies will be resurrected and glorified. And the final application I want to make this morning is this, because the Holy Spirit dwells within us We can have the assurance that we are the children of God. Paul is going to apply this a little bit later. In a few weeks ahead, we will be coming. to these wonderful verses like verse 16, the Spirit itself bears witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. Paul brings this out in other passages as well. In Galatians 4, verses 6 and 7, he says, and because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into your hearts, crying, Abba Father, wherefore thou art no more a servant but a son, and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ. And 1 John 4. 13 says, Hereby know ye that we dwell in him and he in us, because he has given us his spirit. This is the wonderful assurance that believer can have, that the Spirit of God dwells within us, and that through him And through our Savior, we can triumph over anything that comes into our lives. One of the great struggles that many Christians, especially younger Christians, have is with the assurance of their salvation. I've spoken to so many Christians over the years, often teenagers, who struggle to believe that they are children of God. They may have made multiple professions of faith, but they see the inconsistency in their lives. They see their unbelief on occasion. And they wonder whether or not they're truly a child of God And often it's the sincere desire to walk with God and to live the Christian life in sincerity that Satan uses that good point, that strength against them. To sow seeds of doubt and to make and to neutralize and paralyze their testimony for Christ and their joy in the Lord's. I think most often people who struggle with doubting their salvations are not the ones that I worry about. It's the people who live very, very godless lives and never wonder if they're a Christian. Those are the people I worry about. But it's the Spirit of God dwelling in our hearts that should give us this assurance. It's the earnest, the down payment, and the Bible teaches that he that hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. The work that God has done in your heart and in your life will be completed. And the fact that the Spirit of God dwells in your heart right now is the evidence of that. And that should give us that wonderful assurance that we are the children of God and we can walk with Him. Let's close our service. in a word of prayer. Father, I pray that you would take this wonderful truth of the Spirit's indwelling in the hearts of believers to comfort us. To strengthen us and to fortify our faith. And Father, for those who are here, who are strangers to your grace, who do not have the Spirit of God dwelling within them, I pray that today They would seek the Lord while he may be found. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.