You have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Hebrews chapter 10, please? Hebrews chapter 10. If you're visiting with us today, we have for some time been making our way verse by verse through the book of Hebrews. And today we come to verses 24 and 25. One of the most significant theologians In the history of the church was a Frenchman named John Calvin. He wrote many books, including a seven-volume commentary on the book of Hebrews. I want to read one comment connected with our text this morning. He says, So highly does the Lord esteem the communion of his church. That he considers everyone a traitor and apostate from religion, who perversely withdraws himself from any Christian society, and that he means a church Which preserves the true ministry of the Word and sacraments. I want to ask you a question this morning. How important is the local church? To your spiritual life. The answer given by many professing Christians today is not very important. Church attendance continues to fall, as well as those who would claim an affiliation to a local church. A growing number of self-identified Christians say they have no church home. People often say things like My relationship with God is a private matter. Or I love Jesus, but not the church. However, the passage in Hebrews that we come to this morning reveals to us that the church is essential to the well-being of Christians. Let me quickly remind you of where we are in the book of Hebrews. Recently we finished a large doctrinal section of this book that concludes with Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 18. After summarizing all the advantages that Christians have through the ministry of Christ, we come to three points of application. These are clearly uh revealed in the let us statements in verses twenty-two, twenty-three, and twenty-four. In verse twenty-two he says, Let us draw near with a true heart and full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. Here he is revealing to us that the Christian life is a lifestyle of worship. And then in verse 23, let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. Here we see that the Christian life requires perseverance or endurance. And now in verses 24 and 25, we discover that the Christian life is not only about our vertical relationship with God. but also about our horizontal relationship with other believers in the church. So look with me carefully at verses twenty-four and twenty-five. Let us consider one another To provoke unto love and to good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is. But exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching These verses that we're looking at together this morning are counter-cultural. We live in an age and culture where the rights of the individual come before the good of the community. We live in the United States of America where rugged individualism is considered heroic and ideal. And furthermore, we live in a time when people are becoming more and more isolated From other people. And the COVID pandemic has only accelerated this trend Technology and social media, which seem to offer more connectivity, actually further isolate people from real human contact. And so many people today, when asked, say that they have no real friends, no real community in which they can enjoy the company and support of others. The result is that we live in a society with increased mental illness and relational dysfunction. We don't eat together as families. We don't know our neighbors. We have no true sense of community. But God made us and designed us to live together. This is true in society, and it's especially true In the Christian life. The New Testament emphasizes this truth again and again. Let me give you a few examples of this. Many of you know the Lord's Prayer. The Lord's Prayer is not an individual prayer, it is a family prayer. I'm going to read to you a corny poem that makes this point. You cannot say the Lord's Prayer and even once say I You can't say the Lord's Prayer and even once say my, nor can you pray the Lord's Prayer and not pray for another. For when you ask for our daily bread, you must include your brother. All God's children are included in each and every plea. From the beginning to the end of it, it never once says me. The New Testament is filled with admonitions to us as a community of believers. Generally, these admonitions that you read in your New Testament that say you are actually plural. And they're saying you all. This plurality is reflected in the King James Version often with the word ye. But I think that most modern readers, even if they're reading the King James Version, do not realize that the word ye is plural. And this distinction is not carried through into many other translations because in modern English we don't have a one-word way of saying you plural. I do know in the South they say y'all. But that doesn't sound appropriate in a Bible translation. So often, verses that we read that we think of the Lord as addressing us. as an individual are actually grammatically addressed to us as the church, as a community of people. But we often are not aware of this. And the New Testament is filled with admonitions that can only be obeyed in a community of believers. I'm thinking especially of all those one-another commands. We actually have those in the front of our church covenant and constitution. Because we think they are important. You can't love one another in an isolated way. And all of those other one another commands are outworkings of what it means to love one another. And you can't do one of them by yourself. And let me point out that in our text in Hebrews, in these three points of application, it doesn't say let you, it says let us. The author, including himself, with all true believers. So the point that I'm trying to make Is the New Testament and all of God's word are very emphatic that you can't live the Christian life like a Lone Ranger? You need your brother and sister. The Christian life must be lived in a loving community of believers. And I want to bring three points from our two verses this morning. First of all, Christians must minister. To one another. Notice what it says in verse 24. And let us consider one another to provoke unto love. And to good words. Let me first of all mention that this is the only one-another command found in the book of Hebrews. And as I've mentioned to you before, when we read this term one another, we must remember that it's speaking of a mutual ministry that is, that goes both ways. In other words, this concept of ministering to one another doesn't mean that I am to minister to others. It does mean that But it also means that I must receive ministry from others Dietrich von Hoeffer wrote a classic book entitled Life Together. And here he says, every Christian community Must realize that not only do the weak need the strong, but also that the strong cannot exist without the weak. The idea is that we are interdependent on one another. This is revealed in a number of ways. It's revealed like in the way we sang together today, and I as I listen carefully I can hear different parts. Creates harmony. It sounds much better than just one person singing one part. I see it as we read scripture together and as we affirm our faith together. These things remind us and strengthen us in a way that doing it just ourselves does not do. And we think of it in the realm of spiritual gifts. God has not given to anyone all spiritual gifts. We come and we minister to one another with the gifts that God has given to us, and others receive the blessing of that ministry. And we minister to one another. And we need all those variety of gifts within the body of Christ. Now, what exactly is verse 24 calling on us to do? It says that we are to consider. How we should provoke one another to love and good works. This verb consider has the idea of to carefully think about or contemplate or reflect on how to accomplish a goal. This is what we do when we're beginning to do some great tasks. Before you start building something , You have to carefully plan and think about how you're going to do this. And this is the idea here. We are to strategically think about How can I minister more effectively to others? How can I minister to them in such a way That they will progress in their Christian life and be able in turn to minister to others more effectively. Now, what's interesting here is that it uses this word provoke. I don't know about you, but this word provoke kind of has a negative connotation. It's like you provoke someone, we would generally say, to anger. And this is an excellent translation because that's exactly what the Greek word has the idea of. It 's a word that's only used two times in our New Testament. One time is here, the other time is in Acts 15, 39, when it describes the provocation between Paul and Barnabas. And they argued and it resulted in them splitting up and forming two mission teams. The author of Hebrews, under the control of the Holy Spirit. has carefully chosen to use this term to reflect the passionate desire that we should have for the spiritual progress in our brothers and sisters. The idea is that we should motivate, incite, or stir up one another to new heights of spiritual attainment. We are to intentionally promote love and good works in each other's lives. Now, what does the author have in mind? Well He says to love and good works. The word love here is that Greek word that you all know, agape. This is only one of two times that it is used. in the book of Hebrews. The other time, and I want you to turn with me there just a few pages back is Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 10. Would you look with me there, please? Hebrews 6:10 says, For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love. There it is. There's the word agathe. Which ye have showed toward his name, and that ye have ministered to saints and do minister Notice that love is active. It's found here in the context of work or service. You see, agape love is not so much a feeling. As it is a selfless commitment that results in actively serving one another. Let me remind you that Jesus said the night before his crucifixion. That this would be the mark of a disciple. He said, By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if you have love one for another. This is a wonderful thing. The Bible tells us that it is the supreme Christian virtue. It's the very first, the head of the list, fruit of the Spirit. The New Testament presents it as the clearest evidence that you are a child of God because of the love that you have for other believers. Now when it calls us to love and good works, it is not calling us to do two things. These two words are used to express one idea that is loving service or loving ministry. It's described in Hebrews 6. 10, as we just saw, as serving the saints. In Hebrews 10. 34, just a few verses later. The author says, For ye had compassion of me in my bonds, and took joyfully the spoiling of your goods, knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a better and enduring substance. It's revealed there and showing compassion to those who are imprisoned for their faith. If you'll turn with me ahead to chapter 13. And verse 1, we're going to see in these opening verses two more examples of loving service. It says, let brotherly love continue. Verse 2, be not forgetful to entertain strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares. This is talking about love is expressed in hospitality. And look at verse 2, verse 3. Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them. And then which suffer adversity as being yourselves also in the body. It's saying here that we are to be at one, we are to be supportive, we are to be empathetic with those who are being persecuted For their faith around the world today. Now, I'd like to apply in a more practical way what we've just considered in verse 24. How can we practically stir up one another to loving service? Number one. We should pray for the spiritual growth of one another. We should pray for the spiritual growth of one another. This should be something that characterizes all of our lives. Now, usually when we ask people for prayer, most commonly it's because of some physical affliction. We're going in for surgery, or we were in a car accident, or something of that nature. And it is not wrong to pray for these things. And people often will call in and they'll put it on the prayer sheet and we'll pray for it Wednesday night and send it by email to our broad church family to pray for this request. But if you examine the prayers of the New Testament, you will find that they're all about the spiritual needs of people. That's what's even more significant than people's physical needs. That we would pray for their spiritual well being. So, this is what we must do. We must pray for one another. When you see someone who's going through a trial, you should lift them up in your prayers. When you see someone who is perhaps infrequent in their attendance, you need, among other things, to pray for them Because there might be a spiritual struggle that's taking place there. Number two, we must know one another if we're going to minister to one another. Doesn't that make sense? You can't really effectively minister to one another as we're commanded to do here if you don't know one another. Because as you know people and you know where they are, their personality, how they respond to things, this is how you can stir them up. To loving service because you know what would be effective in getting them to take the next step spiritually. But one size does not fit all. Not everyone's the same. So you have to know people in order to really minister to people. Number three, we should plan strategically how to be a catalyst in one another's spiritual progress. This requires much thought and preparation. How do I get this individual out of the snare of addiction? Or how can I get them to faithfully read their Bible and pray? Or how can we work together to reach our community for Christ? These are the sort of things that we should be thinking about and strategizing about. Number four, another way that we can stir up people to loving service is by being an example of what that looks like. You know, one of the most profound ways you can impact people is by being an example before them and showing them how it's done Parents should do this with their kids, right? You're running an errand, you're going somewhere, you're going to do something, take one of your children with you. You don't have to give them a big lesson on how to do something, but they're going to be watching when you do something This is what we should do in our Christian lives. We should mentor and be an example to other believers so they say, oh, so that's what That's how a Christian man responds in that situation. Or that's how a Christian woman deals with that kind of tragedy in her life. We learn so much by looking at examples. If you're a young believer, you should be looking for a mature believer who would mentor you. That will make a tremendous difference in your Christian life, where you can talk to them on a personal basis, you can ask them questions, you can follow their example. And say, I want to be more like that person. When young people come to me and they say, you know, I'm thinking, I'm looking for a church, among many obvious things, like it should preach the gospel. I asked them this question: Do you see spiritually mature people in that church that you look at them and you say, one day I'd like to be like them? If you don't, it's probably not a good church for you, or anyone for that matter. Because the church should be a place where people are growing and maturing, not a crowd of people. That is just trying to expand by offering what people think they want. And number five, we must be willing not only to minister to others, But to receive ministry from others. This is sometimes very difficult for people to do Because it reveals that you are not an independent entity You might be a spiritual leader in this church and you love to help other people. You love to visit them. You love to help them. You love to give them counsel and advice and pray for them and maybe even financially help individuals And God has gifted you in that way. But I want you to know the time will come if it hasn't already where you're going to need the ministry of other people. And some people really struggle to receive that. They love to help others. They don't like to receive help. This calls on us to minister to one another. That is, it goes both ways. So we have to be humble enough to say, you know what? I don't have all the answers. I don't have all the resources. I am a finite human being just like you are a sinful human being and I need the accountability and help and ministry of others just like you That's the way it should be in the Church of Jesus Christ. You must never give the impression that you have mastered the Christian life. And that you're at this level where you never need the ministry of others. Because no one ever comes to that attainment in this life. We are all a work in progress. Secondly, Christians must gather with one another. Look with me at the first part Verse 25, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is. Now it's a very important for you to understand That verses 24 and 25 are connected. Verse 25 is made up of two participle phrases. That explained the means by which we stir up one another to love and good works. Notice as I read these together, if you can see that connection. And let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works. Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together. Alright? There's the first phrase. What's the second one? But exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. So we have a negative participle. Don't forget to for uh don't forsake the assembling of yourselves together, but instead exhort one another. And these are the means by which we fulfill what we are called upon to do in verse 24. Now a lot of people know verse 25. And it's going to sound self-serving, perhaps, to you to hear me preach on it today. But this is the most famous verse in the entire Bible on church attendance. Alright? Now I am literally preaching to the choir this morning because you're here. You're here, right? So you might think, I don't need to hear this But perhaps it means more than you think it means. So let's look at this carefully If I were to ask you why a Christian should go to church, I suspect that you would say because they need to hear the preaching of the word. And you would be right. That's absolutely true. However, this passage doesn't mention that. It says that we need to gather with other believers because it is the means by which mutual ministry opportunities Will occur. In other words, it's when we gather together as a body that we will consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works. I can't pass this point without making some application. You cannot really fulfill the intent of what is said in verse 25 by watching live stream Now, live stream, as I've said before, is both a blessing and a curse, right? We offer live stream for all of our services We have elderly shut-ins who cannot possibly make it here, and they're watching right now There are other people that whose families are sick and have the flu and are not here today, and we're glad they're not here today. And they're watching the service on live stream. We have people sometimes our missionaries watch overseas. And people who are perhaps in a situation where they can't get out and they're watching the service today. So it's a blessing to many people. But it also can become an excuse and a convenience to not come to church for many people. This of course has been magnified during this period of COVID. When I talk to other pastors, as we're coming out of this, of course, I hear from every one of them. They say, not everyone came back. Not everyone came back. In other words, when we shut down or we had limited services in some way and then things opened up again, we got most people back, but we didn't get everybody back. And that is because they got into the habit of not going to church, which is very easy to do. Some clever person has put it this way in the Christian life, some assembly is required. Now I want you to notice that this is phrased, this first phrase is stated in a negative way, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is. This clearly implies that some people were forsaking the gathering of the community This does not mean that these individuals missed just a few Sundays. No, the writer uses a strong term here. He says these people have forsaken. The idea is they have abandoned the regular gathering for worship and fellowship. The idea of the manner of some is that once they habitually came to church, but now they habitually do not come to church. Now many people would consider this no big deal or none of their business. But the failure to gather with your brothers and sisters is a serious problem. People stop going to church for many, many reasons. Some people become so weak and infirmed. That going to church is no longer possible for them. And we should be careful that we do not sit in judgment on such individuals. When People who are part of the body of Christ can no longer attend church. The church should try to attend to them. They should come to them. They should visit with them and call them and send notes to them And perhaps give a recording of the sermon to them. They should stay connected and say, even though you physically cannot enter, enter with the gathering of God's people, we are still connected by a strong bond. Some people stop going to church because they've had a falling out with someone in that congregation. This is so common. I encounter it all the time. And of course, not going to church is not the right way of solving that problem. But why did the individuals that were once part of this first century church stop coming? I think we find three allusions or clues to this. In the book of Hebrews. Turn back with me, if you would, to Hebrews chapter five and verse eleven. Hebrews chapter 5 and verse 11. It says, Of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull. of hearing. And now turn with me to chapter six, verses eleven and twelve. He writes, and we desire that every one of you do show the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end, that you be not slothful. But followers of them who through faith and patience inherit the promises. Slothful, apathetic. This is speaking of laziness. Did you know what? It's easier to not go to church than it is to go to church. It's easier to stay at home. It's easier not to get up and get dressed and get yourself together and go to church. It's more difficult to go through that effort. And especially if you have a family and you've got a whole bunch of little kids to corral and get dressed, it is a major operation. We're talking about hours of work. To get them fed and dressed and out the door and there, I know it's no small task. It's easier to stay home. It's easier to just relax at home And it was easier in the first century as well. But there's another reason that people probably stopped coming to this assembly. At this time when this was written, and that was fear of persecution. There's an allusion to this a little later in the chapter we're in today. Turn back with me to Hebrews chapter 10 Verses thirty-two and thirty-three. The writer says, But called to remembrance the former days in which, after ye were illuminated, or we would say converted, ye endured a great fight of afflictions, partly while she were made a gazing stock, both by reproaches and afflictions, and partly while ye became companions of them that were so used Early in the planting of this church, many believers experienced different levels of persecution, and they're alluded to here. Some of them were imprisoned, probably leaders in the church. Others suffered Suffered financial loss. They may have lost their business. But most of them were probably just mocked by the world and by the Jewish community. People would call them out and mock them and sneer at them and laugh at them. Oh, you're part of that new group that follows Jesus. What nonsense. And that can have a powerful psychological effect on some people. The idea that people think That my position and my faith is ridiculous. Nonsense And now, in the writing of this book, as I've mentioned before, there seems to have been a new wave of persecution. That was just starting. This probably had to do with a new emperor coming to the throne who was not going to be as tolerant of Christians. And so many Christians were having to consider am I going to continue to gather with this assembly of believers and put myself in a dangerous position? Maybe it would be safer for me just not to go there and be associated with those people anymore. And of course the The thinking they may have had in their minds is, oh, I'm still a believer, I'm still a follower of Christ, but I'm not going to identify with those people because that's a dangerous proposition. You can see how that would be a real uh temptation. But there's a third reason that people in the early church, and it's connected perhaps to the second one as well. And that third reason why people abandon the practice of gathering for worship is because of apostasy. Let me show you how this passage, the structure of this passage, is connected. And verse 23, it says, Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering. This is calling for them to endure, to persevere in their faith, to not turn away in the face of persecution. And then we have verses 24 and 25, our text today, and now look with me at verse 26. For if we sin willfully after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, There remaineth no more sacrifice for sins, but a certain fearful looking for of judgment and of fiery indignation which shall devour the adversaries You see, one reason that people stop coming to church is because they have renounced their faith in Christ. This is what apostasy is. It's when someone who once professed to believe the gospel abandons their faith and walks away from the Christian community forever. And right after this passage that talks about the importance of assembling together, it warns people not to do that. Not to apostasize. How do we explain this? How do we explain people who I can think of that if you've known the Lord for years, you can think of? Who used to come to church, who used to seem to be faithful, who were a member in good standing, and today they would never consider going to church. And they renounce Christianity and everything that it stands for. The answer is found in 1 John 2 19. They went out from us, but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us, but they went out from us that they might be made manifest that they were not all of us. Now obviously people can stop going to church for many different reasons. And I'm not taking the position that if a person doesn't go to church, it's absolutely dogmatically clear that they are unsaved. I'm not saying that. But I am saying they're putting themselves in a very dangerous situation. This is why if you miss a few weeks here, you might get a text message from me Or you might get a call from one of our deacons. Or I might stop by after a while and ask you what's going on. Perhaps you think, why is that pastor being so nosy? Why is he intruding into my affairs? Because the scriptures teach that your affairs are my affairs. You're my brother and sister in Christ. And part of your spiritual well-being is that you continue to assemble with the body. And when you isolate yourself from the body, you're putting yourself in a dangerous situation. And I don't want that to happen to you. It's an expression of Christian love. So Christians must minister to one another. They must gather with one another. And finally, would you notice with me that Christians must encourage one another? Look with me the last phrase in verse 25. But exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. Notice this phrase begins with a word of contrast. Instead of failing to gather with one another, we should gather and be sure to exhort one another The Greek word, it's translated exhort here, is a very common word that has many different nuances of meaning. Sound over 108 times in your New Testament. It's translated in various ways like to beseech, to comfort, to exhort, to desire, to pray, to entreat, and many more. So, how should we understand its use in this verse? I think to exhort our brother or sister may at times include warning them and even rebuking them. But I think most often in the way it's used here, it means to encourage them. The reality is that many believers, perhaps more than you would think. Come to church discouraged. Things have occurred in their life. Things are happening in their spiritual life, and they're very discouraged about it. And they come to church hoping that the body of believers will gather around them and encourage them and strengthen them and pray for them. This is a very important part of why we gather. So many people come to church hoping to find the company of the brethren, hoping to find counsel, encouragement, and prayer. This verse is calling us to speak warm and encouraging words that fortifies the faith of one another. And notice that this is to be mutual. That is that it's not just that I'm always going around ministering to people and praying with them or talking to them or counseling them, but at times they're counseling me. This is what true Christian fellowship is all about. Often we think of fellowship, we might think of small talk. We're sharing food together. But true Christian fellowship is when we Mutually minister and fortify the faith of one another because of our common bond in Christ. The closest cross-reference to this in the book of Hebrews is a verse we've considered already. Turn with me, please, to Hebrews chapter 3 and verse 13. Hebrews 3 13 says, But exhort one another daily, while it is called today, lest any of you be hardened. Through the deceitfulness of sin. This verse calls on all believers to encourage one another regularly, promptly, and continually. Why? Because you are your brother's keeper. Every Sunday You should be intentionally looking for an opportunity to encourage the faith of one another and to receive encouragement from others, where it's going both ways. You see, Christian fellowship is not only pleasant, it's essential for your spiritual health. This requires a certain level of vulnerability. You know, one of the biggest problems we have I mentioned earlier that when we're having a physical problem, we tell everyone in the whole world to pray for us. But so often when we have a spiritual problem, we don't tell anyone. Because we don't want them to get the impression that we don't have it all together. And so we kind of live This is why sometimes people think of church as being kind of phony because we all walk around like we have it all together and we got no weaknesses. I know there's some people that do, but it's not me. But we, if we're going to be ministering effectively from one another and to one another, we have to be vulnerable and say, you know what, I'm really struggling with something today. Can you help me with? Can you pray with me about this? I'm really struggling with bitterness, or I'm really struggling with lust, or my marriage is really a mess, and I really need your help. We need that level of vulnerability and openness and honesty Because the fact is we all have problems. We all have wounds. There are no perfect Christians here. Church has been compared to a hospital where we're all in different levels of recovery. We need to minister to one another. And we need to be vulnerable with one another. So don't come to church late and run out the door when it is over. When that is your normal practice , You're conveying that you're viewing church like a spectator or a consumer. A consumer goes into a store and they get their product and they leave because their business is done. Our spectator goes to a game, he watches the game, says that's a really good performance, and he leaves right away. But that's not what a church is, it's a family gathering. And when you go to a family gathering, you're going to be there for a while. Because the people that you love the most in the world are there. The people that you're going to spend eternity with are there. And so why would you want to just fly out the door? And not talk to anyone, and not get to know someone. Many of our churches today, I there's a trend, more and more of churches becoming mega churches. churches of multiple thousands of people. A lot of people like that because they can get lost in the crowds. There's no accountability. No one's going to call them up after they've missed two weeks and say, hey, where were you? Because nobody knows they were gone. And they can drift in and drift out, and they don't know anyone there, and they kind of like it that way. And they view church as kind of like a spiritual pep rally where they hear a message a message and then they leave and that's it. That's not what the New Testament picture of a church is. It's a fellowship of believers. It says, we're to do this as you see the day approaching. The day here is a mention of the day of the Lord's return. How should this fact motivate us to obedience? Number one, it means that our time to minister to those And our assembly may be lost. So it's short. So in other words, there's there's people here that come here who who who perhaps are not truly born again, that they may have a form of godliness, and so we need to be careful and effective in talking to them and understanding their spiritual state because the time is short We must not delay because judgment day is coming. It may also be indicating that we should encourage one another with the reality that our suffering and trials and temptations will soon be over because Jesus is coming again. This is a way we can encourage one another. This blessed hope should motivate us to persevere. But more likely, this phrase in verse 25 means that we must realize that soon we must all give an account to God. The Bible says, For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. We must work, for the night is coming. The night cometh when no man can work. And one of the things we're going to have to give an account to is what we have done with our lives. So much of the spirit of the age in which we live tells us that you need to set aside time for yourself. You need to work towards the day of retirement and save up as much money throughout your life as you possibly can so that when you retire, you can just travel around and enjoy life on your own terms. There's nothing wrong with traveling. There's nothing wrong with seeing the grandkids. Don't misunderstand me. But we have been called to be a catalyst, to be a witness, to lay up treasures in heaven. And one of those things involved in that is to mutually minister to one another. To use our time and our resources to reach the hearts of people. And someday we must give an account. for how we have done this. I'm going to conclude with just a few points of application First of all, spiritual isolation is dangerous and deadly. Many Christians Prefer to live in isolation from other believers. And in a sense, it's more comfortable that way. Because you know people can be annoying. And so there's many Christians who never would ask for help. Who rarely attend church and they think of the spiritual life as just me and it's the Lord Or maybe it's me and my family, and it's the Lord. But that's the way they view it, and that's the way they like it. Seems less complicated. You don't have these relational tensions that sometimes develop. You don't have a sense of obligation to meeting people's needs because you don't know about people's needs because you're not around other Christians. But when you do that, you're doing something contrary to God's word and something that is wrong And can be deadly. God designed the Christian life so that it can only function well in a community of believers known as the church. You need the encouragement, the accountability of your brothers and sisters. You may not think you need it. You may not think you want it. But God's word says that you do need it. You need your brothers and sisters' involvement in your life. Number two, church involvement. Is not optional for Christians. I've heard many people over the years say things like, My brother was a good Christian man, but he wasn't a church-going type. Have you heard comments like that before? It's not true I don't dispute the fact that there are true believers who don't regularly attend church or aren't part of a church, but that should not be the model for you. Because that is disobedience. God's word says that you are to assemble regularly with the people of God. to mutually minister to them. In some places of the world, that is very difficult and very dangerous to do. The people are doing it this morning. They're risking their lives, their livelihood, their freedom because they understand how necessary it is. That they gather with their brothers and sisters in Christ. And how embarrassing, if I can put it that way, will it be for us someday? That have lived in the United States of America where we have all these freedoms and all these luxuries and we have cars and we have beautiful buildings in which we can worship and And we say, Lord, you know, I really was never part of a body of believers. I never fellowship with my brothers and sisters. I never really went to hear the preaching of the word because it was kind of inconvenience. It won't make a very compelling argument. And notice this is not just saying That you need to be formally a member of a church, although I encourage that, or that you need to attend a church, okay, that's a start. But you really need to be a part of a church. You really need to be a part of the fellowship. Where you know people and people know you, where you have forged lifelong friendships with other people, with other families. Where your children grow up, and their best friends are other children their age in this church, and they grow up through all the different phases of life. We've seen that in this assembly. What a wonderful thing this is. One of the things I love about this church is that we do have a tradition of fellowship here. Our service is about to end, but I want to assure you that if you were to go away and come back an hour from now, there'll still be a lot of people here. And that's a beautiful thing. Only one percent of churches have a Sunday evening service in America anymore. We'll have a Sunday evening service here tonight. And an hour after the service ends with our baptismal service, there will still be a whole bunch of people here. And this Wednesday night. When we have a service here, and Pastor Aaron speaks, after the service ends and the prayer time ends, an hour from now, there'll still be a whole bunch of people all throughout this lobby and hallway and some people in here. Sometimes I joke and I I say, Do these people not have homes to go to? And I've had so many people, so many guest preachers and missionaries and others and visitors say to me Your church is different. Because every church that I've ever attended, like 15 minutes later, the place is vacant. Nobody's there. They can't wait to hear the benediction to get out the door But it's not that way at your church. I'm so glad that that's not the way it is at our church. I'm so glad that we have those bonds of fellowship and that we understand. That having really true Christian brothers and sisters that we know so well is a vital part of our Christian lives. And so my message today is not so much an admonition to this assembly, but an encouragement that we could can would continue to do this. And that some of you who have not enjoyed this fellowship would consider continue joining us in this. Now I want to say something that may seem over the top for you. Everyone who claims to follow Christ And refuses, that's the key word, refuses to gather with other believers for worship when they could, is calling into question the validity of their profession of faith. Now, how could I make such a dogmatic claim? The word assembly that's used here in verse 25 It's used only one other time in the New Testament. It's in 2 Thessalonians 2 and verse 1, and it's used there to describe the gathering of believers in heaven. And the connection is this if you never gather with the saints on earth Because honestly, you don't want to. Why would you be so sure that you're going to gather with the saints in heaven? This is what I say to people who never worship God, who never gather with the saints for worship. If you don't like worship here , What makes you think you would like worship up there? What do you think heaven is? Our gathering here this morning is a very faint taste or reflection or glimpse of what it's going to be like. When we gather with the saints in heaven. And it's not just our little assembly, but it's people of all nations and of all tribes and of all tongues and of all people groups and we're all singing praises to the Lamb. We get a little foretaste of it here every Sunday. And we're in a sense practicing for what our eternal destiny is all about. So don't let the spirit of this age deceive you into a dangerous practice of church detachment. And thirdly, if you do not know the Lord and you're not part of his people, you will experience his judgment. In that same book of Second Thessalonians that I mentioned a moment ago, it describes the second coming of Christ in this way. In flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God, and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. This passage in Hebrews tells us that we are to mutually minister to one another because the day of the Lord is approaching, the day of Christ's second coming. And that will also be a day of judgment for those who have rejected the gospel and do not know the Lord. So I would exhort you if you're here today to trust in Christ It is your only hope of salvation, your only way of avoiding the certain judgment of God. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father , We thank you for your word. We thank you for your design and provision of the church. I pray that you would help us. To understand what your word is calling us to do. Help us, Father, to be willing to minister to one another and to gather so that we might minister to one another. Help us, Father. To be your faithful disciples and to show the world that we have been changed from the inside out because of the love that we have for one another. And Father, for those who might be here today, who are strangers to your grace, who have no interest in being part of your church, I pray that today You would give them a thirst for that community of people that is based in truth and is filled with love. And I pray, Lord, that they would be saved today. For it's in Jesus' name I pray, Amen.