We are in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, and our memory verse for this month comes out of 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 as well. So hopefully it will be something that is encouraging as we study it together. First Thessalonians chapter five and our memory verse is Verses 9 through 11 of 1 Thessalonians 5. So would you join me in standing? And we'll say it through two times. We just started it last week for the first time, so hopefully there's it's becoming familiar. And it's just a great passage of scripture. We'll say the reference and the verse through two times. First Thessalonians five, nine through ten. For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. who died for us so that whether we are awake or asleep we might live with him. Therefore, encourage one another and build one another up just as you are doing. 1 Thessalonians 5, 9 through 11. For God has not destined us to wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. who died for us, so that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with him. Therefore, encourage one another and build one another up just as you are doing. Great, maybe seated. Quick reminder, the two major divisions of the book of First Thessalonians, the backwards look in the first three chapters. And the last two chapters, looking forward to the return of Christ and their their encouragement to walk in faith, hope, and love as a result of the soon return of Christ. and the implications of that. So that's the basic outline of the book of First Thessalonians, and we've been going through that and reviewing that each week. And the goal is that By repetition, it'll stick in your head. The next time you come to 1 Thessalonians, you're like, oh, I know how this lays out, and it'll make it easier to study and appreciate it. The theme is to continue in faith, hope, and love. Continue to grow, I'm sorry, continue to grow in faith, hope, and love. in light of Christ's imminent return. And we're going to see that this evening as we look through this passage of Scripture. So as we are Continuing here, we're we're jumping into chapter 5. This is the last chapter of the book of 1 Thessalonians. We're making it there. I think this is lesson 18, so we've done it rather rapidly. It's a little bit quicker than the book of Isaiah. And so we're we're making pretty good progress through the book of 1 Thessalonians. But we begin here. Let me just read to you these verses and get these into our minds together. You have no need to have anything written to you, for you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a cease in the night While people are saying, there is peace and security, then sudden destruction will come upon them, as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not escape. But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief. For you are all children of light, children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness So then, let us not sleep as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober. For those who sleep sleep at night, and those who get drunk are drunk at night. But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation. For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us, so that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with him. Therefore encourage one another and build one another up just as you are doing. see the the thrust of this passage of scripture. And as Paul begins this new chapter, again the chapter breaks are not inspired, but it's It's he's describing something, he's teaching something a little bit different than what he began in chapter four, verse thirteen. If you remember going back to chapter four, verse thirteen He told them, we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers. So there's an aspect about the return of Christ that they were uninformed about. And so he wanted to inform them appropriately about this one relationship, the relationship of the rapture to those who were dead in Christ. And there was some grieving and some unnecessary grieving that was taking place because they felt that somehow those that were dead in Christ were at a disadvantage. They would miss out on some of the the the blessings that would take place for those who were alive at the return of Christ. And he says, no, let me correct some of your thinking by informing you more fully about those the state of those who are dead in Christ He says they're not in any disadvantage. They don't they're not delayed in meeting the Lord. In fact, they actually precede those who are alive and uh um And remain at the time of Christ by a matter of just a few moments, but they actually proceed just by a few moments to receive their glorified bodies and to be with the Lord. I remember when we went through these verses over the last couple weeks, I mentioned chapter 4, verse 13, all the way to 511, is essentially a unit dealing with end times instruction. And we've talked about two uh identifiers that help us see that. The first is the instruction at the end of both passages. To encourage one another. These truths are meant to be an encouragement to believers. And if we study these things so much that we don't get encouraged by it, we fail to We failed to get the point of the Apostle Paul. We have missed what he is accomplishing. Both of these are intended to be an encouragement, and we are to use them as an encouragement. in our instructing and encouraging each other. But secondly, they're they're connected by the fact that they both reference two classes of people, two different classes of people that participate in the rapture event. Those who are asleep. or dead in Christ, and those who are awake or who are alive in Christ. We see that in uh chapter four verses 13 and 14, where he talks about those who are asleep. For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so through Jesus God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. And then he speaks about those who are alive. And the same thing is true at the end of chapter 5 and verse 10, or end of this passage in chapter 5, verse 10, where he says, Who died for us so that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with him. And we'll look at that passage a little more fully, Lord willing, next week, and we'll see in in more clarity what that's referring to. But these these things indicate that there is a an essential unity in Paul's instruction here. But he is transitioning to a A new aspect in the beginning of chapter five, and we see that by the first two words now concerning. This is a standard Pauline method of transitioning to a new new thought where he says, now concerning, you can see it all through the book of First Corinthians. In fact, you can outline the book of First Corinthians. by that word, those words, now concerning. The Greek words are peridae. And you can you can really outline the book based on that. And so there's a new aspect that he's transitioning to. And this topic has to do with the timing of the events that are associated with what is called the day. of the Lord. And notice he says this now concerning the times and the seasons, brothers The word times is just a word that speaks of chronological time, what we might think of calendar, and then the word season has the idea of events or eras or epochs. We see this used in Luke 21, 24, speaking about the the times of the Gentiles, the the era of the Gentiles, and Luke 21, 24 speaking of the fact that after the destruction of Jerusalem, Jerusalem would be under the times of the Gentiles. And so this this is from AD 70 at least until 1948, I think continuing on even to this day. But these are the exact words, the times and the seasons. They're the exact words. Let me see. I think I should have some verses here. I could have shown you that, but I didn't. Here I'll show you Acts chapter 1, where Jesus actually uses this phrase, the times and the seasons. Right before his ascension into heaven, after the forty days of instruction where Acts says he was instructing them about the coming kingdom. He says, so when they had come together, they asked him, Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? And Jesus' response was, Oh no, no, you've totally misunderstood. Israel doesn't get the kingdom. No, he doesn't say that. He said it's not for you to know times or seasons that the Father has fixed by his own authority. He says, you don't need to know that. That's not your issue. You be faithful to what I've called you to do, but you don't need to know about the times and the seasons. And so that's the word that we have the words that we have here now concerning the times and the seasons. So the implication is, again, we're looking at, we're listening to one side of a phone conversation. It seems like there had been some question that was given by Timothy to Paul about when are these things going to happen? And he says to them, You have no need to have anything written to you. You have no need to have anything written to you, because you know these things already. And he's encouraging them through this to guard against two errors about the Lord's return. And these errors are Around even to this day. And the first one is date setting. That seems to be a significant aspect of what he is describing here. We can think of many examples of that. If you just go through the last century, there are many examples. But even in this century, there are examples. Here we have May 21st. Of 2011. There's two signs. This one here is in New York City. You can see Radio City Music Hall. Judgment Day, May 21st, 2011. Herald Camping, Family Radio. Many of you heard of this. I heard of it in Tanzania. Tanzanians were asking me about it. Is the Lord coming on May 21st? An American preacher told us he's coming This is obviously not in America. You can see, oh maybe this, smile, high, I don't know, but it's in in Spanish. And so this this false teaching that was a tremendous embarrassment to Harold Camping, and then he speculated again afterwards, oh no, I meant October 21st, and then that didn't happen. People sold their houses and their businesses and everything, saying crisis coming again, and they jumped up and down and nothing happened. This this stuff happens all the time. In Korea in uh 1991, there was a preacher that said that Jesus was going to come back October 28th, 1992. And to prove that you really have faith in the coming of Christ, you need to sell your homes and deed them over to Him. I don't know what he was gonna do with him, but that's what and he was arrested. Actually he was arrested before the his his prophesied date happened. f on uh corruption and uh guess what didn't happen. But as a result people sold their businesses, their homes. When nothing happened, they committed suicide. Some people were just absolutely devastated. This is one massive error that Paul is arguing against here. The second error is very serious as well, and it's to ignore or act like the Lord is not going to return. or that he could not return at any moment. And this was something that Robert Murray McShane, the great Presbyterian, Scottish Presbyterian pastor, was very concerned about within his circle of ministry. And he would often ask people, do you think that Christ could return today? And they would say, I think not. I don't I don't think so. He'd say, well, Jesus said in an hour when you think not, he'll return. So you Need to be thinking that he could return. It could happen at any moment. And he was very much trying to urge believers to live with an expectancy of the Lord's return. And this is this is a this is a serious danger. And Jesus speaks about this in Luke chapter 12. He says, but know this, that if the master of the house had known at what hour the thief was coming. He would not have left his house to be broken into. You also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect. We are to live with an expectancy. And if we have some sort of eschatology that says, I don't think Christ could return today, we have a wrong eschatology. And we need to adjust it to what Jesus actually said. So when we come to this, he says, now concerning the times and the seasons, brothers. You have no need to have anything written to you, for you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. So what he's telling them is, as we'll see here, is it could come at any moment. There's nothing that you need to think is must happen before the Lord returns. I mean he uses this phrase, the day of the Lord. And that's an important phrase for us to understand because it is a very rich biblical word or phrase that is found throughout the Bible It's found 22 times in the Old Testament, the day of the Lord. That exact phrase. It's used by seven different Old Testament prophets. From Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, and Zephaniah. They all use the phrase, the day of the Lord. The Old Testament prophets use the phrase to describe a time when God in wrath will break through into history. To judge in a cataclysmic way. And also in that judgment, to deliver in a decisive way. Oftentimes in the Old Testament there's a localized historic element. We'll look at that in just a moment that is foreshadowing the ultimate cataclysmic eschatological day of the Lord. We see this the first time if you were to well the if you were to read through your your Old Testament, Isaiah 13 would be the first, or sorry, your Old Testament. The first time you'd find the word the day of the Lord would be in Isaiah 13. But it'd actually be a couple verses prior to this. But he says, Behold, the day of the Lord comes cruel with wrath and fierce anger, to make the land a desolation and to destroy its sinners from it In Zephaniah 118, it says, Neither their silver nor their gold shall be able to deliver them on the day of the wrath of the Lord. So here we have an additional word that's put in here, the day of the wrath of the Lord. In the fire of his jealousy all the earth shall be consumed, for a full and sudden end he will make of all the inhabitants of the earth. This is, I think, a significant reality that the day of the Lord refers to a day of wrath of God upon the earth because of what he says in First Thessalonians chapter one, verse ten, where we're told to wait for God's Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. And then what we find here in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verse 10, where he says, for God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us, so that whether we are awake, alive, when he comes, or asleep, dead when he comes, we might live with him through the rapture. And so we see that this is referring to a deliverance from the wrath of God, which fits with what we see even in Revelation chapter 3, where to the Church of Philadelphia the Lord Jesus says, Because you have kept my word about patient endurance, I will keep you from the hour of trial that is coming on the whole world to try those who dwell on the earth. I am coming soon. And what's significant about this is Jesus says So this is he who has ears to hear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. This is not just directed to the Philadelphian church, but it is to all the churches of all the ages. That we will be kept from, not from the trial, but from the hour of the trial, the time period of the trial that is coming on the earth. Behold, I am coming soon. And he's going to keep us from that. There's much that could be said there, but he's going to be keeping us from the hour of the trial. Through his coming. The Old Testament, going back to the day of the Lord, the Old Testament day of the Lord refers to God's work of judgment in a broad sense. It's a period of time that emphasizes judgment, but also in a more narrow sense, it's the beginning point of the purification and the restoration of the nation of Israel. is brought out in Zephaniah chapter 3. This is kind of a long text, but this is what is being described here, where he says, On that day you shall not be put to shame because of the deeds by which you have rebelled against me. For then I will remove from your midst your proudly exaltant ones, and you shall no longer be haughty in my holy mountain But I will leave in your midst a people humble and lowly. They shall seek refuge in the name of the Lord, those who are left in Israel. They shall do no injustice and speak no lies, nor shall there be found in their mouth a deceitful tongue For they shall graze and lie down, and none shall make them afraid. One of the things that the day of the Lord is intended to do is to purify the nation of Israel, to remove Their pride. This is brought out multiple times through the book of Isaiah, where the day of the Lord is a time where the pride of the nation of Israel is abased. The Old Testament Day of the Lord is uses the f uses the phrase the day of the Lord to refer to historical judgments that prefigure the ultimate day of the Lord. In Joel chapter 1, we have a locust invasion. And that that is described as the day of the Lord. Probably some sort of, many people think it as a prefiguration of the demonic locust army that's found in Revelation chapter 9. And if you were to read your Bible straight through, you'd come to Isaiah 13, verse 6, where you find this historic event that is also called the Day of the Lord. Where he says, Wail, for the day of the Lord is near. It will come as destruction from the Almighty. And that's referring to the Babylonian, the judgment on Babylon. that the Medes would accomplish. So the the judgment of Babylon that happened in 539 BC is a day of the Lord But if you read Isaiah 13 and Isaiah 14, where this is described, it's clearly talking about an event that happens in 539, but then also other places it's clearly not talking about something that happens in In 539 BC. It goes beyond, it uses language that is bigger than that event to der to describe the ultimate destruction of Babylon. The day of the Lord that brings the ultimate destruction upon the eschatological Babylon. That's what the the day of the Lord with the locust plagues. is a description of God's judgment that comes over the world. He describes the locust coming, clouding out, so you can't even see the sun and the moon. And he uses that as a description of the time when the sun and the moon are darkened in the time of judgment that happens in the day of the Lord. The Old Testament uses the day of the Lord to describe a period of cataclysmic events. Earthquakes The sun, the moon, and the stars will be darkened, Isaiah 13, 9 through 12 talks about. And it also uses other words to describe the day of the Lord without using that exact word. It just sometimes says, in that day. If you read through the book of Zechariah, you'll find this phrase in that day, especially in chapters 12 and 13 and 14, describing the day of judgment, but also the day of redemption. For the nation of Israel. In Zechariah 14, he also calls it a unique day. In Isaiah 2, he calls it a day, for the Lord of hosts has a day. Against all that is proud and lofty, against all that is lifted up, and it shall be brought low. He also calls it the time of Jacob's trouble, or the time of Jacob's distress, in Jeremiah 30, verse 7. And it's also referred to as Daniel's 70th week in Daniel chapter 12. So it has a variety of names But the one that we're looking at that's in our text this evening in 1 Thessalonians is this word this phrase, the day of the Lord. When we come to the New Testament, we find six times where this exact phrase is used, the day of the Lord. There's other times where it's the day of the Lord Jesus The day of the Lord Jesus Christ, the day of God. They're all referring to the same thing. But six times, the phrase, the day of the Lord is specifically used. And some of these simply mention the day of the Lord without really any further elaboration. In Acts chapter 2, verse 20, Peter is quoting the prophet Joel in his description of the day of the Lord. In Joel chapter 2. And this is a highly debated passage as to the full intent that Peter seems to be describing the outpouring of the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost as a manifestation of the day of the Lord. But he continues to quote Joel II, describing the cataclysmic events, but he's doing so to lead to the ultimate point that he's saying that all who call upon the name of the Lord will be saved. And he's describing this, indicating that we still that the day of Pentecost is a kind of like a foreshadowing of the ultimate day of the Lord. of destruction and that even now the Holy Spirit is coming in a unique way, but that the day of judgment is still further down the road. The New Testament teaches that the day of the Lord is more than just a single day. Sometimes when you hear the phrase the day of the Lord, you think of One day, a single day, 24 hours, when this happens. It's more like the phrase, you'll have your day in court. If you are have committed a crime, you're arrested, you're told you'll have your day in court. That doesn't mean you're going to have a court case that only lasts one day. You have one day for your court case. That's not the case. In fact, this phrase word day, the simple word day, is actually used by Paul to describe A human court. In 1 Corinthians 4, he says, But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by any human court. And that's the word day, by any human day. He says, whether I stand in your day for your judgment or whomever's, I don't care. I'm more worried about what God says about my ministry. But if you have a court case and you have your day in court, your day in court may last days. It may last weeks. It may last months. It may even last years. The longest court case in U. S. history is 919 days, nearly three years. For a criminal case. A civil case, there's one that's been going on for over 50 years and still not decided. So a day, the idea of the day of the Lord, don't think 24-hour day. Think of a period of time. And we can see this by a couple passages of Scripture. If you were to study 2 Thessalonians, where am I at? I'm skipping that. Oh, we'll go to look at 2 Thessalonians later, but 2 Peter chapter 3. He describes the day of the Lord will come like a thief, then the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved, and the earth and the works that are done on it Will be exposed. Here we have the day of the Lord encompassing events that happen according to Revelation 20 after a thousand-year reign of Christ. And so these are not directly associated with the tribulation period of time. These are separated by, at the minimum, a thousand years. He describes the day of the Lord coming like a thief. But then he describes where the heavens will pass away with a roar. So there's an element of surprise at the beginning of this day of the Lord. In 2 Thessalonians 2, it's clear that the day of the Lord refers to a period of time that the Thessalonians have heard that they are in the day of the Lord. And Paul writes them to correct their understanding, say, No, you are not in the day of the Lord. Obviously, if the day of the Lord is a twenty-four-hour period of time. He didn't have email. He couldn't shoot off a quick reply. This was a period of weeks, if not months, before a letter could get back to them. So they were thinking they were living within this period of time that is known as the day of the Lord. It is a period, an event. Some have defined the day of the Lord as referring to the entire period that is inaugurated with the rapture. And followed by the seven-year tribulation, the thousand-year reign of Christ, the final rebellion as described in Revelation 20, and ultimately the establishment of the new heavens and the new earth. So the day of the Lord is comes to the sea of the night because it's inaugurated by the rapture and the beginning of the seven-year tribulation. Others have described it as saying that there are multiple days of the Lord. We know that's true in one sense. In the Old Testament, the locust plague in Joel was a day of the Lord. 539 BC, the destruction of Babylon was a day of the Lord. AD seventy is a the day of the Lord. And some have said the the tribulation period is It's the day of the Lord, and the ultimate judgment at the end of the millennial kingdom is the day of the Lord. I think it's best to see the day of the Lord as events where God in wrath breaks through in history to judge for the purpose of restoring The tribulation in its entirety can be described as the day of the Lord, as well as the second coming of Christ to earth. The event of the second coming of Christ to earth can be described as the day of the Lord. The day of the Lord can be seen as well in the events of the final rebellion and God's destruction of the heavens and the earth that Peter describes in 2 Peter chapter 3. That is also It's a day of the Lord. So it is it is a description of God's intervention in wrath to judge And also to restore. And it encompasses many events. When we come to 1 Thessalonians, we find here like in 1 and 2 Thessalonians, where the two clearest references to the day of the Lord are found in the New Testament. We have some interesting descriptions here. He says, For you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. While people are saying there is peace and security. So immediately prior to the onset of the day of the Lord , Seems to indicate that there's a time that people are saying there's peace and security. That would the fact that people are saying peace and security immediately before the onset of the day of the Lord seems to indicate that this is the time immediately following the rapture of the church And this beginning of the seven-year tribulation that's described in Daniel chapter 9, verse 24 and following. Because in Daniel 9, 27, it describes the Antichrist. As establishing a seven year peace treaty with the many, specifically referring to The nation of Israel, but also I believe with many nations of the world. The Antichrist comes in and he establishes a peace treaty And so there is a a statement of peace and security. And we look around the world right now, people want peace and security. They're ready to hear that. We hear that even in the news of the establishment of a peace council. When you hear things like that, your ears you go, hmm. That's interesting. Because Paul tells us here when people are saying peace and security, then sudden destruction will come upon them. In Revelation chapter six, when the first seal is open, in verse two. It describes the rider of a white horse who came out conquering and to conquer, and he carries a bow. But he not a ribbon bow, like a bow with bow and arrow. But he doesn't have arrows. He only carries a bow. But it seems he conquers By display of power, but not by actual war. And there's a couple reasons why we think that in the passage. One, he has bows, he has a bow, but he has no arrows. But secondly, when the second seal is opened. A red horse is seen, and that red horse and its rider are permitted to take peace. from the earth. Well there must be peace in order to take peace from the earth. And it says so that people should slay one another. Clearly then a period of temporary peace preceded the taking of the peace. And this is at the very beginning of the seven-year tribulation when Jesus breaks the seal. This uh begins to break the seals of the title deed to the earth. If you think about this, trying to understand when is this happening, well some people think mm perhaps this is the is This isn't the end of the day of the Lord is something that happens at the end of the seven-year tribulation. Like we looked at the chart, the idea of post-tribulation um belief. The difficulty with that is you could not describe the end of the tribulation as a time when people are saying peace and security. You have the Battle of Armageddon and other worldwide battles that lead up to it. And you have Christ returning on the Mount of Olives, like he says in Zechariah 14. I think I actually have a slide of this. Yes, I do. Where he says, For I will gather all the nations against Jerusalem to battle, and the city shall be taken, and the houses plundered, and the women raped. Half of the city shall go out into exile, but the rest of the people shall not be cut off from the city. Then the Lord will go out and fight against those nations as when he fights on a day of battle. On that day his feet shall stand on the Mount of Olives that lies before Jerusalem on the east, on the Mount of Olives, and the Mount of Olives shall be split in two from east to west by a very wide valley. so that one half of the mount shall move northward and the other half southward. And then he continues on with a description of what happens in that day. That could not be called a time of peace and security, when the nations are gathered against Jerusalem for battle. Peace would not be an accurate description of the middle of the tribulation either. Because of the sealed judgments that are described in Revelation chapter 6. And what's interesting here as he writes to the Thessalonians, he says, you probably noticed this as I was reading through this earlier. He says, Now concerning the times and seasons, brothers, you have no need to have anything written to you, for you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come. like a thief of the night, while people the word people actually isn't in the text. It's while they are saying there is peace and security. then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman and they will not escape. You notice the transition. You, you, you, they and them. They will be brought into sudden destruction. But this doesn't pertain to you That's the encouraging truth that is brought out there. The you are not to mean the believers do not receive the negative impact of the day of the Lord. The negative impact of the day of the Lord is for the unbelieving world. And that is a significant indicator that we see in this passage. If you're to look at 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, We find the Thessalonians were afraid that the day of the Lord has come, and that they had missed the coming of our Lord Jesus and are being gathered together to him. And Paul says, We don't want you to be so quickly shaken or alarmed. Because of some prophecy that you have heard, or a letter that supposedly is from us, meaning that there were already false writings, letters that were being written Uh by the name of the Apostle Paul at that time, he says, we didn't write that. And when we understand what is being described here, it makes perfect sense. When we remember that Paul had already told them that they would be raptured out of the wrath to come. So they're saying, We are shaken. We're told that we're in the day of the Lord, the day of the wrath of God. Why is it that we are living through this when we were told that we would not be A part of the wrath of the Lord. That we were to wait for His Son who would deliver us from the wrath to come. I often use the Reformation Study Bible, which is a very good study Bible, but like any study Bible, not all of its notes are of equal value. And the turt the interpretation that they give for 2 Thessalonians 2 is really remarkable, actually. It's that the Thessalonians were shaken and alarmed. Because false teachers were saying that the day of the Lord had arrived and were anticipating the rapture at any moment. I'm like, huh? So the anticipation of the rapture is something that should shake us and alarm us? I thought it was supposed to encourage us. And we're to build each other up with that reality. That didn't make I don't I don't understand it. I read it again and again. I'm like, I don't get that. The rapture is not something that should shake us up and alarm us, it is something that should encourage us. And it's something that we are to encourage one another. It's not a fear, it's a joy that we might at any moment come into the presence of our Lord and Savior. We are to be anticipating in any moment rapture. And if we do not, then the teaching of Jesus actually rebukes us about that. So as we continue in this passage, just briefly here in as we're finishing, there's two analogies that Paul uses about the coming of the day of the Lord. The day of the Lord he describes will come like a thief in the night, and some have thought that this meant that Jesus will come at night. And that's true to somebody. Because obviously we it's nighttime somewhere. So obviously it will be nighttime sometime. Uh but whenever Jesus comes, it will be nice summer, but that's not what he's talking about. It's coming like a seaf in the night. The point that Paul is making and Jesus as well in Matthew 24 is that the day of the Lord will come suddenly and in an unexpected time. This is one of the passages that teaches us about the imminent return of Christ. We talked about this earlier. Immincy speaks to the foul the certainty of an event and uncertainty about the timing of the event. It is a certain event But I don't know when. Like mom and dad could be coming back at any moment, but we don't know when. And so we better have the house clean. That's the idea of immincy. And so the the use of the phrase like a thief in the night is to re reveal the fact that Christ could come back at any moment. For those who are unprepared, it will come with devastating results. He says, then sudden destruction. Will come upon them. For those who have not yielded to the Lord, the result is that it breaks on them with sudden destruction. Just prior to Jesus speaking about this in Matthew 24 in the Olivet Discourse, he speaks and uses the analogy of the days of Noah when people were living. life as nor normal. They were marrying and giving in marriage until the day when Noah entered the ark, and they were unaware that till the flood came and swept them all away. And he says, So will be the coming of the Son of Man The unpreparedness of the world. Even though God has declared it, Christ taught it, the world is unprepared. But the second analogy that he uses, the day of the Lord will come not just like a thief in the night, but it'll come like a woman having labor pains. And I think this analogy helps us in many ways. It helps us to see the application of the tribulation period Just as labor pains are inevitable once you've become pregnant, the timing of them is unknown. This has caught many men by surprise. They know they've got nine months to prepare, and then their wife says, honey, it's now. What? What? And then panic ensues. I wasn't expecting that. How could you not be expecting it? But also , like the events of the tribulation, labor pains increase with intensity leading to the birth. And they begin with less intensity, less frequency. And if you look at the events that are described in Revelation, that is exactly the pattern that we see. I think as we consider the analogy, there are four things. primarily that labor pains signify. First of all, inevitable certainty. Just like when a woman becomes pregnant, labor pains are inevitable. So too God's judgment is inevitably coming. You say, I'd like to have a baby. I don't want to look at the labor thing. Well, sorry. It doesn't work that way. It's inevitable. There's also the suddenness, and again this goes back to many husbands being caught unprepared for the sudden onset of their wife's labor Things were going normal. We just had dinner. Things seemed like normal today. What happened? Labor happened, and there's nothing that I can do to stop it. Thirdly, intense pain. The day of the Lord is a period of intense judgment and pain for the earth. And lastly, as he brings out here, inescapability. Once active labor begins, and this is before modern medicine where you can sometimes use medications to slow things down or reverse them. But once active labor begins, there's no escape from the events that follow. The baby's coming. And that's all there is to it. You can't say, well, how about we just finish the movie first and then no no, it's not like that. It's coming. So too, when once the day of the Lord begins with the opening of the seven seals that describes that event in Revelation chapter 6. There is no escape. And Paul uses a double negative to make this clear. He says, they shall not at all escape. It's not found in our English because we don't use double negatives. But the idea is he's making sure once this happens, they shall not at all escape. It's absolutely inescapable. I want us to close by reading from Revelation chapter 6, verses 12 through 17, a larger passage. I'm just going to have them up here on our on the uh the screen and then just making a couple points of application. In verse 12 he says, when he opened the sixth seal. When we opened the sixth seal, I looked and behold, there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black as sackcloth And the full moon became like blood, and the stars of the sky fell to the earth as the fig tree sheds its winter fruit when shaken by a gale. The sky vanished like a scroll that is being rolled up, and every mountain and island was removed from its place. Then the kings of the earth and the great ones and the generals and the rich and the powerful and everyone, slave and free, hid themselves in the caves among the rocks of the mountains, calling to the mountains and the rocks, Fall on us, and hide us from the face of him who is seated on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb. For the great day of their wrath has come, and who can stand? This is the description that those who experience the breaking of the seals In the beginning of the tribulation, how they describe it. The great day of the wrath. Of the Lamb has come, and who can stand? That's why when we read verses like this in verse 10 For God or verse 9, for God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us, so that whether we are awake or asleep, when he returns, we could say. we might live with him. Therefore encourage one another and build one another up, just as you are doing. This is to be an encouraging truth for the believer. The day of wrath that is coming on the earth is not a day of wrath that we are destined for. Because Christ is coming to deliver us from that day of wrath. And as a result, since the coming of the day of the Lord is certain, and since we cannot know its precise timing, we must be ever watchful and waiting. We must be looking and living. I want to ask you today, how often did you think about the fact that Christ could come today? Did you think about it today? This week? I hope so. It ought to be something that comes across our mind on a regular basis. Charles Spurgeon said that he didn't believe in a single hour past in his life. From the time of his salvation till he died without thinking about the return of Christ. We ought to be living with that expectancy. It could be today. And I want to be found ready, and it ought to transform the way we live. Secondly, even though we may have grown like the Thessalonians had grown in our faith, hope, and love. We're not to be content with the progress we've made. We are to continue to grow in faith, hope, and love as we see the day approaching. Thirdly, we should find our passage here to be a warning against worldliness. That's what he's going to talk about in the next part of this passage. We're going to look at that, Lord willing, next week. That we ought to turn away from worldliness. We ought to live like people of the day and not like people of the night. Because that is who we are. And lastly, Paul's words should prompt us to pray for the salvation of the lost and to strive to bring them to Christ. I want to read you a hymn. We don't have it in our hymn, no? I've never seen it in the hymnal. It's by uh John Newton, you know the author of Amazing Grace. Everyone knows Amazing Grace. He was an amazing hymn writer. He wrote a hymn for every one of his Sunday morning sermons. Here's one he wrote. It's called the Day of Judgment. At his call the dead awaken, rise to life from earth and sea, all the powers of nature shaken. By his look prepares to flee. Careless sinner, what will then become of thee? Day of judgment, day of wonders. Hark the trumpet's awful sound, Louder than a thousand thunders, shakes the vast creation round. How the summons wilt the sinner's heart confound? See the judge our nature wearing, clothed in majesty divine, you who long for his appearing, then shall say, This God is mine. Gracious Savior, own me in that day for thine. This is a verse, the next verse, I saw a couple different hymnals where were places where it was online and they skipped this verse. But this is what John Newton wrote Horrors past imagination Will surprise your trembling heart When you hear your condemnation, hence a cursed wretch, depart, Thou with Satan and his angels have thy part. Satan who now tries to please you, lest you timely warning take, When that word is past, will seize you, plunge you in the burning lake. Sink, poor sinner, thy eternal awls at stake. But to those who have confessed, loved, and served the Lord below, he will say, Come near, ye blessed, see the kingdom I bestow. You forever shall my love and glory know. Under sorrows and reproaches, may this thought your courage raise. Swiftly God's great day approaches. Sighs shall then be changed to praise. We shall triumph when the world is in ablaze. Great song. I love that last line. Under sorrows and reproaches. May this thought your courage raise. It's exactly what Paul said. Therefore encourage one another and build one another up. Just as you are doing. These things need to be a part of our daily conversation with one another. So we live in expectancy of the Lord's return. May God help us to do that. Let's pray. Father, thank you. Christ is coming again. That the day of the Lord is a reality, but that you have not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. Father, thank you for our Savior. And we praise you. Help us to live expectantly in light of his imminent return. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.