Give your Bibles, please, you can open with me to Acts chapter nine. During the Cold War, one of the nations where believers suffered the most for their faith was in Romania. One story that comes from this time tells the story of a prison house that had about 30 Christians kept there. One night. The door abruptly opened to their cell and a man was thrown in. It was dark, and so they couldn't really see very very much who it was until finally They realized that it was the man who was once in charge of their camp and they couldn't believe that he was now in prison with them. In fact, he told them that he was now one of them A follower of Jesus Christ. And of course, everyone wanted to know how did this change occurred? Because this man was brutal and violent and harsh. In his dealing with these Christian prisoners. And so he told them that one day a 12-year-old boy came to the gates of the camp. And said that he wanted to see his mother. He had in his hand a bouquet of flowers. And he said that it was His custom to bring his mother flowers every time every year on her birthday. And today was her birthday. And he asked to see the captain of the prison. So he was shown into this man's office and he said, Sir, I know that you're not going to let me see my mom today. But my mom told me to be kind and good to those who hate you. And so I have decided to bring these flowers that I want you to give these flowers to your wife. And with that he left. And that touched the captain so much that he began To study the scriptures and in time came to faith in Jesus Christ. And when the authorities realized that he was a Christian, they threw him into the prison. with the others. The man who was once a brutal persecutor of believers was now one of them. The same type of radical transformation took place in the life of the Apostle Paul. Acts chapter 9 begins with a portrait of a bloodthirsty persecutor of Christians. But about halfway through the chapter, Acts chapter 9, we read of a complete reversal of this man now preaching Christ. Who once was trying to imprison and stop anyone who would do just this You see, conversion brings about a radical change. In recent weeks, we've been exploring how God worked in the life And the heart of this man's Paul. This is one of the most important events in the entire New Testament. The Apostle Paul would write 13 epistles, which provide the foundational elements of Christian theology. And there's very much a sense in which all of these epistles are just unpacking of what really transpired that day on the road to Damascus. Last week we looked at the event itself and Today we're going to conclude this very brief series by looking at the events that happened right after his conversion It was here that Saul of Tarsus came face to face with the glory of the risen Lord. The theological lesson of this historic event is that conversion is nothing less than a miracle of God. It is a miracle of God's grace when He changes the heart of a sinner. To that of a follower of Jesus Christ. God graciously intervened in Paul's life, and he went from attacking the church and essentially destroying himself to being apprehended of Christ. The man who made it his business to imprison Christians was now a prisoner in a sense of the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. Everything was different now, and his life would never be the same. Remember it's Paul that wrote, If any man be in Christ, he is a new creation. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Now what I want us to see this morning and the events that follow right after his conversion Is that this was not the end of his spiritual quest? The fact that now he was redeemed, that he was a follower of Jesus Christ, did not mean that everything was over. No, this was only the beginning. Because what we see in the conversion of Paul is that conversion must lead to consecration, that salvation should be followed by service. And I want to suggest to you that this is one of the ways that Paul is a pattern for every believer. Paul is the best example in Scripture that we have of what a Christian life should look like. And Paul, of course, was not perfect, but he was a God-given model of spiritual maturity. In fact, several times in Scripture we are told this exact fact. In 1 Corinthians chapter 11 and verse 1, Paul writes, Be ye followers of me, even as I also am of Christ. In Philippians 3. 17 he says, brethren, be followers together of me And in Philippians 4. 9, he says, those things which he have both learned and received and heard and seen in me do. Paul was a God-given model of what the Christian life should look like. So what does it look like to have a life that is devoted to living for Christ? That's what I want us to see this morning in the events that follow right after his conversion. And I want us to notice that every believer should live for Christ. And I want to show you five aspects in our text of living for Christ. The first one is this: every believer should acknowledge Christ's sovereignty in your life. Now look with me at Acts chapter 9 and verse 6. We read that he says Lord , what wilt thou have me to do? The very first thing that Paul says as a converted man is, Lord. In fact, this term dominates this entire event. Paul's first question is, who art thou, Lord? And his next question is, what wilt thou have me to do? In Acts chapter 22 and verse 10, the second account of this conversion incident, Paul has Paul saying, What shall I do, Lord? This entire incident is about the Lordship of Jesus Christ. Now there are many in the world today who would describe Jesus. as an exceptional man, perhaps even a great teacher, but they will not call him Lord. But I want you to know that nothing less than acknowledging him as your Lord will do. It will not do for you to be saved unless you acknowledge him as Lord. Now, when I was a young man in college , One of the most debated theological issues was what was called the Lordship Salvation Controversy. At the heart of the issue was this question, does a person have to acknowledge Jesus as Lord in order to be saved? And there were many believers who said no. And they would say that if you affirm that salvation requires you to yield to the Lordship of Christ, you are confusing justification and sanctification. Or to put it another way, they would say you're adding works to salvation. I have heard preachers stand up and say that a person can receive Christ as their Savior, and then maybe several years later, or perhaps never, receive Him as Lord. But I want you to know that I completely disagree with this view. How can a person receive Christ as Savior, but not as Lord, because He's the same person? You can't pretend that one part of his personhood does not exist. He is Lord and Savior. In fact, in Romans chapter 10, verses 9 and 10, it says, If thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, that is, Jesus as to be Lord , And believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. No one can be saved unless they acknowledge that Jesus is Lord. Now, a person may not fully grasp what it means to follow Christ when they trust in Christ initially. And throughout their life, their understanding of yielding to the Lordship of Christ will grow and mature and deepen. We call this sanctification. However, I've never met anyone who made a genuine decision for Christ who thought that they could go on living just as they did before. They instinctively know there's a change here. Something has changed. A person may not see how they can change. But there's a willingness and desire for that change in every true believer. What we see in this patterned conversion Is that God's grace leads Christians to yield to the Lordship of Jesus Christ And I want you to notice, secondly, that every believer should have a desire to live for the Lord's. Paul asks this question: what wilt thou have me to do? This is the natural question that should come from every true child of God. Paul here is not trying to pay for his sins. He's not trying to contribute to his salvation. But this is a natural instinctive thing that a believer understands that God has something for me to do. He has saved me for a purpose. The idea that salvation is like fire insurance is completely foreign to the Bible. I've been mentioning how Paul's writings further explain his conversion. And I want us to look at three passages that shed some light on this life-changing event. In Acts chapter 9. The first passage I would invite you to turn to is very well known. And it's just a few pages further back from where we are, and that is in Romans chapter 12, please. Romans chapter 12. The first two verses. Verses that many of you I know have memorized. Romans 12, 1 and 2, Paul writes, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. holy, acceptable unto the Lord, which is your reasonable service. And be not conform to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God This is one of the most famous texts in the New Testament, and rightly so. It is so all-encompassing. And so filled with biblical doctrine about the basics of living the Christian life Paul here is beginning the second half of the book of Romans. In the first 11 chapters, Paul has been giving a very careful explanation of the gospel. He's talked about the fact that all of mankind has been justly condemned by God, that we are not righteous, that whether we are religious or irreligious, whether we are Gentile or Jew, we have all sinned and come short of the glory of God's. Then he has shown that the great doctrine of justification That by putting our faith in Jesus Christ who died in our place, we have been credited, we have been declared not guilty, but credited as the with the righteousness of Jesus Christ. He goes on to talk about the implications of the gospel in regards to the Christian life in chapter 6 through 8. And he talks about a vindication of God's sovereignty. and and and and his work with Israel in chapters 9 through eleven. And then he comes to the second half of the book and he begins it with this very significant statement. That on the basis of God's mercies and our salvation, recognizing it's nothing we have earned, but all of God's grace We are to present our bodies a living sacrifice. This word presents. This Greek term is often translated as yield. In fact, it's translated that way in chapter 6. We are to yield our bodies. And when Paul speaks of us yielding our bodies, he's not saying that we yield our bodies, but we don't have to worry about our minds or our affections. No, he's using this as a part for the whole. He's saying we yield all of ourselves to God. But he uses the physical imagery of the body because it's the body of that Old Testament sacrifice that was slain and laid on the altar. And he says that God doesn't want a dead sacrifice. Today he wants A living sacrifice where every day of our lives is yielded to Him because He is our Lord. He goes on to say that this is your reasonable service. We get our English word logic from the word that's translated reasonable here. And the idea is that when you really consider Consider and contemplate all that God has done for you, the only logical thing for you to do is to yield your life to Him. And the word service here speaks of spiritual service or even priestly service. We get our English word liturgical from this. The idea is that we are all New Testament priests called to offer up ourselves as sacrifices to God. But there's a second passage I would like you to turn to. Turn back with me a little further back from Romans to the book of 1 Corinthians now. 1 Corinthians chapter 6 1 Corinthians chapter 6, this is another passage that explains to us the ramifications of the Lordship of Christ in our life. 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 18 to 20, Paul writes, flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body, but he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body. What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which you have of God, and ye are not your own? For ye are bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God 's. Paul in this passage is obviously dealing with the issue of sexual purity. The city of Corinth was renowned in the ancient world for its wickedness. In fact, there was a a Greek verb to Corinthanize which had the idea of to live a wicked, debauched, immoral lifestyle. It was kind of like a joke in the ancient world. People went to Corinth for bad reasons. It was a city filled with idolatry, and in many of these temples there was part of their religious practice. was sexual immorality. It was part of their culture. It was part of their heritage And just imagine when the gospel comes in and all of a sudden these Gentile believers realize that their whole way of life A way that was completely accepted by everyone in their culture that it was absolutely abhorrent to God's It was a real struggle for them to adjust their thinking and to live a new way. And so Paul writes very frankly and very powerfully to them. And he tells them, You are not your own. You belong to Christ. And just as that message was counter-cultural when Paul said it there in Corinth and wrote to them with these words, so it is counter-cultural to us today. The world proclaims very loudly, in case you have not heard, that your sexuality is your own business. And no one can question your choices or tell you what to do. This is what our celebrities tell us This is what our politicians tell us. This is what our educators tell us. But God tells us something radically different. You are not your own. Paul is reminding these new believers living in a pagan world that they have been bought with the price Their life must be different. And even their sexuality must yield to the lordship of Jesus Christ. This is one of the great tests of a person's faith. Just to be frank, so often young people who've been brought up in Christian homes They've heard the gospel. They've gone to Sunday school. They make a profession of faith. They're baptized. And that they may appear to be compliance. But so often the first major test of their profession to be a follower of Jesus Christ involves this very personal area. And there are many who abandon their supposed faith because they say, this is what I want. to do. I don't really believe what mom and dad believe. I'm going to go my own way. I'm going to live life on my own terms and the world stands up and applauds. But there is a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. Christians must yield their sexuality. to the Lord Jesus Christ. But then there's a third passage that I want us to look at. Turn with me to the book of 2 Corinthians now, just a little further back. 2 Corinthians chapter 5. 2 Corinthians chapter 5, and I'd like to begin reading at verse 14. It says, for the love of Christ constrains us, because we thus judge that if one died for all, then we're all dead. And that he died for all, that they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and rose again. I've chosen this passage again because it talks about the fact that we do not live for ourselves as believers. We live for Christ, for the one who died and rose again for us, for the one who has a claim on our lives. When it speaks here of the love of Christ constraining us, it means that the love of Christ boxes us in So that there's only one real option for us, and that is to follow Christ. Now let me just quickly say this does not mean that we are somehow trapped And that somehow because we're Christians, we have to live a life without any joy, with any happiness, just a boring drudgery of an existence, because that's what it means to follow Christ. That's not at all what Paul is saying. Because Paul talks so much and he's so infectious in his expressions of joy of following Christ. The world deludes and deceives people into thinking that if you live life for yourself , In a very selfish and narcissistic way, that ye will find the greatest amount of happiness and joy that you can ever experience in your human time on earth. But that is an absolute lie. The greatest joy that you can experience is living your life for Christ and following Him. To many in 21st century America, Christianity is a tiny compartment in their life. They would say that they're a Christian, but it makes no impact or any influence in their personal life. And I would suggest to you that many millions of Christians, of people who profess to be followers of Christ in America and elsewhere in the world, are actually nominal Christians because when Christ is in your life, it will have an influence on every aspect of your life. A person who claims to be a follower of Christ, and yet their life is no different than that of a lost person calls into question the validity Of their change. Remember the word conversion means a change has occurred. Well, if there's no change, then why should we think that conversion has actually taken place? Thirdly, would you notice with me that every believer should live a lifestyle of obedience? Turn back with me now, please, to the book of Acts chapter 9, where we began. Acts chapter 9. I want to begin reading at verse seven. And the men which journeyed with him stood speechless, hearing a voice, but seeing no man. And Saul rose from the earth, and when his eyes were opened he saw no man, but they led him by the hand and brought him into Damascus. And he was three days without sight, and did neither did eat. nor drink. The answer to Paul's question, what will thou have me to do, is essentially arise and go to Damascus and wait further instructions. We read in this account that the soldiers that accompanied Paul were aware of something happening. In verse 7, it says they heard something, but they didn't see the risen Lord. In Acts 22. 9, we read that they also saw the bright lights. In Acts 22. 9, it also says they heard not the voice of him that spake. But in Acts 9. 7 it says they did hear the voice. Is this a contradiction in Scripture? Absolutely not. The term voice can refer just to sound. In John's Gospel, we read of God speaking from heaven and bystanders thinking it was thunder. Something similar seems to have occurred here. They heard a loud sound. Perhaps even what they recognized as the sound of a voice, but they couldn't comprehend the words that were being said. This is noted again in Acts because Luke wants the reader to know that Paul was not having a hallucination. When his conversion occurred. This was a real historic event with a light and with sound from heaven. I think that Paul might have been a little discouraged with the answer to his question, what wilt thou have me to do? And the answer is arise and go to Damascus. I think he was looking for something more, and in three days' time he would have more. But it reminds me of the fact that often in our lives God gives us light just for the next step. Perhaps you know The famous verse from Psalm 119, Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. And we often think of of our modern day flashlights, but in the ancient world of course they didn't have that. They had a little olive oil lamp that gave about as much light as a little candle would in our day. Just enough light for the next step, but no more. And so much of our Christian lives we have enough light to take the next step But not enough to plan out our lives in detail for years to come. But God wants us just to, by faith And obedience take the next step. And as we walk in the light, we will receive more lights. Now look with me at verse 8. And Saul rose from the earth, and when his eyes were opened, he saw no man, but they led him by hand and brought him into Damascus. There's probably nothing so fearful as to lose your sight. All of our senses are very important. But how important is our sense of sight? Can imagine being in total darkness. What a strange beginning to Paul's new life in Christ Think about this. Complete darkness. What a confusing thing this must have been For the Apostle Paul. Here he is yielding his life to Christ, and he gets up and he can't see anything. And now this very driven man who was used to taking charge of everything has to be led by hand into the city of Damascus. What thoughts must have been racing through his mind? Will I be blind the rest of my life? Is this what my new life will be like? Is God punishing me for persecuting his church? Is this the deal that I have now that I'm going to go the rest of my days blind because I hurt and punished believers. This time, these three days must have seemed terribly confusing It reminds us that God's ways are not always clear to us. Every believer here has walked with the Lord for years know that that's the case. There's times when you can't figure out what God is doing. In fact, sometimes it seems that what he's doing is counterproductive to what you think is his goal and his will for your life. Paul spends three days in darkness in a distant city at the mercy of those whom he once hated. What is he doing during this time? In verse 11, as God reveals this information to a man named Ananias, he says, For behold, he prayeth. Paul was fervent in prayer. He was begging God for many things, undoubtedly, that God would restore his sight, that God would guide him. I think that this was a time of fasting for him. And we see here the beginning of Paul's life of faith, and we see that it is a life of obedience. Now every Christian here, including the man in this pulpit, has obeyed the Lord imperfectly in our lives. Make no mistake about it. Sometimes Christians have this thought, this notion in their head that pastors and missionaries and evangelists and those who are part of uh in some ways even Christian celebrities that somehow they're like they're just nearly perfect. They never mess up and every every moment of their life they're living on on in the clouds And communion with God, never messing up. That is absolutely untrue. We are all flesh and blood. We are all weak. We all obey God imperfectly. But there should be a clear difference from before you knew Christ to after your conversion. To the obedience that is in you. I like what John Newton, the hymn writer of Amazing Grace, said one time. He said, I am not what I ought to be I am not what I want to be. I am not what I hope to be in the eternal world, but still I am not what I used to be. And by the grace of God I am what I am. This man who was once a slave trader, notorious for his wickedness, had been changed by the grace of God and lived a life of obedience. And then fourthly, every believer should seek to be a witness for Christ. Look with me at verse 10 now. And there was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias. And to him saith the Lord in a vision, Ananias, and he said, Behold, I am here, Lord. And the Lord said unto him, Arise and go into the street which is called straight. And inquire in the house of Judas for one called Saul of Tarsus, for behold, he prayeth. And have seen a vision of a man named Ananias coming in and putting his hand on him that he might receive his sight. In this paragraph, following Paul's conversion, we are introduced to one of the unsung heroes. of the early church, a man named Ananias. There are actually eleven different men in the Bible named Ananias. It was a popular name And it means in Hebrew, the Lord is gracious. And the Lord was gracious to Paul through Ananias. Paul was apparently praying for God to heal his blindness because the Lord assures him that a man is coming to help him. I thought about this. It'd be very difficult to kind of disobey the Lord when the Lord has already told this man in the vision that he's coming. He even provides detailed directions for this man Ananias C. says that Paul is staying with a man named Judas on Straight Street. That is Phil, the main thoroughfare traveling east to west in this ancient city of Damascus. And it's called straight because it's very straight. You can see from one end to the other. Absolutely straight. Now, one of the things that's almost amusing about this passage is Ananias 's. Response to the Lord's call. Look at verses 13 and 14. Then Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard by many of this man how much evil he hath done to thy saints at Jerusalem. And here he has authority from the chief priest to bind all that call on thy name. Now, before we laugh at Anoniris , And accuse him of being a spiritual midget. Let me just ask you, how many times in your life have you felt like the Lord really needed some information that you had? Lord, I I don't think this is really a good idea. I'm not sure if you're aware of this or not, but Yes, he's very much like us in an IRS. And this is very understandable, right? Let's think about this for a second. Ananias was undoubtedly a leader. Among the believers in Damascus. And that means he was probably on Paul's shortlist of people to arrest. Perhaps he was at the very top of that list. Whatever you do, Paul, make sure you get this man an iris, because he is the leader of that sect there in Damascus. And perhaps Ananias has even been warned by other believers, hey, listen, there's this guy named Saul of Tarsus who's coming to town. He's looking for you. He's going to arrest you. He's going to take you back to Jerusalem where you're going to be tried. So you need to make yourself scarce. And now the Lord says, Arise and go and see Saul of Tarsus. Lord, I don't think that's a very good idea. I'm not sure that's going to work out well. And perhaps there was even rumors going around that this man claimed that he saw Christ. And that now he was a follower of Christ. What do you think the early Christians thought of that profession of faith? I suspect they all thought this is obviously a trap. Where he's going to draw us out. He's going to try to convince us he's one of us. And then when he figures out where we meet and who all comes and everything, then he's going to throw his net over all of us and we're all going to be arrested. The Lord responds to Ananias' objection with simply these words: go thy way. Get going, Ananias. I don't want to hear any more about your arguments. Do what I say. And then he says something astounding. He says in verse 15, For he is a chosen vessel unto me to bear my name before the Gentiles and kings. And the children of Israel, and I will show him how great things he must suffer for my name's sake. When he says he's a chosen vessel, he means he's a specially selected instrument. You know, there are some instruments That are general and you can use for all kinds of things. You know, like a screwdriver. You can use it to turn a screw, obviously, but you can use it and people do to leverage things or to pry things out or any number of things. But there are some instruments that are very specific There are some instruments like that a surgeon uses that he uses only for one particular procedure. Just like there are some tools that a mechanic uses for only one thing. And if you don't have that tool, you can't fix that part of your car. That's the idea of this word here. He is a specially selected instrument that I'm going to use in very specific ways. This is an indication that he is going to be an apostle. The apostle to the Gentiles. Now notice there are three things. He says here. He says that go thy way, for he is a chosen vessel to bear my name before the Gentiles. That would be his first priority. He's known as the apostle to the Gentiles for a reason. And it's kind of ironic because what was Paul? He was as Jewish as you can get. And Paul's, and God says, I'm going to use him to take the gospel to the Gentile world. But let me further add that Paul, though he was Jewish, knew the Gentile world. He knew their culture. He grew up in Tarsus. He knew their literature. So he was specially prepared for this. And it also says before kings. We see in the book of Acts him appearing before kings like Agrippa. And Felix and Festus, noble government officials like this, and it's very likely, remember, the Apostle Paul appealed to Caesar We have no record of how that exactly finished up, other than he was executed sometime later. But it's very likely the Apostle Paul appeared before the most powerful man in the world. A man named Nero, who was the Caesar. Boy, it'd be wonderful to know what transpired in that meeting and how Paul gave witness to Christ. Let me just say here that one thing that we see here is that God has saved us and redeemed us with a sense of purpose. Did you know that God has instilled in the heart of every person a desire to live a life that is meaningful, that has significance A life that makes a difference. God has given us instinctively a desire to live for something bigger than ourselves. And for believers, that's even greater because not only have we been made by God, but we have been redeemed by God. We are, as it were, owned by God twice over. This is why we exist. We exist to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. We exist to be a witness, a pointer to what really matters in our lives. We see that Paul later in this chapter is preaching Christ. In the third and final account of Paul's conversion and commission, we read a fuller Explanation of his commission says, but rise and stand upon thy feet, for I have appeared unto thee for this purpose. To make thee a minister and a witness both of the things which thou hast seen, and of those things in which I will appear unto thee Delivering thee from the people and from the Gentiles unto whom now I send thee, to open their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins. and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me. Now you may have not been called to be a pastor. Or a missionary or an evangelist, but you have been called to be a witness for Christ if you are a child of God You've been called to be a light in a dark place. You have been called to show where you work and where you live. that Christ is your treasure and that he has made a difference in your life. So don't waste your life. Living like every lost American, seeking to accumulate stuff or feathering your retirement nest, live for Christ and tell others about Him. Let God use you to bring the message of forgiveness to those who are lost and blinded to the truth. But God reveals something else to Paul that would accompany his ministry. Look with me at verse 16. For I will show him how great things he must suffer for my name's sake. And indeed, following Christ would involve a great deal of suffering for the Apostle Paul. And we're not going to take the time to look at it, but in 2 Corinthians chapter 11, he lays out just some of the things that he endured. as a minister of the cross, of being beaten and shipwrecked and flogged and stoned to death Not every Christian is going to endure that level of suffering. But every follower of Christ will face some persecution Paul says to new converts in Acts chapter 14 and verse 22, we must through much tribulation enter the kingdom of God's. So we must never conclude because of the difficulties, the disappointments, the hardships that we face in life, that somehow God has been unfair to us or abandon us. Or not fulfilled his promises to us. No, he has promised us, in fact, that we will face suffering and difficulty in the work of the Lord. But Paul would also say that our suffering is light, and but for a moment. And he would say that our suffering of this present time is nothing to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed. In us. But there's one final aspect that I want to show you from our text about what it means to live for Christ. And that is that every believer. Should identify with the church of Christ. Look with me at verse 17. And Anoniris went his way and entered into the house. And putting his hands on him, said, Brother Saul, the Lord, even Jesus that appeared unto thee in the way as thou camest has sent me that thou mightest receive thy sight and be filled with with the Holy Ghost. And immediately there fell from his eyes as it had been scales, and he received sight forthwith, and arose and was baptized. And when he had received meat, he was strengthened. Then was Saul certain days with the disciples which were at Damascus. And straightway he preached Christ in the synagogues that he is the Son of God But all that heard him were amazed and said, Is not this he that destroyed them which were called on the name in Jerusalem and came hither for that intent that he might bring them bound unto the chief priest? But Saul increased the more and strength and confounded the Jews which dwelt at Damascus, proving that this is very Christ. This is the end of this little narrative of Paul's conversion and commission. It's come full circle. Paul went from being a persecutor of the church to a proclaimer of Christ and one who himself was about to endure persecution. And Iris obeys God's command. He comes and he ministers to Paul, and I think it's very significant that he said unto him, Brother Saul. How those words must have ministered comfort to Paul in the darkness when this man comes and calls him his brother. The fact is, he was not alone. There were others who believed him and who would accept him and make him part of their fellowship. No matter what he had done, this was an indication. that it was forgiven. And notice what happens right after Paul's sight is restored. It says in verse 18, and he was baptized. Paul wanted to identify with Christ and with his church. It didn't matter that Paul was a very religious man previous to this. He knew he needed to be baptized. And he was happy to do so. This was his identifying with the church of Christ. He is saying to them, I am one of you. And then in verse 19, we read that when he had received meat, he was strengthened. And then I love this. Then was Saul certain days with the disciples. which were at Damascus. I think this is an expression that reveals that Paul enjoyed fellowship with the believers there in Damascus. These people that he came to arrest And to persecute were now those whom he loved, his brothers and sisters in Christ. He found a bond and a unity that he had never known before. This is what God wants us to experience in the church. I know it can be a challenge. But God has made us social people. Even those who may be introverted and do not like to talk that much, they still have a need. to be part of a fellowship of other human beings. This is why we have all kinds of clubs and communities, even online and and and places where people can go, because God made us to want to have fellowship with other people. And the way that is to be fulfilled in the life of a believer is in a local church where you have people who believe the way you do, you have that common bond in Christ, and you can call them brother and sisters. This is part of what it means to follow Christ, to be a part. of his church. The Christian life only works well among the fellowship of the saints Undoubtedly, you know people in your household who like to build things and put things together without looking at the instructions. And sometimes when they do that, it doesn't work out so well because it wasn't designed to work that way. The Christian life was not designed to operate as a lone ranger situation Where it's just you and the Lord. No, you need the involvement of your brothers and sisters. You need their love, their support, their ministry gifts, and their correction. All of us do. There are no exceptions to this. And all who love Christ must love the church which he purchased with his own blood. Now I want to make just one point of application as I conclude this morning, and that is simply this. Is there clear and convincing evidence? that Christ is the Lord of your life. Does your home proclaim that it's a Christian home. I remember an incident that the famous preacher G. Campbell Morgan said that his father was a preacher as well, and when he was first married as a young man in his twenties He invited his father into his home, and his father came in this very austere man, and he looked around and he didn't say anything, and his son said, No, what is it? I know there's something bothering you. What what is it that you You've seen in my home that you don't like, and he said, There was nothing in your home that would tell me instantly this is a Christian home. I didn't see Bible verses on the walls. I didn't see a Bible on the table. There was nothing here that shared, that would tell a visitor, ah, this is a Christian home. And G. Campbell Morgan, of course, quickly remedied that situation. He put Bible verses everywhere. But is Christ seen in your home life? Not just in the fact that there's a verse here or there or a magnet on your refrigerator? But in the way that you interact with your spouse, and the way you're intentionally bringing up your children, in the structure of your life in the rhythms of your day. Do these things reveal that you are a follower of Jesus Christ? Does your bank accounts reveal that you're committed to Christ? Does your expenditures reveal that you're laying up treasures in heaven, not just treasures on earth like everyone else in America? Does the way that you approach work indicate that Christ has made a difference in your life? from your other co-workers. Does the way you use your free time your hobbies, your entertainment choices, do they reveal that Christ is the Lord of your life? Do the words that you speak to your friends, to your co-workers, to your family members reveal that you have been transformed and changed? Is there evidence if someone were to look into your life that you are truly a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ? Or is it just something that you say, just part of like another club, another interest in your life? Every true believer should be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that means that every aspect of our lives is under his control. Part of what sanctification means is that we give him everything every part of our lives. And throughout our Christian experience as believers, we will become aware that there's some little corner in the room of our heart That we have still reserved for ourselves and we haven't yielded to Him. And every step that we take in our spiritual lives is when we yield some other area that God has pinpointed in our lives. that we have yet to surrender to him joyfully. And this is what it means to follow Christ. May God help you to be a true follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. Help us, Father, to be true disciples. Help us to be those, Father, who have yielded everything in our lives to your control. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.