I preached recently from the first stance of Psalm 119, and I didn't mention anything then, but I think I am going to be preaching a series through Psalm 119, trying to take one stanza at a time. That's eight verses at a time. It's a difficult thing because Psalm 119 is all about the Word of God. It would be very easy to have every sermon sound alike. because there's so much similarity between the various stanzas. But I think that there is enough variation and And if carefully noted, I think it can be very beneficial and profitable for us. It also, of course, is quite lengthy, and covering eight verses in one sermon is also a challenge. But I think that there is great benefit here in this longest chapter in the Bible and the largest psalm that we possess. So this evening we come to the second stanza, which says, Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed thereto according to thy word, with my whole heart have I sought thee. O let me not wander from thy commandments. Thy word have I hid in my heart, that I might not sin against thee. Blessed art thou, O Lord, teach me thy statutes. With my lips have I declared all the judgments of thy mouth. I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies as much as in all riches. I will meditate. and thy precepts and have respect unto thy ways. I will delight myself in thy statutes. I will not forget thy word. One of the greatest problems facing the Christian today is the fight for purity. To say that it is an uphill battle would be an understatement. Not only are we fighting against the devil, who is the invisible promoter of all that is unclean and degrading, But we are also fighting against our flesh that is weak and vulnerable to temptation. We are also fighting against our culture and society like never before. in our nation's history. There was once a time when society generally tried to oppose and restrict degrading elements that would damage our nation's moral health. But those days seem like a distant memory. I can remember when I was a boy That I heard from my parents that there was an adult bookstore in downtown Frederick And there would be articles in the newspaper about citizens trying to close it down and people writing letters to the editor. And nearly everyone was opposed to it. Just about everyone was against it. I remember the windows were papered up so that no one could look inside, and anyone Who would dare walk into that store would be regarded with shame and contempt. But now with the recent advancements in technology It is as if that filthy bookstore is in most of our stores and parks and even our homes We have become desensitized to the corruption that surrounds us every day. It seems as if every advancement in technology has made it more difficult to live in purity in a pornographic world. In the late 1800s, we had, of course, the great invention of photography. What a wonderful blessing that is to be able to preserve our memories. And then of course, some time later we had the invention of video and movies, and then the television, and then computers, and then In more recent days, the internet, and now in just the last few years, the smartphone. I believe that pornography is probably the most destructive problem facing the church today. I could tell you many stories of counseling situations That I've been involved in and in many statistics that I've gathered in recent years. But I'm not going to do that because I feel That I might inadvertently be feeding the problem, not solving the problem. One of the things, to be honest with you, that drives me crazy is that most of the Christian books written on this topic are so explicit. But if you didn't have a problem when you read them, you will by the time you're finished. Pornography is the number one addiction in our nation, and it is the most common counseling problem that pastors face. It's destroying our families, it's breaking up marriages, and it's ruining the innocence of our children. It is Satan's great tool for stopping all spiritual aspirations. In our young people. I wonder as we come to Psalm 119 and his opening question in verse 9 What would the psalmist who wrote these words, wherewithal shall young man cleanse his way, or more literally, how can a young man remain pure? What would he say about today? He was writing probably 3,000 years ago, and what a different context we live in today. He could not have imagined the struggles that Christian young people face on a daily basis. And yet the solution that he mentions here is still effective. Because the only answer is found in the timeless Word of God. Let me remind you of the approach that I'm taking to this mammoth Psalm. Many Bible scholars view this as a random collection of reflections on the Word of God. They would view it as a treasure chest of precious jewels that have been haphazardly cast into one large collection. However, I think that there is a discernible pattern. I believe that this psalm is kind of like a spiritual journal that someone would write. I believe that it was likely written by an elderly man who is reflecting back over his life, different segments of his life. I believe that the different stanzas generally reflect the different periods of his life. This is why in the first stanza you find Youthful enthusiasm. This is why in the second stanza here we read about the young man. And this is why in the final stanzas we find the verses are filled with expressions of weakness and weariness. But for tonight I want us to look at this second stanza. And I want to address this question, how can a person live a lifestyle of purity? I'm not going to approach this topically, but expositionally. If I was approaching it topically, we would go to many different scriptures, many in the New Testament. But we're going to confine most of our attention to just the verses in front of us here. I would say, first of all, you must learn to develop a wholehearted obedience. To the Word of God. The most famous verses in the stanza are verses 9, 10, and 11. And I'm sure that many of you have memorized them. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking heed thereto according to thy word, with my whole heart. Have I sought thee? O let me not wonder from thy commandments. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. And those are wonderful words to hide in your hearts. One senses that the writer begins this stanza with a sense of frustration. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? Remember how the previous hands ended. He says in verses 7 and 8, I will praise thee with uprightness of heart when I shall have learned thy righteous judgments. I will keep thy statutes, O Forsake me not utterly. But how difficult it has been for him to live up to those earnest desires for holiness. The psalmist is indeed frustrated, but he's not about to give up. By God's grace, he is determined to live a lifestyle of purity. It is in these formative years that life patterns, values, goals are established. It's so important that a young person seriously wage war against lust in their youth If they give into this struggle in their youth, they will often stunt their passion for God and limit their usefulness for the Lord. I've had several pastors talk to me and wonder out loud if perhaps the reason why There are fewer and fewer young men going into the ministry and training to be pastors, and fewer and fewer young people. and large going to the mission field is because of this very thing. They feel like they are spiritual failures. And so they dare not enter the service of the Lord. It is so important that a young person learn to wage war effectively against this in their youth and set up a pattern for their life. This is why Paul writes to Timothy, let no man despise thy youth and flee youthful lust and keep thyself pure. This is why the father in Proverbs in those first nine chapters, which are a record of a father's discussion with his son, and the number one topic that he addresses. is the issue of the strange woman. That's the number one thing he feels that his son needs to know about So how can a young man or woman remain pure in an impure world by taking heed thereto according to thy word? And the idea of the Hebrew verb taking heed there is guarding. By guarding it. Now the it is not mentioned, but scholars believe he's talking about your heart. By guarding your heart with the word of God. That's the answer. Proverbs chapter 4 and verse 23 says, keep or guard your heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. If you don't have a heart for the things of God, the battle is over. But if your heart is in the right place and you really have a passion for God, like we sang about tonight You will encounter struggles and you will fail on occasion, but you will persevere because your heart is for the Lord's. What exactly does the writer here mean by your heart? Well, we think of the heart in our English language as a reference to our emotions primarily. We say, I love you with all of my heart. Especially in the Hebrew context, the idea of the heart is broader than that. It certainly includes that, but it's broader than that. It really means the inner person that you are, the real you. One writer put it this way, the heart is the person in miniature Therefore, you must constant be constantly vigilant about the direction of your heart because that's where you're going to go. This is why you can restrict a young person, you can put all kinds of boundaries into their life, you can put all kinds of safeguards in place. But if they don't have a heart to do what is right, it all will be in vain. You can take a person and you can put them in a locked-up cell and you can give them a sentence for several years. But if there is no change of heart, they will go out and go right back to that lifestyle. Because there hasn't been any change in their hearts. That's why the heart is key. Your heart is charting the very direction of your soul. Well, how does the word of God guard our hearts? Look with me at verse 10. He says, with my whole heart have I sought thee. Oh, let me not wander from thy commandments. Rather than allowing your hearts to be enticed with the things of this world, You must instead endeavor to seek God with your whole heart. It's not enough to want victory over sin. You must want a deeper relationship with God. This is the problem with people often with their sin struggles. May they have a struggle with alcoholism or with drugs or with stealing or with any number of things and they feel shame. and guilt and remorse because of that sin. And that doesn't feel good. And so they want God's help to overcome that problem. But you cannot effectively use God as a means to an end. God's not going to help you because he doesn't want you to be in an embarrassing situation. You have to seek God With all of your heart. That has to be your goal, not I really want to get out of this addictive cycle because it's really kind of ruining my plans. No, that's not the right motivation. You have to seek the Lord with all of your heart. And the only way you can consistently obey God's word is to be passionate about God's word. It is only then that you will allow God's word to guide your steps in the way of holiness. If a person is struggling with pornography, they must take many precautions. They must be ruthless with their sin. I've talked about this before. This is why the Lord talked about a man cutting off his hand or plucking out his eyes, grotesque images. And he's not asking a person to really mutilate their body, but he's saying that's the kind of radical measures that you must take When you find that you're in bondage to iniquity, you must do whatever it takes to break free of that by God's grace. You might need to cut off internet access entirely. You must may need to find an accountability partner. And you can do all those things, but if you do not develop a heart for God and His Word, you will find that it will be eventually ineffective. Seeking God with the whole heart is the only way you can effectively live the Christian life. This is not just true in this realm, this is true in every realm. Now I mentioned to you the last time we were in the Psalm the emphasis on the whole heart. I want to show it to you again. Look with me at verse 2. Blessed are they that keep his testimonies and that seek him with the whole heart. Look with me at verse 34. Give me understanding and I shall keep thy law. Yea, I shall observe it with my whole heart. Look with me at verse 58. I entreat thy favor with my whole heart. Verse 69. The proud have forged a lie against me, but I will keep thy precepts with my whole heart. And then towards the end of the Psalm verse 145, I cried with my whole heart, hear me, O Lord, I will keep thy statutes. Notice the desperate plea that follows this first phrase in verse 10, oh, let me not wander from thy commandments. We see here that we can never achieve purity apart from God's grace. We must never think that somehow we have defeated an area of sin in our life and we don't have to worry about that anymore. No. We will struggle and fight by God's grace for the rest of our days. Therefore, we must beg for God's strength every day to live lives of purity. How can we keep from wandering away from God's word, which is so easy to do? Look with me at verse 11. Thy word have I hid in mine heart. That I might not sin against thee. Whenever I come to this verse, this famous verse 11, I always think of an outline of G. Campbell Morgan. That sticks in my mind. First of all, the best possession, thy word. And the best plan have I hid, and the best place in my heart, and the best purpose that I might not sin. Now the Hebrew word translated as hid has the idea of storing up or treasuring up We tend to treasure up what we value. Have you ever noticed that? You'll see this with certain individuals. Some people just have their minds filled, young men filled with sports. statistic statistics. They could tell you all about their favorite team and what their batting averages are and everything else they have. all of these numbers in their head and they didn't have to work. They didn't get out and say, all right, I've got to memorize this roster now. No, it just happened because they delight in this. And they meditate on it and their mind is filled with all these facts and figures It might be with some people that way with cars. They can look at a car and they can tell you what make and model and year that it is. You ever met people like that? Wherever you go, they're pointing out every type of car around them because that's what they see. That's what they're interested in. And they've memorized so much information because that's what they are interested in. Every Christian should value the Word of God, and therefore we should store it up in our minds. And there are different avenues that we should use for that. We of course should read it. That's basic. That's elementary. That's where we start. We must read the Word of God. This is why every year, the beginning of the year, we put out reading plans. We should read consistently, consecutively, through the Word of God. I'm not saying that everyone has to have that plan. every year of their life. Some people do. Some people like to do a more in-depth study. The reason why I put it out is I find there's a surprisingly large number of Christians Who have never read through the Bible in their lives. And that's hard to imagine. As I've said to you before, someone asks you, what do you think of that book? And you say it's the Word of God. It contains the gospel of salvation. It is the most precious book in the world. It's more precious than all the books of the world combined. And they say, have you ever read it? No, I haven't. Amazing. We have to read it. We must also listen to it. And what I mean by that is of course not necessarily listening to it on recording, although that's certainly not a bad thing, something you could do in your commute, but listen to the preaching of it. You know, you can read a passage again and again and again, but the Holy Spirit often uses the preaching of the word to really press home that truth to your hearts. That is why it is not a minor problem that people no longer attend church anymore. That's a big problem. And we need to memorize it. We need to hide it in our hearts. This is often difficult to get people to do. It's like pulling teeth. People don't that it seems like too much work, too much effort, don't want to do that. I'm very glad that we've done so much of that with our young people The Kinsteads have been a real blessing and really leaders in that. And so many of our young people here have memorized chapters of Scripture. I could point out all kinds of people here tonight. What a blessing it is to hide God's word in your heart. And when we memorize God's word, when we memorize large portions of God's word , we were almost automatically meditate upon it. It's one of the great benefits of memorizing God's Word, of meditating on the Word of God. of thinking about it and what exactly it means and how it applies to my life situation and what are the implications of it The Bible is often compared in the Psalms to treasures like precious gemstones or gold or honey. One writer said, no miser forgets where he hides his money. And so we must store up the riches of God's word in our hearts. And I'm going to bring this back to the topic at hand that I began. This is not my discovery. But I want to say that one of the great weapons against pornography is the memorization of Scripture. When people come to me with the problem One of the very first things I do with them is strongly exhort them to be intense and earnest in the memorization of specific scriptures. It's not enough to stop the flow of wickedness into our minds. No, we must fill our minds with the righteous word of God. We must not only repent, we must replace. And as we fill our hearts with God's truth, we will walk in God's truth. And I and I want you to know that I have never seen anyone who was truly in the bondage of iniquity in this area, who was able to find freedom and victory, who did not come to really intensely memorize the Word of God. Those who I dealt with who would say, you know, I'm not really much into memorizing. I've always had trouble with that. I've never really, I just don't think I'm going to do that. They were never able to find victory in their lives. This is a very important thing. Secondly, I want you to notice in verses 12 through 14 that you must learn to develop a consistent hunger for the word of God. Look at these verses. Blessed art thou, O Lord, teach me thy statutes. With my lips have I declared all the judgments of thy mouth. I've rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies as much as in all riches. Now here at the beginning of verse 12, the psalmist praises God. He says, Blessed art thou, O Lord This exclamation comes out of nowhere and reveals the psalmist 's heart of praise. And all of our struggles with sin, we must not forget to praise God for all the blessings. that he has given to us. And now in verses 12 through 14, the psalmist speaks of his hunger for the word of God. He talks about his desire for the word He says, teach me thy statutes. In verse 13, he talks about his declaration of the word, and in verse 14, his delight in the word. Let's consider the first of these three elements, this desire for the word. Notice the phrase, teach me thy statutes. One of the reasons that God allows us to struggle with our sin is to humble us and create in us a teachable spirit. You ever wondered that? Why doesn't God just instantly give me victory over this sin? Could God give you that victory? He could And it's certainly not God's fault that you're sinning. However, God sometimes does not allow us to find victory because he wants us to be humbled by our struggle, by our weakness. by the wickedness of our hearts. We can never live the Christian life on autopilot. But it seems that's what we always want. We want to be able to live the Christian life and just very smoothly with very little problems, and every once in a while when we find a crisis We can consult the Lord and He'll help us out. But the Lord is not going to allow us to live life on those terms. We must constantly and humbly depend on him for each step of the journey. We must never stop I don't care if you've been a Christian for 40 or 50 or 60 years, you still have things to learn. Now look with me at verse 13. With my lips have I declared all the judgments of thy mouth. Now what is the writer saying here? Some commentators see A reference to his personal memorization and meditation on scripture in the ancient world, when people would read books, they read out loud. And so maybe that's what's in view here. By the way, I recommend the reading of Scripture out loud as a part of your devotions. If you've never tried it before, I suggest that you try it. There's something about seeing and hearing the word that is helpful. Other Bible scholars believe this verse is saying the psalmist is sharing God's word with others. The word declare has the idea of recount or to count. So the meaning could well be that the writer is on a regular basis recounting the treasures that he has discovered in God's word. This is a wonderful practice to put into place as part of your devotional life. It's very easy to just run your eyes over a page of Scripture and walk away. And if someone were to ask you, hey, what did you read this morning in your devotions? Say, uh not sure. Can't really recall. But if you discipline yourself to write down what you have learned or to write out a verse that really spoke to your heart, and then you take that and you share it with someone, It really has a way of pounding that truth into your soul and affirming what you have learned so that you remember it, it becomes more precious to you. This is something that I think we often forget, but it's an important part of our Christian lives. Now I can think of three ways that this discipline is helpful. First of all, it forces you to look for something specific in your reading. Secondly, the practice of recording or sharing an idea constrains you to meditate on scripture and express some biblical truth in a concise way. That is a very helpful and valuable thing to do to make that truth portable so you're taking it with you. And the sharing of biblical truth with others helps to affirm and impress that truth upon your own hearts. When I'm in a discipleship relationship with someone and I'm meeting with them on a regular basis, sometimes I will say, all right, tomorrow when we meet, I want you to share a thought with me, a verse with me, that you got out of your reading of the word. And I will do the same. And they will find that when they have that accountability, all right, I've got to share something that I found in my reading today, it makes all the difference in the world These are some practical ways that people can remain pure in heart even in a polluted world. They must intentionally saturate their minds with the Word of God. Perhaps the whole idea of recording or sharing God's word with others seems strange or difficult for you And the reason would be because you do not share the psalmist 's perspective of the word that is found in verse 14. He says, I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies as much as in all riches. The word rejoice here refers to an exuberant festive joyfulness. You see, this is why the psalmist was recording God's word and sharing with others, because that's what we do naturally with things that excite us. When we truly delight in some person or some activity, we want to share it with others. We can hardly keep ourselves from doing that. You see this with grandmothers wanting to share pictures of their grandchildren? How's it going with you today? Someone says, well, let me show you. We naturally want to share what really excites us. It's a joy. It helps us recount and savor that thing that is precious to us all over again. There's a sense in which we cannot fully enjoy something unless we can share it with others. God made us that way. And that is why it is a wonderful blessing to share the Word of God with others. I love to have someone share a verse with me and tell me how God has used it in their life. That's a mutually edifying experience. how God took this verse and he used it in their life. Because now God's not only using that in their life, but now he's using it in my life as well. What better thing is there to share in all the world than the Word of God? And thirdly, tonight I want us to consider that we must learn to develop a deep commitment to the word of God. Look at verses 15 and 16. I will meditate in thy precepts and have respect unto thy ways. I will delight myself in thy statutes. I will not forget thy word. Once again, the psalmist concludes a stanza with some resolutions or commitments. We see saw the same thing in verses 7 and 8. Now in verses 15 and 16 we find something similar. We have essentially four commitments in these two verses. We have the first one is I will meditate in my precepts. To meditate on scripture is to think deeply about it. It is to ask questions of it. and to consider how it applies to your life. Charles Bridges, in a book that we have out there on a book table on Psalm 119, says the revolving or the turning over of a single verse in our minds is often better than the mere reading of a whole chapter. So why don't we meditate in God's Word as we should? Let me show you a connection. that is found in this psalm. And you see if you can find the link. Look with me at verses 15 and 16. I will meditate in thy precepts I will have respect in thy ways. I will delight myself in thy statutes. I will not forget thy word. Now look with me at verses 23 and 24. Princes also did sit and speak against me, but thy servant did meditate in my statutes. Thy testimonies also are my delight. and my counselor. Now look with me at verses 47 and 48. He writes, I will delight myself in my commandments which I have loved. My hands also will I lift up unto thy commandments, which I have loved, and I will meditate in thy statutes. So did you see the connection there? There's a connection between meditation and delights. We meditate on what we delight in. It just happens naturally. And then he goes on to say, I will have respect unto thy ways. And the Hebrew verb literally means to fix your gaze upon something. If you desire to live in purity, you must turn away your eyes from beholding vanity and gaze upon our glorious God and his word. It is the pure in heart who will see God 's. Thirdly, he says, I will delight myself in thy statutes. It is the blessed man who delights in the law of the Lord. And one of the blessings that he enjoys is a life free from the shame and bondage of sexual sins. And then he concludes with this, I will not forget thy word. What a beautiful resolution that is. The only way to never forget God's word is to keep it constantly before you So what will you ingrain upon your heart? You know, the things that we allow our minds to feast on and to meditate on and to think about. form pathways in our minds that we become unaware of There's a sense in which we shape the very structure of our brains on a microscopic level by the patterns of our thinking. We tend to be unaware of this. But when you do something, when you think about something again and again and again and again It becomes natural, becomes ingrained in you. It's just the way you are. At least that's what it seems. This is why for people who have done certain things a certain way in a very sinful way, it seems so difficult for them to do what is right because it's like establishing, like building a whole new road. They have this highway of sin over here in their life that they traveled on for years and years and years, and now you want them to go over here and clear out this forest. and build a new road and start traveling that way. And that's why it seems so difficult and even impossible to them. Because I've got a highway over here. That's why we have to ingrain upon our hearts the Word of God So the question is, will you fill your mind with filthy, degrading images that war against your soul? Or will you fill your mind with the Word of God that liveth and abideth forever This is what we must aspire to. This is what we must be determined to do. This is why we may be must be ruthless. with this area in our lives. We cannot just accept our societal norms and standards because those standards are far from what the Bible commends for us. And commands us to do. There's so much more that could be said on this topic. But I hope that God will take this portion of his word and use it in our lives this evening. Let's close in a word of prayer. Father, how desperately we need your help. We all are sinners. We all come short of your glory. We all are well aware that none of us are perfectly pure. And therefore, we need your grace. We pray that you would guard the hearts of our young people especially that they would not be carried away by deceitful lust, that is lust that offers what it cannot produce I pray, Father, that they would seek you with their whole hearts and they would find the joy of walking in your presence. Help this Father to be our guide. Help us, Father, to allow your word to guard us and to shape the very desires of our heart and the patterns of our thinking that we might live the lives of purity that you have called us to do For it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen