Give your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 4? 1 Peter chapter 4 I became the pastor of Calvary Baptist Church in November of the year 2000. At that time, there were two great topics of conversation in our church. and in the nation. One was the disputed election of George W. Bush and Al Gore as the nation awaited the results from the state of Florida and there was all those talk about hanging chads and things of that nature. And the other burning issue was Y2K. Now our young people probably do not know what I'm talking about, so let me explain. There were many experts. that warned in the final months of the year 2000 that there was a great crisis coming. They said that because of the way our computers were designed, many of them would not function when they rolled over to 2001. on January 1st. And so there were many sensational claims by self-appointed experts. Some claimed that planes would be falling out of the sky. that our banking systems would be disrupted, that you would go to the bank and find that you had a zero balance, and that food in our grocery stores would soon become unavailable. In short, some predicted the end of the world. And many people stocked up on food supplies, water, ammunition. To prepare for the day of doom. And many of you are smiling, but I know that some of you were those people stockpiling things. I know that because as a very young pastor, beginning my ministry, I was strongly exhorted by some of the brethren that I needed to preach about Y2K and preparing for the end. And I said, I believe, when I come to something about Y2K in my text, I will be sure to preach it. In case you didn't know, when January the first came, nothing happened. This morning we come to a passage. Where Peter instructs the people of God to be prepared for the Lord's return. Look at verse 7. But the end of all things is at hand. Be therefore sober and watch unto prayer. When Peter speaks of the end of all things, he's not really saying the end of the world. He's referring to the next great event on God's prophetic calendar, the return of Christ. Christ's death, resurrection, ascension, and the outpouring of the Holy Spirit had all been predicted by the prophets in centuries past. They took place and very close succession, one event after another. And in Peter's personal life experience, he witnessed all of these events. Therefore, his exhortation to these first century believers is that they are to live With the expectation that Christ could return at any moment. Now, some liberal Bible scholars will say that Jesus and the apostles were deluded, they were wrong. Because here we are 2,000 years later, and the Lord has not returned. But Peter was not deceived. In fact, ironically, in his second epistle, if you know your Bible well, 2 Peter 3, he talks about scoffers in the last days. Who would say, when is Jesus going to come? And then he would say that with the Lord, a day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. The New Testament clearly teaches that Christians are to live with the expectation that Jesus might return at any time. Paul says in Romans 13, 12, the night is far spent, the day is at hand. In 1 Corinthians 7, 29, he says, the time is short. In Philippians 4. 5, he says, the Lord is at hand or near. And in Hebrews 10, 25, we read, Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is. But exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. And in James chapter 5 and verse 8, it says, Be patient, establish your hearts. For the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. And there are many other passages we could look at. I ask you this morning, do you believe this? Do you believe that Jesus is coming again? There are two ways that Christians tend to respond to this truth. Some believers become obsessed with the end times. As you may know, several times in the history of the church, there have been people who have claimed to be prophets who predicted the Lord would come on a specific date and many thousands of people would flock to them and follow them and sell their belongings And go up on some mountaintop to await the Lord's return. This has happened repeatedly. Many of you remember just a few years ago when there was a famous radio preacher. Who made the bold bold prediction of exactly when the Lord would return. And in case you haven't figured it out, they were all wrong. The Bible very clearly states that no one knows the day or the time, but that has not kept people from predicting. And there have been many people, I think especially of the past generation, well intentioned preachers who went too far. I can remember many statements that I heard in my childhood from evangelists and from pastors and from preachers that today seem really foolish. Where preachers would say, I don't know when the Lord's going to return, but I can assure you it's going to be in the next decade. Well, that was three decades ago. We don't know. And we need to be fine with that reality instead of going beyond what the scripture says There are believers who have an unhealthy fascination with the end times. But there is another response that is also wrong. And that is to live as practically speaking, this doctrine is untrue. Many Christians today never consider the return of Christ. It's not a reality in their thinking. They just ignore this biblical teaching. It never crosses their mind that Jesus could return today. And for some of them, they are reacting to the excesses of others. To preachers they have heard, perhaps to relatives they they know, other Christians who have gone too far and become too sensationalized with this, and so they just completely Turn away from it. But this is a wrong response as well. The scriptures reveal to us that we are to live in light of the Lord's soon return. And this is revealed to us not to fascinate us. Not to divide us in different camps who argue over the details of eschatology, but if you were to take the time And look at every single passage in the New Testament that predicts the coming of Christ, you would find that there is always an exhortation that follows to holy living in some respects. In other words, this truth is not an abstract truth. It's not a theoretical truth. It is a truth that is to motivate us. And to shape our thinking and our spending and the way we live our lives in this time The fact is that what you believe about the future influences the way you live today. That's true of everyone, whether they're a Christian or not. If you think of the future and in your mind it's going to be bleak and dark and horrible with no hope, you know what? That's going to influence the way you live today. If you live with the idea that the future is going to be wonderful, it's going to be comforting. It's going to be a place of joy and of light and of gladness with the people of God forever. Well, that's going to influence the way you live today. The future, your understanding of the future always has an impact on the way you live in the here and now. So how should we live with this truth that the Lord is coming again? Peter answers that question with four exhortations. That are found in verses 7 through 11. And this morning we're going to look at three of those responses, and Lord willing, in the future, we'll look at that fourth all by itself. So I'm going to preach you this morning on this truth, how to live in light of the Lord's return. And my first point comes from verse 7, and it's this: you must think clearly and carefully. so that you can pray effectively in the body of Christ. Look with me at verse 7. The end of all things is at hand Be ye therefore sober and watch unto prayer. I want you to notice that we have two items that come before this call to prayer, and there's a definite connection between these two items. Idea here is that being sober-minded and alert will enable you to pray more effectively So let's begin by quickly considering these two terms. The word sober means to be clear-minded, reasonable, or sensible. The Lord used this word to describe a man who was once demon-possessed, but after meeting the master, it says that he was in his right mind. And that's the term that's used here. Christians should be the most level-headed people on earth. The coming of Christ should not cause us to lose our heads or to act irrationally. But instead should give us stability and hope and purpose. God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. We must never panic because we know that whatever occurs in the world is part of God's plan. I talk to many Christian people who allow the evening news to rob them of their joy and peace. And I have actually counseled some of them. You know what would work really well for you? Just don't watch the evening news. You'll be amazed at how much better your life is. The fact is that whatever occurs is under the control of God. And that should give us a stability that keeps us from drifting into fear and panic. Then we have the word watch. The word here means to be self-controlled. It's the idea of being sober and not intoxicated. And Peter's probably intentionally contrasting what he has said about the world in verse 3 that is given over to the excesses of wine and partying. In contrast, Christians are called to be sober or alert to what is really happening in the world. These two terms are being used together to express the kind of mindset that should govern our hearts as we come to God in prayer. The word prayer is very interesting here. In the Greek text, it's actually plural, prayers. And the reason why this term is plural is probably because it reflects the prayers of the church. You see, Peter here is not focusing on our individual prayers. Don't misunderstand me. That's very important. Jesus told us that we are to go into our closets and pray to God in secret. We are not to pray in a way to gain the attention of others. But the Bible also calls us to pray together as a body of believers. And we have examples and precedents of this. We read in Scripture of When the first persecution came in the early days of the church, they are in Acts chapter four, and the apostles were arrested And they came and they were told never to speak again in the name of Jesus. How did the church respond to their suffering and their persecution? They banded together and they prayed with one voice. They united their hearts To God in prayer, and the place was shaken, the Bible says. Oh, that we would have more prayer meetings like that in the church today. You know one reason why our prayer meetings are getting smaller and less frequent in the Church of Jesus Christ? Most churches don't even have a prayer meeting anymore. It's because we're not suffering. That prayer meeting in Acts chapter 4 was elicited by a crisis by suffering. And places in the world where there is persecution and the church is small and under threat There's a lot of prayer going on. I was talking to a missionary the other day who has a little band of believers of less than 20, and he said to me , that they meet together and pray three times a week. And each time they meet together for prayer, they pray for over an hour. And how embarrassed I was to tell him what we do. But you know what? We're not suffering. It's not illegal for us to gather here and worship or pray. We have homes and we have cars and we have we have the American dream. Remember, this context of 1 Peter is that of suffering oppressed believers. And so when we contemplate the return of our Lord, it should draw us to corporate prayer. Prayer that is governed by the Spirit and governed by the truth of God's word. Secondly, We must love one another fervently so that there is unity in the body of Christ. Look with me at verse 8. It says, above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves, for charity shall cover the multitude of sins. Notice that Peter says, above all. It's like him saying, you know, if you forget everything else that I say. Don't forget this. You are to have fervent charity. You are to have true, authentic love. And the word there, of course, is agathe love. The New Testament places great importance on love in the body of Christ. Let me mention this in survey fashion just in two minutes. Love is the key to fulfilling your obligations to God and man. Remember when Jesus was asked, what is the greatest commandment? He says to love God with all your heart. And to love your neighbor as yourself. Every sin that you commit is either a failure to love God or a failure to love others. Love is the distinguishing family trait of the believer. Do you remember what Jesus said the night before his crucifixion? He says, By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if you have love one for another. That is to be our distinguishing birthmark, our genuine love for one another. Lost people should be able to identify us as Christians because of that authentic love that they see in us. Paul writes in 1 Thessalonians 4, 9, but it's touching brotherly love. You need not that I write unto you, for you yourselves are taught of God to love one another. Just as parents do not need to be told to love their children, so Christians should not be Find it difficult to love one another. The church should be the most loving gathering of human beings in the world. Love is the one continuing debt that we owe to one another. Romans 13, 8 says, owe no man anything but to love one another. Love is the greatest Christian virtue. Paul writes, and now abide faith, hope, love, these three, but the greatest of these is love. 1 Corinthians 13, 13 In Colossians 3. 14 we read, above all things put on charity or love, which is the bond of perfectness or maturity. Love is the premier fruit of the Spirit. Galatians 5. 22 says, the fruit of the Spirit is love. And love is more important than any spiritual gift or costly sacrifice, according to 1 Corinthians 13, 1 through 3. It's the most frequent command given to Christians in reference to our relationships to one another. We are told again and again and again and again to love one another. And the Bible says that love is an essential demonstration of our salvation. I'm not going to take the time to look at it, but in four different passages in 1 John. It says that this is the most evident demonstration that we are truly children of God, and that is that we love one another. You see, loving your brother and sister is not some optional demonstration of spiritual maturity. It is basic and essential to living the Christian life. This truth was deeply personal to Peter. Peter was in the upper room and he heard the Lord say, By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, that ye love one And so in this epistle on three occasions he brings up the importance of this. In chapter one and verse twenty-two, he says, seeing ye have purified your souls and obeying the truth through the Spirit. Unto unfeigned love of the brethren, see that you love one another with a pure heart fervently And in chapter 2 and verse 17, he says, honor all men, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the king. And then here again in chapter 4 and verse 8, above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves. Now this term fervent Was used in ancient times to describe a horse that was stretched out in a full gallop. The idea here is that we are to love one another with everything we have. Not half-heartedly, not in measured ways, but with everything at our disposal, with all of our heart, with all of our resources, we are to love one another. Now, why is it that we are to love one another in this way? Peter is going to provide one reason in our text. Look with me at the last part of verse 8. For Charity or love shall cover the multitude of sins. This is his explanation. What does he mean by this? You ever wondered that? Let me begin by saying what he doesn't mean. He's not saying that Christ's love for us has covered all our sins. That is true, of course. But in context here, Peter's not talking about Christ's love for us, but our love for one another. Secondly, it's not saying that when there is sin in the church, you should always try to cover it up. This is not a proof text for that. There are many things that must not be covered up, that must be brought out into the lights. that must be rebuked and must be disciplined. The Bible is clear about that. So what does it mean? Well, Peter is quoting Proverbs 1012 that says, hatred stirreth up stripes, but love covereth all sins. So let's try to apply this principle. When we have fervent love for one another, we will overlook or ignore things that other believers do that annoy us. In Ephesians chapter 4, Paul calls on Christians to be forbearing of one another in love. Is there anything that anyone does here that annoys you? If you say no to that, I'm going to say you're not a human being. Do you have any loved ones, any family members, even in a spouse Who has certain practices and habits that annoy you. Of course you do. But you love them anyway. And I suspect you don't bring it up again and again and again if you're wise. Because love covers a multitude of sin. The point is that when you truly, genuinely love some woman, care for them, those things that get on your nerves that bother you, you're able to just deal with it and pass over them. Secondly, it means that when we have fervent love for one another, we refuse to gossip about the failures of others. Our natural tendency is to tell other people about the weaknesses and sins of others. This is a horrible aspect of our fallen nature. It comes so naturally. It just comes out of us. You hear about something, maybe someone that you envied. Maybe someone who was doing better than you in many respects. And then you hear about their fall. There is going to be something that rises up inside of you from your old sinful flesh that says Let's tell other people about it so that they can pray. But what we really want to do is we want everyone to know I'm better than that. I didn't do that. I didn't fall like that. I don't struggle with that And especially when we've been hurt by someone. So often, rather than trying to deal with that issue and talk to that person , And get that issue taken care of and trying to find some common ground and seeking reconciliation, we get on the phone and we say, let me tell you how much this person hurt me. And we magnify it and we repeat it and we amplify it and we spread it far and wide because it's our way of getting revenge. And we may even someday find out that it didn't quite happen like that. And w we didn't really understand what they were saying. And we we didn't know what that person was facing at that time in their life. But you know what? It's too late to get that all back. Because we've spread it to the four winds. When we have fervent love for one another, we don't Bring up the embarrassing behaviors of our brothers and sisters. Just like we would really, really be grateful if they wouldn't point out our embarrassing failures to others. We want it to be covered and forgotten and dealt with graciously. And when you have fervent love for one another, you assume the best of others. This is what Paul means in 1 Corinthians 13:5 when he says that love thinketh no evil. It doesn't mean that we're naive , it doesn't mean that we're oblivious to the evil designs of people in the world. But it does mean that we give people, our brothers and sisters, the benefit of the doubts And we withhold judgments until we know the facts, until we've had a chance to talk to them about it It means that we look for the best in others and not the worst. It means that we put the best possible construction on their inconsistencies. And fourthly, and primarily in this text, when you have fervent love for one another, you forgive others. I think this is primarily what Peter has in mind. So much contention in the church and lack of unity and lack of communion is because We fail to forgive one another. One of the Greek words for forgiveness means To let go. That's what it means. To let go. That's something we can all understand. It's not hard to grasp. But I found in the years of preaching and ministering that so many fine Christian people really, really struggle with letting go. They might be really faithful at church. They might read their Bible every day and pray to God every day. and and and and witness for the Lord and put money in the offering plate. I mean they're very faithful and consistent in so many spiritual disciplines in their life But when you talk to them about letting go of what that person did to them or said to them years ago, they will just shut down and won't even consider it. So many Christian people have something that they will refuse to let go that a brother or sister in Christ has done to them. I've talked about this before, and you know what? Every time I talk about forgiveness and betterness, you know what happens? It gets real quiet in here. Because it's a problem. So many people live year after year after year with bitterness and anger and grief in their life because They will not let it go and give it to the Lord. I don't have time as I have in other messages to go into all the details of when it's appropriate to confront people, when it's appropriate to seek reconciliation. But suffice it to say today that when you truly love someone, the most loving thing you can do for them is to forgive them. You've heard it said before, but you know what makes for a great marriage when you have two people who genuinely know how to forgive one another. I always go over this when I do premarital counseling. If you can forgive one another, your marriage will last. If you can't forgive one another, your marriage will very likely not last. It's that important Love covers a multitude of sin. But there is a third exhortation in view of the return of Christ. Look at verse 9. Use hospitality one to another without grudging. Here we see that we must graciously and cheerfully minister to one another in the body of Christ. Notice how verse 9 follows right after this call to love one another. And Peter here is giving a practical demonstration of that love. There are five passages in the New Testament that directly address the importance of hospitality This is one of the qualities that spiritual leaders are to possess, according to 2 Timothy 3. 2 and Titus 1. 8. And this is, I believe, one of the spiritual gifts. Given to some individuals in the church. Notice verse 9 comes right before verses 10 and 11. Verses 10 and 11 are going to deal with this matter of spiritual gifts. This is one of Four passages in your New Testament that talks about the reality that God has given spiritual gifts to his people for ministry in the body of Christ. And I believe that one of those gifts is hospitality. And what a valuable gift that is. There are people in our assembly who readily come to my mind who I know have this gift. And what a blessing they are to this assembly. The Greek word that's translated hospitality literally means to love strangers. Hospitality was very necessary in the early church. There were very few hotels or restaurants like we have today. And those that existed were often filled with idolatry and immorality, and so Christians avoided such places. Instead, when Christians traveled, they usually stayed with other Christians that they had never met before. The way it would work is they would carry a letter of recommendation from a certain church. Or a prominent, well-known Christian leader, they would carry with them. They would show up, perhaps at a service. That met in somebody's home and they would present that letter and they would say, is there anybody here who can put us up for a few days? Provide some food for us as we travel on. That was something that was regularly done. This was especially the case with traveling preachers and missionaries. We read about this in the letters of Paul and of others. This matter of hospitality also involved holding church services in one's home. In the first two centuries of the church, there were no buildings that were built. The church was an oppressed minority, and so they often met in secret in people's homes. There's even archaeological evidence that people like remodeled their homes and redesigned their homes so that more people could fit into a larger living space where they would have a service. The situation, of course, is a little different today. Let me mention that it was a very costly proposition to house the assembled people of God in your home. Because that made you an obvious target for the authorities. And if they were going to come down and make an example of someone, it would be the person who opened up their home. And so when a church leader or someone may have asked an individual who had a larger home, can the church begin to meet at your home? That was a real matter of sacrifice on their part because they knew that now they were making themselves target Now the situation is a little different today in our culture. We have plenty of hotels and restaurants and church buildings. However, there was still a need for this demonstration of love, and so I want to conclude this morning by talking about some applications from this admonition. First of all, there is still a need to house other believers. Most often, when missionaries or preachers come to speak at our church, one of our families is housing those individuals. We do that at our missions conference. We do that at other times. Yes, we could put them up in a hotel, and we have done that before. But it is a blessing not only to the guest, but also to the host family That house those individuals and develop stronger relationships. And this is how many of our families have developed strong relationships with missionaries that we support. This is a wonderful way that you can use your gifts to serve others. Let me ask you a question this morning. Has the Lord given you a beautiful home? I think that if you could somehow look at the homes of other people and other lands and other parts of the world, you would feel a lot better about your health. I'm not exaggerating when I say that a great percentage of people in the world would be happy to live in your shed. Because it's much better than their home. That's not an exaggeration. God has blessed us with beautiful homes. And the Bible says, to whomsoever much is given, of him shall much be required. Have you ever viewed your home as a tool for ministry? God did not give you a beautiful large home just for you and your kids. He gave it so that you could be a blessing to the people of God and as a tool even to evangelize others. That is a stewardship. And I want you to think about how you could be using your home to advance the cause of Christ. Secondly, there's still a need for Christian fellowship. One of the reasons why we have a Fifth Sunday fellowship like we do today is because it's very important for us to form strong Christian bonds of friendship. So many churches today, especially megachurches, are more like arenas or stadiums. Where you don't know 99. 9% of the people there, but you gather there with this great mass of humanity. That is not what God wants from the church. The church is compared to a family. Where you know people, where you have lasting loving bonds with the individual. And this admonition, this ideal that we find in Scripture cuts across Our natural cultural pattern here in the United States of America, we are becoming more secluded. The technology that we have The way we build our homes, the way we live on often on large pieces of property Encourage us the sense of seclusion and privacy. And we don't even know who our neighbors are or anyone around us because we like it that way as individual Americans. But God made us social creatures. He made us to interact with others and to form friendships that strengthen and enrich our lives. And he intends that that be what we find in the Church of Jesus Christ. The church is not a corporation, it's not a business, it's a family. You see the importance of fellowship and communion of the saints in the early church in the book of Acts. It's very easy for a church to focus on right doctrine, which is so important. Right worship On the ethic of living the Christian life, all these things are essential. But so often we forget that one of the essentials of the church is also the sense of community. The sense of caring for one another, of interacting with one another, of loving and serving one another. The Christian life was intended to function only in that kind of environment. Not just me and the Lord, and that's all that matters. That is a distorted view of what Christianity is all about. We need one another We are interdependent on one another. We cannot use our gifts for our own benefit. They are for others. Our worship is greatly enhanced when we worship together, when we pray together, when we serve together, when we give together to great enterprises. I mentioned earlier that the word hospitality means to love strangers. Almost every Sunday we have strangers who come to our church. That is guests who have never been here before. That's a wonderful thing. We have a prominent location. Everybody in this community knows where Calvary Baptist Church is. And we did that intentionally because we want people to come. This is why we have greeters. And why we go out of our way to try to make people feel welcome, that they are among friends. It's not a strategy, it's not something we're trying to put over on them. It should be the reality that we really do care for them. We do want them to become a part of our assembly. That's why it's important for you to get to know and to greet. And to make people feel welcome when you see them, you say, I don't know who that is. We'll go find out. And there's thirdly still a need for us to sacrificially give to meet the needs of others. Romans 12, 13 says, distributing to the necessity of the saints, given to hospitality. Hospitality always involves giving and sharing. When someone comes to live in your home, you're making some sacrifices. When someone eats at your table, it costs you something. Someone who is a really good hostess or host never draws attention to that. And never makes people think, feel like they're a burden or a bother, but rather a blessing. Hospitality involves the giving of time and money and energy. It is a sacrifice. And this is why Peter concludes verse 9 by saying that we are to use hospitality one to another, look at this, without grudging. In other words, is that if he can think in his mind of someone saying, all right, Peter, I'll be hospitable. No, you can't be hospitable with that attitude. There's people here that have the gift of hospitality, and I always look for this trait because when you come to their home, Or you talk to them or whatever it is, whatever they have done for you, or they take you out to eat or something, they always put you at ease. They never make you feel like you're any kind of a burden or anything, but that they are so glad that you're letting them serve the Lord in this way. That's the way we should be. But it's very easy to complain. Benjamin Franklin, as you know, wrote Poor Richard's Almanac. And then that compendium of wisdom, he said, fish and guest smell after three days. It's difficult to have people stay in your home, even family members that are visiting. You see, ministering to the needs of others is a real test of our love for others and our love for Christ. I find it interesting as I was preparing for this message, I came across this quote. I also came across that at the very end of the first century there was a church council that met. To establish some guidelines on visiting missionaries and preachers staying in people's homes. Because there were some people that were taking advantage of it and staying there for weeks and weeks and weeks and weeks, and they couldn't get rid of them. And they said that the limit should be three days. To be a true blessing to others We must minister to them cheerfully as unto the Lord. A lady once asked John Wesley , What he would do if he knew that he would die at 12 midnight the next day. And he said, Well, madam, just as I intend to spend it now, I would preach this evening at Gloucester and again at five tomorrow morning, and after that I would ride to Tweaksbury and preach in the afternoon. and meet the societies in that evening. I would then go to Reverend Martin's home, who expects to entertain me and talk and pray with the family as usual. Retire to my room at 10 o'clock. Commend myself to my Heavenly Father, lie down to rest and wake up in glory. We are to live every day as if it might be our last. We all live on the edge of eternity. We could die unexpectedly, or the Lord could return. But in any any event, our time on earth would be done. And so we are to live in light of that eternity. Now the scriptures give us many other applications of this truth. Peter mentions four. We've looked at three of them today. But one application that we find elsewhere in Scripture is that we must be ready to meet the Lord. Let me ask you this morning, would it greatly trouble you if the Lord were to return today, take you home? Or would it be a source of comfort and delight to you? Are you ready to meet the Lord? Do you know for certain that your sins have been forgiven? That Christ is your Savior and Lord, and that the Father will receive you unto Himself. Do you have that assurance, or is there doubt and fear and confusion in your mind? The most important thing we can do in preparation for the Lord's return is to be ready for his return. So that it will be a day of glory and joy. Let's close in prayer this morning. Our Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the practical instructions. That it gives to us in our Christian lives. I pray that you would help us to be a people who love you, a people who desire to serve you. A people who live in light of your son 's return. Help us, Father, to be ready , to be waiting and watching , to be eager to see. The culmination of your great work of redemption. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen