If you rebibles, please would you turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 1? If you're visiting with us, we are Going verse by verse through the book of 1 Peter. You ever wonder why dictators can remain in power for such a very long time. One reason is because they're very good at detecting Any rebellion, any attempts at overthrowing their power. I've heard that Saddam Hussein would periodically pay one of his generals to make disparaging remarks about him among other generals to see if he could draw out any sympathizers And after he had gathered a small list, he would pass them on, and those men would be executed. When Joseph Stalin would attend a state function, everyone would rise and vigorously applaud. For a very long time. And around that gathering he would have his henchmen who were watching very carefully to see who was not really putting their hearts into it and who would be the first to stop applauding And the next day those individuals would disappear, and nobody would ever know what happened to them. This is the way dictators remain in power. The people that Peter was writing to in the first century lived under a benevolent dictator of some sorts. But he was still very much in power and would not hesitate to execute Christians who would not pledge allegiance to him. Sometimes this sense of fear could be overwhelming to this small group of followers of Jesus Christ. You ever considered what Jesus said in Matthew chapter 10 and verse 28? He says, fear not them which kill the body. But are not able to kill the soul, but rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. And that is a reference to God. We must always fear God more than man. Now the whole notion of fearing God is utterly foreign to our modern ears. Sounds wrong. Sounds unhealthy. Because most of you here have had drilled into your heads time and time again that God is a God of love, which is true. You've heard again and again that God is ready and willing to forgive, that God is a God of mercy and loving kindness. He's a God of compassion. A God who cares sympathetically for his people. These are all true. These are all taught in the Word of God. But that's not the end of the revelation. That's not the end of the story about God. There are other things that are taught about Him as well. And one of the truths that Christians have taught and preached for centuries have been greatly neglected today. And it's what we consider this morning, which is the fear It's found explicitly in our text. Look with me at 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse 17. Peter writes, and if you call on the Father, who without respect of persons judges according to every man's work , Pass the time of your sojourning here in fear. Now, the key expression in this verse is at the very end. Pass the time of your sojourning here in fear. Now I wonder what you think of that final phrase. Is that the way that you would describe the Christian life? I think not. I think if we were to put this out on a sign out in front of our church, live your life. With a sense of fear. People would say, what's wrong with those people? That's not the way you should think about gods. But that is exactly the emphasis of this verse. Now, before we really start to take apart this verse , I want to back up and try to encapsulate what the Bible teaches about the fear of God in about two minutes. And there's a lot of things I'm going to leave out, but hopefully the most essential truths are here. The first thing I want to say And there's four things I want to say about this. Number one, the fear of the Lord is not just an Old Testament concept. A lot of people think it is. It is true that the fear of God is mentioned far more often in the Old Testament than the New, but you must always remember there's a lot more Old Testament than there is New. But it is indeed found in the New Testament. Sometimes people think, you know, the fear of God, a God of wrath, that's kind of the way God was in the Old Testament. But in the New Testament, he's not like that. That is not true. I'm just going to read some verses for you, and there are many more. I'm going to read some verses very quickly to prove my point that this is a New Testament concept. In Acts chapter 9 and verse 31 we read this, then had the churches rest throughout Judea and Galilee and Samaria. and we're edified and walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Ghost. It describes the early church as walking in the fear of of the Lord. In Romans chapter 11 and verse 20, the end of that verse it says, Paul says to the Gentile believers, be not high-minded, but fear. In 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verses 10 and 11, a passage we'll look at later, Paul writes, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. Christ that every one may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. Knowing therefore the terror, it says in the King James, or the word there is fear, knowing therefore the fear of the Lord We persuade men. 2 Corinthians 7. 1. Paul writes, having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness. in the fear of God. Philippians chapter 2, verses 12 and 13, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Colossians 3. 22, servants obey in all things your masters according to the flesh, not with eye service as men pleasers but in signalness of heart, fearing God. And then let us have grace whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear, for our God is a consuming fire. Hebrews 12, 28 and 29. These are all New Testament references, and they all call on us as believers to walk in the fear of the Lord. The second thing I want to say by way of summary is that there are two types of the fear of God. Theologians have always identified this distinction. There's first of all the fear of a slave. That views God with terror and perhaps with hatred, and the result is that they seek to hide from God's This is the way many people in the world view pagan gods. Those gods are often horrific in their appearances. You can see it in their drawings and in their statues. And they try to appease those gods, but there's no concept of tender affection or love there. There's just this terror that is there. That is The fear of a slave, and that is not what the Bible is talking about when it speaks of the fear of the Lord. And then there is the fear of a son. This views God with all and adoration and results in seeking the Lord. This is based on a relationship of trust that results in obedience. And that, of course, is what we're talking about today. It is a blend of reverence and respect and a fear of discipline as well. The third thing I want to say in summary fashion is that the fear of God is essential to our spiritual health. Our English word holy Comes from the same root is our English word whole. A person who is whole is a person who is healthy. There's an undeniable link between the fear of God and our holy living. We see this in our passage in 1 Peter chapter 1. Remember, The key thought here in this paragraph is, be ye holy, for I am holy. And there's a connection between that and the fear of the Lord that he mentions in verse 17. We see the same link in 2 Corinthians 7 and verse 1. where it says perfecting holiness how in the fear of God. We find it also in Philippians chapter 2 and other passages as well. You will never learn to grow in your sanctification and walk in holiness without the fear of the Lord And I also want to mention three aspects of a healthy fear of God. It includes three elements. Think of it as a recipe, as three ingredients. to really have what the Bible calls the fear of the Lord. There's first of all a reverential respect for God and all of God's Like a small boy thinks of his father when he looks up to him like he's ten foot tall. He has great respect. He thinks his father is stronger than any man in the world. He just lives in awe of his father. It seems like he can do anything and he knows everything. It's not true, of course, his father really is not that strong or or that wise, but that's the way it seems from his viewpoints. This is the way we should view of God because it is true of him. He is omnipotent. He is omniscience. We should have an awe and respect of him. That's one element of the fear of the Lord. There's a second element. And that includes a fear of damaging the relationship. You treasure that relationship. We love God and we don't want to hinder this relationship in any way. We want to please Him. We want to live a life That glorifies him because we love him. And part of that fear is we have a fear of breaking that fellowship, of not enjoying that communion that we can have as believers. But there is a third aspect that often people omit, a third ingredient to the biblical fear of God, and that is A healthy fear of the consequences that will come if we disobey the Lord. And I think that's primarily what Peter has in mind here in verse 17. The Bible says it is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Now perhaps you would object and say, but I think we should be motivated in our obedience not by a fear of bad consequences, but by our love for God 's. And I would agree with that. The more mature you are as a believer, the more it will not be a necessity. I better do this or or God's going to punish me or God's going to correct me. No, you will do it because you want to do it and because you love God. But that doesn't mean that that third aspect entirely disappears and never comes into your thinking. It should be there. I think the best way of understanding this complex response is the parent-child relationship. Your children, your small children especially, should have respect for their parents. And by the way, parents, that's something that you must instill in them. You dare not, especially when they're really young, give them the impression that you're on the same level and that you're their buddy There's a lot of parents today, I don't want to go off on parenting, that think that they just want to be a friend to their child. That's not God's role for you. It's not good for you, it's not good for them. They need to have an inherent respect for you. And you need to instill that in them. But they need to love you like when a dad comes home from work. The children should not be hiding in the closets because they're terrified of their father. They should be running to embrace his legs. And they've got a smile on their face because daddy is home. That's the way it should be. In a healthy relationship. But there should also be a fear in their heart when they have done wrong, when they have been bad that day, and they have to answer to their father. There should be a little bit of anxiety. There should be a little fear because dad is going to call me to account. That's healthy. That's the way it should be. And so there can be fear and love mingled together. That's the way God intends it to be. And that's the best picture that we can conceive of in this human world of a proper relationship with God. Now I want you to notice how verse 17 functions in our text. Notice the first word is the word and. And if you call on God , He's saying something in addition to something else. What Peter is doing here is he's giving The second reason why we should obey. What's the first reason why we should be holy? Why we should obey this command? Because God is holy. We should imitate our Heavenly Father. We should seek to become like Him. We should be holy because He is holy. But now He's going to give another reason, a second reason why we should be holy. And that is. Because of the fear of the Lord. The only way that Christians can live a lifestyle of holiness is to have a healthy fear of God. I want to bring three points out of verse 17. Would you notice with me, first of all, that Christians should have a healthy fear of God because God is our Father. He's our Father. He says, if you call on the Father, this is a conditional clause. Peter here is describing Christians as people who habitually Call out to God in prayer. If you don't pray to God, I want you to know you're not a Christian. You may be religious, you may be many other things, but you're not a Christian because all Christians have one thing in common. They all pray to God. He's essentially saying, if you're that kind of person, then you should be mindful to live your life in the fear of God. And he's using this truth that God is our Father to help hammer that home. Now there's a little bit lost. In our understanding from what his first century readers would have perceived, because in their world, whether it was the Jewish world or whether it was the Greco-Roman world of the first century Fathers had much more authority and much more respect was given to them in their culture than in our culture today. Most commonly, fathers are portrayed on television and in movies and in all of our entertainment as being passive, abusive. Or just plain stupid. You ever notice that? Watch just about, I'm not asking you to watch, but if you were to watch Just about any sitcom or any program, the father is always the dumbest person in the room. He's always the one that has no idea what's going on. He's not responsible. He's not taking care of things. He's not correcting his children and they're just running circles around him. They know so much more than he does. That has been portrayed now that way for decades. And that's the viewpoint that a lot of people have of fathers. They're really not essential. They're really not that important. They cause more problems than they do good. But that was not the way his readers would have perceived of it. In the ancient world, a father's word was law. He had absolute authority over the life of his children. Now, we don't take truth from culture, and their culture took it way too far. In the Greco-Roman world, a father had the authority to put his child to death, and the legal authorities would not question his judgment in that. That's obviously a very dangerous thing, something the Bible does not condone. But that I say that to say that's the culture of people who first read these words. So when it says that we are that we call on God as our Father, they would have think, all right, there's absolute profound respect that we must have for God. And of course, it was Jesus who really emphasized the truth that Jesus is our Father. If you were to go through the prayers of the Old Testament, you would find that the Jews did not address God as their father in prayer. But what did Jesus teach his disciples to do in their prayer? How were they to begin? Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. You see a connection there between the reverence of Him as Father and holiness. Hallowed means holy. Holy be thy name. That was revolutionary when Jesus taught that. That's not the way Jews prayed, but that's the way Jesus taught his disciples to pray. They were to pray to their heavenly Father And this, of course, was a call to have utmost respect in prayer Ecclesiastes 5. 2 says, Let not thy heart be hasty to utter anything before God, for God is in heaven and thou upon earth. So we see that there is a direct connection between the fear of God and our holy living. There's many ways to distort God's truth. One way is simply to take a truth and to twist it and turn it so that you say this is what the Bible teaches when it's not at all what the Bible teaches. In fact, the Bible teaches the opposite That is often what heretics do. They twist the word to their own destruction, the Bible says. But there's another way of distorting God's word that's much more subtle. And that is by simply emphasizing certain truths and ignoring other truths. so that a person over time develops a distorted perspective. This is what I was touching on earlier. In the 20th century, especially, there was a real push on evangelism, which is a good thing. And many well-meaning theologians and Christians say we need to emphasize more the love of God. People feel that God is kind of stern and he's kind of demanding and he's kind of strict and everything, and that repels people. from coming to church and hearing the gospel and being saved. So we need to draw them in. We need to really emphasize and preach the love of God. We need to preach on texts like John 3. 16. And does the Bible teach that God is love? Yes, it does. It says that categorically. And John 3. 16 is a wonderful verse in the Bible. For God so loved the world. But there are other things in Scripture that we dare not omit or ignore or pretend that they don't exist because they're more disturbing to us. And one of these truths is the fear of God. And so today we live in a culture where the vast majority of people do not fear the Lord. They're not concerned about God's opinion on their behavior and their conduct. And I'm not just speaking of lost people. I'm speaking of people who profess to be followers of Jesus Christ. Every pastor knows what it is to deal with people involved in serious sin, and yet they are not concerned in the least About the judgment of God or the fact that God knows what they're doing. They will say things like, I know this is wrong, but this is what I'm determined to do. And I might say, but yeah, but look what it says right here. Well, that's what I'm going to do. I'm not going to follow that. Or I realize that what I'm doing is probably sin, but nobody's perfect. I know the Bible says that I shouldn't do this, but it also teaches that God forgives, and I'm sure after I go through this that God will forgive me To millions of professing Christians, God is like a doting old grandfather who turns a blind eye to the indiscretions of his grandchildren. But that is not the God revealed in the pages of Scripture. We dare not deal with God's word like it's a buffet where we go through and we pick out the things that we have a taste for. that we really like and we just leave the rest there. No, we have to take it all. We dare not have A distorted perspective of God where we make God, as it were, in our own image after our own appetites and our own imagination. We can only know about God in the way he has revealed himself to us. And he has revealed himself as a holy God who is worthy of our fear in his words. Let me remind you of some inconvenient truths about God. The God of the Bible is the God who rained down fire and brimstone on Sodom and Gomorrah. He is the God who opened up the earth and swallowed up Korah and his rebellious followers. He is the God who providentially struck down the wicked sons of Eli, Hochmai, and Phineas. He is the God who instantly killed Uzzah for thoughtlessly touching the ark of God. And he is the God who killed Ananias and Sapphira for hypocritically lying about their gift to the church. And he is the God that Paul says caused many to sleep in 1 Corinthians 11 because they were partakers of the Lord's Supper with wicked hands. The Bible teaches that our God is a consuming fire. You may say, well, I just can't imagine a God like that. I mean, the God that I worship The God that I like is a God of love. He is a God of love. That's why we have not all been struck down. He is a God who is long suffering. He is patient. He is compassionate, but he is also a God of holiness and a God not to be trifled with. We dare not dismiss his warnings or scoff at his prohibitions. We dare not presume upon his grace. We dare not think for an instant that we can hide our sin from his holy gaze. Let me ask you something. Do you ever think about God and your considerations? You know, one of the things that we use in modern society to deter crime and violence is we install cameras everywhere. And often before someone does something, they'll look around and wonder if there's any cameras in this area. Because that's deterrent. The question is, do you ever think When you're considering doing something that you know is wrong that God sees. Does that ever deter you? Do you ever think to yourself, I know I can get away with this. No one's going to find out. My spouse is not going to find out. My pastor is not going to find out. There's nobody here. I'm not going to tell anyone There's absolutely no way that anybody in the world can find out what I'm doing. I've made sure. Has it ever occurred to you that God sees all? And here's all. Is that ever something that stops you short of going through with your plans? It should Because God does see. Do you ever think to yourself, I can't do this I can't involve myself in relationship because there's a God I must answer to. I can't watch this because God is watching me. I can't continue in this direction because I know that someday I must answer to God for this. Do you ever think about Joseph when he was far away from home? He's in the land of Egypt and he's facing temptation. Do you remember his answer? How can I do this? In the eyes of God. How can I do this wickedness? No one back home would have found out about it. No one would have questioned, but he would not do it Because God knew and God saw and he was a fear of God's. Our Father loves us. Our Father cares for us. But he's not to be presumed upon. He is the holy sovereign God of the universe. And every breath and every heartbeat are at his disposal. And we must remember that. Secondly, Christians should have a healthy fear of God because God is our judge. It says who without respect A person judgeth according to every man's work. Some might read this passage and think, well, since God is my father He will show favoritism to me, just like we sometimes do to our children, our loved ones. But this verse explicitly states that he will not show favoritism to me. He will not wink at us and say, you know, you shouldn't have done that, but you are my child, so we'll let it slide this time. No, that's not the way God is. He will not show partiality towards you. Judges in the ancient world were notorious for showing partiality based on a bribe or family connections. But our judge is a righteous judge. Genesis 18, 25 says, shall not the judge of all the earth do right? The answer is, of course. He is the ultimate standard of what is right and just The reality that God will someday judge every one of us should keep us from adopting a casual or sentimental view of the Christian life. Now perhaps you would object and say, but I thought that we would not face any judgment. Doesn't Romans chapter 8 and verse 1 say that there is no condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus? Doesn't it say that? I mean, if that's true, then I don't have anything ever to answer for, because Christ paid for my sins. But the Bible does indicate that there are at least two judgments for the believer. There is first of all a present aspect of judgment. This participle judgeth here in our text is in the present tense. Like a good father, the Lord corrects his children in a timely fashion. You see, being in the family of God does not excuse you from discipline. It guarantees your discipline. The key passage on this in the Word of God. It's found in several places, but the key passage is found at Hebrews chapter 12. Hebrews chapter twelve. Would you turn with me there, please? And verse 5, the writer says, Ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children. My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord? Nor faint when thou art rebuked of him, for whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son. whom he receiveth. And by the way, this includes daughters. Notice it's every one, there's no exceptions to this. If ye endure chastening , God dealeth with you as with sons, for what son is he whom the Father chasteneth not? Again, the emphasis, there are none. Every single Christian will experience the chastening of God. Now let me be clear here. This is not punitive judgment. God is not punishing us for our sins so that we pay for them, because all of our sins were paid for at the cross. This is not double jeopardy. It's not that Jesus paid for our sins and we've got to pay for them too. No, that would be the wrong view. This word chastening here has the idea of this is corrective judgment. Not punitive, this is corrective. God is correcting us. It's a loving thing. It's an indication that he cares for us. That he cares for our life, our hearts our future. And so he corrects us. He keeps us from going astray. He keeps us from going down that road of going further and further into sin. He stops our way. He gets our attention. And I could stop the service right now, and there are many people who could stand up and give me testimonies of when God got your attention. He has ways of getting your attention. They are not pleasant, but he does get your undivided attention. Sometimes he will put you flat on your back Where you can't even get a drink for yourself. Sometimes he will drain your pocketbook so that you have no money, no resources. Sometimes he will bring some emotional strain into your life that just causes you to collapse. God has many methods of correction, and he will correct his own children. Now, this is something that we often forget and we rarely talk about, but it is God's word. But there is also a future judgment awaiting all believers. We often refer to this as the judgment seat of Christ or the Bhima judgment Notice it says here in our text in 1 Peter 1. 17 that it judges according to every man 's work. Now we as evangelical Bible-believing people have kind of an allergy to the word work. Whenever we hear the word work, we think, uh oh, that sounds like work salvation. I don't like that. We don't like the idea of us being judged according to our works. But if you were to go to the scriptures and you were to look up scriptures that relate to judgment and a concordance or something and see what that verse says about judgment. You know what you would read? You would read in every single case that God will judge us according to our works. We don't like the way that sounds, but it's repeated again and again and again in Scripture. So what does that mean? I thought that we were saved by putting our faith and trust in what Jesus Christ has done for us, that we're saved not by works. That's absolutely true. The Bible's crystal clear about that. But as believers, we have been called to work for Him in a variety of ways. Did you know that someday you are going to give an account? Do you know the power of accountability and inspection Someone says, you know, I want to encourage you to, if I were to go up here and I would say today, I would encourage you to read the Bible. You say, okay. And then I say, and next Sunday, I'm going to come and I'm going to talk to every one of you individually. I'm going to make an appointment with you, and I'm going to find out how much scripture you read this week. Now all of a sudden you're hearing it differently. Because you would all agree, yeah, I probably should read the Bible this week. That's a good good thing. I agree with that, Pastor. But now, oh well, he's going to ask me about it. There's going to be some accountability. I'm going to have to give a response. I mean, I would be so embarrassed to say, well, I really didn't get to it. You know, it's been kind of a crazy week, all kinds of things going on, and I intended, but it never happened. Some of you know about this from your work situation. There's something about accountability that changes behavior. Notice that this is not a general group judgment. It says he judges according to to every man's work. It's going to be a specific individual judgment. Just imagine that. The verse that gives us the most information about this is found in 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 10. I would encourage you to turn there if you can easily. Well coming back to 1 Peter 1, 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 10, Paul writes For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. Notice we must all, that is, every one of us, must appear before the judgment seat of Christ. Notice he's going to emphasize this again. That everyone may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether they be good or bad. This is kind of awkward in our hearing. Things done in our body means the things that are done in our flesh, that is why we live here on earth According to that he hath done, according to what we have done in our life, whether it be good or bad. And the idea of the word bad there, that particular Greek word, it's not the normal word. It has more of the connotation of that which is worthless. It's not that we're being judged for our sins. But we can live our lives in such a way. that we put all of our time and money and energy, all of our mental focus into absolute worthless things. It's not hard to do today. But someday we're going to have to give an account. This is a very sobering thing. We rarely give it a thought. Notice the very next verse. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, and the word terror there is the Greek word fabos, we get words like phobia from it. Knowing therefore the fear of the Lord, we persuade men. The fear of the Lord should motivate us. Someday you're going to have to give an account for what you've done in your life, what you've done with the time and the talents and the mind and the gifts. And the opportunities that God has brought into your life. What have you done with your life? The world tells us, just live for yourself, just be comfortable. Take it easy. Enjoy life as much as you can. It's up to you. You're the master of your own destiny, your own fate. Live life on your terms. But that must never be the viewpoint of the believer. We must someday give an account before our Lord and Savior. It's called the judgment seat of Christ. He will be our judge. The Bible gives us some clues about the criteria of our judgment. Matthew 5 talks about our suffering for Christ's sake. Have we ever suffered for Christ? Our sacrifices for Christ's sake, have we ever given anything up? So that the gospel could go forward. Made any sacrifices for the cause of Christ. Or gracious acts of love that says that if we give a cup of water in his name, that will be remembered. Those little things that we do in service for Christ, have we done any of that? Romans 14 talks about our ministry to other believers. In 1 Corinthians 3, we read about, will be judged for our faithfulness if we've been faithful to what God has called us to do. These are serious things. We pass through our time without giving a thought that someday we must give an account. And that brings me to my third and final point, and that is that Christians should have a healthy fear of God that influences every aspect of our lives. Going back again to 1 Peter chapter 1, you'll notice he concludes by saying, pass the time of your sojourning here in fear. A healthy fear of God will influence the way we view our time. This word sojourney here is very similar in the Greek text to what we find in chapter 1 and verse 1, where it speaks of him writing to the strangers scattered throughout. The idea is that we are resident aliens, that we are not here on this earth for long. I know the young people have trouble believing that. But those of you who are my age or older do not need to be convinced. You look in the mirror and you say, how did I become this old man? Where have all the years gone by? It seems like every week I'll think about as I'm preparing some sermon that I prepared before that touches on what I'm preaching, and that I'll say, I I think I preached it about three years ago and I'll look in my files and it was twelve years ago. Twelve years ago? It just seemed like yesterday I preached on that verse, but it was twelve years ago. Time goes by so fast. This is why the psalmist says, teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. This is why Ephesians 5. 16 says, redeeming the time, because the days are evil. So many people waste their lives. They're just trying to kill time each day. They have nothing to do. They're not thinking that someday they must give an account that beyond this light there is an eternity. Every day we should be living for the glory of God. Every day we should be laying up treasures in heaven. Every day we should be seeking to magnify Christ in our lives. Our lives have purpose and significance. We're not like the lost who are just killing time. No, we have a master. That we will answer to. And our desire, the cry of every one of our hearts should be that we hear someday, well done, thou good and faithful servants. And a healthy fear of God will influence the way we view the world. It speaks of our sojourning here. This reminds us that we are pilgrims. This is a theme that Peter picks up on in this gospel. He mentions it in verse 1. He mentions it here. He mentions it in chapter 2 and verse 11. Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims. Abstain from fleshly lust which war against the soul. This term reminds us that we are resonant aliens, that this world is not our home. Yes, we should do all the good that we can in this world, but we remember that this is not the end of the story. We are not seeking somehow to create and to construct our paradise on earth. Our home is in heaven. We find here no eternal rest. Hebrews chapter 11 And verse 13 speaks of the patriarchs, these all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off and were persuaded of them and embraced them and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. We dare not forget our identity as those who are just traveling through this country. That this world is not our home. And therefore we must not adopt the values of the world. We must not live For self. We must not live for the accumulation of possessions. We must not live to experience pleasure because we fear God and we know that this life is short and fleeting and we seek. Much more joy and gladness in the world above. Our whole attitude in living our lives here on earth must be with the realization that our time is short, that we are in enemy territory, and that we must soon give an account to our gods. Many years ago, centuries ago, there was a king in Hungary. He found himself depressed and disturbed about the facts that he was getting on in years and that someday he must give an account to God. And so he called over his brother, who was a very indifferent Prince. He lived for pleasure and he had no interest in spiritual things. And he said to his brother, I am a great sinner, and I fear to meet God. And his brother, the prince, only laughed at his agony of conscience. And this Really confounded and angered the king. How could his brother be so callous to the idea that someday he must stand before God and give an account for what he has done as a king? And so he decided that he was going to, as it were, wipe that smirk off of his brother's face. And so that night and the early morning hours when it was still dark, he sent out his Royal soldiers to go, and they would blow loudly a trumpet right in front of the door, and everyone knew in the kingdom that meant that the executioners had come. And they blew the trumpet, awaking him from his sleep. The soldiers went in, snatched him out of bed, brought him. He came pale and shaking before the king, fell down on his face, and he said, How have I displeased you? Looks that it appears that you are about to execute me. And he said to him, Look how fearful you are coming before an earthly king. Don't you realize that someday we must stand before our heavenly King and give an account? God help us to respond in faith to this. God help us to remember in our Christian lives That our God is holy, that our God is a judge, and that our God is worthy to be feared and loved. Let's close in prayer. Father. I pray that you would shake us from our apathy, shake us father from the world's philosophy. that tells us a completely different story. Shakh's father from even many modern versions of Christianity that preach to some degree or another a health and wealth gospel that God just wants everyone to be happy and have a good time I pray that you'd remind us today from what we've heard, from what we've seen in your word, that our God is holy. He is a God to be feared. He is a God to be respected. He is a God to be loved. He is a God to be obeyed. Help us, Father, to walk this week in light of your revelation. And Father, for those who are here today who are yet lost in their sins, Who have not put their trust in Christ, I pray that they would fear to be cast into an eternal hell. And so I pray that they would seek the Savior while he may be found. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.