I'd like to invite you to turn your Bibles to a book that you don't normally turn to, and that is the book of Habakkuk. It's toward the end of your Old Testament. Habakkuk chapter 2 One of the most creative sermon titles that I've ever encountered was preached by a man named Frank Borum. Frank Borum was an Englishman trained at Spurgeon's College over a century ago and spent a very Large portion of his life ministering in Australia and New Zealand had a very fruitful ministry. He's known still today for his books. He had a way with words. Uh his books are not necessarily filled with great doctrine all the time. Not that there's doctrinal problems. He's just not a doctrinal writer. But he puts things in a very interesting way. And he was like that with the titles of his sermons. He preached a series entitled A Bunch of Everlastings. The subtitle was Text That Made History. In this volume, Borham goes through different figures in church history who were arrested by one verse of scripture that changed their life and they in turn changed the world. If I were to ask you what verse or what phrase has had more impact on the world than any other, I wonder what you would come up with. I would submit to you that a very good candidate for the verse that's had more uh brought more change to the world than any other might be A verse that was first found in our text this morning, the just shall live by faith. This, of course, was the verse that changed the life of Martin Luther. Let me remind you very briefly of the life of Martin Luther. He was once caught in a lightning storm, and he was afraid that he was about to die, and so he quickly made a vow that if God spared him, he would become a monk. And so he was put into an Augustinian monastery where he first studied the scriptures. He'd never seen a Bible before. His hands trembled as he opened it for the first time, and he came across the verse, the just shall live by faith. He knew it was significant, but he didn't know what it meant. In 1510, his superior sent him on a pilgrimage to Rome. While he was making this trip, he became ill. He had a burning fever. He was delirious. And he kept repeating through his mind the text. The just shall live by faith. While in Rome he thought he might find peace by ascending the sacred staircase there that supposedly was the same staircase. that Christ uh walked on in Jerusalem and that angels had carried them to Rome. And of course the faithful still to this day go up on that staircase on their knees. Repeating different things. But the verse that kept coming to his mind as he went up those stairs on his knees was the just shall live by his faith. Luther returned to Germany more confused than when he left, and soon he became a professor of Bible at the newly formed Wittenberg University. And he was assigned in the providence of God to teach through the book of Romans. And so he came to that familiar text that had haunted him for some time, Romans 1:17 , the just shall live by faith. And looking back at that event as he taught through that verse He said, Before those words broke upon my mind, I hated God and was angry with him. But when by the Spirit of God I understood those words, the just shall live by faith, then I felt born again. Like a new man, I entered through the open doors into the very paradise of God. And with that verse, the whole religious landscape of the world would change forever. Although the most famous location of this phrase is in Romans 1. 17, at first, of course, is found in the text that we want to consider this morning. In the book of Habakkuk. It was written by this obscure Hebrew prophet about 2,600 years ago. Let me remind you of the context of this memorable verse. My series on Habakkuk has been interrupted several times. There's been about a month between each message, which is not at all ideal. Lord willing, I hope, to continue through this week by week, not every few weeks. But let me remind you that this book records a godly man's struggle with God. This prophet initially was disturbed by the wickedness that he observed among the people of God in Judah. He cries out for God to do something about it, to bring revival, but God says instead that he is going to bring judgment at the hand of the Babylonians. This does not comfort Abakuck. He's even more disturbed. How can God use these pagan idolaters to do his will? And so Abakuch brings his complaint before God, which concludes in chapter 2 and verse 1, and then beginning in verse 2. of this chapter through the end of the chapter, the Lord reveals to Habakkuk, this troubled prophet, that he is going to bring judgment on the Babylonians as well. They're not getting away with anything Their empire will topple. They will be destroyed by another foe. The great value of this little book is not in the historic details that are recorded, but the timeless model of how a godly person wrestles through their fears and doubts. Until they come to the place of peace and even praise. As one writer put it, this book moves from worry to worship. But how does a person do that? How does a Christian who is struggling with the circumstances of their life come to the place of peace? And the removal of turmoil in their soul. The fact is, it's much easier said than done. But it all comes down to a matter of trusting the Lord. Have you ever thought about the fact that unbelief is the core of all of our sins? There is not one sin that you can think of or come up with That is not somehow directly or indirectly rooted in unbelief. We decide that we know better than God, or we decide that we're not going to do what God says. Every time we sin, we are responding in unbelief. And so much of the turmoil and anxiety that we experience in life is due to our lack of trust in God. Let me ask you this question. Why is it that even Christian people struggle to trust in God? You've heard me say this many times if you attend here at Calvary Baptist Church, but repetition is important. So let me say it again. The reason why we have difficulty trusting God is because we don't know Him very well. You don't trust people that you don't know. Have you ever realized that? You don't turn your children over to strangers. You don't trust people that you don't know. They may be good people, but you don't know them. But when you really know someone and you know their character is trustworthy and true and faithful and good Then you trust in them. And sometimes they may do something that you don't fully understand at the moment, but because you know their character and who they are, You still trust in them because you know there's another explanation for it, because I know that person So I submit to you that the reason why we have difficulty trusting God is because we don't know him well enough. And therefore, we must turn to the scriptures, his own self-revelation. Just as we were saved by grace through faith. So we must continue to live the Christian life by trusting in our gracious God. I'm going to preach to you this morning on how to live by faith, and I want us to observe four characteristics. Of those who trust in the Lord. First of all, those who live by faith depend On the Word of God. Look with me at verse 2 of chapter 2. And the Lord answered me and said, Write the vision and make it plain upon tables. That he may run that readeth it. The Lord addresses this despondent prophet by giving him something to do He gives him two commands. He tells him to write the vision and to make it plain. And throughout the rest of this chapter, he's going to tell him of the coming judgment of Babylon. The Lord wanted the people of Judah to know that God had not abandoned them That God would bring judgment to their oppressors, and that God would remember his promises to them. God's answer to Habakkuk's problem was the word of God. This is still our greatest need. We need to hear from God. When we find ourselves In a difficult circumstance where we are struggling to grapple with the problems of life, what we need is to run to the Word of God's. Now we don't need additional revelation. We don't need to seek the Lord in dreams and visions. We have God's special revelation in his word. And when we find our faith assaulted, we need to turn to God's revelation of Himself and to see what God has for us. The Bible says in Romans 10:17, Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. And in that context, it's in the context of salvation. No one can be saved apart from the truth that is revealed in God's Word. But it's also true that the people of God need to feed their faith, to fortify their faith through the word of God. When we do not read this book and study this book and hear the preaching of this word, we grow weak spiritually. We are dependents on the promises of God to live the Christian life. God 's word is sure. This is what is brought out here in our text. He says, write the vision, make it plain upon the tables. The Prophet Abakuch was to write or inscribe the message of God onto tables of stone. The wording that's used here is the same wording used for the writing of the Ten Commandments. God wanted this prophecy to be recorded for people to see on a permanent basis. We still speak of something being set in stone. Lord does not write his promises to us in pencil. They are timeless expressions of his unchanging love. And therefore we can trust in what he says. But God's word is not only permanent, something that we can understand. The technical term for this is perspicuity. What that means is that God's word is not hidden or mysterious. Sometimes you'll hear of a best selling book that comes out about uh codes in the Bible, numerical codes and and and the idea that the Bible is filled with hidden meanings and y you you have to really you know, really have some kind of mystical experience to know what God is saying because he's kind of hidden it there. That is absolutely untrue. God did not give us his word to hide the truth from us He gave it to reveal his truth to us. Indeed, there are sections of God's word that are hard to understand. Peter admits this in 2 Peter chapter 3. But the Bible reveals everything that we need for salvation and for the Christian life. Yes, there are passages where we scratch our heads and said, I'm not sure exactly what God is saying here. But the vast proportion of God's word is plain and obvious to anybody who will give the time to read and study it. And so God says to the prophet, write the vision and make it plain. Now look at this next phrase, that he may run that readeth it. What does that mean? That's kind of a uh a strange expression. There's some debate whether it's speaking of the profit running or whether it's the person who receives the message running. I think it tends to be the latter. And I think what in saying in line with many other scholars is that he wanted the words to be written so large and so plain that a person running by could look with one glance and gain the message. Sort of like when we put banners out in front of the church here. Whenever Pastor Nick starts designing them, we always have to, he always ends up paring it down. Because we want to put a lot of information out there, but you know what? People drive by on that road really fast. They do, and some of you do, I know. I've seen you And you cannot read a paragraph on that banner when you're driving by quickly like that. It has to be just a few words that you could see at a glance and really large words that are real plain and conspicuous. That's the way God is instructing the prophet Abakir. Make my word plain and simple so that no one will misunderstand what I'm going to do. And then we see that God's word is dependable. The vision is yet for an appointed time. You see, Babylon's judgment day was about 70 years away when this prophecy was given. But it was as certain as historic facts. The prophet Isaiah even prophesied that the king, the king who would topple this world power, his name was Cyrus. God prophesied about this man by name before he was even born. And this man Cyrus would lead the Persians then. They would come in, they would divert a river that ran underneath the massive city walls of Babylon. They would divert that river at night. And they would march in on that dry river bed, and they would come in, and in one night the mighty Babylonian Empire would crumble. And God says it's going to happen. You see, his word is sure. When we are facing difficulties and trials , and problems, we need to trust in God's word. The just shall live by his faith. Secondly, those who live by faith must learn to wait on the Lord. Look with me at verse 3, for the vision is yet for an appointed time. But at the end it shall speak and not lie, though it tarry. Wait for it, because it will surely come. It will not tarry. One of the great struggles for believers is to learn to wait on the Lord. It is truly an exercise of faith. You see, Habakkuk was living between the promise of God and the fulfillment, just like every one of us. The Word of God is filled with all these promises that will occur in the future. There are some promises that we enjoy today. But most of the promises that most encourage us are well into the future. Of Christ's coming, of our home in heaven, of all the joys that we will enjoy with Him forever. Those things so often don't seem real to us when we are suffering and going through difficulty in the here and now. We have to live by faith and wait for God to accomplish his purposes. You see, Habakkuk's circumstances didn't seem to match with what he thought God could Say or what God should do. The reality is that many Christian people find themselves in circumstances that they never expected to be in. And sometimes they think that God has failed them. That God's promises have not played out the way they thought they would. Most people assume that their Christian, that their life will be fairly comfortable, that it'll be smooth sailing That good things will occur, that they will have a wonderful family and a fulfilling marriage and a a good career and a nice home. And and everything's because they worked hard and they planned and they tried to put God first in their life, that everything is going to just play out very nicely for them. That's what most American Christians think. But the only thing the New Testament promises us for Christians in this regard is persecution and hardship. And so often we we find ourselves upset and distrustful of God, and so often it's not because he's not doing what he said he would do. But because what we think he should do, he's not doing. And he's not doing it on our time schedule. But the fact of the matter is that God knows what is best for us. And we have to trust in Him. Living by faith means that we have to wait for God to work out His plan in our lives. Notice how the Lord seeks to buttress of faith with multiple expressions of assurance. He says the vision is for an appointed time. He's talking about the fact that this will definitely occur. Babylon will be punished. The day has been set. But the Lord is, this passage I think is looking even beyond just that appointed time. It's talking about God's great work of redemption. He says, but at the end it shall speak and not lie. He's saying that it will come out in the end, the truth will be seen We will see how God has worked all things for good in our lives. That God is accomplishing his purposes in ways that we could never have imagined. You see, God can be trusted. The scriptures promise us again and again that no one in heaven will say, you know, I'm really kind of disappointed with the way things played out. No one will say that. We will profess that God has been good and faithful and true to his promises when we have more light. And then he says, though it tarry, wait for it. It shall surely come. Now what is this referring to? This is quite interesting to me. This verse is quoted in the New Testament in Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 37, but listen how it translates it there. It says, Forget a little while, and he shall come. In Habakkuk 's text it says, it shall come, but in Hebrews it says, he shall come. And there it is a reference to the second coming of Christ. By the way, there is a clue in the Hebrew text as well that this is referring not to a thing, but to a person. He shall come. This is a reference to the second coming of Christ, the culmination of God's redemptive history. You know what's really important For us as Christians is how we understand history. Christians should have a definite worldview of how we process, how things occur in the world. I think what we tend to do is just say things are really bad and they're getting worse. That's most people's analysis of current events. And sometimes they look back at their the past, things were great, and today things are awful. Did you know that people have always done that? They have always done that in the history of the world. I could show you numerous examples. The fact of the matter is that often we look at the past a little bit with rose-colored glasses and we have selective memories because things were not always great in the past either. I know some of you are going to argue with me afterwards and say they were really, really good and things are really, really bad. But the important thing that I want you to understand is this. We know the end of the story. Okay? And it has a good ending. So we can't allow the difficulties and the chaos that we see in the world today to make us think this is the way it's going to remain. The Bibles teach us that God is in control of every event that occurs. You see, history is not a meaningless cycle of random events. Don't interpret things that way. It is a linear progression of providential sovereign occurrences that are all moving towards a definite goal, the glory of God's. That's how we have to process what we see on the evening news. Not, man, this is getting really bad every single night But God is working out his sovereign purposes for his glory. Look with me at chapter 2 and verse 14. We have this wonderful prophecy here. For the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. Boy, there's an awful lot of truth packed into that. What a wonderful promise that is. But right now we have to wait. For God to work out his purposes. We can think about this on a national or global scale. But this is true also on our personal scale in our own lives. Yes, there are hardships, there are disappointments, there are painful circumstances that will change the very course of our life that we didn't anticipate, but it's all part of God's good purpose in our lives that will eventually lead to his glory. And so we must respond like the psalmist who said, I wait for the Lord, my soul doth wait, and in his word do I hope. Would you notice with me thirdly that those who live by faith will live very differently from those in the world? I want to get to that last phrase, the just shall live by faith. But would you notice the first word in that phrase is but But the just shall live by faith. In other words, in contrast to what is found at the beginning of the verse, behold, his soul which is lifted up is not upright in him. What is this talking about? This is a reference. To the wicked. This is a reference in context here to the Babylonians who were proud, who were puffed up, who were arrogant with their military might and their conquest of that region of the world. What is this saying? It is saying that one of the things that keeps people from living by faith is their pride and self-reliance. There is a very natural desire in all of us to be independent and self-sufficient. We don't need other people to help us out. We don't need their advice. We don't need their money. We don't need anything from them. I can handle everything myself. That's very much the American way. Only problem is God made us dependent. He made us dependent. The fact is you could not exist without other human beings on the planets. And without God's grace that He has given to you. And someday As you grow older, you will become more and more dependent on the care of others, whether you like it or not. That is the painful reality of our frail earthly existence. We are dependent creatures. We are not self-made men who can make our own rules and live lives on our own terms. The world has always exalted this kind of person. This kind of hero doesn't need anybody. Can handle it themselves. They're a survivor. They have street smarts. They have instincts. They have power. They have wealth. They have might. They can do what they want to do. As many of you know, I just returned from vacation. We were up there for Andrew and Catherine's wedding. We spent another week since we were already in New England and New Hampshire, and then we drove back on Monday. And it was interesting to drive through these various states and to see the electronic signs that they have uh announcing different things about coronavirus and restrictions and and so forth and so on. But many of them had something like this up there. You would enter the state and it would say like Connecticut Strong. We'll get through this together. Then you go into their straightness. Say New Jersey's strong. Okay. Then Delaware's strong. And finally, Maryland's strong. We'll get through this together. Now I realize I might be analyzing this motivational s slogan too much and my family had to put up with a die tribe that I went through in the van. about this. But how strong are we when a microscopic virus can shut down our society? How strong are we really? You know, a person who is really, really strong doesn't go around saying, I'm really strong. Look at me, I'm strong. You know what people are really strong people know they're strong. It's like a man once told me, if you have to go around every day saying, I'm the boss around here. Listen to me, I'm the boss, then you're really not the boss, because the real boss doesn't have to go around telling everyone, I'm the boss. Everyone knows he's the boss This is all just motivational speak to encourage people, perhaps as good intentions. But the fact is we're not strong. We're weak and we're vulnerable and often helpless to stop things around us. The sign should be saying, if I had control of them, repent or perish. That's what people need to hear. They need to be taught to seek the Lord while they may be found. Not that we're strong because we're not strong. There's only two types of people in the world. Those who are proud and those who walk by faith. The Bible's message is always dividing humanity in two. Those who live by faith and those who live by sight, those who trust in God, and those who trust in self, those who build their lives on the sand, and those who build their lives on the rock. There is no middle ground. And when we are facing perplexing circumstances like Habakkuk was in his day, you will find there are only two paths you can take. You will either live by faith and trust in God. Or you will respond in miserable unbelief. There is no other option. And finally. I'd like you to see that those who live by faith demonstrate that they have been justified. We come now to this classic expression at the end of verse 4, but the just Shall live by his faith. I don't have time this morning to go through all the New Testament references. It's mentioned three times But all of those shed more light on this foundational statement. Notice the just shall live by his faith. This is not a faith that you can borrow from somebody else. There has to be an appropriation of faith for yourself. Can't trust in the faith of your mom and dad, or your church , or your society. You have to have something of your own that's brought out in this text. Let me remind you of the context in which this is given. This was the message probably that Habakkuk was to write in large words, a brief, short message that someone could see at a glance because it's a foundational message. The just shall live by his faith. Habakkuk was living in a time of turmoil Where everything that he'd grown up accustomed to, they were the people of God. The pagans were out there, but God always protected his people. The people were not perfect, but they tried to live for Jehovah. But now his own country was growing more and more wicked. There was violence in the city every day in Judah. Sound familiar? Habakkuk complains to God, and God says he's going to send widespread judgment on the land. But this was not comforting to Habakkuk. But God calls him to live by faith. It's easy to say you trust in the Lord when things are going well for you in life. But when your world is turned upside down and your future seems bleak and hopeless, all of your religious clichés and platitudes fall away. And you have to come to grips with what you truly believe. The fact is that some professing Christians, when they face great turmoil and hardship in life, walk away from the Lord. I've met many people like that over the years. They'll say, yeah, I used to go to church. Oh, I used to believe that stuff. But then, and they'll share some crisis moments. But the fact is, even for people who are genuine born-again believers The fires of affliction can really, really be a difficult experience for them to go through. And never sit in judgment on those people unless I've been in their shoes and what they're facing. But how can the just live by his faith? Well, the place we have to start is this: it's impossible unless you have a relationship with God, unless you are the just. Or the justified. I invite you to turn with me, if you would, back to the book of Romans, chapter 1. In verse seventeen Paul writes, For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith, as it is written, the just shall live by faith. And the entire book of Romans answers the question: how can a man be just with God? How can sinful people like us Be accepted by a holy gods. That is a real dilemma. In this book, Paul begins in chapter one by talking about the Gentile world and the idolatry and the perversions that were implicit there, and he says that they are under the condemnation of God. That's the message of chapter one. And then in chapter two, Paul turns his attention to the Jews, to these people who had received the law of God. But yet they were seeking to earn their way to heaven by keeping his law. And Paul concludes in chapter 3 and verse 19 saying that they are also condemned that whether a person is Jewish or a Gentile, whether they are religious or irreligious, all of the world is condemned and stands guilty before God. And his conclusion in Romans chapter 3 and verse 20 is, therefore, by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight. For by the law is the knowledge of sin. He's saying there the law never has saved anyone. It only reveals our need to be saved. It reveals our sin. This is a very important thing. I wonder how many people here this morning, if I were to take you aside personally and say Do you believe that if you were to die right now you would go to heaven? And you said yes, and I said, why do you think you would go to heaven? I wonder how many people would say, well, you know, I've tried to live a pretty good life. Done my best. I mean I go to church sometimes and try to put money in the offering plate and I I I'm I'm trying I'm trying to be a pretty good person. I mean I got my problems but I'm I'm doing my best. I'm doing the best I can, and I think God will be satisfied with that. The entire message of Scripture is that's a wrong answer If that were the case, then Jesus would have never have come and died on the old rugged cross. The most significant paragraph in the Bible concerning our salvation begins in verse 21 But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets even the righteousness of God which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe, for there is no difference, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. been justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God has set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are past. through the forbearance of God. Declare, I say at this time, his righteousness, that he might be just and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus And this is the beautiful logic of the gospel. The only way that a holy and just God can declare sinful people like us The only way he can save us is by declaring us to be righteous, because the righteous one, the Lord Jesus Christ, died in our place as our substitute. That's the essence, that's the core of the gospel. In saying God therefore can retain his status as being just and he can also justify. And that word comes from the law courts. He can declare us to be not guilty, but righteous in Christ. And all of that Can be gained by faith. Faith is not the basis. Faith is not meritorious. God's not impressed with our faith and said, wow, look at that person. They put their faith and trust in my son. So the basis of our salvation is the death of Christ, the propitiation, which means he satisfied God's just wrath and judgment against our sin. But faith is the means. All through this passage as I was reading, you saw the words believe and faith. And so often we have a very nebulous watered-down view of faith. Politicians are always saying they're people of faith to curry favor with individuals. that people talk about faith got me through the difficult times and if you try to pin down what they mean by faith they mean some type of optimistic religious spirit and nothing more They can't define it. That's not what biblical faith is. That is not what saving faith is. Saving faith is takes of reliance and full dependence on what God has done for us. It means we come to the end of our rope and we say, I cannot possibly save myself. I'm a sinful human being. And I know that I am guilty before God. And I cast my full reliance on what Christ has done for me. And I believe with all my heart that he died in my place, and my only hope is in him. That is saving faith. It means you have no confidence in your good deeds. You don't think you've merited or achieved anything because you know it's all by grace. I'm always reminded of the illustration that I've used before. It helps us to understand what it means. To trust and rely as opposed to just intellectual assent. There was a man years ago, this was about a hundred years ago, named Charles Blondine. who made his living as a tightrope walker. He was one of those very gifted individuals who can not afraid of heights and can walk on one of those little wires high up in the sky. And he became bored with normal things because he was so good at this. And so one day he stretched a cable over Niagara Falls and was walking out there and doing somersaults and all sorts of things. And he got a wheelbarrow and he took the tire off of it and he would push things across and even had a cook stove that he took out to the middle and and sat out there and stood up on the wire and cooked a meal in this wheelbarrow on this stove and he ate out there. Did all kinds of crazy things like that. But one of the things he would do is he would He would do all these demonstrations. Then it would go to the crowd on the side there by Niagara Falls, and he would say to the people, Who here believes? that I can put someone in this wheelbarrow and deliver them safely to the other side. And everyone would raise their hand. And then he would say, you sir, with your hand raised, get in this wheelbarrow. And the man would say, no, sir. I'm not getting in that wheelbarrow. You see, that man had an intellectual sense that this gifted man could do that, but he wasn't about to entrust his life to him. Saving faith is not believing that Jesus was a special person, a great teacher, a wonderful man. It means that you are casting all of your hope of eternity on him and what he has done You're relying on him. You're resting in him. You're putting all of your hope in him and him alone. That is saving faith. Now I want you to know that this passage in Romans tells us that everyone here in this room and in every place in the world today falls into one of two categories. Either right now you stand condemned. You are guilty before a holy God, or you have been declared to be righteous. You're in one camp or the other. There is no middle ground. My question to you is, what is your standing before God? Are you guilty? Are you condemned? Or have you been declared righteous and therefore you are justified? Your answer to that question is of eternal significance. I encourage you today to seek the Lord. To trust in him. This is the gospel. This is the only hope for sinful mankind. And if you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, then you will begin your journey of living by faith. And if you continue to trust in him, you will see that God is faithful and good, and he will fulfill his promises. This is the only way to live. Let's close. Our Father, how weak we are How full of unbelief is even the best person here this morning. We confess to you that we are sinful people who desperately need your grace And I would ask, Father, that you would use your word to draw sinners to the Savior and to strengthen your people. Help us, Father, to live by faith And Father, for those who are lost in their sins, who stand condemned at this moment, I pray that even now, today, they would put their trust in Christ alone, they would repent of their sin and flee to the cross. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.