If you would take your Bibles and turn to 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 , just by way of reminder, the structure of the book of 1 Thessalonians, a small letter, an epistle of Paul. primarily, but also with his missionary team of Silas and or Sylvanus and Timothy. And they're writing to a church that they had the privilege of starting just a few months, maybe as much as a year earlier. And they're facing, the church is facing severe persecution, and they're urging them to continue to grow. In faith, hope, and love, in light of Christ's soon return. And they're keeping these things uh before them as they write this letter. And he begins really with a word of encouragement. We're going to continue what we started last week. If you remember last week we saw that well let's stop there. The book divides into two main sections. There's a first three chapters are looking back, and Paul looks back at what happened when the church was founded. He looks back at how they received the Word of God. He looks back and reminds them of how he lived among them. And then the the last two chapters are looking forward to the return of Christ. And there's significant teaching about how they should live from this point forward in light of the return of Christ. And so these there's that easy way to divide these this book in half, looking back and looking forward. In our last lesson, we looked up through verse 3, and we saw that the Apostle Paul is encouraging them with their position. He describes them as the Church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. They are eternally secure because they have been united with Christ and are now in Christ, and this union with Christ has united them eternally with the Father. And so they're in Christ and in the Father. Their security, you might say, is doubly secure, like when Jesus tells them in John 10 that no one can take them out of my Father's hands. And he says, So you are doubly secure. We are secure in Christ, and we are secure in the Father. Then he encourages them with thankfulness or with thankful remembrance. And he describes how he remembers them. He says, We give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers. Remembering before our God and Father, your work of faith and labor of love, and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. And so we have these three realities. They remember their work of faith. Their labor of love and steadfastness of hope in Christ. Their faith is not a mere mental acknowledgement, but a faith that actively works and produces the works of obedience. Their love was not just an emotion. They weren't just brought along by an emotional reaction, but a love that labored and labored tirelessly to the point of exhaustion. And their hope wasn't a fair weather hope. And we see that primarily is because this church wasn't started in a fair weather situation. It was a church that was founded With suffering. From the very beginning of this church in Thessalonica, there was suffering. There was persecution. And Paul himself had to flee the city because of the persecution. that they endured there. And so there they endured much suffering as we'll see. These two aspects of encouragement, their position and their thankful remembrance, is continued on as we Read in verses four and following. He says, For we know, brothers, loved by God, that he has chosen you, because our gospel came to you, not only in word. but also in power and in the Holy Spirit, and with full conviction. You know what kind of men we prove to be among you for your sakes And you became imitators of us and of the Lord, for you received the word in much affliction with the joy of the Holy Spirit. And that's really as far as I think we'll make it tonight, up through verse six. And he encourages them now with their position as those who are chosen, which is the result of or the evidence of their genuine conversion, the fact that they have been chosen by God. They are the elect. The first thing he mentions about them is he says he calls them brothers. And he says right from the very beginning, for we know brothers. Love by God. So the salvation of the Thessalonian believers had brought them together as members of the family of God. Now when Nicole and I were young, we were served at a church in Pensacola, Florida. for a couple years before we came back to Maryland and it was very common for you to hear brother Aaron and Sister Nicole. That was just everybody was brother or sister. It's a very southern um way of greeting people in the churches and there are many churches even in the north, but it's more common in the South. We might think of that as a quaint way of greeting each other, but it's actually very biblical language. It's definitively biblical language. In fact, 18 times in this epistle, Paul calls the Thessalonian believers brothers 18 times. It's more than any other epistle per verse count. 1 Corinthians has more, but there's a lot more verses in 1 Corinthians. Really, there's there's he he uses this language repeatedly. Even in the the verses we are memorizing, he uses this language calling them brothers. This is a significant reality. It speaks of a new relationship. And the Bible brings out this reality again and again. You think about when when Jesus was speaking and people came and they said, Your your mother and your brothers are outside and they're trying to get a hold of Jesus. He says while he was still speaking to the people, behold his mother and his brothers stood outside asking to speak to him. But he replied to the man who told him, Who is my mother and who are my brothers? And stretching out his hand toward his disciples, he said, Here are my mother and my brothers For whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother. And so we we have this teaching really all the way from Christ Himself, who says, more significant than family bonds, than blood ties is actually the ties that we have in Christ as followers of Jesus Christ. When Paul gave the qualifications for pastors and deacons in 1 Timothy 3, he did so in the context of the church being the household of God, or we might say the family of God, that when we come to church, we are gathering with Brothers and sisters in Christ, we are in the household of God, and this is how we ought to behave, he says. And these are the type of people that we ought to put in leadership because this is the household of God. In Ephesians 2, he says, you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God. This is a remarkable thing when we think about what's taking place in Thessalonica here. There's two aspects to this. First, there is a God-word relationship. Now, obviously, that's the reality that Jesus is bringing out when he says to them, Whoever does the will of my Father in heaven. is my brother and my sister and my mother. How you respond to my father indicates how you are related to my father, and then therefore how we are related to one another. Sometimes we think of this idea of being the family of God, and we treat it kind of lightly, but it is a really significant reality. Think of what he says in 1 John 3. 1. He says, see what kind of love the Father has given to us. that we should be called children of God and so we are. So maybe you maybe you've You've lost the significance of this, but this is an amazing love that the creator of the heavens and the earth calls us his children. And that is who we are. That's not just a statement. It is who we are. We are the children of God. In John chapter 1, Pastor went through this. When we're going through the first chapter of John, he says, to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. Who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of men, but of God When you come but to put your trust in Jesus Christ, you are brought into the family of God as a child of God And so this relationship is one, first of all, where we are the children of God, the eternal God of all creation is our Father. And we call him Father, and we're used to that, but it is an amazing relationship. And that he looks at us like his sons, and he cares for us like his sons. And it's meant to be a message of encouragement to this embattled church. Here in Thessalonica. Ephesians chapter 1 says, in love, he predestined us for the adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ. Adopted as his sons. That relationship is a permanent relationship that we have. So it describes a Godward relationship. But it also describes a manward relationship that we've been brought into a relationship with one another as we come to church. We are in the family of God. We are relating to one another as brothers and sisters. And it reveals that Paul had a remarkably strong attachment to the Thessalonian believers, calling them brothers right off the bat. These were once people that were idol worshippers. And I and I can imagine prior to Paul being a Christian. He would have never sat down and had a meal with Thessalonian idol worshippers. Never would he have had a relationship with them. But now he says, you are my brothers. You are beloved of God. In Christ, that barrier was demolished forever. This is the reality that is behind what Jesus says in Mark chapter ten. I don't know if you ever thought of these words and how significant they are. We thought about them many times as we were leaving our country and leaving our family behind as we went overseas. What Jesus said, truly I say to you, there is no one who has left houses, house or brothers, or sisters, or mother, or father, or children, or lands for my sake and for the gospel, who will not receive a hundredfold now in this time houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and lands with persecution And in the age to come, eternal life. Sometimes we think of this as just a promise for the eternal life. That you're going to have great blessings in the next life. But he says, you will receive a hundredfold. Now, in this time. Hmm. Now he's not literally saying you're gonna you lost your house, you're gonna get a hundred houses. But the reality is if you come to know Christ, you are brought into the family of God and you have you're received into the homes of people. And you are cared for in the homes by believers. You gain relationships that are even closer than brothers and sisters and mothers and children. In the family of God. And that relationship is absolutely precious. If you are rejected by your family, What you gain in the family of God in this life is far greater. If you, for the sake of the gospel, have to leave your family and go to the far shores, of some other nation and you're leaving your parents behind you and you're leaving your siblings behind you and you forced to leave to preach the gospel to a to another people, you don't lose. You gain. This is one of the things that the Lord has taught us over time is that it's not a loss to follow Christ. The sacrifices you make for serving Christ are more than repaid. And Satan wants to keep our eyes focused on what we're going to lose. And Christ says, you'll gain more than you'll ever lose. One hundredfold, meaning you'll be amply repaid now in this time. This relationship that we have in the family of God is a beautiful relationship. He says, he calls them brothers. He calls them loved by God. And this relationship of being loved by God It's because they've been made sons of God. The abiding love of God is theirs. Think about how this would be an encouragement if you are a young Christian. And you're facing persecution, your family has rejected you. Maybe you've lost your home. Maybe you've lost your job. And you begin to wonder. Does God care? Does God know what's happening? Does God love me? Have I done something wrong? Is that why these things have happened to me? And is not at all an indication of God's disapproval. And Paul says, you are loved by God. And then he begins to explain to them as we go on that persecution is the normal lot for believers. We have a very similar expression in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, where he says, But we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers. Be loved by the Lord, because God chose you as the first fruits to be saved through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth. And then he says this, down the next verse. So then, brothers. Stand firm. You are loved by God. You are in the family of God. You are chosen by God Stand firm. Do not be swayed by the winds of persecution that come. And the next thing that he brings out here in this, he calls them chosen. Essentially, this is the main point here. For we know, brothers, loved by God. that he has chosen you. That he has chosen you. We know that he has chosen you. This really is a remarkable statement. It means that the Thessalonian believers were the elect, chosen by God. Not because of anything that they had done, not because that they were somehow cuter or wiser or better than anybody else, but because of God's gracious decision, apart from any human merit or wisdom, God in eternity eternity passed sovereignly. chose them for salvation and drew them to himself in time by the working of the spirit. Now what's amazing about this is Paul just throws this out there. It's just like a word. Chosen. And then he continues on explaining how he knows that they're chosen. But he doesn't without really any explanation. It indicates to me at least that he had already taught them about this doctrine. While he was there in those six months that he was there, maybe less, in Thessalonica, he had already taught them about the reality that they were chosen. before the foundation of the world. This reality was a a not a doctrine for those who are advanced in their Christian life, like we would often think, but is even for babies in their Christian doctrine. We need to understand this. This doesn't mean that God looked down the quarter of time and he chose those who would choose him That's not at all what is being described here. This word chosen is used six times in the New Testament, and each instance it refers to God's selection of a people in order to bring them into a saving relationship with him. One of the verses that kind of clarifies this is in Romans chapter 9. He's speaking about the two babies that were in Rebekah's womb. You have Jacob and Esau. And he says that Rebekah had conceived children by one man, our forefather, Isaac, though they were not yet born, and had not done, had done nothing, either good or bad. In order that God's purpose of election, that's that same word, choosing , might continue, not because of works, but because of him who calls. Why did God choose? Jacob and not Esau? Because he chose. God chose to have mercy That's what we are told, not because of any good or bad that they had done or that they would do, but simply because he chose that the purpose of election might continue. God's purposes be done. Romans 11 uses the same word saying, so too at the present time there is a remnant chosen By grace. Speaking of the nation of Israel, the Jews who are brought into the church. So that in the church is largely Gentile today, but the Jewish remnant that is that has been brought to faith in Christ, they are a remnant chosen by grace. I have to admit here that there really is a great mystery. God sovereignly chooses, but yet Jesus says, all who come to me I will in no wise cast out. So there's human responsibility and the sovereignty of God. But that doesn't cause the Apostle Paul to shy away from it. In fact, he doubles down on it, nor does it cause the Apostle Peter to shy away from it. Peter, when he begins the epistle to 1 Peter, He begins by calling them elect of God. This doctrine of election is found all through the pages of Scripture. It is one of the great doctrines of the Bible. And it was not something that was invented in the Reformation. But it's really found throughout the pages of Scripture. But why are we given this doctrinal teaching? Why does Paul mention this here in the beginning of a letter to the Thessalonian believers? Well, it's designed to be a comfort and an encouragement to them. It's a message of encouragement to the believers. Frequently, when we hear the doctrine of election being taught in the pages of Scripture, it is brought out as a message of comfort to the believers. It provides assurance and comfort. Your salvation ultimately depends on God's unchanging choice of you before time, not on your fluctuating feelings or actions. And this is really the argument that Paul is making in the last half of Romans 8, when he says that nothing can separate you from the love of God in Christ Jesus, and he begins that golden chain. of whom he foreknew, them he whom he predestined, then he called, and he brings that golden chain together. Election is designed to provide assurance and comfort to those that are suffering. Romans 8 is dealing with the suffering and the persecution that believers experience. But also election deepens and drives worship. It leads us to boast in God's grace and mercy and not in our own wisdom. Because the reality is when we understand it properly, we come to the point where we say I am totally unworthy. And it is only by God's grace. And so we worship God more. It deepens our worship. That's Paul's argument in Ephesians chapter 1, that we will praise the Lord throughout all eternity because of what he has done in choosing us. But also election motivates evangelism and missions, which is what we're going to find out here as we continue on, not this week, but next. God has chosen some, so if we are faithful to proclaim the gospel, some will be saved. This is what motivated great missionaries and evangelists like George Whitfield and Hudson Taylor and William Carey and Adam Judson and Amy Carmichael and Charles Spurgeon and George Mueller, etc. They were motivated by this doctrine of Scripture to boldly proclaim the Word of God because they knew that God would, had elected some and he would draw them to himself. Now, I don't know about you. I kind of wonder, would we, would you, would I use this language? For we know, brothers, love by God that He has chosen you. Would you ever use that language to encourage another Christian. I know, brother, you are chosen by God. If we don't, if we're afraid to do so, I would say it reveals we have a problem with our theology, quite honestly. Because we're backing away from what Scripture actually says. We're backing away from the pattern of the Bible. But he gives now the reasons why he can say that. This is also important. Well, when can we say this about a person? Well he gives four evidences of the fact that they are elect How did Paul know they were chosen? You know, we do know that Paul was uh caught up to the third heaven. He says this in 2 Corinthians chapter 12. Did he get like a special peek at the Lamb's Book of Life. We got to, aha, I know who's who's in here. Is that how Paul knew that? No. No, that's not how he knew it at all. Salvation in time is the outworking of God's eternal purposes for salvation. So he understood that they were chosen because he observed their changed lives. He observed the outcome of their salvation. When you see people saved, when you see people who are born again and their lives are transformed, we see the external, they came and they put their faith in Christ. But what we don't see, we have to accept by faith, is that this is the outworking of a choice made by God before time began. And that he drew them to himself and he opened their eyes. Because this is what Scripture reveals. And he says here, four things. You could look at it possibly as five, but I think it's best understood as four. First of all, he says, the word of God came with power. Notice what he says in verse 4. For we know, brothers, love by God, that he has chosen you, because our gospel came to you not only in word. But also in power and in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction. So he starts off by saying, not only in word Now, when you say not only in word, that includes the fact that it did come in word. You can't deny that the fact that it did come in word. The preaching of the word was not absent. Rather, it was essential. And again, this is just something helpful to understand. Sometimes people wrongly assume that divine election negates the need to share the gospel. And they reason that if God has elected people, then they will get saved without our doing anything. And that is wrong biblical thinking. The Bible teaches that God has ordained not only the end, which is salvation, but also the means to that end, which is the preaching of the gospel. So Romans 9 is a very strong passage dealing with the sovereignty of God in salvation. Romans 10 expresses the reality that how shall they hear without a preacher? These two realities must be held in tandem Spirit-empowered preaching is absolutely essential for people to come to know Christ. And Paul's preaching wasn't empty talk or entertaining rhetoric. What was very common in the first century was to have people that were sophists or rhetorists that would go around and they would entertain by the the way that they would give their speeches. Again, they didn't have Roku television, they didn't have the internet, they didn't have movie theaters. They didn't have a whole lot of other forms of entertainment. And so what they enjoyed was hearing a great sophist, a great debater, who could take either side of a debate, and he could he could draw out tears from you by the persuasive way that he would speak. And they were they would enjoy and they would actually then commend him by by paying for that. Paul says I came in preaching, but it was a preaching that was done in the power of the Spirit, not in empty talk or entertaining rhetoric, but it was earnest. Spirit-empowered teaching. The word power is a word that can refer to miracles in the New Testament. And it's true the Apostle Paul did do miracles. We know that. He was an apostle of Jesus. He did perform miracles in his ministry. But the focus here seems actually to be not on miracles. but the power that was revealed in his preaching. And the powerful transformation that the Holy Spirit performed through the preaching of the Word of God. in the lives of the Thessalonians, that their lives were transformed as they came under the Holy Spirit empowered preaching. We see this same word used in Acts 4. 33, where it says, and with great power the apostles were giving their testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. With great power, they were preaching the word of God. And God was using it to bring people to Christ. Romans 1. 16 says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God to salvation to everyone who believes to the Jew first and also to the Greek. There's a really similar expression that's used in 1 Corinthians chapter 2. And he describes here, when I came to you brothers, remember Paul went from Thessalonica to Berea to Athens to Corinth. So he's writing back to the Corinthians here in 1 Corinthians 2. And he says, And I, when I came to you brothers, did not come proclaiming to you the testimony of God with lofty speech or wisdom. For I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. And I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling. Why? He'd been kicked out of every city he'd been to before and faced severe persecution along the way. And then he says, and my speech and my message were not in plausible words of wisdom. but in the demonstration of the Spirit and of power, so that your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. So he preached the gospel. He preached nothing but Christ crucified, risen again. And as a result, God established a church there in Corinth as well as in Thessalonica. He describes, so first of all, the evidence is the word of God came with power. Their lives were transformed through the preaching of the word of God. They were radically changed because of the power of the preached word. They also received the word with deep conviction. He mentions here that it came in power and in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction, or deep conviction, or full assurance. Is the idea of this word. The spirit-empowered preaching resulted in spirit-empowered conversion They experienced the Holy Spirit-produced conviction over their sin, and the Holy Spirit produced an assurance or a confidence that Jesus was indeed the Christ, the Son of God. Just like the Old Testament prophesied. Remember when we looked at the founding of the church in Acts chapter 17? Paul is preaching there in the synagogues, and he's preaching to them. He's saying that he was explaining and proving that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead, and saying, This Jesus whom I proclaim to you is the Christ. And some of them were persuaded and joined Paul and Silas, as did a great many of the devout Greeks, and not a few of the leading women. So he's preaching them, explaining from the scriptures, going to Isaiah 53, going to Psalm 22, and he's explaining that the Christ It was prophesied that he would suffer, that he would die, and that he would rise again, that Jesus is indeed the prophesied Christ. And as a result, through the Spirit-empowered preaching, some were persuaded and followed, even though It resulted in significant persecution, and it came at great personal cost. They were willing to become followers of Christ because they were fully persuaded. In their minds. The third thing we see here is they became followers of Christ. And if you follow the argument here a little bit carefully. He says here in verse 5, Because our gospel came to you, not only in word, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit, and with full conviction. And then he says, You know what kind of men we prove to be among you for your sakes. And you became imitators of us and of the Lord. So you became imitators of us and as a result of the Lord. You saw our lives, you know how we lived, you began to follow us, and in so doing, you were following the Lord. You began to imitate the example that you had seen. in us, which was the example of Christ. So they became followers of Christ. So Paul reminds them of the lifestyle that he and his missionary team lived among them. Again, not like the sophists who were there trying to get money. Paul and his team are providing for their own expenses, providing for their own needs by working day and night, he said. Their genuine love and holy living were examples for the young believers. A model of Christian living is actually far more important than just a mere message of Christian living. A model of Christian living. This is really what discipleship is, isn't this? You know what Jesus brought his disciples along? Look how I live. Hear my teaching and see how I live. This is what discipleship is. Look at my life. Follow my life. So when we are involved in discipleship, it needs to be a relationship where you can tell people, look at how I live. Follow the example of my life. My life is an example of someone who is following Christ. You can follow me because I am following Christ. Paul and his companions taught the truth and lived morally upright lives. And when they were reviled, when they were persecuted, they didn't retaliate. But they continued committing themselves to the Lord. They weren't involved in inappropriate relationships with other women. They were living holy lives. They didn't use the finances that they'd been given in a shady way. They were accountable and careful. As Christians, we ought to be able to tell younger Christians in the faith, look at my life. Follow me, and you'll be doing okay. What does 1 Corinthians 4. 16 say? For though you have countless guides in Christ, you do not have many fathers. This is Paul speaking to the Corinthians. For I became your father in Christ Jesus through the gospel. I urge you then be imitators of me. You know, as a father One of the joys of a father is to watch your children follow in your footsteps, to do what you do, to act like you act, to talk like you talk. to be able to carry on mature responsibilities because they're following in your footsteps. And Paul says, I am your father in the face. Imitate my life. And then he says in chapter 11, be imitators of me as I am of Christ. As a result of their following Christ, they were able to say, if you follow me, you will be following Christ. You'll be following in his footsteps. And as a result, he said, You, he tells them, you know what kind of men we prove to be among you for your sakes How we sacrificed for you, how we loved you, how we cared for you. And then what does he say? He says, and you became imitators of us You sacrificed, you cared, you loved, you walked holy, you obeyed the word of God. Your lives were transformed. Because of the power of the gospel. I know you are elect, brothers, because I've seen your transformed lives. I've seen how you are living. And the last thing we're going to look at here this evening is they had joy in their service and in their suffering. He says, and you became imitators of us and of the Lord, for you received the word in much affliction with the joy of the Holy Spirit. They had joy in their service and in their suffering. Paul's example of joyful ministry became the pattern for the Thessalonian believers. Martin Lloyd Jones used to say that Christians are some of the worst advertisers for Christianity. We walk around with a sour face. We ought to be known as joyful people. It ought to exude from our lives. We have a reason to be joyful. Because we have a Father who loves us. We have been chosen. We have a home in heaven. And all things work together for good to them who love God. But where did Paul learn this pattern of joyfulness? He says he learned it from Christ. He learned it from Jesus. Now, we often think of Jesus, rightly so, as a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. But at the same time, he was the most profoundly joyful person that has ever lived. Do you ever think of Jesus that way? Profoundly joyful? Remember what Jesus said to the disciples? These things I've spoken to you that my joy may be in you and that your joy may be full. So he's saying, I am filled with joy, and I want my joy to be in you so that you can be full of joy. Say Jesus Christ. Speaking to his disciples, and he prays to the Father in John 17, Now I'm coming to you, and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves. Jesus is the most joyful being. He rejoices in accomplishing the will of the Father. He was filled with joy. The Bible repeatedly talks, tells us that Jesus was perfectly filled with the Holy Spirit. What are the fruit of the Spirit? Love. Joy. Jesus was the most joyful person that has ever walked the face of the earth. And if we are followers of Christ, we need to be joyful too. Romans 14, 17 says, For the kingdom of God is not food and drink. What is it? But righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Romans 12, 2 says, rejoice in hope. Be patient in tribulation. Be constant in prayer. Think about Paul and Silas. When they're in the Philippian jail at midnight, what are they doing? Oh God, why have you done this to us? No, they're singing, they're rejoicing, they're rejoicing in suffering and in persecution. And yet, I think so often we in America live the most comfortable lives of any Christians that have ever lived, and we lack joy. Could it be because our our focus is on this world and not on Christ? And not on the next life These Thessalonian believers were filled with joy. This joy that Paul and the Thessalonians was not some superficial glib gaiety, but a deep and an abiding gladness. It's produced by the Holy Spirit. It's a result of knowing God in Christ Jesus. And that's why in suffering you can actually have great joy. Because in suffering, you come to know God much. Samuel Rutherford said that he learned more in six months in prison about the love of God than he did in nine years of preaching. There is a great deal of joy that comes in knowing God in the midst of suffering. And Paul commends them because they are filled with joy in the midst of much affliction. This is a call for us as Christians because the Bible tells us that through many tribulations we must enter into the kingdom of God. Through many tribulations, we must enter the kingdom of God. So should we be dour and depressed? No, we're entering the kingdom of God. We are following in the footsteps of our Savior Jesus Christ. So very quickly, a couple points of application from these three verses we looked at this evening. First of all, Christians, God calls you to exhibit joy even in affliction. One of the reasons we're able to do this is because suffering brings us closer to the Lord as we learn to depend on Him. And one of the things that suffering does is it shows us the transience of this world, and it weans us off the things that we thought were so important, and we begin to set our affections on those things that are eternal. If you're unable to have the joy of the Lord in suffering, it's probably because your suffering is actually exposing your idol. If you aren't having joy in the midst of suffering, it's because the suffering is actually exposed. And God is doing this intentionally to expose to you where your idol is. Christians, that is an encouragement for us to repent and turn from that. Secondly, rest in God's choosing of you believers. In the face of trial and fear, remember that nothing can separate you from the love of God in Christ Jesus. Your salvation does not depend on your emotions. Thank God that we are secure in Him. And that's not to say we don't have a responsibility to respond to the message of the gospel by faith. Absolutely, we do. But we are kept by the power of God through faith to salvation. And God is the activator of that faith. And God is the one who has called you and is the one who has chosen you. So rest in him And lastly, be imitators and imitatable. I think that's a word. Be imitators and imitatable. We need to be imitating those that have are following Christ and are in front of us in this Christian life, but we also need to be imitatable. Knowing that there are people that we should be able to say to others, follow me. Look at my life, how I live, follow my example, because I'm following Christ. And if you're following me, you'll be following Christ. We shouldn't be ashamed to say that. We're not perfect. No. But we're striving after Christ. Even the Apostle Paul wasn't perfect. He says, I press toward the mark. Forgetting those things which are behind. It's not perfect. But he can say, I am pressing toward the mark. Follow me as I press toward the mark. So we ought to be able to be imitating others, those that God has put before us, but also be able to tell others, follow me. And you'll be doing okay. Because you'll be following me as I follow Christ. Let's close this evening in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. I thank you for this encouragement that the Apostle Paul gave through the The direction of your Holy Spirit to the Thessalonian believers. And Lord, I pray that it would be an encouragement for us Lord, as we look and observe the transformed lives that are around us, I pray that we would rejoice in seeing that you have chosen to salvation. People from before the foundation of the world. And Lord, I pray that that would encourage us and embolden us to proclaim the gospel. Lord, I pray as well that as we consider this reality, that we would find great peace and comfort, and that we would be drawn before you in abject humility, knowing that there's nothing good in us But only by your grace, and that we would worship you faithfully. Lord, I pray that these verses would be an encouragement to all that are here this morning or this evening. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.