If your Bibles, would you turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 1? 1 Peter chapter 1. Some of you know that I spent four years of my childhood on the mission field of Papua New Guinea. My family left for the field when I was a young boy in 1973. And our friends at our church gave us various gifts to send us off. I remember one of those very clearly. It was a book with purple and yellow colors, which was not an unusual color scheme in the 70s. It was entitled Faith Is. And the book had a different statement about faith on every page. One of those statements was this, faith is engaging in the deepest joy of heaven. Knowing his unfathomable love for me as I walk through the thorny, desolate now. Now that is very poetic, but it's also very true. In fact, it is the essence of what Peter is saying in this portion of Scripture. Let me remind you that Peter begins his letter to these suffering believers by reminding them of their sure foundation. The sure foundation that is found in the gospel. This is what we read in verses 3, 4, and 5 About the abundant mercy of our God who has begotten us unto a lively hope to the inheritance that's described as being incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you, and this wonderful expression of security that we are kept by the power of God. This is a wonderful place to start for people who are losing everything and feel that there's nothing certain, nothing secure in their lives. This fact should fill our hearts with joy, even when we go through trials and testings, even when we walk through the thorny, desolate now. Last week we saw that the Christian can triumph over suffering by remembering several important truths. One is that our suffering is only for a season. He says in verse 6, if wherein you greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, you are in heaviness. It's important to remember that our suffering will come to an end one way or another. Either God will bring it to a completion in our lives, which is what He usually does, or It will come to a conclusion when we die and we go to glory. Our suffering also has been given to us for a good purpose. The picture here is of the crucible, of our faith being tested, of the impurities being removed, of our character being refined. And we saw that our suffering for Christ will be worth it all. Because it says, speaks here About being found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. And Peter continues in this same vein And in verses 8 and 9, Peter speaks not so much about principles that will help us to endure difficult circumstances, but a person And that is our relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. Look with me at verses 8 and 9. He says, whom having not seen ye love. In whom though now ye see him not, yet believing ye rejoice with joy, unspeakable and full of glory, receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls. This verse reminds us that being a Christian is all about our relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. This section is precious. It's a rich text. Many wonderful books and sermons have been preached from it. It reminds us that when we as human beings Our suffering, when we are battered with difficult questions, we cling to those who are close to us. We look to relationships to find comfort and help and security. And as Christians, the one that we should turn to is the Lord Jesus Christ. This raises the very clear question of what does it mean to be a Christian? How would you define a Christian? You know, the vast majority of people in our country, if you ask them, will say that they are Christian. When they are given questions by a pollster, they will identify religiously, most of them, as Christians. But what do they mean by that? What do you mean by that? Do you think a Christian is someone with conservative values? Now, I like conservative values, but I hope you realize that a person can have conservative values and not be a Christian at all. Many people think it's an individual who lives by the golden rule. A person who would give you the shirt right off their back. A person who was always there for you, that that's what it means to be a Christian. Indeed, Christians should be loving. We should love our neighbor, the scripture informs us. But that's not what defines a Christian. Others perhaps would say that a Christian is someone who affirms a certain creed. That they would check off all those important doctrinal truths like the deity of Christ, the depravity of man, the fact that man can do nothing to save himself. And yes, those things are very significant in importance. But do we realize that a person can be a really nice individual? They can be really giving and generous, and they can subscribe to an orthodox doctrinal statement and yet still be lost. None of those things ultimately are the definitive indication that you are a child of God. We see here that the Christian life is described as a personal relationship. I want you to notice in verses 8 and 9, did you notice all the personal pronouns? Whom having not seen ye love, and whom though now ye see him not, we would say, you see him not, yet believing Ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory, receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls. It's a very personal matter. A Christian is someone who has a personal relationship with Christ. That has come about because of the grace of God, because they have been born again. They are those who have been forgiven and they walk in newness of life. And they have a relationship with God and with his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And it's a life that is filled, according to these verses, with love, faith, and joy. You see, ultimately it's our relationship with Christ that will sustain us during those times of suffering in our life. I want to preach to this morning on this truth that our Savior is our refuge in the storms of life. I want you to notice with me first of all that our love for Christ will sustain us in the trials of life. Our love for Christ Will sustain us when we cling closer to Him in the storm of life. He says in verse 8, he has just concluded in verse 7, referring to the appearing of Jesus Christ, and then he says, whom having not seen ye love. Peter here is contrasting his experience with that of his readers, because Peter had seen the Lord. But his readers had not. They had not had the privilege of seeing him physically, yet they had a relationship with him. Just like Peter. They loved him just like Peter. How is it that a person can have a relationship with an individual they have never seen? The Bible answers that question in 2 Corinthians chapter 4. Don't turn there and let me read this to you. Paul says, if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost, and whom the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ who is the image of God should shine unto them. For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord, and ourselves your servants for Jesus' sake. For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness hath shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of the Jesus Christ. The answer is the gracious work of God has opened our eyes so that we have spiritual sight, and in a spiritual sense we see the beauty of our Savior. That is how we can have this kind of relationship. Now I mentioned this not many weeks ago when we looked at Romans chapter 8 and verse 28, but I want to say this again. I hope that you all understand that every true believer loves the Lord Jesus Christ. You may have different some slightly different doctrinal views from other believers you might have a little different experience. You may come from a different heritage, a different background, a different denominational family. But one thing that all true Christians have in common, and that is they love the Lord Jesus Christ. This is what the Bible says. In John chapter 8 and verse 42, Jesus speaking to the Pharisees said, If God were your father, ye would love me. In Romans 8. 28 he says, and we know that all things work together for good to them that love God. 1 Corinthians 2. 9 says I hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither hath entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. 1 Corinthians 8 and verse 3, if any man love God, the same is known of him. Ephesians 6. 24, Grace be to all them that love our Lord. Jesus Christ. And then consider this, 1 Corinthians 16, 22. If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be anathema, and that means accursed. And if you look just across the page to chapter 2 and verse 7 of 1 Peter, you will find this expression. Unto you therefore which believe he is. precious. He doesn't say to some of you that believe he is precious. He says The implication is that for all believers, they can empathize with this statement that they find Christ to be precious in their sights. And in 1 John chapter 4 and verse 19, we read that we love him because he first loved us. Loving Christ is the very essence of what it means to be a Christian. This is Christianity 101. So I say on the authority of all of those verses that I just went through, that maybe you were getting tired of them and saying, when is he going to end? I want you to know on the authority of them , I want you to know that if you're here this morning and you don't love the Lord Jesus Christ, whatever else you may be, you are not a Christian. Because all Christians love the Lord Jesus Christ. Does this idea of loving Christ embarrass you or seem strange through hymns like My Jesus I love thee or Jesus lover of my soul make you feel uncomfortable You know, it's very easy, and I can remember hearing this often when I was a boy growing up, that preachers and teachers would de-emphasize a person's feelings or emotions. And they would say all kinds of things, you know, when I get up in the morning I don't feel like a Christian, and you can't live life by your feelings, you have to live it by faith. And you know, if you if you live your life by feelings you're going to be like on a roller coaster up and down, you have to you have to cling to those truths and even when you don't really feel like it, you know, you need to go to church, you need to read your Bible, you need to pray, etc. etc. And there's some truth to that. You can't live your life by your feelings, but but I don't say those things. You don't hear me saying that in my sermons. You know, just do it. Don't worry about whether your heart's in it or not. And the reason why I don't say that is because the scripture places a great emphasis on how we feel about things spiritually. Because it's a part of our humanity. It's an indication of where our heart is. Jesus said, where your treasure is There will your heart be also. Don't take my word for this. Let me give you some Statements from Christians of the past. There was a Puritan preacher named Thomas Vincent. He wrote a fine little book in entitled The True Christian's Love to the Unseen Christ. And it's based here on 1 Peter 1. 8. He passed away in 1678, so He goes back a ways. And he says this, true Christians are distinguished not only from heathens and infidels. but also from all nominal Christians by their love to Jesus Christ. Now, I know that's not the way we would put it today, but I hope you were able to grasp the kernel of truth there. Your love for Christ doesn't just distinguish you from people who've never heard of Christ or people who are in false religions, but it distinguishes a true Christian from a nominal Christian. That is a Christian in name only. And Jonathan Edwards wrote a great book entitled Religious Affections. I commend it to you, although it's not light, fluffy reading. He based his book also on 1 Peter 1. 8. And his proposition for this classic work is this, true religion. In great part consists in holy affections. Again, don't get caught up in the language. He's saying true spirituality consists in large part of holy emotional responses. This is one of the acid tests that help us to judge where we are spiritually. So let me just ask you this morning, how do you really feel about the Lord? Do you ever enjoy reading the Bible? Do you pour out your heart to God in prayer? Do you enjoy coming to church and worshiping with the people of God? Or are you painfully bored with spiritual things? Do you look forward to communion services when we remember what the Lord has done for us? Or do you only come to church? Or to spiritual services when you're constrained by family ties. But the reality is that you hate every minute of it. I know there are people like that. I can see it sometimes on your faces I worry sometimes about our young people when it's clear that they're so vacant when they come to church and it's obvious that their parents are making them come, but they don't really want to be there. I want you to know, young people, if you don't love the Lord Jesus Christ, if that talk just seems so foreign and so strange to you, the reason is because you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ. Because everyone who knows him loves him. This love for Christ is the essence that everything of the Christian life flows from. It motivates our obedience. Jesus said to the disciples in the upper room, if you love me, keep my commandments. John 14, 15. A little while later he said, He that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me. Do you want to know if you love the Lord at all? Do you obey the Lord? Do you want to obey the Lord? Do you seek to please him? It's our love for Christ that motivates us to serve the Lord. Remember, it's Peter that is writing these words. Do you remember The conversation the Lord had with Peter in John chapter 1 on the shore of the Sea of Galilee. He asked him these three questions again and again. Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? And at each response, the Lord said this to Peter: Feed my sheep. Feed my sheep, serve me. All of our service, and we had that beautifully brought out in the special music we heard this morning. If love is not the motivating factor behind what we do for the Lord, then it's in vain, according to 1 Corinthians chapter 13. And it's also our love for Christ that should constrain us to suffer for him. Because the scriptures say that following the Lord, part of following the Lord, is to suffer for him. And that was certainly true of Peter in that same conversation recorded in John 21. The Lord told Peter how he would die, that he would die as a martyr. In fact, not many years after Peter wrote these words, and then later 2 Peter, not many years after that, he passed away and he died for his faith. It's our love for Christ that should sustain us whenever we are facing great trials and afflictions. We must not become bitter and angry at God's when he doesn't remove the suffering that we so much deplore and that we want out of our lives, when he doesn't answer in our timetable. Rather than causing us to run from him, it should cause us to run closer to him and cling to him. And love him. It's our love for Christ that will sustain us because as we love him, we experience more of his love for us. And it enables us to face the difficulties that He has for us in life. Would you notice with me secondly that our faith in Christ will sustain us in the trials in life? Notice in verse 8. He says, yet believing you rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory. Notice in the first part of verse 8 how twice he mentions that these people have not seen the Lord. It says, whom having not seen ye love, and whom though now ye see him not, yet believing. Peter says, not only do they love the Lord whom they have not seen, but they trust in the Lord whom they have not seen. The word believing is a present participle that expresses continuous belief. And in the Greek text it's connected with a participle which has the meaning of into. Now the translators decided not to translate this believing into because it sounds kind of awkward in English, but that is literally what it says and this construction expresses. a personal and continual faith in Christ. We rest our whole being in him. We trust in him. In the Gospel of John, known as the Gospel of Belief, over and over again you will read about having faith in or believing into Christ using the same preposition. The same idea of a personal appropriation, a personal relationship. You see, saving faith is not when a person agrees to a set of propositions at some time in the past. It's not repeating some hurried prescribed prayer. No, it's an ongoing reliance and dependence on Christ. It's a lifestyle of trust and obedience. And our faith is placed in a person that we have not seen. Now I wonder if that bothers you. Perhaps you're thinking, if only I'd seen the Lord like Peter, then my faith would be so much stronger. I suspect that Peter was asked questions. from Christians about the Lord all the time. I imagine in my mind's eye that when Peter traveled to some place and He was now an aged disciple. And just imagine if you were a Christian living at that time, how much you would want to hear from this man and you would want to talk from him, this man who was actually with the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ, the one in whom you had come to believe in. And so he was always being asked, what did he look like? And what did he sound like? And what was it like to live with him? Because for a whole year he lived in Peter's home. He was a house guest. What was that like, Peter? Can you imagine all the questions, the curious questions that people had? Tell us about one of his miracles, Peter. I'm sure he was constantly answering questions because most people would never have contact with somebody who had actually been with the Lord. And you know, Peter didn't just have a vague acquaintance with Jesus. Most of the conversation that we have in the gospel of our Lord is between him and Peter. It was Peter that was with Jesus up on the Mount of Transfiguration, and he was with him in the Garden of Gethsemane when he cried those desperate prayers. He was with the Lord out in the night in the boat. He was the one, the only one who walked at least for a moment on the water with the Lord. He had some unique insight and experience with Christ. But Peter says, you know what? You can love him and you can trust him just like I do, even though You have never seen him. In fact, it seems that Peter, when we read of him in the Gospels, when he saw the Lord every day with his physical eyes. We know that spiritually he still had a ways to go. He still had many problems. But after the Lord left, It seems that Peter was able to grow a great deal spiritually, even though he was no longer seeing the Lord Jesus Christ physically. I'm sure that Peter heard what the Lord said in the upper room after his resurrection when he said to Thomas, Blessed are they that have not seen and yet believe. Do you believe that? Blessed are they that have not seen and yet believe. This was the last benediction that Christ gave to his disciples. Do you want to be blessed with God? Then you need to trust in him even when you cannot see. Now, so often when we are going through the storms of life and trials and suffering, we would love to have a glimpse a vision, a physical glimpse of the glory of Christ. But we must remember this truth. Blessed are they that see not. And yet, belief. The fact is there is great blessing and trusting without seeing. The Bible says we walk by faith and not by sight Hebrews 11, 1 says, faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. And on four occasions the Bible says this, the just shall live by faith. We live by faith. That means that we must be able to trust the Lord even when we can't understand what he is doing. Can you trust the Lord when you can't begin to see a good purpose in your tragedy? Can you wait patiently for the Lord when it seems that your trial will never come to an end? The Lord says there is great blessings to those who trust in him with a stubborn faith. that will not wear away, that will not be turned into doubts and unbelief, but that will cling tenaciously to the Lord Jesus Christ. This is what God wants for those who face difficulties and trials. So how do you respond when your faith is tested? Do you run and hide from God? Or do you run to Christ and cling to him more tightly? Company sometimes will have Team building exercises I'm told to build trust and they'll go to retreats and they'll go on all kinds of obstacle courses and and and things that'll try to build camaraderie and and things to build trust and they'll do exercises I'm told you know where someone will stand behind someone else and that person is supposed to fall backwards and that person is supposed to catch them And it's all designed to build trust because that person is really afraid that maybe the person behind me a practical joker and they're going to step out of the way and I'm going to fall right down on the grounds. And so it takes a lot of trust to just fall backwards. It's unnatural. But I want you to know. That the Lord is never going to step away. He's not going to let you fall and hit your head on the ground and be and be embarrassed. And hurt in that way. Underneath the scripture says, are the everlasting arms. We have a hymn in our hymn book. We didn't sing it today, but it's entitled Tis so sweet to trust in Jesus. And the chorus says this, Jesus, Jesus, how I trust him, how I proved him o'er and o'er. Jesus, Jesus, precious Jesus. All for grace to trust him more. Why is it that God allows our faith to be so tested, to be so stretched? It's because this is how he answers prayers like that. How do we come to trust in the Lord more? By going through the exercise of faith where our Faith is really tested, where every fiber of our spiritual muscles are strained to the breaking point, and then God builds us up so that we are stronger and he delivers us and we see what he has done and our faith is stronger for the future ahead The Christian life is a life of living by faith, and this is what will sustain us in the trials of life. But finally, would you notice with me, our joy in Christ will sustain us in the trials of life? We have here our love will sustain us, our faith will sustain us, and our joy will sustain us. We'll read in the Old Testament, the joy of the Lord is your strength. There's something about maintaining that flame of joy in our hearts, even when they are continually doused with trials and difficulties that will sustain us. in the afflictions of life. Peter here speaks of in verse 8 that ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory. He's just piling one word on top of another to express a really intense emotion. The fact is that there are some human emotions that cannot adequately be expressed through words. So often people will say things like, words cannot express. You may have listened to interviews of people who were involved in this mass shooting, and I did, and many of them said, you know, words just cannot express the way I felt, the panic, the fear that I felt as those bullets were raining down upon us. Just as that is true at the negative end of the scale of emotion, it's also true on the positive end. There are some emotional states that are so euphoric, so sublime, that words really cannot convey the depth of feeling. And that's what we have here by the Apostle Peter. He uses this term rejoice that was used up in verse 6. Remember, he says, wherein ye greatly rejoice. And I mentioned to you then that that was a very specific word that refers to his spiritual joy. It's never used in secular Greek. It's not used by people in the world. It's the joy that a believer can experience through their relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. This is the highest joy that a human being can experience. And it's what heaven is going to be all about. The fact of the matter is that we as Christians can experience a little taste of heaven on earth. as we rest our heart in Christ, as we trust in Him, and as we experience His presence and the joy that is promised here. This is one of the greatest testimonies that a Christian can ever have. And that is when they are able to have still an abiding joy and contentment. even when they are going through the fire of affliction. What a testimony that is to the lost world. What a testimony it is to other believers. What an expression of faith to say that my relationship with Christ is so strong and so vibrant that I can go through the greatest affliction. And still trust in my Savior and still find joy in him. This participle again expresses an habitual response. This is the lifestyle that God desires for every believer. That is a life filled with joy. Remember, one of the fruits of the Spirit is joy. The kind of abiding joy that is expressed here and elsewhere in Scripture is not an empty, silly kind of emotion. based on circumstance or because of a person's particular sunny personality, but it's rooted in the unchanging relationship with God. This is not our normal fleshly response, especially when we are going through trials and adversity. Our normal fleshly response is to be angry and to be depressed and to be bitter and to be out of sorts. But when we are resting in Christ, as God has called us to, we can even experience joy that passeth all understanding in that situation. It's easy to reflect on our circumstances and become discouraged because things have not worked out the way we anticipated in our lives. But this should not be the case with those who know and love the Lord Jesus Christ. We have been given a joy that Christ said no man can take from us. Oh, we may surrender it ourselves. But it's not something that someone can rob from us. But how can we live with this abiding joy? Verse 9 provides One explanation, receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls. Those who are believing will be the ones receiving Now the word end here does not mean termination but culmination. These earthly trials make us anticipate with a powerful yearning the day when our faith Will be sights. This is not the power of positive thinking. There is power in positive thinking. But this is not some sentimental trick that we are to play on ourselves so that we can cope better with difficulties in life. This is reality for the believer. The reality that there is a place prepared for us, that we will be in our Father's house, that there will be no more pain or suffering or sorrow. These are the promises of Scripture for us. This is our legacy that we must cling to. And our anticipation of that will enable us to walk through the thorny, desolate now with joy. I mentioned last Sunday about the power of anticipation. You know, so many things that we enjoy. that at least half of the joy is not the experience itself, but it's looking forward to that experience of how it's going to be. Maybe it's a family reunion. Maybe it's the end of some difficult, painful circumstance. But you look forward to that and you anticipate that and you imagine what it's going to be like. This is part of what the scriptures have called us to do. This is part of what it means for us. Now I wonder what you think about as the greatest prospect before you Is it retirements? Is it that you get to quit that job that you're sick and tired of? Is it that you get to have your mortgage paid off and you don't have that pressure on you anymore? What is it that you look forward to as a source of joy and comfort and hope for you? You may say, well, I look forward to heaven. I hope that is the case. But let me get more specific. What do you look forward to in heaven? Do you look forward to the fact that your loved ones who have gone before, it's not wrong to think about that. But can I just say that that should be way down on the list? compared to what we find in Scripture. You know what should be the the thought That inspires us, that empowers us, that makes us look forward to this day, it is that we will see the Lord Jesus Christ. We will see the King in his beauty. Revelation 22 verse 4 says the last chapter of the Bible, and they shall see his face. That's something to look forward to. The ancient theologians called this the beatific vision. They called it the greatest experience that we will ever encounter in eternity. And the Lord Jesus Christ referred to this himself. in his great high priestly prayer that he prayed right before he was arrested and then crucified. And John chapter 17, the longest recorded prayer we have of our Lord He prays for his disciples and he prays for those who would come to believe on him through their word. And he makes several requests to the Father on their behalf. And the last, the ultimate, the final request that he makes is this. John 17, 24. Father, I will that they also whom thou hast given me be with me where I am. Why? That they may behold my glory Which thou hast given me, for thou lovest me before the foundation of the world. You know what be the most wonderful The most joyous experience that we will ever have in our existence will be when we see the Lord Jesus Christ. When we see his full, resplendent glory, we see him as he is, not with the veil of his earthly flesh. But we see him not just with the eyes of faith, but with our real eyes, with reality, we see him in his full glory. That is our prospect. That is what we have to look forward to. That is the vision that will change everything. And we are to live in anticipation of this coming glory. And it's that prospect, that hope, that promised view that will sustain us. In the trials of life, because we love our Savior, we trust in Him, and we find our joy in Him. We have this hymn that we're going to sing in a moment. Before you get out your handout, let me just read these words to you. Sometimes the day seems long, our trials hard to bear. We're tempted to complain, to murmur, and despair, but Christ will soon appear to catch his bride away, all tears forever over. In God's eternal day. And then this chorus, it will be worth it all when we see Jesus. Life's trials will seem so small when we see Christ. One glimpse of his dear face, all sorrow will erase. So bravely run the race till we see Christ. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it's sufficient for all that we need. We thank you for the Lord Jesus Christ. whom we love and whom we trust in and whom we find our joy. We pray that you would use these words to give comfort and strength And hope to your people who suffer today. And Father, for those who are lost in their sins, I pray that they would look in faith to the Savior. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen