If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn me with me to Matthew chapter 22? Matthew chapter 22. In 1945, Major Claude Hensinger jumped from the cockpit of his flaming B-29 bomber and floated to the ground below. After landing, he used his parachute as both a pillow and a blanket during the cold night. That parachute saved his life. And so he took it home with him after the war And some years later, when Claude proposed to his girlfriend Ruth, he gave her his precious parachute and suggested that it would make a wonderful wedding dress. And so Ruth took the silky fabric to a local seamstress who created a stunning work of art. That wedding dress that saved her husband's life would now adorn the bride. Today that gown is in the Smithsonian National Museum of American History. Wedding garments, are special things. Long before a young lady is married, she begins to think about her wedding dress. And often it's one of the first things that's discussed after the engagement. Where will we find a dress and what will the dress look like? And the fact is that weddings are special occasions that people still dress up for. You know, the events that people dress up for are becoming smaller and smaller. I don't know if you noticed that or not. Remember years ago I saw this picture of the Great Frederick Fair for about a hundred years ago. And what was amazing is that everybody there was all dressed up The men all had coats and top hats and ties, and the ladies had beautiful dresses on to go to the fair. We had a wedding yesterday, and I want you to know that everyone there was at their very best. They looked great. Everyone was dressed up. No one was there with a pair of shorts and a t-shirt on. Because they knew that that would not be appropriate. Weddings are special occasions. And the parable that we're considering this morning, how a person dresses to wedding is incredibly important. In fact, it's used in the illustration of one's eternal destiny. This morning we come to the last of a triad of parables that Jesus told only days before he died on the old rugged cross. You might recall That scholars believe this series of parables took place on the Tuesday of Holy Week. So his death was right on the horizon. This parable is known as the parable of the wedding feast, or sometimes the parable of the royal wedding feast. It has a similar twin in Luke 14, which is known as the parable of the Great Supper. There are some similarities, but there are also differences. And that was given at a different time and to a different audience. And so they are not the same parable, but they share some striking similarities. The parable we're considering this morning is the final in a series of three. We've looked in recent weeks at the parable of the two sons, a very brief parable about two responses to God's truth. And then we looked at the parable of the wicked tenant farmers. And now we come to the parable of the royal wedding feast. These parables share significant themes. They were all addressed to the Jewish religious leaders of the day, the scribes and the Pharisees. They all speak of God's gracious spiritual privileges that he gave to his people, the Israelites. And they all have a reference to a son. And the final two parables speak of severe judgment. that would come to the nation of Israel because of their unbelief. We see here a striking example of our Lord gracious and patient warnings to people who had great animosity and hostility toward him and in just a short time would murder him This great wedding banquet of course foreshadows the marriage supper of the Lamb that's mentioned in Revelation 19. The king represents God the Father and the Son, of course, the groom represents the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, the emphasis of this parable is not so much about those who come to the wedding feast, but as those who do not come to the wedding feast or do not remain there. And once again, this parable is full of surprises. It's not what the reader would expect to hear in a story like this. You would expect everyone who would be invited to such a wonderful event would come. And yet we find people making excuses as to why they cannot come. We would never expect a king to invite common people, people who have low reputations and who are sinful And are the disadvantage of society, we would never expect any king to invite them to such an occasion. And we would certainly never think That someone would show up to a royal wedding banquet without proper attire. So there are many things in this parable. that would strike the Lord's hearers as unusual and surprising and perhaps even shocking. Like most of our Lord's longer parables, the story has three movements. And the structure of this parable funnels the reader's thinking to this question. Will I make it into this glorious feast? Am I one who will come with proper attire and will be accepted and will enjoy that fellowship, or will I be one who never makes it there, or one who is cast out This parable reveals that there are many ways to miss heaven, but only one way to make it into the kingdom. Only those who respond in faith and obedience to the gospel will enjoy the ultimate feast in heaven. The first point I want to bring to your attention this morning is this. Many who have spiritual advantages will reject the gospel and perish. Look with me at the first three verses of Matthew 22. And Jesus answered and spake unto them again by parables, and said, The kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king which made a marriage for his son. And sent forth his servants to call them that were bidden to the wedding, and they would not come. Now, in the ancient world, a wedding was the highlight of the year in any community. People looked forward to it with eager anticipation. But a royal wedding was like the highlight of a lifetime. These didn't come along that often And they were very significant events. The king's son is getting married. And to be invited to a royal wedding feast was an incredible privilege. It meant that the king knew who you were and wanted to have your fellowship. Now in the ancient world, a social event of this magnitude would have two invitations, at least. There would be one that would be sent About a year before the wedding, when the couple were betrothed, letting everyone know of this great occasion that was coming. It's kind of like today people will send out something to save the date. It was sort of like that, but with this difference Is that people would respond immediately and let them know if they were able to attend. It required a response. The point I'm making is that the invitation that we read of in verse 3 is the second invitation. And what's important for you to realize that you may not pick up and reading the story Is that the people who are not coming are people who have said they would come. They are people who have already been previously invited and have responded, we are coming to the wedding. And now, just perhaps a day or two before the wedding itself, they receive a second invitation saying, all is ready Prepare yourself and come to this great occasion. And they say, no, we're not going to be able to make it this time. This was an amazing response on their parts. This is what would have shocked our Lord's original hears there in the temple, that these people would not come. to a royal wedding. Notice it doesn't say that they couldn't come. It says they didn't want to come. That would have been unthinkable because who wouldn't want to come to a royal wedding feast? But this king is so patient and so gracious that he extends even a further invitation to them in verse 4. And it says, and again he sent forth other servants saying Tell them which are bidden, that as those who have been invited and said they were coming, behold, I have prepared my dinner, my oxen, my fatlings are killed, all things are ready. Come unto the marriage This king is saying to himself, well maybe the royal servants I sent out somehow got confused or didn't communicate effectively. Don't they realize the situation we're in? This is a very important occasion. All of this food has been provided. And remember, they didn't have refrigeration back then. So this is all going to spoil. And what would it say about the wedding of my son, who would be a prince, if no one showed up to the royal wedding feast? This is a very large social dilemma. And so he sends them out. And we see here that the servants are both enticing them with this wonderful menu and reminding them that if they don't come, the food will be wasted. Now everyone, of course, enjoys a nice meal, but this was magnified in the ancient world. Let me remind you of some things. Most people in the ancient world ate very poorly. They could not imagine the things that we eat in a given week. Their food was bland, starchy, and rarely contained meat. That is the case, by the way, in many third world countries still today. But this king is offering a variety of meats in large quantities. And let me remind you that These wedding feasts did not last like a wedding reception or two or three or maybe four hours. This went on for at least a week. A royal wedding feast would be at least a week, sometimes longer than that. It's hard for us to imagine. Of that kind of gathering. But in their minds, the fellowship, the solemnity of the occasion was such that it needed all of this time To truly celebrate this great occasion. And so Who would not want to be a part of something that special But then we read of these responses. Look at verse 5. But they made light of it and went their ways, one to his farm. Another to his merchandise. We see the response of indifference here. They made light of it. That means that they paid no attention to it. They weren't really interested in attending this banquet. They had better things to do with their time, amazingly. Verse 5 hints at the kind of excuses that they made. It's not fully developed here, but it talks about one apparently was saying, I got all this farm work I have to do. Others had merchandise to sell. In the twin parable that is similar to this, in Luke 14, the excuses are brought out more prominently. It says, and his he sent, speaking of this man, sent his servants at supper time to say to them that were bidden, come For all things are now ready, and they all with one consent began to make excuse. The first said unto him, I have bought a piece of ground, and I must needs go and see it. I pray thee have me excused. Another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to prove them. I pray thee have me excused. And another said, I have married a wife, therefore I cannot come. You know, it's easy to find excuses for things you don't want to do, right? I've heard some very inventive excuses over the years as to why people did not make it to church on Sunday. Some very incredible excuses. And I'm not here preaching to the choir. You're here this morning. That's not my point here. I'm just saying that when people's hearts are not really into doing something, they can latch on to anything. And I 'm not here excoriating anybody who's not here this morning, but I'm certain that there are people this morning that when they saw the rain said, great, I have an excuse that I can't go to church this morning. Because they didn't really want to come to church. And the issue is not whether they came to church or not. The issue is why is it that you don't want to come to church and worship the Lord with his people? That's the more concerning thing. But these people made excuses, and it doesn't make any sense. And again, the Lord's original hearers would have said, why would they be making excuses? This is an incredible privilege. Most people would do anything to have this kind of offer made to them. But these people were indifferent to that. Now perhaps you would say, well, didn't they have the right to refuse this invitation? Not really, because they'd agreed to go. And the fact is, you don't say no to a king's invitation. In the ancient world, this would have been considered an act of treason, that you were not submissive to his will. But there was more than just a response of indifference. If you look with me at chapter 22 and verse 6, it says, and the remnant that his other people who had been invited. took his servants and entreated them spitefully and slew them. Some had that response of indifference, other had the response of hostility and violence They assaulted the king's messengers and even killed some of them. And of course, this should remind you, if you've been here for a series, of what happened. To those agents who were sent to collect rent from those vine growers there in the vineyard. Look with me at chapter 21. Back just a little bit, verse 34. It says, and when the time of the fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the husbandmen. that they might receive the fruits of it. And the husbandman took his servants and beat one, and killed another, and stoned another. Again he sent other servants more than the first, and they did unto them likewise. What the Lord is doing with these two parables back to back is he is exposing the people who were standing right in front of him, those Pharisees and religious leaders who were plotting to murder him. And he is saying through these parables, I know exactly the level of animosity you have in your heart and what you are doing. And yet I am still reaching out with the gracious gospel to you to repent and believe even at this late hour. This is an amazing example of our Lord's patience with sinners. Now when we studied this parable two weeks ago, I mentioned That those servants represented the different prophets that God sent to Israel over the centuries, prophets like Isaiah and Jeremiah and even John the Baptist, who were violently assaulted and murdered in some cases. And once again, we see a graphic portrayal of the same violent response to God's gracious invitation to repent and believe. But the result, whether it was indifference or hostility, was the same rejection. And their contempt would bring condemnation. Look with me at verse 7. But when the king heard thereof, he was wroth and sent forth his armies and destroyed those murderers and burned up their city. This is an amazing response. We see here a reminder that God is slow to wrath, but when his wrath comes, it brings complete destruction. I want you to notice that God's judgment fell on both the indifferent and the hostile. You see, there is no middle ground when it comes to Christ. You are either for him or against him. You are either trusting and obeying, or you're turning away from him. You may not have a hostile reaction towards him, as some people do. But your response of indifference is still rejection and will be met with ultimate judgment. Now, many commentators believe that the reference to the burning of the city is a foreshadowing of the destruction of Jerusalem that would take place in A. D. 70. And Jesus would speak about this devastating historical event just a few minutes later in what is known as the Olivet Discourse. If you look with me at the end of verse of of chapter 37, the next chapter in Matthew. Look with me at verses 37 and 38. After Jesus condemns the Pharisees in his most stern words recorded in Scripture in Matthew 23, he concludes that very harsh warning. With these words, verse 37, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets and stonest them which are sent unto thee. How often would I have gathered thy children together, even as the hen gathered her chickens under her wings, and ye would not. Behold, your house is left unto you desolate. And then if you look with me just a few verses ahead to chapter 24 and verse 2 , Jesus and the disciples are there in the temple, and Jesus said unto them, verse 2, See ye not all these things. Verily I say unto you, there shall not be left here one stone upon another that shall not be thrown out. down. And that was a provocative statement. They came to the great temple of Herod that he had built. Which was the pride of all the nation. And he says, You see, all of this, all of this will be completely leveled to the ground. There will not be one stone upon another. They could not imagine such a things, but it would happen in A. D. seventy. And one of the reasons why Josephus says that he says that one stone was not left upon another is because as they set fire to the temple and as it burned and as the gold melted It ran down into the rubble and between the cracks of the rocks and everything. So the Roman soldiers went through and they were looking under every rock and turning everything over to find any scrap of gold. so that one stone was not left upon another. The Lord's words were fulfilled. These spiritual leaders had great advantages. They had God's word of all the people in the world. Who were looking for truth and have had perhaps various forms of what they would call sacred books. It was only these people who had the word of God that came down from the true and living God. They had this. Other people did not, and these men had been called to study it, and many of them had memorized it And in the providence of God, of all the thousands of rabbis and Jewish religious leaders through the centuries that had lived in Israel, these men lived in the time when the Messiah came and ministered in their midst. The thing that all the Old Testament was pointing to was fulfilled in their lifetime. There he was, the truth itself embodied in their presence. And yet they rejected him. It is possible to have so much lights. providentially and graciously given to you and yet to turn away from it. That's what we see here with these religious leaders. The second thing I want you to look with me at is in verses 8 through 10, and that is that many who have spiritual disadvantages Will accept the gospel and be saved. Look with me at chapter 22 now and verses 8 through 10. Then saith he to his servants, The wedding is ready. But they which were bidden were not worthy. Go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall find, bid to the marriage. So those servants went out into the highways and gathered together all as many as they found, both bad and good, and the wedding was furnished with guests. The picture here is one of urgency. A great feast has been prepared. There's going to be a wedding. The food is all ready. And so these servants are dispatched with a sense of urgency to go out and get warm bodies to come. He doesn't call on them to be discriminating and to look for respectable people, people of some standing in the community. No, he says if you find a person, invite them to come. He says in verse 8 that the privileged people who rejected the invitation have shown themselves to be I want to invite you to look with me at a significant cross-reference to this in Acts chapter 13. Would you turn with me to Acts chapter 13? This is in the ministry of the Apostle Paul as he's out preaching the gospel. Acts chapter 13, verse 44. Acts 13, 44. It reads, And the next Sabbath day came almost the whole city together to hear the word of God. But when the Jews saw the multitudes, they were filled with envy and spake against those things which were spoken by Paul, contradicting and blaspheming. When it speaks here of the multitude, it's talking about the Gentiles. Verse 46, then Paul and Barnabas waxed bold and said, It was necessary that the word of God should first have been spoken to you, that is to the Jews. But seeing ye have put it from you and judged yourselves unworthy of everlasting life, lo, we turn to the Gentiles For so hath the Lord commanded us, saying, I have sent thee to be a light of the Gentiles that thou shouldst be for salvation unto the ends of the earth. And when the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and glorified the word of the Lord, and as many as were ordained to eternal life believed. This is an amazing thing that reflects on this parable of our Lord's In the second movement of this parable, Jesus is predicting that the gospel was now transitioning and it would go forth to the Gentile world. We often hear of politicians speaking of the disadvantaged in our communities, while the Gentiles were spiritually disadvantaged. They were not the covenant people of God. They did not receive the Ten Commandments. They did not have a priesthood to remind them of coming Redeemer. They did not have spirit-filled prophets to warn them of God's coming judgment. The Gentiles were in the dark. Blinded by idolatry and without hope. But God's mercy was now extending to them This is what we're reading about here really in this parable in Matthew 22. Notice the instructions the king gives to his royal messengers. Look with me at verse 9. Go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall find, bid to the marriage. They're invited to f to invite anybody that they find. They were not to be selective. When it talks here about them going into the highway, it's not thinking about like Interstate 70. It's talking here about a side road or a street corner where homeless people would congregate Notice how these people are described as both bad and good. As they're traveling along this road, they would see some people who look somewhat presentable and respectable, hard-working members of the community. And then they would find other people that we would say are sketchy. Alright? You can tell by the way they move and by the way they look that they're up to no goods. All right? And undoubtedly they have a criminal background. And this king is saying, I don't care who they are, invite them to come. When it says bad and good, it's not saying that some people are inherently good. It's saying this by the way people judge other people. Some were religious, respectable people, and other were irreligious people. of questionable reputation. This reminds us, of course, of the free offering of the gospel. Pastor Nick was preaching at our missions conference and he was mentioning to us, reminding me of something, that in the Old Testament the model was like a come and see version, but in the New Testament it's a go and tell. And we see that reflected here. We do not go out and say, I wonder if that guy would get saved over there. I don't know. He looks like a pretty hard case to me. I probably shouldn't give him the gospel. No, we are like these king's servants. to go and tell everyone and invite them to come and give them the truth of the gospel because God wants both Jews and Gentiles to be saved. It's for Pharisees, it's for publicans, it's for rich and poor, educated and uneducated. Whosoever will may come. It's easy for Christian people to fall in the trap of thinking that the church is for people who are nearly perfect. And throughout the history of the church, there's like this balance. Churches can so easily become very, very respectable. so that certain kinds of people don't feel comfortable coming in. And sometimes it's not just their perception. People really don't want them to be there. That guy looks kind of shifty. He looks kind of dangerous. I don't know if he should be here at church, Pastor. Well, where would you have him go to hear the truth of the gospel that would change his life It's like saying, those people look a little sick. I don't want them to come to the hospital. That's where they go. That's where sick people go. Heaven, according to our Lord, is filled with people who were once prostitutes and traitors and murderers and thieves and homosexuals and drug addicts. He says, and such were some of you. But you are washed, you are sanctified, you are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. 1 Corinthians 6. 11 The gospel reaches the lowest place because it is a gospel of grace. So how do you think these common people responded to this invitation? Well, it implies here that they were more than eager to attend. I'm sure that these royal agents Had to say this invitation two or three times because people thought they were joking or that they didn't hear that right. You're inviting me to go to this royal banquets? To celebrate the marriage of the prince? You're inviting me. I'm just a common person. I'm a pariah in society, and you're inviting me to come to that special place where the elites of the world gather. They could not have imagined what the splendor of a royal banquet even looks like. They'd never seen anything like that. They'd never been into the palace. They could not imagine all of the food and the varieties of the food that were there in one place. You know, one of the things, the most astounding thing you will find that people in third world countries are just blown away by when they come to the United States of America are our grocery stores. Because they've never seen that much food in one place before. We don't think anything of it, of course. Never strikes us, this is amazing, all of this variety, all of this food. That's how these people felt when they would have come to the king's banquets. They were the guest of the king, and they were going to celebrate the marriage of his beloved son. You see, ironically, here we find a great spiritual truth. It is those who know they are unworthy. They are the ones who come to the Lord. Those who say, but I don't really deserve this. Are you sure you've got me? You must have the wrong person because that's not really for me. Why would the king ever want me to come? Those are the ones who are saved. So what spiritual disadvantages do you have here this morning? I often talk to people that attend this church, and sometimes people, because of their backgrounds, feel uncomfortable. They say, you know, if people there at that church knew of my background, they would not want me there. You know, those people there, so many of them, you know, they know their Bibles inside and out, and they come from stable, strong Christian homes and and they have strong Christian homes. But I don't I don't have a Christian heritage and I come from a broken home and the only time I heard the name of Jesus it was a swear word. I never attended Sunday school, and even to this day, I can't really find the books of the Bible. I have to look in the index of my Bible. There are people with spiritual disadvantages, but I want you to know the gospel of grace is for you. You have been welcomed into the fellowship of the people of God. This is a place for sinful people. Sinful people who have fallen short of the glory of God and recognize that they have. God is not a respecter of persons. He invites all to come and dine. But there's a third part of this parable. That is surprising. And that is that some who seem to accept the gospel will be condemned because of their self-righteousness. Look with me at verses 11 through 13. And when the king came in to see the guest, he saw there a man which had not on a wedding garment. And he said unto him, Friend, how camest thou in hither not having a wedding garment? And he was speechless. Then said the king of the servants, Bid bind him hand and foot, and take him away and cast him into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth And then this final statement, for many are called, but few are chosen. That is, not everyone who is invited will come. Now, this part of the parable is distressing on a number of levels to some people. First of all, why is the king so hung up about how this man is dressed? And isn't the punishment a little harsh? I mean, what if the man didn't have anything suitable to wear? And here they bind him hand and foot and cast him out of the place. That seems a little over the top. And is this teaching that some people will be cast out of heaven? So let me quickly try to answer these questions. First of all, to attend such an important function without proper tire was an insult to the king It's very likely that for such an occasion the king had provided royal garments for all of his guests to wear. When you realize that they went out into the highways and hedges and invited these people, these people did not have royal wedding garments in their closets. Most people in the ancient world had two or three changes of clothes, and that was it. And the peasants, the poor people that were invited here did not have anything fancy. But we know from historical records that often kings would keep uh great quantities of royal garments for people who did not have proper attire. And that seems to be what's happening here. Therefore, this man would have been offered this royal wedding garment, but he refused. Therefore His rejection of that royal wedding garment was actually an act of contempt. I want you to notice that when he's asked About why he doesn't have on a royal wedding garment by the king, he is speechless. Why was he speechless? Because he was guilty. He had no plausible explanation other than he did not want to wear the king's garment, which was an indication of treason. Therefore, his public defiance deserved severe punishment. This parable is not teaching that some people will be taken out of hell and cast into heaven. Let's remember this is a parable. A story and not an historical description. But what this parable graphically portrays is that a person can seem to be among the people of God. And yet an imposter. This man not only received an invitation to the banquet, but he responded to that invitation. So let me translate this into our context, to the real meaning of this. We would say that this man had made a profession of faith. He not only claimed to believe the gospel, but he got baptized and joined the church. Perhaps he was even involved in ministry and respected by everyone. Maybe you would say that's a that's a little far-fetched, but have you ever heard of a man named Judas Iscariot? He followed the Lord for three years, he performed miracles, he was respected. by all the disciples, but he was not a child of God, he was a son of perdition. I say all that not to alarm those who are the children of God. But let me just say this. You must never quiet any conviction that may arise in your heart that you are lost on the grounds that after all I must be saved because I'm a member of this church. Or I was baptized up there in that tank. Or I come to church on a somewhat regular basis. Therefore I'm good to go. I mean People here, they all refer to me as brother. They know that I'm a Christian, so I must be a Christian. That line of reasoning is not a good basis of your salvation. None of these demonstrate that you are truly a follower of Jesus Christ. In Bunyan 's famous allegory, Pilgrim's Progress, he describes A fellow traveler named Ignorance that came to the gates of the celestial city. He knocked on that gate and asked to come in, and the gatekeepers questioned him And he said this: he said, I ate and drank in the presence of the king and have taught in his name. But he had no certificate to allow him to come into the gate. And so the king sent two angels to bind him hand and foot, and they took him away. I think Bunyan 's making a reference to this parable. And then Bunyan concludes his masterpiece with these words: Then I saw that there was a way to hell even from the gates of heaven. And that's what this last part of the parable is teaching. This man felt like he was good. He got in somehow. He was among the people of God, but this was not the final resting place, and he was cast out. Now that is an alarming way to end a book. No one would write a Christian book and end it that way, the way Bunyan did. I want to conclude this message on a positive note. This parable describes the many ways that people miss going to heaven. Some respond to the gospel with indifference. Others respond with hostility, while others only assume that they are good enough, that they have done the right things to get into heaven. But only those who are righteous in God's sight will escape the wrath of God. So what does this wedding garment represent in this parable? Well, the text doesn't say exactly, but most Bible scholars of the centuries have seen in this imagery a picture of the imputed righteousness of Jesus Christ. And that is because the Bible is filled with this imagery, going back to Genesis 3, where God replaced their fig leaves. With a garment that He provided. In Isaiah 61 and verse 10 we read, I will greatly rejoice in the Lord My soul shall be joyful in my God, for he hath clothed me with garments of salvation. He hath covered me with the robes of righteousness. In Zechariah chapter 3, we read of the vision of Joshua the high priest. And there the Lord says, Take away the filthy garment, and I will clothe thee with a change of raiment. And in Luke 15, the parable of the prodigal son, we read of the father when the prodigal returns, saying to his servants, Bring forth the best robe and put it on him. This is one of the Bible's great pictures of our justification. The Lord removes our filthy garment of sin and covers us in the righteous robes. And therefore the judge of all the universe can declare us to be not guilty but righteous because he sees us in the pure garments of his sinless Son. And because we have this appropriate attire, the great King of Glory can welcome us to his feast where we will enjoy his fellowship forever. That is the essence of the gospel. Christ took upon him our sin, and we took from him his righteousness. So who does this man represent? This man, I believe, represented the people that this parable was directed to that day, and that were the Pharisees. They had on a garment of self-righteousness. They didn't listen to the Lord's call to repent. repent and believe because they thought they were good. Who was this man to tell them what was right? They were spiritual leaders. And when the offer of salvation was given, they said, no, thank you. This is probably the most common way that people miss heaven. They assume that they are good enough to be accepted by God. But no one, no one can be accepted in his sight until they come to cast aside their garments of self-righteousness and cling to the righteous robes of Christ. There are many ways to fail to get to heaven, but there's only one way into God's holy presence. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says, For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Let me ask you a question. Are you dressed in his righteousness alone? Have you by faith exchanged your filthy garments of self-righteousness for Christ's spotless robe of righteousness? When you come and stand before the judge of all the earth, what will you say for yourself? This is not some hypothetical question that means nothing. This is not simply a matter of instruction where we're trying to give you the right answer. I'm trying to discern what is it that you're truly trusting in. Will you dare say that I think I've earned your favor, Lord? Or will you say I'm not perfect, but I did my best? I tried to do what's right. I tried to go to church. I occasionally read my Bible. I should be alright because you know I have a lot of problems, a lot of weaknesses, and I did my best. Or will you say, I am a wicked sinner who has earned your wrath, but my righteous Savior died in my place? That is the only answer that will save you. That is the only answer that will get you admittance into that great and final feast with the Lamb. is when you come not in your own standing, but you come in the righteous robes of Christ. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, I pray that you would take these words And use them as a sharp two-edged sword in those who are deceived and blinded like these Pharisees and yet trusting in their own righteousness. I pray, Lord, that you would use these words to draw sinners to the Savior, that they might come to the Savior And obey his free offer of salvation. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.