So let's stand up and try saying these verses through two times together. We'll say the reference and then the verse and then the reference and the verse again. 1 Thessalonians 5, 3 through 4. While people are saying there is peace and security. then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not escape But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief. First Thessalonians 5, 3 through 4. While people are saying there is peace and security, then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not escape. But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief. Very good. You may be seated By way of reminder, as we've been going through the book of 1 Thessalonians, it's a small book, a letter from the Apostle Paul, just five chapters And the first three chapters are a look back at his ministry there among them and the work that God has done in their lives. And the the last two chapters are looking forward to the return of Christ. And one of the unique features of the book of First Thessalonians is every chapter ends with a reference to the return of Christ. And so that is a major theme in 1 Thessalonians, and it is also a major theme in 2 Thessalonians. The return of Christ is clearly in the Apostle Paul's mind as he writes this book. And we began looking at chapter one over a month ago, and we saw that Paul was filled with thankfulness For what God had done in the lives of the Thessalonian believers. And the first chapter really is filled with thanksgiving. And then the second chapter, Paul begins to show a reminder of how he acted when he was with them. Remember how we lived. Remember how I taught. Remember what I taught. And the reason he's doing this is because he is answering objections. He is answering accusations that have likely come. Since he has been gone. And he's saying, remember, you yourselves know. You remember how we lived among you. Our lives were open books. You can remember just the character of our lives and you can know that those things are not true. When we come here, our theme again is continue to grow in faith hope and love in light of Christ's imminent return. The fact that Christ is coming again should be something that is regularly on our minds. It is something that should motivate us to purity of living, to um To be careful and to be diligent in evangelism. It should motivate us to pray for the Lord's return and pray for God's work in the world. In this quote here we have of Jim Elliott, you know Jim Elliott, one of the famous martyrs when he was trying to minister to the Aka Indians, he wrote this in his journal, in spiritual work, if nowhere else. The character of the worker decides the quality of his work. Shelley and Byron may be moral freelancers and still write good poetry Wagner may be lecherous and still produce fine music, but it cannot be so in any work for God. Then he goes on to say this. Paul could refer to his own character and manner of living for proof of what he was saying to the Thessalonians. And he says nine times over in this First epistle, he says, you know. We'll look at those in a little bit, little bit, that Paul tells them, you know, or you yourselves know. You remember what I said to you. You know how I lived among you. You yourselves are fully aware. And so he's reminding them, didn't you observe our lives? Of course you did. You saw how we lived. And the way they lived. Was a powerful strengthening of their ministry. And so what Jim Elliott is saying, for anyone who works for God , You must have strong moral character. If you're going to be effective for God, your life must match your message. He said, now Shelley and Byron, they could write good poetry and be wretched in their lives. Or Wagner, who was quite lecherous in his life, could write fine music But he had no moral character. But for the Christian, our lives have to match the message that we preach. And this is what Paul is dealing with in chapter two. He is saying, my life matches my message. The life of Our missionary team matches the message that we shared to you. And he's arguing against the detractors, those that are trying to undermine his ministry. So chapter two continues the discussion. From the first half of uh of chapter one, where the it begins with the word for. He says for um beginning with the reality that that uh the thanksgiving that he had demonstrated in the first half is continuing on. He's continuing this flow of thought. If you look at chapter 1 and verses 4 and verse 8 and 9, there's a 4 that begins each one of those verses. for this, for this, for this. And Paul is transitioning to a defense of the ministry and the mission team that he had among them. It seems evident when the the uh when Timothy returned from his time there in in um I'm sorry, forgive me for a second. I realized I I I need to open up my phone here for one second because my notes are here and my Bible is not with me. So please forgive me for this. I'm opening up my Bible on my phone. I don't like this. This is a weird feeling. Yes, there we are. That makes me feel a lot better, having the Bible in front of me. But chapter 2 begins this discussion, and Timothy was had returned from Thessalonica with a good report that the Thessalonian believers had continued in faith, they were doing well, but that there were those within the community that were undermining the ministry. and the testimony of the Apostle Paul and his missionary team. And so he's transitioning here to a defense of this ministry among them. And so there's these detractors who have slandering motives. They're slandering the motives of the Apostle Paul. They're slandering the the the reasons why they came into Thessalonica, and they're trying to create doubt in the lives. of the believers so that they will turn away from their faith. And that's why he says, For you yourselves know, brothers, that our coming to you was not in vain. So our coming to you was not in vain. So we see here that he's trying to jog their memory about the nature of their life and their ministry among them, and the testimony of their life and ministry was sufficient to disprove The false accusations that were leveled against them. And if we look at the accusations that he defends against, you can kind of figure out exactly what they were accusing him of It's not very difficult to take these defenses and say, oh, I bet they were accusing him of these things. And we'll look at that as we go through this chapter, the first part of this chapter this morning. Or this evening here. We have the marks of a genuine Christian ministry in these first six verses. And the first thing we see about a genuine Christian ministry that he says should be evident to them. Is that it is not in vain. He says, for you yourselves know, brothers, that our coming to you was not in vain. And the word vain is a word that can mean empty, but it has a a somewhat ambiguous idea to it. It isn't clear if the vanity referred to here is the result of their ministry. They're saying we they're accusing him of coming with a vain ministry that it was unsuccessful, meaning the idea that their ministry didn't accomplish anything. They said, no, you you guys know that's not true. You guys are the example. You guys are the evidence that our ministry was very successful among you. It also could refer to the character of their ministry, that they came with an emptiness, a purposelessness in their ministry. And I think the idea here is more that they came with they're accusing them of coming with a purposelessness in their ministry A vibrant church was clearly there. These people had turned from idol worship and now they were worshiping the living and true God. There was evidence that there was a true church that was established there. But he's saying people are accusing us of having a vain ministry. A ministry that was purposeless in its goals. It wasn't seeking the high purpose that we truly came for. But he said the character of their ministry was evidenced by the manner in which they came into Thessalonica. He says, For you yourselves know, brothers, that our coming to you was not in vain. The word coming, we've already seen that in chapter 1, verse 9. If you look back to chapter 1, in verse 9 he says, For they themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. And that word reception we saw Speaks about the way in which they came into town. We talked about the the sophists or the rhetoricians who would come in and they were almost like Ancient rock stars, when a sophist would come to town, they would give displays of their sophistry, of their ability to argue points. from either side, of their ability to speak on matters of wide areas of knowledge. And he says, you know how we came among you. We came among you differently than the Sophists came among you. We came among you with a purpose, not in vain, but with a definitive purpose. And so here the idea of our coming refers to their entrance. And he says, you know these things. It was not showy, it was not with pomp, it was not with fanfare like these Greek and Roman sophists would come to town and trying to gain paying students. Rather, they came humbly, and they came with one focus, the focus of teaching the gospel. We already saw when we looked at 1 Corinthians chapter 2. It says, And when I came to you brothers, and I when I came to you brothers did not come proclaiming to you the testimony of God with lofty speech or wisdom. What's he talking about? He's talking about these sophists. These rhetoricians who would come in and they would have this lofty speech. They would show how much they knew about a variety of topics. He said, For I decided to know nothing among you. except Jesus Christ and him crucified. And he says, this is how you saw us. You know this about us. Different than these these sophists, he was careful in the way he came in, focused in the way he came in. And it's also different than you know many churches that we see today that they focus on secular marketing techniques. Paul says, I came among you with one purpose. To teach Christ and Him crucified. I had no other goal. My way of building a church was not through marketing. It was not through advertising. My way of building a church was to preach Christ. And him crucified. Sometimes churches try to preach felt needs. I heard of one church planting expert recently who said to church planters, you should preach to the virtues of your people. Because then they'll feel good about themselves and they'll come back. That's that's evil What people need to hear is the gospel, Jesus Christ, and Him crucified. They weren't wowing their audience with their abundant knowledge on a variety of topics. They were proclaiming the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, and that it was crucici prophesied in the Old Testament and they should know this. The character of their ministry was evident by their willingness as well to endure shameful beating for the sake of the gospel. He says, For you yourselves know, brothers, that our coming to you was not in vain. But though we had already suffered and been shamefully treated at Philippi, as you know. You notice again he says, as you know. You yourselves know. Then he says, as you know. He's reminding them, you saw us. They came into town to Thessalonica bearing the marks of a brutal Roman beating at Philippi. They didn't come in with fanfare. They didn't come in dressed to the nines. They probably walked stiffly from the beating that they had just recently endured. And they had visible wounds on their faces and legs. This is probably indicated by the fact that he says, as you know. You saw me. You saw Silas. You saw the wounds and the way we walked into town. We came in beat up, in a lot of pain, not like famous sophists. A Roman beating was a serious matter. In Acts 16, we read just a little bit about the beating that he endured. It says the crowd joined in attacking them, and the magistrates tore the garments off them. and gave orders to beat them with rods. And when they had inflicted many blows upon them, they threw them into prison, ordering the jailer to keep them safely. And if we continue reading we find out that they were they were locked in stocks in the inner prison. This was a serious beating. This was not a minor event. Very likely, when it says they stripped their garments off them, they were stripped entirely naked. It was a shameful event. It was an embarrassing event. They were tied to a post, and they were beaten, as he says here, with rods, with many blows So when Paul and Silas came to town, the character of their ministry was evident by the blows that they had received. If they were going around town to try to gain money, this was a dumb way of doing it. They were the worst and least effective sophists that have ever lived. He said, You know, you saw how we came among you. We had a purpose. It was not in vain. And it was evident even by the wounds that we bore. This type of public beating would have been highly humiliating. They probably would have cried out in pain at different points You know, it tended to make them more reticent to preach the gospel. If you if you would have if you would have said here, you we we came into Thessalonica And as a result, we were more circumspect and more careful about where we preached the gospel. He said, I understand that. That makes sense. But that's not what he did. Amazingly, that's not how Paul and Silas responded. They came in and they boldly preached the gospel. It's probably for this reason that we read in Acts 17 when the crowd came to Jason's house looking for Paul and Silas. And they couldn't find him that that night they took Paul and Silas and they spirited them out of town. Probably they couldn't endure another beating in such a short time. They said, we've got to get them out of town quickly. Because they've already been through one severe Roman beating. He says, you know the character of our ministry. It was not in vain. We were not like the sophists. We weren't trying to gain an audience. We had one purpose, to preach Christ. The second thing about True gospel ministry, it's characterized by boldness, which is amazing when you think about what they've just endured. He says in verse 2, but though we had already suffered and been shamefully treated at Philippi. As you know, we had boldness in our God to declare to you the gospel of God in the midst of much conflict. The word translated boldness could be rendered we dared. Or we took courage It would be a truly courageous thing when you think about the nature of their ministry here, to enter Thessalonica and to go into the synagogue. And to preach again for three Sabbath days, that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead, and to say, this Jesus whom I proclaim to you is the Christ. It would take great boldness, great courage to do something like that. Knowing that the last time he did something like this on Paul's first missionary journey, they tried to stone him. In Iconium, they tried to stone him and he escaped. And then he fled to Lystra, where they did stone him. And now on a second missionary journey, he goes to Philippi and he endures a public beating. And he says, we came not timidly, but with boldness in the message that we had been given. How would you feel about preaching the gospel in Thessalonica if you had just been savagely beaten in Philippi? Probably a little bit fearful. And Paul and Silas are no different than you and I. They're men with similar fears. that we would have. He was a man, just like you and I. Remember how Paul describes his emotional state at that time in 2 Corinthians. This is 2 Corinthians 7, he's describing their time in Macedonia, which is where Philippi and Thessalonica are. He says, For even when we came into Macedonia our bodies had no rest. But we were afflicted at every turn, fighting without and fear within. That's the Apostle Paul saying we were, there was fighting, there was external conflict, and there was internal conflict. We were full of fear. And he says, and you know that when we came among you, we preached the gospel boldly. We didn't hesitate to tell you the truth. This is a beautiful example of what a Christian minister should be like preaching boldly. even in the face of opposition, even in the face of real danger, not just they're not going to like me, but they might kill me. But I'm going to tell the truth. 1 Corinthians 2 says, and I was with you in weakness and in fear and much trembling. He went to Corinth right after he left Philippi. Or actual Ceslanaika, I mean. So here he is, he says, We were with you in weakness and in fear and much trembling. Why? Because we've been beaten many times and we've been kit run out of towns many times. And it's not very easy to stand back up again and preach that same message. Their boldness, though, was rooted in God Himself. Notice what he says here. We had boldness in our God. To declare to you the gospel of God in the midst of much conflict. The source of their boldness was rooted in God Himself. In his power and his presence with them. Reminds me of when David and his soldiers returned to the city of Ziklag where they had left their wives and their children. And they find the city of Ziklag is burned to the ground, and their wives and children have been kidnapped. And the Bible says the soldiers of David were so distraught that they actually talked openly about killing David. And David's got a problem. His wife, his wife, and children have been kidnapped, his city's burned to the ground, and his soldiers are talking about killing him. He's in a bad spot. And what does David do? The Bible says that David strengthened himself, encouraged himself in the Lord his God. It's very similar to what Paul is describing here in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. We had boldness in our God. He strengthened himself in the reality of God with him. What does it mean to strengthen yourself, to encourage yourself in God? How does one do that? Well, first of all, they reminded themselves that God was their God. He says here That we had boldness in our God. The God we serve is our God. We are his. Christian courage springs from the belief that this God is our God. That the God we serve is our God. He personally knows us. We have a personal relationship with him. Paul and his team, like you and I today, have can have a personal relationship with God. the God of the gospel that we preach. And so when we go with the gospel at work and we look at the faces of those that we're telling the gospel to and they don't seem very friendly to us, we need to remember that the God of the gospel we preach is our God. And we go in his strengths. We are told in Romans 8 that we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. Describing this relationship that those who know God have had before, that God foreknew us. He had a for a relationship with us that precedes us even. In Ephesians 1 it says God chose us in him before the foundation of the world. The relationship that we have with God is not something that began yesterday or last year. But is based upon a relationship with God that predates our existence and the very existence of this earth and all creation. And therefore our lives exist in him. And all that happens in our lives is under his sovereign control. The reality of the sovereign control of God over the affairs of men is one of those stabilizing truths that we need in our lives. Their boldness here was not self-confidence, but it was God confidence. They trusted in the fact that God would sustain them. This is what we have in the Great Commission. Where he says, Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I commanded you, and behold, I am with you always. I am with you always. This is that God confidence that Paul said that gave us boldness that when we stand up in Thessalonica and we preach in the synagogues. When we preach in the streets, when we preach in the community here, that even though they may run us out of town, we are going in the boldness of God, that He is with us and He will protect us. John MacArthur said there's always pressure to mitigate the message, to be inoffensive to sinners, to make the gospel acceptable to them. But such a compromise had no place in Paul's strategy. Instead, he felt full confidence in God's power to overcome all opposition and achieve his redemptive purpose. The servant of God preaches the true, unmitigated message God has laid out in his word, not some other message. He does so for the sake of truth, not for personal popularity. And when opposition comes, he trusts in the power of God and stays obedient to his calling. Paul says, I was bold in God because God was with me and would and would protect me in as long as I was following him and serving him. So we have here that his ministry was not vain. It was not in vain. It was purposeful. Secondly, it was bold. Thirdly, it refused it refuses to employ ungodly tactics. Look at verse three of First Thessalonians two. He says, For our appeal Does not spring from error or impurity or any attempt to deceive. So these denials here, there's three denials that are found in this verse. Our appeal does not spring from error. Impurity, or any attempt to deceive. These likely tell us the kind of accusations that were being lobbed against the Apostle Paul and his ministry. Pastor Lehman mentioned just a few weeks ago in the story about the man born blind that when he was making the religious leaders look like fools when he was answering their objections that they had to turn to ad hominem attacks. And that's very much what's happening here with the Apostle Paul. They could not withstand the power of his argument, so they turned to ad hominem attacks against him, and they began to attack his person and his character because they could not deal with his arguments. So we learn a great deal. We kind of reconstruct their attack based upon how he responds to it. We can learn a great deal about the nature of these attacks by the defense that Paul makes. It's kind of like how when in Joshua God tells Joshua multiple times, be strong and very courageous. We can learn something about Joshua. Joshua was fearful. And that's why God tells him again and again, be strong and very courageous. The implications are pretty clear. You don't tell someone who is strong and very courageous, be strong and very courageous. You tell a fearful person that. And so when Paul is answering these objections, you're like, oh, this helps us know what he was being accused of. The first thing is, he says, our ministry was not in error. The Greek word here that's d translated error is the word planet. We get the word planets from it. And that that word has the idea of when you would look at the planets, it seemed like they were just wandering among the stars. And so it began to be a word that used to describe a person who wandered from the truth. They didn't stay in the truth. And here, the word error can be used in an active or a passive sense. If it was an active sense, then it would refer to Paul and his missionary team were actively in error, intentionally deceiving people and intentionally leading people astray. However, if it's the passive sense, then it means that Paul and his team were deceived. They were in error because they were deceived. And most of the time in the New Testament is is used in the passive sense, and the idea is that Paul and his team just were simply deceived. They were in error. They didn't know, they didn't understand the Old Testament and therefore they were in error. They were leading people astray, but doing so because they themselves were deceived. And the accusation that Paul is refuting is that he simply does not know or understand the Old Testament scriptures, which, if you know the Apostle Paul, that's kind of humorous. Because one, he was trained under Gamellio. He was a Pharisee of the Pharisees. He knew his Old Testament well, and it comes out in every book that Paul writes. He knew his Old Testament very, very well. Paul spoke, though, about those who were deceived, deceivers. In 2 Thessalonians, 2 Timothy 3, he describes those who We're imposters going on from bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived. But Paul said unlike these false teachers I am not in error. Our team is not in error. We know the message of the gospel. We know the gospel is the truth. And we speak the truth in confidence. Because we know that this is the truth that is proclaimed in the Old Testament. And as a result, they were bold. And they were willing to face persecution. He said, the very fact that we were willing to face such stiff persecution indicates that we were not in error. Secondly, their ministry was not in impurity. He describes that they were not impure. Some think that Paul is denying the impure love of money and honor that the Roman sophist had. But every time Paul uses this word impurity here In all of his other epistles, it refers to sexual impurity. And Paul says essentially here, we didn't bring our message to you, our appeal to you, with impure motives with a sexual desire or gain a desire to gain something sexual from you And you can say, well, why would they think that? Well, look, remember when in Acts chapter 17? This is where the founding of the Thessalonian Church takes place. It says some of the Jews were persuaded and joined Paul and Silas, as did a great many of the devout Greeks, and not a few of the leading women. And then in the beginning of verse 5, but the Jews were jealous. It doesn't take much imagination to see how wicked men with lustful hearts would try to twist the conversion of a number of the leading women in Thessalonica to mean that Paul and Silas and Timothy were after their women. You know what Paul's doing, don't you? Paul came in here and you saw how many women Jijoup followed him. Well you know what's going on He's coming here with impure motives to seduce our women. And you can imagine how that would be an effective tactic because the description here of these leading women are leading Greek women in the community, meaning their husbands were in positions of prominence. They were allowed to go to the synagogue and be a part of the worship there, though they weren't allowed to become Jews And they hear the message of the gospel that Paul preaches, and they say, this is the truth. And they follow him. And now these people are attacking the Apostle Paul, saying, Paul was leading women astray. Because he had his own nefarious purposes. Very likely these leading women were patrons of the synagogue. And now they've converted to Christianity. And the Jewish leaders are saying, we've lost our patronage. And so there's financial reason to spread accusations like this. Sexual perversion and false religion go hand in hand Pastor Tobin brought this out when he was going through Jude, verse 8. One of the hallmarks of false teachers is they lack control of their appetites, and sexual appetites is one of them. We were talking just yesterday about the founder amongst the pastors of the Four Square Gospel Church, Amy Semple-McPherson, and her being caught in adultery and living a very wicked life and developing a story to try to deny it You can think of Joseph Smith, who was caught in adultery with a teenage maid, and then began to teach about plural marriage to try to escape and eventually married twenty-seven wives, or Muhammad in his many polygamous relationships, even with his son's wife. False religion, false teaching, and sexual perversion often go hand in hand And Paul says, you know the character of our lives. You know how we lived among you. There was not even a hint of that in our lives. Paul and his missionary team lived lives of purity, and they taught the same. And he was so confident. in the purity of their actions that he calls them to remember their way of life among them, saying, you yourselves know. You know the way we lived. And that should be defense enough against these accusations that are coming against us. The third thing that he defends against is that they were using trickery. They were using deceit. He says here For our appeal does not spring from error or impurity or any attempt to deceive. The word deceit or deceive actually is a word that means to catch fish with bait. And the idea here is that the false teacher uses deceptive tactis to make converts, and then the goal is to gain something for himself, notoriety, finances. power, sexual favors, but they've they're using a bait to bring in and catch people, to lure people. And the accusation likely was leveled by the Jewish leaders of the synagogue who were jealous again of the lost patronage of these leading women. And it would not be hard to imagine the jealousy that would spark rumors. That Paul and his team were just trying to get the money from these leading women. You know what they're doing. You know why they came here. They're just trying to trick you guys out of your money. That's all they care about. Why do you think they left town so quick? Well could it be the fact you're trying to kill them, maybe? But they're gonna use whatever they can. They left town when things got hot. You can tell what type of people they are. And very quickly, they can begin to undermine the truth of the message, not by attacking the message, but by lobbying false accusations against the messenger. Paul says, you yourselves know the nature of our ministry among you. And he'll continue to remind them of the fact that if that was really our motive, why did we work night and day? With our own hands to provide for our own needs. If we were really after the the patronage of these leading women, why do we have to work so hard? Why didn't we take anything from you? Why did we refuse anything? And that's part of the reason why Paul did this. His ministry tactic was that he would not receive gifts. from a church where he's planting the church so that he would it would not be a detraction to the message he's preaching. And he says in verse 9, you can look at verse 9 of this chapter. For you remember, brothers, our labor and toil. We worked night and day that we might not be a burden to any of you while we proclaim to you the gospel of God. So so he's he's working it with his hand, making tents, which was his his job, and he's preaching the gospel. In verse 6, he says, Nor did we seek glory from people, whether from you or from others, though we could have made demands as apostles of Christ. We didn't demand anything, though we could have, we are genuinely apostles of Christ. But we chose not to make demands for the sake of the gospel. What explains a ministry like this? Why would people face such persecution and pain to proclaim their message? Why, what made Paul and Silas and Timothy tick? Well, it's explained in verse 4. He says, But just as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, So we speak, not to please man, but to please God, who tests our hearts. The real reason is they ministered for an audience of one. Paul and Silas and Timothy ministered with an audience of one. They were not concerned what the Thessalonians thought about them. They were not concerned what the Jewish leaders thought about them. They were not concerned what the Roman leaders thought about them. They were concerned what God thought about them. And they ministered, thinking about is this what God would be pleased to do? With. They ministered for an audience of one. They ministered as those who were commissioned by God. He says here that we have been approved by God. That word approved has the idea of being tested like an assayer would test metals and precious metals to shoot to show that it was that it was pure But also has the idea of being commissioned by God. You think about the Apostle Paul's commissioning when the Lord met him on the road to Damascus. And changes his life drastically. You remember how when he was there he became blind and God sent Ananias to him? And what did what did God say to Ananias? He says, go, meaning go to Paul, for he is a chosen instrument of mine to carry my name before the Gentiles and kings. and the children of Israel, for I will show him how much he must suffer for the sake of my name. I don't know if you or I would be so excited about this commissioning. Chosen by God to suffer greatly for his name. But this was the message that Ananias was given to tell Paul. He's a chosen instrument of mine, and he will suffer much. For my name's sake. And he did. Paul began from that moment proclaiming Jesus in the synagogues there in Damascus and using the Old Testament to confound the Jews. That Jesus was the Christ. And very similarly, both Silas and Timothy were tested and tried by the Lord. Both Silas and Timothy had been chosen as colleagues by Paul because they were tested and they were tried. And they were faithful. Their ministry was a stewardship of the gospel of God. He described it here in verse 4. We have been approved by God to be entrusted. This is the idea of with a faith With the gospel of God, there is a stewardship, a responsibility that comes in this ministry. The stewardship of the gospel is a massive responsibility that no one should enter into lightly. Paul speaks about the fact that woe is upon him if he preaches not, if he doesn't preach the gospel. He doesn't have a choice. He is a commissioned servant. And because he ministers in the audience, for the audience of one, in the presence of God, he must be faithful to God. In James chapter 3, he says, not many of you should become teachers, my brothers. For you know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness. Those who teach the word of God will face a greater judgment. It's a fearful thing to stand up and preach the word of God. It's something that shouldn't be entered into lightly. And the Apostle Paul says, we haven't. We have not entered into this lightly. We've been commissioned by God. We've been tested by God. We've been given a stewardship of the gospel. And it's our responsibility to Faithfully execute this stewardship so that it passes on to the next generation, so that it will continue on, to lay the foundation that God has called us to lay They ministered as those who were commissioned by God, but they ministered for the purpose of pleasing God and not man. If you stand up to teach or to preach, It's important to remind yourself regularly that you preach and teach with an audience of one. That you preach and teach to please God. Because there will be a temptation to say, oh, I don't think I should say that. Someone's going to be offended by that. Oh, they might not like it when I say this, so I'm going to pull my punches. And you can look at audiences and go, they're not happy with me. Not usually the Wednesday night crowd, let's be honest. But you can look out at an audience and go, ah, someone's been offended by what was just said. And if you're not careful, you might say, well, I'm going to soften my tone a bit. The fact is, it doesn't matter if you're liked or disliked as long as God approves. It can be a Sunday school class. It can be Sharing the gospel to your friend, they're not going to like what I have to tell them. It doesn't matter whether they like it or not. Does it please God? We share the gospel with an audience of one. to be approved by God. Paul and his ministry team kept this reality as the energizing focus of their ministry. The reality is what empowered Paul's scathing denunciation of false teachers in Galatia was the fact that they ministered in the presence of God. Do you remember Galatians chapter 1? He says, and we have said before, as we have said before, so now I say again, if anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to the one received, let him be Accursed. That's pretty strong language. Let him be accursed. For am I now seeking the approval of man or of God? Because we're talking about the gospel here. And if there's someone that's preaching a different gospel, I don't care if he's an angel from heaven, let him be accursed Or am I trying to please man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ. And Paul says, if I were trying to please man, would I really have this many bruises on my back? Would I really have this many stripes on my back? We minister to please God. It is his gospel. It is his message. Therefore, we need to be careful to make sure we do not soften his message What does Paul mean by that? He means that by being a servant of Christ He had made himself the enemy of men. If he were to try to choose the path of least resistance, he would never have continued in the ministry and faced the beatings and the oppositions that he did. But his focus was not on men, but on God. Ministering in the sight of God, you might say, that's terrifying. That's terrible. There is an element of terror in it, but there is also something that's invigorating about it. It gave him focus to his life and ministry because now I'm not trying to please 50 different people. I'm trying to please one person, God. I need to worry about what God says in his word. I need to proclaim what God says, not what everyone wants to hear. What's important is what God says. Having his heart fixed on being found approved by God in the execution of his gospel ministry enabled him to endure these trials. God is pleased. God is God is is glorified By my faithfulness, and even by the endurance of these beatings. He says in 2 Corinthians chapter 2, For we are not like so many, peddlers of God's word. But as men of sincerity, as commissioned by God in the sight of God, we speak in Christ. It says, we have been commissioned by God Himself. We minister in the sight of God. And therefore, we minister boldly. The Bible says the fear of man lays a snare. When you look, you say, I don't want to tell her this. She's not going to like this. She's going to be angry with me if I tell her this. That's the fear of man. The fear of man brings a snare. But whoever trusts in the Lord is safe. God calls us to trust in him to do our ministry in whatever sphere we have been given ministry in the sight of God, as those who have been commissioned by God. So we have here these four aspects of gospel ministry that are brought out in these four verses. One, it is not done in vain It is done with a clear purpose. It is done with a clear goal in mind and to preach the gospel faithfully. It is characterized by boldness. It refuses to employ ungodly tactics, and it is done with an audience of one. May God help us to do this in our lives, in the ministries that He has given us. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the example of Paul and Silas and Timothy and their faithfulness to endure. I pray you'd help us to face persecutions, trials , offenses, that we might do the ministry you've given us with boldness. with purpose, with an audience of one in the sight of God. And Lord, I pray that we would not employ false tactics or false motives. But that we would do so in purity for the sake of our Savior Jesus Christ. And it's in his name we pray. Amen.