If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Luke chapter 15 I guess we find ourselves sort of with a series within a series. I've been doing a series on the parables of Jesus. But we've slowed down a little bit in this most famous of parables. The parable of the prodigal son is found as the third and culminating parable in Luke 15. Over 30 years ago, a newspaper newspaper in the Midwest carried the story of an Al Johnson, a Kansas man, who came to faith in Jesus Christ. What made his story remarkable was not his conversion, but the fact that as a result of his newfound faith, he confessed to a bank robbery he had participated in when he was 19 years old. Because of the statute of limitations had run out. Johnson could not be prosecuted for the offense. Still he believed because of his relationship with Christ. demanded a confession and reparations, and so he voluntarily repaid his share of the stolen money True repentance results in a real change. This morning we return to the parable of a prodigal son. Which I believe and many others do as well to be the greatest short story ever told This parable, of course, was given along with two briefer parables. In response to a challenge of the Pharisees, they couldn't understand why Jesus gave his time and attention to notorious sinners. And so the Lord responds by telling them of the lost sheep and the lost silver and the lost sun. And the reason why Jesus gave so much attention to lost sinners is because God delights in graciously saving repentant sinners. In each of these parables, the emphasis is on the joy of the Father when a lost sinner repents. Now, in the parable of the prodigal son, we have a powerful representation of those notorious sinners that Jesus was ministering to. And they are represented by the first of those sons, the prodigal. And then the portrait of the Pharisees. is very accurately displayed in his depiction of the older brother who stood outside the house during that time of celebration. This is really a story told in two Acts. Last week we looked at the fall of the younger brother, how he went from being a nobleman's son to To a man who was struggling to survive and was tempted to eat the slop of the pigs. This prodigal selfishly took his inheritance and went to the far country, and he threw away his money on sensual pleasures and worthless companions. And soon he finds himself penniless feeding the swine and near starvation. This morning I want us to focus on the turning point in the story. If you ever studied literature in high school or college, you may recall analyzing stories and identifying the central turning point of the narrative. In this story of the prodigal son, that moment is expressed in the initial phrase that is found in verse 17. Look with me at verse 17. It says, And when he came to himself. What exactly is this expressing? Doctrinally, we would call this repentance. Repentance is one of three truths that are woven through the fabric of these three parables. I mentioned this in the first two parables. If you look with me at verse 7, Jesus said, I say unto you, likewise, joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth. And then if you look at verse 10, he says, again, I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth. Now, when we come to the parable of the prodigal son, we do not find the term repentance there. But instead, we have a beautiful picture of what true repentance looks like. The first two parables in this chapter depict God's work in seeking sinners. We read of the shepherd seeking the lost sheep and the desperate woman looking for her lost coin. But in this last parable, we do not have so much a picture of God's work and salvation. We instead have a realistic depiction of man's response to God's gracious work in the human heart. You see, in the first two parables, we could hardly expect the sheep and the lost coin to provide a picture of repentance. But this lost son reveals the essential traits of true repentance. I want to remind you. That God saves only one kind of sinner, and that is repentant sinners. My question for you this morning is, have you repented of your sin? Jesus said, Except you repent You will all likewise perish. Let me be clear. Repentance does not earn our salvation. It is not a work. It is not a series of things that we do. to atone for our sin. No, nothing but the blood of Jesus can atone for our sins. But repentance And saving faith are always found together and are the essential conditions for every true conversion. But how could a person know if they have truly repented of their sin? Well, that's what we find in our passage this morning. I want us to look at the marks of true repentance. Would you notice with me, first of all, that a person who truly repents recognizes that they are under the judgment of God? I want to back up To verse 15 in our narrative this morning. It says of this younger son, and when he joined himself to a citizen of that country, he sent him into his fields to feed swine. And he would fain have filled his belly with the husk that the swine did eat, and no man gave unto him. And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father have bread enough and despair, and I perish with hunger? So, how does God bring stubborn, sinful people to repentance? Well, one of the most common ways that God does this is by bringing hardship and suffering and difficulty into their lives to allow them to have a taste of the consequences of their sinful choices. This young man, I want you to notice, did not turn to God right away. When he ran out of money, that would have been a wise thing for him to do. The logical thing for him to do when he ran out of all of his funds would have been to go immediately home. But he had no desire to go home. Why do you suppose he didn't want to go home? Now our text doesn't say this, but I suspect it's because He didn't want to make his father feel like he was right. Isn't that often what keeps us from reconciling in relationships? and other things. If I go back, I will be saying, Dad, you were right and I was wrong. And no young man wants to say something like that or make that admission. And so he's going to stay in the far country. Perhaps he convinces himself I'm a survivor, I can get through this, I can figure this out. I am going to prove to my family and to my friends that I don't need my Father's help, that I can live independently of him. And so it says he joined himself to a citizen of that far country, the idea being that this was a Gentile. And the word joined, I mentioned to you last week, means literally that he glued himself to them. Speaks of desperation. If you've ever visited a third world country, you will likely encounter very aggressive beggars in the airport and on the streets. They will press right up against you. They will come right up into your face. And they will not take no for an answer. They will keep asking. They will keep following you. They will walk with you as you walk along. This is often true, especially of young people. That's the approach the prodigal was taking. He was a desperate man who was taking the only option that he knew for survival. He was not someone who was just trying to panhandle, perhaps as often would more often happen in our country He was just trying to find enough food to keep him from starvation. It was a matter of life and death. And finally, the citizen of the country who apparently has some wealth. Does not have, it has the means to weather out this famine. He has enough resources in time that he hires this man. Now I want you to notice, I skipped over this part, but in verse 14 it mentions that just as his money ran out, a famine came into the land. Do you think that was a coincidence? I assure you that Jesus' original hearers who heard him first tell this parable would have instantly have thought that's the judgment of God. When a famine comes, it's because God is judging those people. That's universally how it would have been understood. And when there was famine in the ancient world. Large portions of the population would starve to death. We have no idea here in the United States of America of the fear and the panic and the desperation that can fall over a large portion of the population when a famine occurs. They already are living hand to mouth, and now this year there will be no harvest. What would you do if the grocery stores were all empty? If you could grow nothing in your fields because of weather or some pest that has infiltrated the area, what would you do? You would be absolutely desperate. That was the situation like this. There were no jobs. Nobody was hiring. Everyone was just trying to survive. And so this is how this young man. has figured out he is going to survive. He is going to stay with this man who has some means by whatever means he can. But it's clear from this passage that this wealthy man has no regard for this young Jewish man. In fact, I suspect that he knew that he was Jewish, and he intentionally sent him to do something that he knew would be distasteful to him. Because everybody in the ancient world knew that the Jews despised pigs. And so he gives them the job, perhaps just to amuse himself. He could find a hundred other young men to do it To go out and to feed the swine. And this man was so desperate that he did not say no to this. He went out. And I suspect that this wealthy man was amused by this. In verse 16, we come to the absolute lowest point. in his life, and he would fain have filled his belly with the husk that the swine did eat, and no man gave unto him. The idea of that last phrase, which is the culmination of his degradation, is that he and and and living with the swine and feeding them and so forth. He was so dirty and so filthy and so smelly that even the Gentiles wanted nothing to do with them. When he walked down their streets Starving, perhaps even begging, people went to the other side because he almost didn't appear completely in his right mind or completely human. Sometimes, sometimes you will see homeless people who have been out in the elements and have been so exposed and they've been riddled with other health issues and problems that they uh the their very features begin to be changed and and and people avoid them Because they're dirty and they're smelly. That's the way people were treating this young man. But I want you to know that this famine was God 's kindness in leading him to repentance. You see, even though this rebel went to the far country, he couldn't run away from God. So finally we come. He comes to the right conclusion at the end of verse 17. He finally comes to this realization, I perish with hunger. He realized that he could not continue in the path he was going or he would die. And perhaps he thought, if I'm ever going to have enough strength and energy to walk home, I've got to go now because in a few days I won't be able to make that journey. He has come to a crisis point of decision. The Bible teaches that the way of the transgressor is hard. And we have this universal law: whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. This young man had sown to his flesh, and now he was reaping the devastating harvest. God graciously brings us to the end of our resources so that we will turn to Him. Not everyone who is saved. Comes to the point of starvation. But everyone who is truly converted comes to realize that they are lost and that they are under the judgment of God. And if they do not turn to God, they will perish eternally. John 3. 36 says, He that believeth on the Son will has everlasting life, and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him I want you to know that if you're here this morning and you're without Christ, that according to that verse, right now at this very moment, the wrath of God is abiding on you. You are under his sentence of condemnation. You are guilty before God, and you are one heartbeat away from perishing eternally. Now maybe that sounds like nonsense to you. I want you to know until you come to really believe that and understand that, you will never be saved. And you can never come home. The first step to coming home to God is to recognize that you're in the far country. The second thing I want you to see as a characteristic of true repentance is that a person who truly repents has a change of mind. The key phrase, which is the hinge of this story, is when he came to himself in verse 17. We might put that this way today. We might say he came to his senses. This implies two important truths. First of all, that he was ignorant of himself Just as this young man did not understand his father, he didn't really know himself either. This is true of all the those who are lost. They ultimately don't know who they are. They don't understand why they keep making the same stupid mistakes and bad choices in life. Have you ever talked to people like this? They just make one bad decision after another, after another, after another, and every time they come out of it, they say, now I'm going to go straight. But then they make another bad decision and after a while they say, I don't understand why keep doing this It's because you're lost, that's why. They don't know why they're here on earth. They don't know what their purpose in life is. We have the second inference here. It suggests that people who are lost are suffering from some type of delusion or blindness. And the Bible confirms this. The scriptures say that Satan, or the God of this world, has blinded them to the light of the gospel, to the beauty of Christ. This is everyone's natural state apart from God's grace. They are blind. They are living in a fantasy world. They don't see reality as it truly is. The irony is that people in the world look at Christians like us and they say, you people are living in a fantasy world. But actually, Christians who have the Word of God as our lens through which we look at life, we see reality as it truly is, they are the ones who are living a delusion. For the prodigal, the lights finally come on. The Greek word for repentance literally means a change of mind It expresses an internal change that affects every aspect of a person's life. And we see this in this story. This young man has a change of mind about himself. At one time he thought he was so clever and resourceful. He thought he had life all figured out. He had no time to hear the advice of his father or the elders in the village because they were all fools. But suddenly now he comes to the realization that he is the one who has been a fool all along. He's not okay. He doesn't have it all figured out. He's about to die in a far country. And so he comes to the conclusion I perish with hunger. He comes to see that he is hopeless and helpless. And that is where a person must come if they are going to be saved. This young man realizes that if he doesn't make a drastic change, he will perish. He also has A change of mind about his father. Of course, his father is representative in the story of God. The prodigal left home. He couldn't wait to get away from his father. He viewed his father as repressive and strict and a roadblock to his happiness. But now in his desperation, he begins to think more clearly about his dad. And as he reflects over his past life, what does he remember about his father? He remembers that his father is a good and generous man. His father's Hired servants were not like most hired servants who barely had enough to survive. You have to understand that in this day and age they had no minimum wage, they had no protection. A wealthy man could pay his employees whatever he wanted. And because there were so many people who were just trying to eke out a living, you could get an employee to work for you for next to nothing. But that's not the way the prodigal's father was. He gave his men a good wage And I suspect that everyone in that village wanted to work for the prodigal's father, because they all knew that he was a good man. His father's servants had an abundance of food, and right now, as he's starving, his mind is fixated on food. When he left home, he viewed his father as an old foolish man who stood in the way of him having fun. And in the far country, he lived as if his father did not exist , as he was living a wild life of parting and dissipation. I suspect he never gave a thought to his father. He lived the life, we might say, of a practical atheist. The Bible says in Romans chapter 3, the culmination. of that description of lost is this, there is no fear of God before their eyes But now he views his father in a different light. His father is a good and gracious man and perhaps a forgiving man. And so he begins to think that maybe his father would even have pity on him and allow him to do some work, just enough work there To keep him from starving to death. That is his only hope. And then we see that this man has a change of mind about his sin. This change, of course, is reflected in his confession. But I want to cover this under our next points, and that is a person who truly repents confesses their sin. Look with me at verses 18 and 19. This is what he's thinking in his mind as he prepares to go home. I will arise and go to my father, and I will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before thee. and am no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants. Now let's remember who's telling the story. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus is providing for us here a classic confession of sin. This is what true confession should look like. Whether we as Christians are confessing To God, the sin in our lives, whether we're confessing to an authority in our lives, or whether, as a lost person who's coming to Christ, this is the kind of confession that reveals the change of heart I want you to notice some elements that are missing in this confession that are often found in our confessions. Notice that his confession of sin does not contain any blame shifting. The prodigal doesn't say, sorry, Dad, but you know I was hanging out with the wrong crowd, and they pulled me down. That's not what he says. Notice he doesn't minimize his sin. He doesn't say, What's all the fuss about? So I blew some money. It's not like I killed somebody or something. He doesn't blame his dad. He doesn't say, Dad, if you weren't so strict, I would never have rebelled and run away to the far country. He didn't say something like, I was wrong, but so were you. No, he takes full responsibility for his actions And notice he doesn't just regret the consequences of the sin. He's not crying about all the money that he's blown or the weight that he's lost. No, he is bothered about his sin. Look at the positive characteristics of true confession of sin. Did you notice that he views his sin primarily as being against God? He says, I've sinned against heaven. What does that mean? Well, the Jews had an aversion to using the name of God, and so often they would find substitutes, and here he uses heaven as a substitute for God. This is the same spirit that we find in David's great Psalm of Repentance, Psalm 51, where he says, Against thee and thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight. So often in our confessions of sin and our thinking about sin, we think about who does sin hurts All right, if I hurt my parents, I should say I'm sorry to them. If I hurt someone that I stole from or sinned against or slandered their name, I should confess to them. We think of sin only on a horizontal level, but ultimately sin is against God's. And that's what we must recall. That's what is found in our true confessions of sin. And notice the spirit of humility and brokenness that accompanies his confession. In verse 19, he says, I'm no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants. He doesn't return home demanding his rights as a son. That's how he left. He said, Give me my inheritance. It's my rights. But now when he returns, there's no mention of rights. He essentially says, I don't even deserve to be here. I don't deserve to live here. I don't deserve to be your son. I have forfeited any rights that I have. He doesn't even request to be a servant in the household. Sometimes people get this confused. The term hired servant in verse 19 refers to a day laborer. who received minimal payments with no expectation of steady work. Often those who were this kind of a worker in this culture were homeless. You see, the prodigal is not even asking for his old room back. He's not asking to be a servant in the household. He's not asking to live in the servants' quarters. He says, I don't deserve any of that. The prodigal is simply asking his father if he will provide him enough work that would save his life. This is the kind of broken spirit that secures God 's pardon. Jesus said in the Beatitudes, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. You see, when you're truly broken over your sin, you come before God like a beggar. Notice the prodigal doesn't come home negotiating terms with his father. He doesn't say, Listen, I'll come home, dad. But I'm not accepting any curfew from you. And every Friday night I'm going to go out partying with my friends, okay? That's my terms. There's nothing like that in his words. You see, repentant sinners come to God with no leverage, no demands, no sense of entitlement. They come with empty hands and a broken heart. And we should realize that even our repentance is not something that has earned our favor with God. God is not counting the number of your tears or your words of remorse. God does not forgive us because he's impressed with our repentance. No, he forgives us because of what Christ has done for us at the cross. However, only those who come broken and repentant are forgiven. God will save a sinner, but he will not save a rebel who persists in his rebellion against God, because that person has not had their heart turned toward him. So what are the marks of true repentance? A person who repents recognizes that they're under the judgment of God. They experience a change of mind. They genuinely confess their sin. But fourthly, I want you to see that a person who truly repents returns In verse 18 he says, I will arise and go to my father. And then in the first phrase in verse 20, which we read together this morning, he says, it says, And he arose and came to to his father. This is not technically repentance, but it is the inevitable fruit of repentance. The Hebrew word in the Old Testament that is most often used to reflect the English term repentance means to turn or return. Our English word conversion. is the closest parallel to that. What do we mean when it says that a person has been converted? We mean that they have turned They were walking one way before, but now they have turned around and they're walking in the other direction. They were walking toward the world, but now they have come and they're walking toward God. You see, before the prodigal son could return to his father, he had to turn his back on the pig trough. You can't enjoy the pig trough and the comfort of the father's house. Before this young man could go home, he had to leave the far country. There have always been some people, false teachers, and some that are just confused. And many today, I fear, that are trying to find ways where a person can enjoy the pig trough and the father's house at the same time. Where they can enjoy the sin of the world, but the assurance that they are children of God, they want to have them both, they want to have their cake and eat it too. The Bible is clear from cover to cover that that cannot be done. That is a delusion. You have to turn from your sin and you have to turn to God's. Let me make some clarifications about genuine repentance. First of all, biblical repentance means more than feeling sorry for your sin. It is good for you to feel sorry for your sin. It's a wonderful sign when a person is so broken over their sin that they cry tears. But I have had over the years, I'm sad to say, many people come into my office and cry a river of tears, but who continued in their sin and refused to do what was right. Often those tears are tears of regret and remorse for the people they have hurt and for the dire consequences that have come into their life because of their sin. They don't like the consequences of their sin. They don't like the health problems that they have and the family problems that they have and other issues that have arisen in their life because of their sinful choices. They regret those consequences, but they still will not turn from their sin. And so we must not assume that just because someone has sorrow, they have repented. In 2 Corinthians chapter 7, the Apostle Paul speaks of a sorrow that works repentance not to be repented of, a true repentance that remains. Secondly, biblical repentance means more than regretting the choices that you have made. The Bible gives us several pictures of individuals who regretted their course of action, who might say, you know, if I had to do over again, I would have done something different. But yet those individuals did not truly repent. Let me explain We read of Judas Iscariot, who betrayed the Lord Jesus Christ for thirty pieces of silver. That was not his only motivation, but it was one of them. And we see when he returns back to the temple and he tosses those silver coins down into the temple precincts, he regrets what he has done, he realizes he has made a horrible mistake. He hates his sin. He hates the fact that the most loving, the most kind, the most upright human being he has ever known in his life is the man that he has betrayed to his death. That idea haunted him. He hated his sin. He came to despise it. But what did Judas fail to do? He didn't turn to God. There's a sense in which he turned from his sin, but he didn't turn to God's. He didn't come to God's. He didn't repent. He didn't cry out for mercy and forgiveness. And said the despair was so great that he took his own life. He regretted his sin. But he didn't return to God's. Biblical repentance, thirdly , means more than simply acknowledging your sin. Sometimes people think that if I verbalize my wrong, that's all there is to repentance. That is the key part of it. Don't misunderstand me. It is good for you. It is right. It is essential that you own up to your sin, as I've been saying, that you say, I was wrong. I should not have done this. There's something when we actually articulate our wrong and our sin that makes it seem more real to us than we just keep it in our heads. And when we have sinned and wrong against others, it is so powerful a tool in reconciliation for us to own up to our transgressions and to voice those things to people. However, it is possible for a person to say a few words and yet not have really a change of hearts. You remember Pharaoh during the ten plagues, the most powerful man on the planet at that time, that God broke with those plagues? Pharaoh at one point says, I have sinned. That's a good thing to say. He says, I have sinned. But had Pharaoh really repented? No. Saul, the first king of Israel, said to the prophet, I have sinned. But Saul did not change his course of life And Judas Iscariot had this confession. He said, I've sinned and that I betrayed innocent blood. But Judas came short of full repentance. All these men verbally acknowledged their sin, but they did not forsake their sin and seek the Lord. So let me ask you this morning, have you truly repented of your sin? Have you left the far country and come home to the Father? I want to make some concluding applications this morning. The first one is this, we must include repentance. in our presentations of the gospel. It's very easy when we share the gospel with people. With a sincere intention that they be converted, that we water it down so that we fail to really mention sin. Or we pass over it so quickly because we know it could be awkward. We know it could be disturbing. We know it's going to probably turn them off. And so we really don't talk about the fact that salvation involves a turning from your sin and a turning to God. In fact, we just mention it as the reception of a gift. And indeed, the Bible does speak of salvation as the reception of a gift. But you can only receive that gift. If your hands have let go of the idols of your life, you can't pick up that great gift of salvation when your hands are still cluttered with these idols that you're clinging to and you refuse to let go. And so it's important that in our presentations of the gospel, we emphasize the importance of turning from their sin and turning to God. Secondly We should look for the fruits of repentance in those who are being discipled. It's very common and very often occurs in our circles that we conclude that if a person makes a profession of faith That they are automatically a child of God and that our work is essentially done. But that is not what the scripture teaches. The fact is, they need constant reinforcement and encouragement to walk with God. And if they produce those signs of spiritual life, then you must go back and carefully teach them the gospel once more. I think this is an important thing, especially for our parents to keep in mind. And I understand this is a parent. Every Christian parent wants their children to be born again. That of course goes without saying, and that is a noble thing. And I do believe that children can come to Christ at a young age. I don't want you to misunderstand me. But I do know that if I were to bring up most of the young people in this church that have been raised in Christian homes and have them give their testimony, it would go something like this. When I was four or five years old, I made a profession of faith. But then when I was thirteen or fourteen, I realized that I didn't really mean it, or I didn't understand it, or I'd never repented of my sin, and I came to put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. If I had a dollar for every time I've heard that testimony, I'd be a wealthy man. You may say, well, what's the harm in like pressuring them and Strongly exhorting them to be saved at a very, very young age. The problem is that you might be picking unripe fruit And they might go the rest of their life thinking they're a child of God, even though they're living like the devil, because my mom said that when I was four years old I was saved. And so I think we have to be careful as parents, and we have to kind of restrain ourselves from getting our children to make a decision that makes us feel better. When in fact they may not be ready. They may not fully understand. They may not really grasp the gospel. Number three , we see in the prodigal's response that salvation involved a true moment of conversion in one's life. I bring this up often, and I have to be careful because I don't want to unduly trouble some of God's people. Some people have dramatic conversions like the Apostle Paul that they will never forget. Remember the Apostle Paul on his road to Damascus and that great light and a voice from heaven? No one Paul never had to wonder. I wonder when I was saved. Oh, he knew exactly when he was saved. He tells about it in Acts chapter 9 and 22 and 26, giving his testimony. Some people have conversions like that, and that is what we see here, of course, in the conversion of the prodigal son. But some Christians have a more gradual response to the gospel, especially those who might grow up under the sound of the gospel from their infancy. And many Christians, many Christians here, cannot give you a date as to when they were born again. And they feel sometimes a little intimidated by Christians who can who have the date written in the front of their Bible. Tell everyone about it. The important thing is that you can profess that you're different than you used to be. Because you may not know exactly when it happened, and it may happen more gradually, but the fact is you should be different than you used to be spiritually. There was a time when you were blind, but now you see. There was a time when you were walking in darkness, but you're no longer walking in darkness. There was a time in which you didn't really believe, but now you do believe. I often use this illustration. If you go to many third world countries, and pardon me for saying this, but I spent four years of my childhood in the third world country, and what was amazing to me is you go up to people And asked them how old they were, and they didn't know. Because in their culture you didn't keep track of your birth date. And they really didn't know how old they were. It doesn't mean they're not alive. And so they're like some people who can't tell you. I can't tell you exactly when I was saved. But I know I'm alive because I'm breathing. Because I'm trusting. Because I'm repenting because I'm walking with God 's So do you have the vital signs of spiritual life today that would indicate, though you may not know exactly when, that somewhere In the past, you went from darkness to light. You went from being dead in your trespasses and sin to having new life in Christ And you might be here this morning and nothing like that has ever happened in your life. You haven't really changed There hasn't been a hinge point in your life like there was with this young man that's mentioned in verse 17, and he came to himself, where his understanding of everything changed in a moment of time. I 've exhort you, if you're just like you've always been, that you should seek the Lord while he may be found. And finally, my final application is this. We should remember that our salvation is not the end of our repentance, but only the beginning. I was really not taught this growing up. Some truths are emphasized by some generations When some truths are kind of buried by some generations. It's always been that way in the history of the church. I thought, and I think many of you may think, that repentance is something you do when you're saved, and you never have to do it again. But that's not true. You see, our heart so quickly turns back to the far country. And we have to keep reminding ourselves of who we are, of who Christ is, of who our Father is And coming back into full fellowship with Him. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. We don't get saved again and again But we continually confess and repent our sin to maintain that close fellowship with God. Now there are some of you here this morning that if the truth were known, you would have to say that you are absolutely miserable. I heard this many years ago when I was a teenager. It's always stuck with me. I've never forgotten it. I believe it is true. And this preacher said the most miserable human being on the earth is someone, is a Christian who is living out of fellowship with God. They're like stuck between the far country and the father's home. They're not enjoying the sin of the far country because the Spirit of God dwells within them and they can't really. Indulge in that. But they're not enjoying the fellowship of the Father either, because they're in between, they're in that wilderness in between the far country and the Father's house. And I wonder how many people here this morning would think to say to yourself, yep, that's me. And maybe you've believed, like so many people do, well, God, I failed God so many times that he's not going to invite me back into his home. And so I'm just going to stay out here in the wilderness and fend for myself. But the whole point of this parable and of these three parables is that God delights to graciously forgive repentant sinners. That's what we must take away from this. My exhortation, my plea for you this morning, if that is you. is that you come to the Father's house broken over your sin and he will receive you His arms are extended to those who desire his fellowship. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father How desperately we need you. How quickly we cling to our idols and distance ourselves from you. And believe the lies of Satan. Oh Father, keep us from his delusions. Keep us, Father, anchored in the truth that is revealed. And your word. Help us, Father, to be a people who dwell in the Father's house and enjoy that blessed fellowship. of knowing that we are rightly related with you. I pray, Lord, for those here this morning who have never been Change to have never come to a place of conversion in their life I pray that they would come to be saved today. And Father, for those who are here who are still living in the far country, living oblivious of you and of your will, I pray that you would bring them to the end of themselves. They might not perish eternally. And Father, for your children who are living in that miserable state between the world and the Father's house, I pray that today they would flee to you in repentance. And in the belief that you will receive them because you delight to receive sinful men and women. I pray, Father, that you would work in our midst this morning, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.