We are in First Thessalonians again, and I had really envisioned these last ten verses going much more quickly than they have. After all, they're just like three-word verses. How hard can they be? But they are rather uh significant uh statements. And so they are taking more time than I anticipated Uh we're going through the finishing up the book of First Thessalonians probably in the next I'd said in the next two weeks about two weeks ago, and so now I'm saying in the next two weeks we should be finishing up the book of First Thessalonians. So it's going a little bit uh more more slowly than I had had thought it would. But if you remember, our memory verses that we're working on come out of the last chapter of First Thessalonians verses nine through eleven. And would you join me in standing while we say these through together just to impress them deep in our hearts before we finish up this book? We'll say the reference in the verse through twice. 1 Thessalonians 5, 9 through 11. For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us. so that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with him. Therefore, encourage one another and build one another up, just as you are doing. If you remember how we broke down the book, and as we've been going through it, it has two main divisions. The first three chapters are backwards looking at the ministry of the Apostle Paul. uh to the Thessalonians and the way the Thessalonians received the gospel. They turned from worshipping idols to serving the living and true God and to wait for his son from heaven. Their lives were radically transformed. They endured persecution and suffering. And the Apostle Paul and Silas and Timothy and their ministry among them ministered selflessly to them. working with their hands, setting an example for them of how believers ought to act. And the whole book of Thessalonians is really filled with thankfulness. There is this overarching theme of thankfulness for the work that God has done and the transformation that He has brought about in their lives. The second half of the book of 1 Thessalonians, the last two chapters, is forward-focused, looking forward to the return of Christ and encouraging them in light of the imminent return of Christ. to grow in faith, hope, and love, to have their lives transformed by this hope. And so the theme of the book of 1 Thessalonians is continue to grow in faith, hope, and love in light of Christ's imminent return. Now last week we we began these really brief but significant verses beginning in verse 15 and 16, and we we finished up before we got to verse 17. I intended to get all the way through verse 18. But it begins in verse fifteen, it says, See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always seek to do good to one another and to everyone. Rejoice always. Pray without ceasing. Give thanks in all circumstances. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus And if you remember, when I we were going through this, we said that these three commands here that are r rather short, rejoice always, pray without ceasing, give thanks in all circumstances, they are all governed by this final phrase. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. It is the will of God for all believers to rejoice always. It is the will of God for all believers to pray without ceasing. And it is the will of God for all believers to give thanks in all circumstances. This is what is pleasing to God. And we finished before we could get to verse 17, so we're going to pick it up there. And I really have desire, I should say, to get down to verse 22, but that's just not gonna happen. I just know that's not gonna happen, so I'm setting myself up for certain expectations here. But the notes that you have this evening really begin not in verses 17 and 18, but beginning in verse 19. The notes for set for the beginning of tonight actually were what we looked at, what we handed out last week. But we have in verse 17 the responsibility for Christians to pray without ceasing. I don't know if you've ever thought about that command. I'm sure you have. If you've been a Christian for any length of time, you've probably heard sermons on that or read it and thought, how does one do this? How does one pray without ceasing? What does it mean to pray without ceasing? How how am I to pray without ceasing when I'm at work and I've got a a meeting and my my boss is barking at me? How do I pray without ceasing? How do I pray without ceasing For our teenagers when they're at school and they're taking a geometry test, maybe before the test, but in the test, how do they pray without ceasing in the midst of the the the mental demand? How do I pray without ceasing when I go to bed? How do I pray without ceasing in in in all aspects of my life? So I think it's important for us to recognize that it obviously doesn't mean that we are to always be in the posture of prayer or in the act of We'll see that that is the case. There's reasons to think that. But James warns the believer saying, you don't have because you don't ask. You ask and don't receive because you ask wrongly to spend it on your passions. I think there's a real serious problem with with the church in general that we don't have the power of God in our lives. We don't have answers to prayer. in many reasons because we we don't ask. We don't believe that that prayer is vitally important. So what does it mean to be in this praying without ceasing? I think first of all it means that there is a spirit of dependence. That must control our lives, that we are dependent upon God to work. The reason we don't pray, I think, often, is because we really don't believe that we're utterly dependent on God. When we don't pray, we are making a statement by our lack of action that we really don't believe that we need God. We can handle this on our own. I got this day. So I'm just going to not pray. I've got these issues. And sometimes we we turn to prayer when things get out of control and we realize we can't handle it. But so often we don't pray because we don't really believe that we need the power of God. If I witness carefully and if I know all the techniques, then people will get saved. If I do my child rearing right, my children will grow up well. If I do this and this, then I will get the the right result. But the fact is, we are utterly dependent on God in all these areas. Have you ever tried to witness to someone and you had all the right techniques and you had all the right arguments and it fell flat. Because it was powerless. You know that experience. I know that experience. In a similar way, if you're a parent and you've been brought low in your parenting because You realize that all the techniques in the world don't change a heart of a child. You're desperate for God to do what only God can do. Jesus taught us to abide in him because apart from him we can do nothing. So praying without ceasing, first of all, it means to live In a spirit of dependence, to have that spirit of dependence on God permeating our lives. Even when we are not consciously praying to God, we are spiritually in the attitude of complete dependence on God. Secondly, I believe to pray without ceasing means praying repeatedly and praying often. The word without ceasing. is used in Romans chapter 1, verse 9. And it helps us get an idea of what Paul means by this word. He says For God is my witness whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of His Son, that without ceasing I mention you, meaning the Romans Paul says, without ceasing I mention you. Does that mean that Paul is always praying for the Romans at every moment of every day of his life? No, obviously not. We know that because he talks about praying for the Thessalonians and he talks about praying for the Philippians and the Colossians. So we know he doesn't mean that he's praying for the Romans at every moment of every day of his life. And that's a pretty obvious assumption here. Paul is saying that he prayed for them repeatedly and regularly. And often they were a regular part of his prayer life. So in a similar way, we are to pray regularly, not just at mealtimes, but a regular and consistent Time of prayer. To pray without ceasing means that we have a devoted focus on prayer in our lives. So that we pray regularly, we pray often, we pray consistently. We are dedicated to prayer. And thirdly, I think it means to not give up on prayer, to not give up in our praying. Do you remember when Jesus told that parable in Luke 18? And Luke gives the bottom line up front. He says he told them this parable to the effect that men ought always to pray and not lose heart. And then he tells the story of And she repeatedly came to the unjust judge demanding justice, demanding justice. And I n having lived in a village setting, I know exactly I can see this happening where the village Judge is there and the lady is finding him at every possibility, embarrassing him in front of the other people because she does not relent in coming to him. Every day she is there, every opportunity she has To bring her case to him, to her finally he relents. And this is an illustration, it's a parable, to the effect that we ought always to pray. And not to lose heart. We ought not to lose heart in praying when it takes time. Because God, first of all, delights to answer his prayer, is what he says in that parable. God is not like that unjust judge. And God knows best, but he delights in us being dependent on him. I think to some degree what this means is that when God lays something on your heart to pray for, then don't stop praying for it until God either removes that from your heart. Or he answers it. If God lays a person on your heart to pray for, continue to pray for them until God takes that burden away, says, okay, I am doing something else here. Or till he answers. And it means don't ever come to the point in your life where you cease to pray. To pray without ceasing. is don't abandon the hope of prayer. Men ought always to pray. We ought always to pray and not to lose heart. And it's when things look hopeless that we are most dependent, and we must not give up on praying. So, how do we pray without ceasing? Just a few practical Pieces of advice. You don't have to do this first one, but I think it's it's a good idea, it's good practice, and there's biblical examples of it. Start your day with prayer. Start your day. The first thing you do with prayer. Make it the priority. In Psalm 5, David says, O Lord, in the morning you hear my voice. In the morning I prepare a sacrifice for you and watch. David as a king. He had a lot of responsibility. But he said, in the morning I make my priority to watch for you. You hear my prayer in the morning. It's a good start to the day as we begin to focus our mind on praying without ceasing, continually having a relationship with God of dependence upon Him. Secondly, have a dedicated time of prayer. I think it's a very important practice. You can look at the life of Daniel, you can look at the life of David. They had dedicated times of praying every day. Daniel prayed three times a day. Towards Jerusalem. It was his dedicated practice. Having a dedicated time of prayer where you come before God and bring your request to him. And and schedules change and it might not look the same for everyone. But having a dedicated time of daily prayer, I think, is vitally important. Thirdly, when you don't know what to do, Pray. When you come to an event in the day and you're like, I don't know what to do, the first thing that we should be doing in that moment is pray. When blessings come. Unexpected or anticipated. Pray and thank God. Commune with God continually throughout the blessings and challenges of the day. When you face temptation. Pray and ask God for strength to do what is His will. And then turn your thoughts into dialogue with God. Turn your thoughts into dialogue with God. One of this is one of the more transformative approaches to ceaseless prayer that I have been trying to grow in in my life. We all have this interior monologue that goes on in our in our heads. Sometimes we're arguing with our boss in our heads or a co-worker. We're having this he says this, I'm gonna respond like this. We have this this interior monologue that's going on. And sometimes sometimes it's it's not even interior. Sometimes it gets exterior. Uh w that happens. But focus on turning your monologue into a A dialogue with God where you are praying to God and you are listening to his voice and his word, there's a beautiful opportunity to invite the Lord into those thoughts. So that they are transformed into a conversation with him. Lord, I know I'm going to be dealing with my coworker that's very difficult here later today. Help me to be able to respond in the Spirit. If he says something like this, help me to have a response that will glorify you and that will that will bring down the temperature in the room. Lord, help me in this situation coming up. Lord, I want to glorify you, turning our thoughts into a conversation with God is one of the ways that we can begin to fulfill this command of praying without ceasing. Simple, simple verse. Pray without ceasing. But it is transformative when we labor to practice this. Secondly, here, Christians are called to give thanks in all circumstances. I mentioned already this evening that Paul in his letter to the Thessalonians was filled with thankfulness. When he wrote to the Thessalonians, he said we give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers. I mean that's that's pretty significant. We give thanks to God Always for all of you. Not just most of you. We give thanks to God for some of you, and others were like, oh wow. No, we give thanks to God always for all of you. He was thankful. And doubtlessly there were trouble people and difficult people in the church in Thessalonica, but he gave thanks. Consistently. In 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verse 4, he says, I give thanks to my God always for you because of the grace of God that was given you in Christ Jesus. Now, we know the Corinthians. They're they're like the the problem child of the New Testament. They're they're the ones that you know they're the ones that the Apostle Paul lost sleep uh about throughout the night. You know, when when things were were When he was up at night thinking, he's like, what is going on in Corinth? They were the ones that he loved, but they were also full of challenges and problems and issues within the church. But notice he says, I give thanks to my God always. For you, because of the grace of God that was given you in Christ Jesus. That just tells you that he was a thankful person. In Ephesians, he says in verse one chapter one, he says, I do not cease to give thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers. So Paul was filled with thanksgiving. We could multiply those over and over and over again. So Paul didn't preach one thing and then practice a different thing. He preached and he practiced the same thing. When he says, give thanks in all circumstances, he did. The question is, do we give thanks for all events? What does it mean to give thanks in all circumstances? Do we give thanks for evil events? Are we supposed to give thanks for sin? What is the extent of this command? Have you ever wondered that? These are commands that that if you're not careful you could go too far into a dangerous area, but there is a place where these commands are significantly instructive for us. G. K. Beale explained it this way, true, we do not thank God for bad events narrowly viewed in and of themselves. I think that's really important. That we don't thank God for bad events narrowly viewed in and of themselves. But we should thank Him for such events as they are viewed in the wide angle lens. You have sometimes like you're zooming in on an event. This is evil. But then we have a wide-angle view. God is using this evil for good. And he has allowed me to go through it so I can give thanks to God because he has a good purpose for me in this event. He says, we should thank him for such events as they are viewed in the wide-angle lens. as part of his plan to sanctify us and to glorify himself. And so we can give thanks in all circumstances. I think a great biblical example of this. is what happened to Joseph with his brothers. Joseph is betrayed. He is sold into slavery deceitfully Was he to thank God for those sinful actions of his brothers? Say, thank God my brothers lied and stole and cheated. Was that what this means? No, obviously not. He was, however, to thank God that he was sovereign over those sovereign those sinful actions of his brothers, and that God was going to use them to accomplish his good purposes. That God would be glorified even through the sinful actions of his brothers So he could give thanks in the fact that he was sold into slavery because he knew that God was in control of all of those events and he was using them not only for his good, but for the ultimate glory of God. And we know this to be the case as we continue to read the life of Joseph. We know in Genesis chapter 50, when Jacob has died. And now they've buried him and his brothers are like, oh, now Joseph's gonna bring down the hammer. And they send a message to him and he said, Our father wanted you to be forgiving of us. And uh, you know, they didn't know what they were doing, so would you? And he calls them to himself. And in Genesis 50, let's go there. Yeah, he says, do not fear. For am I in the place of God? As for you, you meant evil against me. But God meant it for good, to bring it about that many people should be kept alive as they are today And so as he looks back on these evil events that his brothers did to him, he says, Yes, you had your wicked intent. You did harm to me sinfully, but God was over that. God was sovereign and he was working good through the evil event. And so I don't have to seek vengeance, and I can give thanks because God is in control. So this actually kind of goes back to what we talked about last week. See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always seek to do good to one another and to everyone. I can give thanks and I don't have to seek revenge because I know God is sovereignly working through these events. The fact is, the spirit of thankfulness should permeate the life of a believer because God is Sovereign over all things. We ought to be thankful for the strengthening that Christ gives us in our trials When you go through trials, you can thank God because Christ, like Pastor Nathan preached on Sunday evening, Christ is interceding for us. He is strengthening us. to endure the trials that we are facing. Philippians 4 says, not that I'm speaking of being in need, for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content. I know how to be brought low, and I know how to abound. In any and every circumstance, I have learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need. I can do all things. Through him who strengthens me. And so he says, I can rejoice and I can give thanks, and I can I have the secret of contentment because I know the strengthening power of Christ in me. So we can be thankful to God in the midst of trying circumstances because Christ strengthens us. Secondly, we ought to be thankful for spiritual growth that God produces through trials and through sufferings. The purpose of God is to strengthen us so we can give thanks and saying God is doing good in this trial. In Romans 5. 3, he says, not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance. This is almost identical to what James says in James chapter 1. He counted all joy, my beloved brothers, when you fall into various trials, knowing that the trying of your faith produces steadfastness. But let steadfastness have its perfect work. So he says, I can rejoice knowing that suffering produces endurance. I can rejoice and I can give thanks to God because God is producing spiritual growth in my life. We ought to give thanks in everything because God sovereignly works all things for good for Christians. Romans 8. 28, a verse we know well. We know that all those who love God, all things work together for good for those who are called according to his purpose. And you continue reading down in Romans chapter 8. It describes some of those all things that work together for good to those who love God. All things are tribulations. Distress, persecution, famine, nakedness, danger, sword. Wow. Those are the all things that God works together for good. And so I can give thanks in all things. Because God is using them for my good. Charles Spurgeon is a famous Baptist pastor of the 19th century, was known for his Painful sufferings. He actually has a there's a book of his letters written that are the suffering letters of Charles Spurgeon But he was in one of his letters he wrote about this command, he said, I have not always found it easy to practice this duty. This I confess to my shame. When suffering extreme pain some time ago, a brother in Christ said to me, Have you thanked God for this? I replied that I desired to be patient and would be thankful to recover. But said he, in everything give thanks, not after it's over, but while you are still in it, and perhaps when you are enabled to give thanks for the severe pain, it will cease. Then he said, I believe that there was much force in that good advice. It's hard in the midst of pain to say, God, I thank you. In your wise providence, you have brought this into my life. And though I don't like it, I thank you because I know you're using it for good. What is that really? It's faith. It's faith that transforms bad circumstances, trials, into thankfulness. confidence in God and His promises. Would you describe yourself as a thankful person? You say my life is characterized by general thankfulness. Would those closest to you describe you as a thankful? person. That might be a better question to ask. Maybe it's a good question to ask your spouse or your closest friend. Say, would you describe me as a thankful person? Be honest. And then when I say no, I say, what are you talking about? No. Allow them the freedom to honestly evaluate and say, No, I don't think that's accurate. I find you complain a lot. I don't think that thankfulness is the word I would use. And thank them for giving you that honest critique. And then repent. Confess that as sin. It's facelessness. It is sin. Whatsoever is not a faith is sin. Thankfulness is obedience to God. What is perhaps the greatest Old Testament example of this? And I was thinking through this. I think Job might be the greatest Old Testament example. You know the story? His ten children were killed in one day. All of his wealth was taken away. And what does it say at the end of chapter 1? Not because he was evil, not because he was sinful, but because he was the most righteous man that was living on the earth, as is the testimony of God to him, about him. Then Job arose and tore his robe and shaved his head and fell on the ground and worshipped. And he said, Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked shall I return. The Lord gave, and the Lord is taken away Blessed be the name of the Lord. That is a beautiful example of thankfulness and trial. The Lord gave. It's his prerogative. Nothing that I've ever had is mine. I'm merely a steward. And I've received everything by him, by his hand, by his gracious hand. And it's the Lord's prerogative to take it away. If he takes my life, he's the one who gave it. If he takes my family, he's the one who gave it. If he takes my wealth, he's the one who gave it. If he takes my health, he's the one who gave it. The Lord gave. The Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. I will worship him. And I will That's a beautiful example for us. It's a challenge. It is the response of faith. It is the response of humble submission to God. But Paul says to the Thessalonians, give thanks in all circumstances. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. I think that's so important. In Christ Jesus. Believers in Christ Jesus. can give thanks in every circumstance. Because what does Romans 8 talk about? Romans 8. 28? That all things work together for good to those who love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. Those who are what? In Christ Jesus. Those who are in Christ Jesus have the confidence that all things work together for good. So therefore I can give thanks to God. And this is the will of God for me. This is the obedience of faith. It's tempting just to stop there, but I'm going to try to push on a little bit further. In verse 19, he says, do not quench the spirit. Do not despise prophecies, but test everything. Hold fast what is good. Abstain from every form So this next command that comes here is Christians must be careful not to quench the Holy Spirit. Christians must must be careful not to quench the Holy Spirit. He says, do not quench the Spirit. Now the question comes out. Well, we'll jump there in a moment. The Christian must strive To live a life in vital dependence on the Spirit of God. I think there is a tendency within the church today, the contemporary church today, that to often err in one of two ways. One way is with regard to the Holy Spirit, that is one way that we tend to do that. Either the Holy Spirit is minimized and we prop up that loss with pragmatic marketing, man-centered methodologies, or maybe tradition and liturgy. We try to we we don't we minimize the Holy Spirit. And we try to prop it up with something else. To the point where there is perhaps little talk about the Holy Spirit and practically no dependence on him. Yet, John 6, 63, what does he say? It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and our life. life. The Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit, is that which gives life. Christian ministry done apart from the Holy Spirit is zero. It's worthless. And so we must live in dependence upon the Spirit. Christian life devoid of the life-giving power of the Holy Spirit is ultimately worthless. And so he says, do not quench The Spirit. The second wrong view, I think, is kind of like the opposite extreme of this. It's to focus our attention on the Spirit, lots of communication about the Holy Spirit, especially the sensational the mystical, the miraculous gifts of the Spirit, to, ironically, the quenching of his sanctifying work. When there is a focus on the sensational, the miraculous, The charismatic gifts, oftentimes what gets minimum minimized is the sanctifying work of the Spirit. The work of the Spirit of God to make us holy, to make us like Christ, to transform us Both of these are dangerous extremes. The Christian life, like the life of Christ, our Savior, which he lived his life in Daily dependence upon the Holy Spirit. Moment by moment, dependence upon the Spirit is what we must do as well. I think sometimes we think of the Holy Spirit is He regenerates us. And then He seals us. And he lives inside of us, but that's it. It's been interesting recently we've had some conversations with people who are young Christians, and they're talking about what is this funny feeling inside of me when I do wrong? What what's going on inside of me? I d I've never noticed this before. That's good. That's good. That's the Holy Spirit. That He's convicting you. He is telling you this is wrong. This is not in alignment with the Word of God. But the fact is we are regenerated by a supernatural work of the Spirit of God. Jesus spoke to Nicodemus about this in John chapter 3, that great passage of scripture. Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. And Nicodemus said to him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? I actually had a lady answer me This exact way when I said you must be born again. An older lady one time she said, Am I supposed to get in my mother's womb and be born a second time? And I'm like, interesting you should say that. That's exactly what Nicodemus said. Jesus answered, Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born of water and the spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. Now, there's various interpretations of what it means to be born of water, but there there isn't various interpretations of what it means to be born of the spirit. To be born of the Spirit means to be regenerated by the Holy Spirit. To be born from above, as pastor has brought out, to be given new life. To be dead and then made alive. We were from the fall dead in our trespasses and sins. Remember what God said to Adam and Eve. In the moment that you eat of that fruit, you will surely die, and they did. And all that were born from them were born dead spiritually. Every person born since Adam and Eve have been born spiritually dead. And so Nicodemus, with all the trappings of religion, all his external righteousness, he needed to be born from the spirit. He needed a spiritual regeneration. But the work of the Spirit is not, is not, doesn't come to an end at conversion. Galatians 3. 3 says, He tells the Paul tells the Galatians, are you so foolish, having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? You started In the spirit, but now you're trying to do it by externals, by the working of the flesh, by circumcision, by keeping the law The fact is, the Christian life is lived day by day in the power of the Spirit. Romans 8. 13 says, For if we live according to the flesh, you will die. But if you live by the Spirit, if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. If you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. The process of our sanctification, the mortification, the putting to death the deeds of the body must be empowered by the Holy Spirit. And this idea of dependence upon the Spirit for sanctification is really intimately linked with what it means to abide in Christ. To abide in the vine. Dependence on the Spirit is closely related to what Jesus describes in John 15, to abide in Christ. It's first of all to abide in his word. If you remember in John 15, 7, if you abide in me, and my words abide in you. So abiding in Christ and having his words abiding in us is intimately connected. It's kind of like the idea what we read in Ephesians when he says being filled with the Spirit, and then in Colossians he says, letting the the words of Christ dwell in you richly. In the parallel passage, he's talking about the same thing. Being filled with the Spirit is to have the word of Christ dwell in you richly, where the word of Christ is transforming you, it is actively changing how you live. So to be filled with the Spirit is to have the words of Christ in you. To abide in Christ is to have his words abiding in us. So first of all, it means to have his words a significant controlling element in our lives. Paul echoes this idea in Colossians 3. 16 when he writes. Let the words of Christ dwell in you richly, powerfully, transformatively. Secondly, to abide in Christ is to abide in his love. In John 15, 9, it says, The Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Abide in my love. You ever wonder what that means? What does it mean to abide in my love? How do you do that? How do you abide in the love of Christ? Well, the believer rests his life or her life on the love of Christ. We do that at the moment of salvation, but we must do that day by day, moment by moment, in In awe and in joy and in thankfulness for the love that was given to us in Christ. The love of the one who lays down his life for his friends, as he says later on in this chapter. This love was proved to us on the cross that greater love is no man than this, that man lays down his life for his friends, and he did so for us. So we must never allow ourselves to drift away from daily contemplation of the cross as the ultimate example, irrefutable example of his love for us. And so this really impacts us when it comes to temptation. When it comes to sin, sin isn't so much a violation of the law, it is that, but for the Christian, it's a violation of his love. When we sin, it's one thing to violate his law, yes, it is true. Our sin is a violation of the law, but more significantly, it is a violation of his love. It's kind of like a parent with his child. You know, a child should obey his parents because his parents have given him instruction. And to violate a parent's instruction is sin. But more significantly, we want our children to obey us because they love us. And they know we love them. And they know that what we ask is for their good. And so when our children disobey us, it actually strikes us like I thought you do my love for you. I thought you knew my commands for you were were out of love. And so when we sin, we are not abiding in his love. We are actually sinning against or in the face of his love. Jesus says, abide in my love. We ought to contemplate the love of Christ to us. There's power in the recognition of the cross of Christ at the moment of temptation. The price that was paid, the love that was shown. And the reality that this temptation is actually in the face of that love. I don't want to do that because of the love he has given me. Lastly, to submit to the pruning knife of God, to abide in Christ, is to be pruned. He talks about this in John 15 as well, verse 2. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit he takes away, but every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. So the pruning knife. That means that God He corrects. He brings trials to prune our faith, to wean us from this world , to help us bear more fruit by faith. And so this is part of what it means to abide in Christ, to receive, to submit humbly to the pruning work of the Spirit in our lives. We come here to this verse, do not quench the spirit. To quench the spirit is to reject that pruning work, to sin against that love. And to not desire fellowship with the Son. We're going to stop here tonight. I think there's enough instruction here that I just I can't jump into this next section without spending a significant amount of time on it. And we're about out of time. But I want to encourage us just to think through these three realities that we talked about briefly this evening. Pray without ceasing. Give thanks in all circumstances, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you, and do not quench the spirit. Allow. Labor, strive to abide in Christ by letting his word abide in you richly. by abiding in his love and by allowing the the pruning work of of Christ to have its desired effect in our lives So that we might be conformed to his image. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that we are in Christ. And because of that, we have we have reason to be able to give thanks in everything. Father, we thank you that we are in Christ, and so that we can pray without ceasing, knowing that you desire that communion with us and you call us into your throne room. And that we have an audience with the sovereign ruler of all creation. God, would you remind us again of our dependence upon you? Would you keep us humble so that we might walk in daily, moment by moment, dependence upon you in prayer? And Lord, would you help us to grow in this area of praying without ceasing? We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.