If you have your Bibles, you can turn to First Thessalonians chapter five, and we are going to go over our memory verse So our memory verses for this month are the last ones that we're going to be looking at as we continue to come to the end of 1 Thessalonians. I think many of us have probably gotten this down by heart. But there's still some that are like just not quite there. So let's stand up together and say this through two times. If you'd like to try to say it for the congregation and kind of encourage others, that would be great. But we'll try these verses together. We'll say the reference and then the verse two times. 1 Thessalonians 5, 9 through 11. For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. who died for us, so that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with him. Therefore encourage one another and build one another up, just as you are doing. We are in 1 Thessalonians 5. We are nearing the end of the book, and the plan is at this point to finish up 1 Thessalonians, and since we're already in the mode of 1 Thessalonians, to jump into 2 Thessalonians It's only three chapters. It's written right after 1 Thessalonians. There's a lot of corresponding truth and doctrine. And so Lord willing, after we finish 1 Thessalonians, we'll jump into 2 Thessalonians. Remember the breakdown of the book? There's two main divisions. The first three chapters are backwards looking as he reminds them of what God has done in their lives and how they ministered among them the way that they lived, and then the last two chapters are forward looking in light of the return of Christ How ought we to live? Growing in faith, hope, and love because of the return of Christ. So the theme is continue to grow in faith, hope, and love in light of Christ's return Imminent return, meaning it could happen at any moment. It's going to happen. It could happen at any moment. As we come here to the end of the book, we're in chapter 5, and we are looking at verses 15 through 18, Lord willing, this evening, we're really looking at The marks of a spirit-filled life, the marks of a spirit-filled believer, as revealed in these verses. And just reading through them real quickly it says, See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always seek to do good to one another and to everyone. Rejoice always, pray without ceasing. Give thanks in all circumstances, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. And you can kind of tell these are they're punchy. Commands, meaning that there's a lot packed into just a few verses. Just a few words. Even verse 16 is rejoice always. There's a lot. in that those two words, rejoice always, that we need to look at. And we won't be able to do them all with each of them really could deserve a full sermon. But we're not going to do that just for the sake of time. But this first one begins in verse 15. It's really continuing the instruction that he gave beginning in chapter 5, verse 12, where he says, We ask you brothers to respect those who labor among you. Remember, he's talking about to have a proper relationship to those that are in authority in the church. And then in verse 14, he says, and we urge you, brothers, admonish the idol. Encourage the faint-hearted, help the weak, be patient with them all. And that verse continues on into verse 15. See that no one repays anyone. evil for evil, but always seek to do good to one another and to everyone. Those verses deal with the believer's relationship to the church leadership. And the believers' relationship to one another in the body of Christ. And he's continuing that thought. And in verse 15. We have this instruction that Christians are to repay good for evil. We are to bless When cursed. Kind of reminds me of Fiddler on the Roof, when the rabbi is asked, is there a proper blessing for the czar? Have you ever watched Fiddler on Ruby says, ah yes, certainly, Labish. May God bless the Tsar and keep him far away from us. And this idea is that there should be true blessing, not just a fake blessing, but Christians ought to bless with true intent. We ought to love and to care and seek to do good to those that have done evil to us, not to seek revenge, but actually to seek good. Christians repay good For evil. When you think about that, that is probably one of the most counter-cultural commands in the Bible That we repay good for evil. There's probably no sinful tendency that the world regards more as a virtue than retaliation. This is how the world looks at things. If someone's done you wrong, you need to make sure that you do them wrong and more so. And it's kind of viewed really not as a vice, but as a virtue. You need to make sure that they feel your anger. As Christians, we are to make sure that revenge has no place. in the family of God. We're still continuing this instruction, believers towards believers. And revenge has no place in the family of God. However, revenge is a very human desire. When someone hurts you or wrongs you, or we perceive that they have wronged us, what wells up inside of us? There is an immediate desire to correct the wrong that was done. And part of that is because we're created in the image of God. God created us in the image of God where we desire justice. And when something is wrong and injustice is done, we desire to see justice done. Particularly justice as it pertains to when I am unjustly treated. I like justice when I am getting revenge on the one who's been unjust to me, but not when they're getting revenge on me. The problem with our sense of vengeance and justice is that because of the fall and because of our sin nature, our sense of justice is skewed selfishly. If someone hurts me, I want to hurt him back. And even a little more. Maybe not even a little more. Maybe a lot more. I want him to feel it. I want him to know how much that angered me. I want him to feel the pain that he caused me. So the focus of this command here, if you look at the verse, is first within the church. Notice what he says. He says, seek to do good to one another. He's talking to to brethren, to Christians. Seek to do good to one another and to everyone. So not just the church, but to everyone, but first of all, to believers Believers that have hurt you. Believers that have wronged you. I don't know if that how that strikes you. What do you think about when you think about the idea that believers can hurt you? Yeah I know that I've experienced that. I I am well aware of it. Maybe you're you're new to the church and I thought I thought that never happened in the church, that Christians never hurt one another. Well, we shouldn't, and we don't desire it to happen. But even Christians can hurt one another. And that sinful desire, even among Christians, can be to retaliate. To make sure I get my vengeance. I remember a friend of mine in Tanzania named Sebastian or Seba. He was a shepherd. And uh he used to tell me stories about his sheep. And it was always instructive. He said, Pastor, I have learned a lot about church by watching my sheep. As a shepherd, I've learned a lot about church members. I said, what do you mean by that? He told me different stories, and he told me stories about how sheep will hurt each other. They'll bite each other, they'll steal from each other, they'll harm one another. And he said it's the job of the shepherd to make sure that doesn't happen. and to discern what's going on. And he told me a story one day I'm going to tell you all, but I'm not telling you right now. But it's a really great story about the role of shepherds in guiding the sheep. I'm waiting for the perfect time to use that story. So just a teaser. Someday it's going to come out there. But Christians, I think, we don't expect to be hurt by other Christians. So when it happens, it hurts that much more. When someone says something about you in the church, you go, I expect that at work. I expect that in the world. I expect that from my unsaved neighbors, but I didn't expect it here. And so the tendency may be even more so to seek revenge because it hurts that much more. We saw this, actually if you think about This in 1 Corinthians chapter 6. This is an event that happened that Paul's addressing in the Corinthian church. He talks about the fact that they have lawsuits, believer against believer, taking another brother to court. And he says to have lawsuits at all with one another is already a defeat for you. Why not rather suffer wrong? Why not rather be defrauded? But you yourselves wrong And a fraud. And then you can see like this exasperated statement here at the end by Paul. Even your own brothers There's harm being done to one another in the church. And he said, wouldn't it be better to rather suffer wrong than to bring this before unsaved people? Paul talks about this earlier in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. If you remember back in verse 6 where he says, See to it that no one transgress and wrong his brother in this matter. Speaking of sexual matters, because the Lord is an avenger in all these things, as we told you beforehand, and solemnly warned you. So it is possible for Christians to harm Christians. And here Paul is saying, this is a church matter I want to deal with, that you should not seek to retaliate. You shouldn't pay evil for evil, but rather you should repay good for evil. But notice as well what he says here. He says See to it. See that no one repays anyone evil for evil. So this is a command for the whole church. Church leaders, church members. to make sure that revenge and retaliation has no place in the body of Christ. That revenge and retaliation is not at all acceptable. That means that all of us as Christians, we have a duty one to another to make sure that we don't encourage revenge, that we don't get ourselves involved in revenge. And that we don't accept revenge. When we hear about it, we rebuke it. Not only should you not take revenge personally, but you should never encourage someone to seek revenge. And when we hear about it, we should tell them that that is not right. It's not Christian. That is not acceptable in the church. So he says, see that no one repays anyone evil for evil. What he's talking about here is personal retribution, vengeance. And this brings up a lot of questions. The fact is that personal retribution. Personal vengeance is contrary to the gospel. When we think of the law of retribution or personal vengeance, sometimes it's called lextelionis. It's part of the Old Testament penal code. When we think of this, the law of retribution, we think of what statement? An eye for an eye, exactly. An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. You know, you hurt my eye, I'm gonna hurt your eye. This is found in the Old Testament. The first place we find this actually is in Genesis chapter 9. Whoever sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed, for God made man in his own image. What we're finding here is that in the legal code, justice is to be served. Not personal revenge. But legal vengeance. We'll talk about this as we continue on. This is expanded when Israel became a nation, and God gave them the principles of their legal code in Leviticus chapter 24. We read this whoever takes a human life shall surely be put to death. Whoever takes an animal's life shall make it good, life for life. Not meaning that that person is going to die, but that he has to give the life of another of his animal in replace for the one that he killed. So if you ran over someone's dog, probably not dog you're talking about here, your cow or goat, that you have to give one in replacement for that. If anyone injures his neighbor as he has done, it shall be done to him, fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, whatever injury he has given a person shall be given to him. Whoever kills an animal shall make it good, and whoever kills a person shall be put to death. And you see that this is the legal code of the nation of Israel, that there was to be a justice that was meted out that was appropriate. So judges were to understand this is proper punishments were to be meted out. When injustice took place, in order for proper deterrence for crime. Part of this is to deter crime. If there is no punishment for stealing someone's animal and eating it. It's going to become rampant. And so as a deterrent to crime, if you steal someone's animal or you kill someone's animal, then it is to be repaid. Also, it was designed to put a limit to the severity of the punishment. So if someone hurt you and gave you a black eye, they were not going to be executed for it. There was a limit to the severity of the punishment. But when you study this, if we don't understand that this is part of the legal code, It would not be hard to see how this could become an excuse to punish any infraction and to take personal vengeance on someone who has harmed you. An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, life for life. But the law also warned against personal vengeance. It warned against personal hatred. If you think of Leviticus as well, Leviticus 19, he says, you shall not hate your brother in your heart. But you shall reason frankly with your neighbor, lest you incur sin because of him. You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. I don't think most people in the world today would think that this command, you shall love your neighbor as yourself, is an Old Testament command. They think of it as a New Testament command, but it's actually Part of the legal code, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. You shall not take vengeance. So when we come to the New Testament, Christ is seeing that this is skewed and he seeks to restore the Old Testament teaching that forbids personal revenge. So in Matthew chapter 5, in the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus says, you have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. And he's dealing with now the fact that people were using this as an excuse to take personal revenge. He says, But I say to you, do not resist the one who is evil. But if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. How many of you have ever taken time to think about that command and the ramifications of it and what Jesus is promoting in this, what he's teaching in this, what he's commanding in it? He isn't promoting, as some people would say, pacifism. That nations should not fight against nations, and if someone beats you, you shouldn't defend yourself or you shouldn't try to get away from danger. Notice that Jesus specifies the right cheek. Is that interesting? Someone slaps you on the right cheek. He does it on purpose. It's not not an accident. Because if you're right-handed, which most people are, in order to slap someone on the right cheek, You have to backhand them. Speaking of a backhanded blow. And that was considered by the rabbis to be doubly offensive. It was more about an offense, a personal offense. Something like what we might consider where someone offended me, and I'm going to have a duel, and I'm going to defend my honor. And Jesus is saying that we are to put away our rights to personal revenge. He calls us in this to swallow our pride. To give up our rights of reparation and revenge and my pound of flesh legally. Because You could take someone to court for this in the Jewish culture. You could take them to court. And he's saying, you should not do that. Jesus' command forbids us also from passive aggressive revenge. You know what passive aggressive revenge is? You probably have been tempted to do it, probably never have done it, but probably just been tempted to do it. The kind of living that punishes others by returning their own sins to them. For example, if your spouse is messy Say, well, that's fine. I'm just gonna leave everything messy. They're gonna get a taste of their own medicine. I'm not gonna clean up after them, and they're gonna experience This. Or if your friend is late, you say, well, I'm going to be late next time, and they're going to experience what that's like. And it's not really aggressive revenge. But it's still revenge, it's personal vengeance. In effect, Jesus is telling us to turn the other cheek to make the other person's well-being the center of our focus. Christ not only taught against personal retribution, but he also modeled it in himself. In John 18, we have the story where Jesus is before the high priest. And in verse 21, the high priest asked him a bunch of questions, and Jesus says, I have spoken publicly. You know what I have taught. You can ask my disciples. This is not something that's hidden. And when he had said these things, one of the officers standing by struck Jesus with his hand, saying, Is that how you answer the high priest? And Jesus answered him, If what I said is wrong, bear witness about the wrong. But if what I said is right, why do you strike me? Now it's significant here that as we look at this, we realize a little bit about Jesus' teaching. He didn't turn the other cheek, because what he was talking about in that commandment is revenge, not seeking personal revenge. And he points out, did I say something wrong? Is there something that I have done wrong? And if not, then why did you strike me Peter points to the example of Jesus as the ultimate motivation for us when we are tempted to retaliate. When we are tempted to try to get even, to strike out for personal revenge. In 1 Peter chapter 2, he says, For to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example. so that you might follow in his steps. He committed no sins. So what's significant there? Whatever happened to him is not because he deserved it. He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth. Yet when he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly. And this is the whole example for us that Christ, when he was unjustly punished. Did not lash out with angry words or seek personal vengeance on those who were hurting him. But instead he set us an example by entrusting himself to the Father. So this is Christian teaching because Christ our Savior set that perfect example. Paul continues this instruction in Romans chapter 12. Romans chapter 12 is a fantastic parallel passage For what we're dealing with in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. We could spend a lot of time in Romans 12, but we don't have all evening. But Paul says, Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. To the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him something to drink. For by so doing you will heap burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. And Paul is quoting Deuteronomy 32, Vengeance is mine. That comes from Deuteronomy 32, 35. He's quoting Proverbs 25, where it says, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. He said, This is what the Bible teaches. I think what's very significant is he's clarifying this is about personal revenge. Does that mean that it's wrong for civil government? To execute justice? Is it wrong for the government to execute a murderer? Well, it's very significant that Romans 12 is followed by Romans 13. And it there is no chapter break when Paul wrote Romans. He didn't have, I'm going to write chapter 12 and then I'm going to write chapter 13. There is no chapter break. And Romans 12 continues right into Romans 13. Which tells us that civil government does need to repay evil for evil. It is their responsibility, it is the government's job to repay evil for evil. God has established civil government And he says, It is God's servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. Don't you Seek vengeance. God 's servant, the civil government, will do it if necessary. But you are not to seek personal vengeance. There is a right place for it and a wrong place for it. This is where I think people get very confused. They read things like Matthew 5, and they say, well, I guess it's wrong to punish criminals. Sloppy thinking. It's very sloppy thinking. The Bible is very clear about these things. And I just want to spend a little bit of time clarifying some of this this evening. Christians are called personally to conquer evil. With good. Christians are called to personally conquer evil with good. Not only are we not to retaliate, We are called to do the exact opposite of retaliation, the exact opposite of what our prideful, sinful flesh desires. We are to return good for evil. Notice the universal nature of this command. He says in verse 15 of 1 Thessalonians 5, See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always seek to do good to one another and to everyone. It's kind of hard to miss the universal nature of it. Always, anyone, everyone, this is a responsibility of believers at all times. Because this is how God treated us. While we were still sinners, Christ died for us. And so we as believers Are called to live this out. Now you may be listening to me this evening and saying, well, that's pretty easy for you to say, you've never been in my shoes. You don't know the struggles I face. And that's fair. I get that. That's true. You face different struggles than I have faced. But it's important to remember a couple things here. One, the person who wrote this command. is the Apostle Paul. And the Apostle Paul knew what it was like to be harmed in a great way. Right before he came to Thessalonica, remember he was beaten publicly and thrown into prison and fastened securely in stocks. And what is he doing? Cursing? Calling out vindictiveness against the Philippian jailer and The Philippian authorities. If I ever get out of here, I'm gonna tear you to pieces. No He's singing and he's praising God and he's praying. And when he has an opportunity to do harm to the jailer, Who thinks that he's escaped? He says, do yourself no harm. We are here. And he said, what must I do to be saved? And he I think I'm going to tell you the gospel? You put me in prison here. No, he shares the gospel with him joyfully. He doesn't retaliate, but he does good Paul says this in 1 Corinthians chapter 4. And we labor working with our own hands. When reviled, we bless. When persecuted, we endure. When slandered, We entreat. The word there entreat means to come alongside and treat like a friend. Wow. This is Paul's modus operandi. When reviled, he seeks good and he blesses. Paul's teaching is actually the teaching of Jesus. And Jesus knows even more fully than Paul what it means, because he was despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows. And acquainted with grief. And when he was reviled, he did not revile again. He did not threaten. He didn't use the power that he actually had as the Son of God. But instead, what did you do? Father, forgive them. For they don't know what they're doing. He sought their good. This command calls for an active striving after good in the face of evil. The word seek. that's found here. Always seek to do good to one another and to everyone. It's a word that's most often translated persecute. In the New Testament, it's most often translated persecute. You're like, well, that's kind of w weird. What does that mean? It can also be translated pursue It's the idea of pursuing someone who's persecuting someone that might be pursuing them to harm them. It's the idea of a relentless pursuit of someone or something. The implication, I think, is pretty clear. Be vigilant in seeking to do good to those who have hurt you. Pursue doing good. It's not like, well, I'm not going to retaliate and I'm not going to talk to him either. But it could be worse. No. Pursue diligently seeking a way to do good to those who have harmed you Wow, that's an amazing statement. Obviously, I think as we think about this, it doesn't mean that you enable them to sin more or become complicit in their sin. That's not what we're talking about here. But Luke tells us in Luke chapter 6, but I say to you who hear, love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you. Pray for those who abuse you. And we're not talking about in precatory prayers. God, you better get them. I mean, just really give it to them. No, pray for them, pray for their good. Pray for God's blessing on their lives. Do good to those who hate you. Bless those who curse you. We already read in Romans chapter 12. Where he says, If your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he's thirsty, give him something to drink. For by so doing you will heap burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. So I want to ask you this evening. Who is your enemy? Who is it that this evening, if you were to say, as I was talking about this, that the person's face maybe showed up in your mind? The one who's hurt you the most. What does this ask you to do? I may ask you, are you praying for him or her? Are you daily pursuing good? Are you actively seeking to do them good temporally, meaning here and now and eternally? This is what the command is for us. This is this is this is a strong teaching. This is a hard teaching. But this is where the gospel enables us to do this. Because God did this for us. God loved us when we were rebels, enemies to him. And he pursued us with love. And he calls us to do the same to one another, and he says here, to everyone. I want to ask you, who is your enemy? Can you begin by praying for that one? Praying for God's blessing on them. Maybe they're far from the Lord, and you pray for their salvation. Pray for their repentance. Pray that God draws them to himself. Pray that there be a day when the two of you can sing praises to God together. Maybe look for opportunities to do something unexpectedly good to them. They'd say, so what's the catch? What are you trying to do? Nothing. God has been good to me, and I want to be good to you. Christians repay good for evil. Secondly, here, Christians rejoice always. This is a pretty simple verse. Rejoice always. It's not a simple command, though. It's simple to understand. It's challenging to do. The beautiful thing is in this area of rejoicing, he says these three commands that come out in verse 16, 17, and 18, they're governed by one statement at the end. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. All three of those commands are sheltered, you might say, they're governed by that command. This is the will of God in Christ Jesus. For you. To rejoice always is the will of God for you. Why? Well, one, God rejoices. God is a God of rejoicing. You ever think of God as rejoicing? Do you ever think of God rejoicing over you? This is what I think so often we have a vision of God that is maybe an angry God. And he's angry with the wicked every day, the Bible says. But you ever think of God as rejoicing over you? You're like, well, it's maybe some people, but not me. When the prodigal son came back, the father is the picture of rejoicing. And he's a picture of our heavenly father. Isaiah 62, 5 says. As the bridegroom rejoices over the bride, so shall your God rejoice over you. Think of God rejoicing over you that you have become his child. He delights in you. One of the verses that just blows my mind every time I think about it is Zephaniah chapter 3, 17. Where he says, he will rejoice over you with gladness. He will quiet you by his love. He will exalt over you with loud singing. Do you ever think of God singing about you? We sing about God. Think about God singing about you? I don't think we think about that that often. We don't think of God like that. God rejoices God is a God of joy. That's why the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy. He rejoices. The point here is not so much that it's this is God's will you must do it, but rather this is the will of God so you can do it. This is the will of God for you. You can rejoice always. When we hear a command like this, I don't know about you, but we immediately start thinking. about extreme cases or excuses why this command may not be universal. Or why it may not pertain to me in my situation. I think it's probably how we normally look at it. Well, you know, not in my kit situation. But again, it's important to remember that Paul wrote this as one who had endured suffering with rejoicing. So he wrote this as one who practiced what he preached. In Acts 16, 25. Again, we have him after he's beaten, after he is unjustly beaten and thrown into prison and his feet are in stocks, he's chained up, and he and Silas are praying and singing hymns to God at midnight. And the prisoners are listening. They're rejoicing. We know about the apostles after they were beaten by the Sanhedrin, that they rejoiced that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for the name of Christ. They rejoiced in their persecution. In Philippians, we have this these great passages, Philippians chapter 3, verse 1. Finally, brothers, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same thing to you is no trouble for me, and it is safe for you. And then in Philippians 4, 4, rejoice in the Lord always. Again, I will say rejoice. But the significant thing is that when Paul wrote Philippians, he was in prison. And he's probably three years into a four-year prison term. And he says, rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say rejoice. Remember the words of Jesus and the Beatitudes in Matthew 5. Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you, and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad. For your reward is great in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Rejoice. There is a great reward for the persecution you're facing. Christian joy is not dependent upon external circumstances. It's possible because we are in Christ. And because God works all things together for good to them who love God. I think back to Habakkuk chapter 3. You know that great passage where he says Though the fig tree doesn't blossom, and there's no fruit on the vine, and the yield of the olive tree fails, and there's no food in the field, and the flock is cut off, and there's no cattle in the stall, and I'm going to be depressed and live a miserable life. No, he says, yet I will exalt in the Lord. I will rejoice in the God of my salvation. Though everything physically is terrible. I will rejoice in the God of my salvation. Because he has saved me. And he is good. And his way is perfect. This is the essence of faith. Hebrews 11:6, he says, without faith it is impossible to please him. Whoever will draw near to God must believe that he exists. And that he is a rewarder of those who diligently seek him. Do you believe that God rewards If you do, then you can face suffering with rejoicing. You can face trials with rejoicing because you believe and know that God is faithful to reward your struggles. For the Christian, we can have joy in any circumstance because first our sins are forgiven and we have peace with God. Jesus told his disciples, I was reading this this past week in my devotions in Luke chapter 10. And they came back after they'd Send out the seventy-two, they came back, and they were rejoicing that they cast out demons, and the the even even the demons respond to us And Jesus says, don't rejoice that the demons are subject to you, but rather rejoice that your names are written in heaven. If you want to rejoice about something that is secure, that is significant, rejoice that you are a child of God. That you have peace with God Almighty. That you have heaven as your home, and your name is securely written in heaven. And if that is true, you have every reason to rejoice. That's why it's an oxymoron for a Christian to be sour, to always walk around gloomy, to always be Talking about the negative. That's why it's such an offense to God when the nation of Israel is grumbling. I've been going through Exodus in my devotions as well in the mornings, and I've just been highlighting every time the word grumble or complain is found. It is amazing. It's an offense to God for the people of God to grumble, to complain. To be bitter. And it's such an offense, because what does it say about our God? Well, it says he's not good, that he doesn't care about me. That he doesn't have good in mind for me. And so therefore I just have to grumble about my lot in life When we look at our trials, it's not to say we don't have trials. The Bible says we must have them. They're important for us. But God is sovereign and he uses all of these things for our good. We talked about this in Sunday school, about how trials are so important. i when they were developing the biosphere in the nineteen nineties, they thought they'd make a self-sustaining environment in the biosphere, and they planted trees and they planted gardens and they they're trying to make an environment to test how life on Mars could possibly go. What they discovered was in the biosphere that the trees would grow quickly and then fall over. Because they didn't have any roots that were strong because of being buffeted by winds. And the wood was a low quality wood because it had never been tested by wind and storms. It's an illustration of our lives. God knows that our faith will be weak and we will be we will not actually have deep true faith if we don't have trials that test our faith. that make our roots go down into God and his promises. We need them. And so it is the goodness of God that allows trials in our lives to deepen our faith, to strengthen our trust in God. And to mature us so that we are useful for Him. The wood of those trees in the biosphere was largely worthless because it had never been tried. James tells us, I'm sorry, not James, Paul tells us in 2 Corinthians that he's also using those trials to eternally prepare for us. An eternal weight of glory that is beyond all comparison. So not only does God strengthen our face, but He's preparing for us an eternal weight of glory that is beyond comparison to the trial. And so a Christian can rejoice. And we ought to rejoice. Because God is good even in our trials. That's why he says, rejoice always. Rejoice always. I didn't even make it through four verses. And you're saying, of course you didn't. You never do. We're going to stop there for this evening. I want this to be an encouragement to you this evening. One, as believers, we can entrust ourselves to the good God who sees the injustices that are done to us. Who will right every wrong. And God calls us to love one another earnestly, to do good to those who hurt us, to pray for those who despitefully use us and persecute us. And secondly, God calls us by faith to rejoice. Rejoicing. Just think about this. Rejoicing is not just like, yeah, that's okay, that's good. What is rejoicing? It is an expression. It actually has to come out. It's not just here. It actually has to come out. When you rejoice, you are sharing your joy It must come out. Rejoice always. Does it come out? Let me ask you this question. Would people that know you best say that you are a joyful person? Are you rejoicing? Or would they say you have a critical spirit? You always complain. Let that be a thought provoker. God calls us to rejoice. Are the words that are coming out of your mouth glorifying God? Because he is in control of your circumstances and he does good. He does good always. To the believer, we can rest in that. Let's pray. Father, thank you that you are sovereign, that you are good, that you are all-wise. Thank you.