For us on the cross of Calvary, but also through the anointed warrior. And we see that as we come to the end of the book of Isaiah, the suffering servant is the anointed warrior, very much like we see that he is he is the lamb who was slain, but he is also the lion. of the tribe of Judah. He is the suffering servant and the anointed warrior. And the messages of comfort are given. Beginning in chapter 40, a message of comfort is given to the nation of Judah. that really is a message of comfort to the world. And it's a comfort that begins with first knowing who God is. Theology means the the study of God, knowing who God is, his attributes. He was faithful, who has promised. Then a comfort through soteriology, which is the study of salvation, the salvation that God provides through the substitutionary death. of the Messiah, the servant. And then last is comfort through eschatology. And that's the section we're in here, which is the study of last things. As we continue looking at the book of Isaiah. We're looking at really the culmination of salvation, the ultimate fulfillment of salvation. The salvation that was purchased through the suffering of the Messiah is culminated in his anointed warrior status when he comes and he redeems his people. The word Redeemer is frequently found through this section. And really, the realization of this salvation for Israel and for the world. is a salvation that that bring brings about a radical transformation. It's a transformation, if you study these chapters towards the end of the book of Isaiah, the word righteousness. comes out again and again and again. We'll see it even tonight as we study in Isaiah 62 that the the transformation Or the salvation that Christ brings to the nation of Israel is a transformation that results in righteousness a righteousness that is given to them, but also a righteousness that comes from them as their hearts are changed, as they are given new hearts. through the new covenant. It also results in a radical reversal. We see as a result of this salvation, the anointed warrior brings in uh a transformation in the land. The land becomes fruitful. The curse is largely reversed. War is is ended, and Christ rules and reigns with a rod of iron, and there is a radical reversal that takes place on the earth. And that is the result of the work of the servant of the Lord. So as we come to Isaiah 62, we come to this beautiful passage of scripture, and I would love to do the whole chapter tonight, but it's just not going to happen. We're going to look, Lord willing, just at the first So I'll read those and then we'll come back and look at them again. He says, For Zion's sake, I will not keep silent, and for Jerusalem's sake, I will not be quiet. Until her righteousness goes forth as brightness, and her salvation as a burning torch. The nations shall see your righteousness, and all the kings your glory. And you shall be called by a new name, that the mouth of the Lord will give. You shall be a crown of beauty in the hand of the Lord, and a royal diadem in the hand of your God You shall no more be termed forsaken, and your land shall no more be termed desolate, but you shall be called my delight is in her, and your land married For the Lord delights in you, and your land shall be married. For as a young man marries a young woman, so shall your sons marry you. And as the bridegroom rejoices over the bride , so shall your God rejoice over you. Beautiful passage of scripture. It really teaches us of the unceasing love of the Messiah. For Zion. If we were really to study this passage of scripture, there really is a beautiful truth that is being brought out, and it's about the intercession, Messiah's intercession. For Zion's redemption, for Zion's ultimate redemption. And really as we begin this chapter, there's a couple things that are really important, just to kind of lay the groundwork. It's who is speaking. And who is being spoken to. In order to really understand the chapter, it's important to get those two things out of the way, the speaker and the audience. Really without understanding that we could come to a variety of different interpretations, but I think it's very important for us to get this settled right here. There is some disagreement. There's some um Divergent opinions about who is speaking in this passage. Some think that the speaker is Isaiah himself And that Isaiah as the prophet is speaking. Notice it says, For Zion's sake, I will not keep silence. So who is the I that is speaking here? Some say it's it's Isaiah. And he is saying here, I will not keep silent. I will continue my prophetic ministry until, as he says here, until her righteousness goes forth as brightness. and her salvation as a burning torch until he sees the fulfillment of God's promises to bring about their righteousness. The problem is with this that Isaiah died 2,700 years ago without seeing the fulfillment of these promises. Also, if we were to continue on into verses 6 and 7, the speaker says he's going to establish watchmen to put the Lord in remembrance until he establishes Jerusalem as he promised. Isaiah didn't do that. So it wouldn't make sense to think of Isaiah as the speaker here. Some think the speaker is God himself here. The problem with that, it seems to fall apart with the the reality that the in verses six and seven, again, the speaker puts the Lord in remembrance. And then in verse eight. The Lord is spoken of um in the second person in verse 8. So that would make less sense to me. I think it's best to understand this as referring to the Messiah. The Messiah is the one who is speaking. We saw that, in fact, in chapter 61. If you remember in chapter 61, the chapter began. The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. And then when we go to the New Testament in Luke chapter 4. Jesus himself in the synagogue in Nazareth says, This is my words. I am the speaker in Isaiah 61. And I believe if we follow the logic through as the argument or even the passage through, we can see that the Messiah continues to be the speaker into chapter 62. He is the one who speaks on behalf of Zion. He is the one who says, For Zion's sake, I will not keep silent. And for Jerusalem's sake, I will not be quiet. He is the one who is the speaker. He's the one who places the watchman on the walls. And we won't have time to look at that tonight, though I so want to. But he won't, we won't have time to look at that. Lord willing, next week we'll be able to do that. But he's also the one who can give the commands that are found throughout this chapter. He can speak to God. And yet also be another member of the Godhead. And so as God, he speaks to God. And so that makes sense as we understand his position as the second member of the Trinity. So we see here the the speaker, and I actually wrote in my Bible in the margin here where the first verse is I wrote, the Messiah is the speaker. The audience is, again, I think pretty clear, but Because over and again we see that Zion or Jerusalem is spoken of. And he says, For Zion's sake I will not keep silent, and for Jerusalem's sake I will not be quiet until her righteousness goes forth as brightness. and her salvation as a burning torch, the nations shall see your righteousness. So he's speaking About and to Jerusalem or Zion, another name for Jerusalem. In this chapter, Jerusalem is specifically addressed three times. In verse 1, the word Jerusalem is found in verse 6 and also in verse 7 Zion is addressed two times by name in verse 1 and verse 11. And the land, the word land, referring to the land of Israel, is referred to three times in verse 4. When I was reading through that, you may have noticed it. You shall no more be termed forsaken, and your land shall no more be termed desolate. But you shall be called, My delight is in her, and your land married. For the Lord delights in you, and your land shall be married. So we see that the land of Israel is being referred to here. And that makes sense because if we think about the book of Isaiah and ultimately how it began, the book of Isaiah began as addressed to Isaiah. Judah and Jerusalem. The very first verse says the vision of Isaiah the son of Amaz, which he saw concerning Judah And at that time, if you remember, we notice that all of the prophecies in there ultimately have a reference to Judah and Jerusalem. And then in verse 2, he says, Hear O heavens, and give ear, O earth. For the Lord has spoken. And he's speaking of now children, but the children referring to the nation of Israel. Children have I reared and brought up. But they have rebelled against me. If you skip down to verse 21 of that chapter, he says, How the faithful city has become a whore, she who was full of justice. Righteousness lodged in her, but now murderers. And then a few verses later in verse 25, I will turn my hand against you. and will smelt away your dross as with lye and remove all of your alloy. So from the very beginning of the book of Isaiah, when we first entered into this study, some of you were here for that. Probably many of you were not here for that, but when we first began into the study on the book of Isaiah, we noted that it began really with all of the themes of the book of Isaiah in the very first chapter. And then they begin to play out. In fact, chapter two then describes the future day when he will have smelted away their dross As with lie, and he will have removed all of their alloy. So he gives this eschatological view right away into chapter 2, when he describes the mountain of the house of the Lord being lifted up. Meaning a place of Jerusalem where the temple is being lifted up and all the nations shall flow into it. And so with that as a background, we come to chapter 62, and the discussion is, or the subject continues to be Jerusalem, Zion, and God's plan for Zion as the place from which his salvation comes and to which his salvation ultimately culminates. But we see here that the Messiah makes an unceasing intercession for Jerusalem. He begins in verse 1, for Zion's sake I will not keep silent, and for Jerusalem's sake, I will not be quiet These two lines are parallel, just Hebrew parallel thought, parallel poetry. But for the sake of Jerusalem, the Messiah refuses to keep silent. And you could ask yourself the question. For what purpose will he not keep silent? What is he speaking about And we 'll examine this more fully, but the second half of verse 1 begins to answer that question when he says, until until her righteousness goes forth as brightness and her salvation as a burning torch. And as we continue to read verses 2 through 5, this righteousness that comes as a brightness and her salvation as a burning torch is expanded. But we see that the purpose of this Vocal activity, this speaking on behalf of the Messiah, is for the purpose of bringing about a profound spiritual transformation in Zion. Now, if you go all the way down to verse 6 in this chapter, we're going to find that similar language is used to describe vocal activity of another group of people. He says, On your walls, O Jerusalem, I have set watchmen. All the day and all the night, they shall never be silent. You who put the Lord in remembrance, take no rest, and give him no rest until he establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in the earth. So we have a very similar passage Speaking, but now the one who is urged to not keep silent is not the Messiah, but the Messiah has people who are to not keep silent, and their activity is described as speaking to The Lord. They're speaking to the Lord. They are not to be quiet. They're not to take rest. And it says to not give God rest. Until he does what he has purposed to do for the nation of Israel. Until he establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in the earth. Lord willing, next week we'll take more time to consider this, but it's pretty clear that these watchmen, whoever they are, we're not going to look at that tonight, but whoever these watchmen are, are called to intercede. To the Lord continuously on behalf of Jerusalem, on behalf of the nation of Israel, to pray to the Lord on behalf of Jerusalem. So when you see this, the same word that is used to describe the Messiah that will never be silent is the exact same words that are used to describe these watchmen. the same idea of until her righteousness goes forth as brightness and until he establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in the earth. These are parallel thoughts. two different actors but doing the same thing. And so we see here the Messiah has an interceding activity on behalf of Of Jerusalem. He intercedes for Jerusalem. Because the word silent That is translated here, silent, has the idea of being still, like a still silence, like after a snowstorm Alec Matir, the commentator on Isaiah, said, this teaches us that the anointed one will give himself to both ceaseless prayer and ceaseless action. On behalf of Zion, that the Messiah gives himself to ceaseless prayer and ceaseless activity on behalf of Zion. This speaks of the heart of Jesus for the city of Jerusalem. And that heart of love and compassion is found throughout the Gospels. We think of Luke chapter 13. When he comes to Jerusalem and he says, Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it. How often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you were not willing Behold, your house is forsaken. And I tell you, you will not see me until you say. There's that same word until that we've already seen here in Isaiah 62, verse 1, until You say, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And the Lord says, you will not see me until this radical Transformation of righteousness takes place. But we see the heart of the Messiah on behalf of Jerusalem, representing the people of Israel. As Jesus approached Jerusalem on the first Palm Sunday in Luke 19 and verses 41 and following. It tells us that Jesus looked at Jerusalem and he wept. Over Jerusalem. And he said, Would that you, even you, had known on this day the things that make for peace. But now they are hidden from your eyes. For the days will come upon you when your enemies will set up a barricade around you and surround you and hem you in on every side. and tear you down to the ground, you and your children within you, and they will not leave one stone upon another in you, because you did not know the time of your visitation. So because they had failed to recognize the Messiah who had come to visit them, they would face another round of great devastation In that devastation that took place in AD 70, when Titus, General Titus of Rome, sacked Jerusalem, 1. 1 million Jews were murdered. It was a violent sacking of the city of Jerusalem. And a few decades later, all Jews were expelled from Jerusalem permanently. Jesus knew the devastation that would come before they would turn to their Messiah, before they would say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Before their transformation would be like brightness and like a torch. But even on his way to the cross He looks at the people that are streaming out of Jerusalem to participate and watch the spectacle of his crucifixion, and he intercedes for them. To the Father, and he says, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing. Even there, as he approaches the cross, he intercedes for the people who would crucify him. Looking towards that day. We see the the intercession of the Messiah is Efficacious, it is effective. He says, For Zion's sake I will not keep silent, and for Jerusalem's sake I will not be quiet until her righteousness goes forth as brightness and her salvation as a burning. torch. The beauty of this passage is that the Messiah's intercessory work on behalf of Jerusalem is certain He speaks about until. It's not an if, but until her righteousness goes forth as brightness. And then even more significantly in verses 2 through 5, the word shall Is found nine times. I high highlighted that in my Bible. The nations shall see your righteousness and all the kings your glory and you shall be called by a new name. Verse three, and you shall be a crown of beauty in the hand of the Lord. Verse four. And you shall no more be termed forsaken, and your land shall no more be termed desolate But you shall be called. My delight is in her. Nine times in these four verses, the word shall is found. Again, I would just encourage you to highlight that so the next time you read through Isaiah 62, which I don't know, maybe once a year in your Bible reading, you'll be able to quickly pick up on these things. The certainty of the work Of the Messiah and his intercession for Jerusalem. The city of Jerusalem can hardly be called a city of righteousness today. It's a city like any city in the world. But the intercessory work of Jesus will one day result in a vast transformation in the population of that city. Paul describes this transformation in Romans chapter 11, verses 26 and 27, saying, and in this way all Israel will be saved. As it is written, the deliverer will come from Zion. He will banish ungodliness from Jacob, and this will be my covenant with them when I take away their sins. And he's quoting Isaiah 59. Verse 21. He's also quoting Jeremiah 31, verses 33 and following, which we looked at last week referring to the new covenant. The new covenant that God is going to work That we have been grafted into as Gentiles, but that he is going to work with the nation of Israel as he originally promised, which says For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them, and I will write it on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. The significant thing is that their brightness and salvation is so conspicuous. That it's described as brightness here in verse 1 and a burning torch. The transformation is a radical transformation, a transformation that you can't deny, you can't hide. the burning nature of it, the brightness that comes from it. It's like when someone is lost on a deserted island or on a on a mountain and they're they're trying to have give some sort of signal so their rescuers can find them A fire, a torch, a flashlight, something is used to make a clear indication that I am here. Look this direction. It's often said that if you're lost, You should light three fires. Three fires indicates lostness, just like SOS, three letters, and each of those letters has three dashes or dots to it. Three fires is an indication that you are lost. So if you're ever lost, this is free. This doesn't come part of Isaiah. This is just a bonus in case you ever get lost in the woods. Light three fires, and that should help you get discovered. So that's that's helpful if you're a Boy Scout, you already know that. But here, this description is of of a brightness that can't be denied. It can't be ignored. It's not just a I think there's a difference in that in them, but a radical transformation that actually is seen by everyone. The beauty is, we see here, that it draws others into it. This reminds me, going back to Isaiah chapter 60, verses 1 through 3. He says, Arise, shine, for your light has come, and the glory of the Lord has risen upon you. For behold, darkness shall cover the earth And thick darkness to peoples. And we talked about this when we were going through here, how this is a reference to the period before the return of Christ, the tribulation period, which is described as thick darkness covering the earth. But the Lord will arise upon you, and his glory will be seen upon you, and the nations shall come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising. The beautiful thing is that the work of the Messiah interceding on behalf of the nation of Israel will be effective. The amazing thing is that as New Testament believers This glorious truth is also ours. This is a truth that we have received in Christ. He is our intercessor. There are a few passages in the New Testament that speak of Christ. as our intercessor and the effectiveness of his work as our intercessor. Hebrews 7. 25 describes the work of our great high priest as the fullness that comes through his intercessory work. He says here consequently he, Christ, is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. What a beautiful truth that is. His salvation work, his intercessory work in regards to our salvation is to the uttermost. He is saving us to the uttermost. Billy Sunday used to say that Christ saved him from the guttermost to the uttermost, speaking of the fact that he was a drunkard before coming to Christ, and that Christ took him from the guttermost to the uttermost. But we have an advocate who defends us against the accusations of the devil. The fact is that right now Christ is even now praying on our behalf to the Father. If you have come to God by faith in Christ, Then your Lord Jesus is even now standing at the right hand of God the Father, praying for you, interceding for you, pleading for you on behalf of his own work on Calvary. And it is one of those things that we often don't think about, but it is vitally important. Revelation 12, 10 speaks about the ultimate expulsion of Satan from heaven. And it says, And I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ have come for the accuser of our brothers. has been thrown down, who accuses them day and night before our God. We don't see this We don't necessarily understand this except for by faith, but that we have an accuser that accuses us to God day and night He is before the Father. And the fact is our consciences bear witness with the accusations that the accuser of the brethren makes to the Father about us. We and ourselves, we know our wickedness. We know our sinfulness, and when we are accused, we have nothing to say because his accusation is true. But at the same time, we have our Lord Jesus Christ who lives forever, who never slumbers, who never sleeps, who has redeemed us by his own blood, interceding to the Father on our behalf. We actually see a living example of this in Zechariah chapter three. It's a beautiful passage of Scripture In Zechariah chapter 3, actually if you have your Bibles, you can turn to Zechariah and look at it. Zechariah chapter 3, beginning in verse 1. If you find Matthew in your Bible, just go back a little bit and you'll get to Zechariah. Zechariah chapter 3. Zachariah says, then he showed me Joshua the high priest. Now Zachariah is a post-exilic prophet. So after they've returned to the land after their Babylonian exile, Joshua is the high priest of the people of Israel. And he says, he showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of the Lord. Now the angel of the Lord is another term in the Old Testament for the preincarnate Christ. We could take some time to establish that. biblically, but we don't have time for that this evening. But it is a pre-incarnate Christ. Jesus Christ himself is there. He is described as the angel of the Lord. And Satan standing had his right hand to accuse him. And meaning at Joshua's right hand. And the Lord said to Satan So the angel of the Lord is described as the Lord here. The Lord rebuke you, O Satan. The Lord who has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke you. Is not this a brand plucked from the fire? Now Joshua was standing before the angel, clothed with filthy garments. And the angel said to those who were there standing before him, remove the filthy garments from him. And to him he said, Behold, I have taken your iniquity away from you, and I will clothe you with pure vestments. And I said, now this is a different I. The first two eyes were Jesus, the angel of the Lord. This I is now Zachariah. Zechariah is adding in. He's like so excited about what's going on. He's like, hey, I got an idea too. Can I add something to this? And I said, let them put a clean turban on his head. So they put a clean turban on his head and clothed him with garments. And the angel of the Lord was standing by. So in this passage of Scripture, we have Joshua the high priest standing there symbolically in filthy garments. Filthy garments symbolize his sinfulness. Symbolize the same sinfulness that you and I have. And Satan is there to his right accusing him to God. Look at this man. You call him the high priest. Look at his sinfulness. Look at those garments that he's wearing. And our intercessor intercedes on behalf of Joshua. And he says, The Lord rebuke you, O Satan. The Lord who has chosen Jerusalem rebuke you. Is not this a brand plucked from the fire? And then he says, these words are beautiful. Behold, I have taken your iniquity away from you, and I will clothe you with pure vestment. describing the fact that through his death that he would accomplish on Calvary, he would take away his sins. And he would give him the robes of righteousness. This is a perfect example of what Christ does on our behalf day and night because the accuser of the brothers is active against us. Through the intercessory work of Jesus Christ, we are being guarded and preserved so that we will experience the full salvation that Christ has purchased for us There's another passage in the New Testament that speaks about this intercessory work of Christ on our behalf and the certainty of it, and that is in Romans chapter 8. I don't know if I have this in our notes. Oh, I do. Look at that. Good. I have it up here Verses 33 through 35 says, Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword and the answer that comes back is that nothing can separate us from the love of Christ because It is God who justifies. It is Christ who died. It is Christ who rose again. It is Christ who intercedes for us. And nothing that Satan says or does can ever be effective against his intercessory work. Praise God. It's interesting if you go actually back to Zechariah chapter 1, you see the angel of the Lord also interceding there in Zechariah 1. We don't have time to look at it tonight, interceding for Jerusalem. Jesus, the Messiah, interceding for Jerusalem. Just like we find in our passage of Scripture. And the three results of Zion's transformation that are found here in this passage, in verses 2 through 5, first of all, the transformed people of God will attract nations like moths to a flame. The spiritual transformation of the nation of Israel is so radical and so compelling that it has this magnetic appeal to the nations of the earth. And their new righteousness is evident. We could go back and look at Isaiah 2 again, which speaks of all the nations flowing into Jerusalem. And many people shall come and say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord to the house of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us his ways, and that we may walk in his paths. For out of Zion shall go forth the law in the word of the Lord from Jerusalem, this magnetic appeal of Jerusalem that is transformed. The transformation that God works in you and I when we come to Christ is similar, although maybe less magnificent than what he will do in that day because it has not been fully realized. But Jesus tells us in Matthew 5, you are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket but on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house. In the same way, let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. We have been saved for the purpose of good works, which are to draw the lost to Christ. You see also the transformed people of God will have a new nature. And this is described by the fact that they're given a new name. He says in verse 2, and you shall be called by a new name that the mouth of the Lord will give. We're not told in this verse what that new name is, but we go down to verse 4 and we see that new name. He says, You shall no more be termed forsaken. But actually you shall be given another name. And your land shall no more be termed desolate, but you shall be called my delight is in her, or if you have the King James, Hefzebah. Hefzeba was the name actually of Hezekiah's wife in 2 Kings chapter 21, but it means my delight is in her. And God says, this will be your new name, not forsaken. Not forgotten, not abandoned and desolate, but you shall be called. My delight is in her. If you're to turn back to in Isaiah, it's Isaiah 49. Isaiah 49, when we went through this passage, we looked at this beautiful truth. Isaiah 49 we have Zion speaking, and then we have God speaking to Zion. Verse 14, but Zion said, The Lord has forsaken me, my Lord has forgotten me. And God says, Can a woman forget her nursing child? That she should have no compassion on the son of her womb? Even these may forget, yet I will not forget you. Behold, I have engraved you on the palms of my hands. Your walls are continually before me. And God renames Jerusalem. He says, You're not forsaken. You are my delight. And my delight is in you. This idea of renaming speaks of authority, ownership. He is the one who gives the new name, but also speaks of an intimate relationship, because he says the mouth of the Lord will give it. I think of like a A husband whispering sweet nothings, a pet name in his wife's ear. And that's the idea of this term. The mouth of the Lord will give you this name. He changes her name from desolate to to Married, or the Hebrew word there is Beulah. So we're going to song Beulah land. From desolate to married No longer will she be a desolate land, no longer will she be abandoned, but she will be a married land. And then he gives us analogy In verse 5 of a young man marrying a young woman, and he says, For as a young man marries a young woman, so shall your sons marry you. And as the bridegroom rejoices over the bride, so shall your God rejoice over you. This is a gorgeous passage of Scripture. But it speaks of God's delight. In redeeming the nation of Israel. But this is the same delight that he has in us. There's a verse in your Old Testament that if you ever struggle with depression. Fear, sorrow, heartache, you should learn this verse in Zephaniah chapter 3. It's one of the most marvelous verses. Verses This is not the right verse. This is the verse I want. Zephaniah 3, 16 and 17. It says, On that day it shall be said to Jerusalem, Fear not, O Zion, let not your hands grow weak. The Lord your God is in your midst, a mighty one. Who will save. He will rejoice over you with gladness. He will quiet you by his love. He will exalt over you with loud singing. Have you ever thought of God singing and rejoicing? Have you ever thought that God sings? Maybe you've never thought of that. Maybe that seems kind of hard to believe. But God describes Himself here as singing , rejoicing with gladness and exalting, not just with a hum, a quiet hum, but with loud singing. Have you ever thought of him doing that over you? God rejoicing over you with loud singing? Do you remember the parables that Jesus told in Luke chapter 15? The one sheep that has gone astray and the 99 that are back. And the guy comes back with his one sheep that he found And what does he say? Just so I tell you, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over 99 righteous persons who need no repentance. And then he talks about the woman who lost one coin out of her ten. And he says, I tell you, there is joy before the angels of God over one sinner who repents. And who is before the angels of God? God. And so we come to the final parable, which is the parable of the lost son, the prodigal son. And who is the one who is rejoicing, who is at the head table when his son comes back? It's God rejoicing when one sinner repents. This is the glorious truth. that God rejoices over one sinner who repents, and he does so with loud singing. If you're Facing depression, you need to remember the fact that if you have come to know Christ as your Savior, God rejoices over you with loud singing. He describes here as well, thirdly and lastly, the transformed people of God result in Jerusalem becoming a crown of beauty in the hand of the Lord. In Revelation 19, when Christ returns, describes him as having many diadems on his head, many crowns on his head, speaking of the fact that he has the authority. All the kingdoms of this world are the kingdoms of our God and of his Christ. They are his But this one isn't on his head. It's in his hand. People don't wear their crowns on their hands, but it speaks of his tender, personal, loving care. It's his prize. This is his prize. Jerusalem is in the hand of the Lord. And he says it twice. He takes great delight in them as his precious possession. Just in closing, I'd like to make three points of application. First of all, as we've been going through the book of Isaiah, we have come across numerous passages that speak about God's plan for the nation of Israel And I've been laboring to interpret them in a straightforward grammatical way in light of the total revelation of Scripture. And I know that some of you have differing opinions about the future for the nation of Israel, but I would like to urge you, based upon this passage and the verses that we'll be looking at next week, which are significant. To go back and carefully and prayerfully read Romans eleven. And I'm convinced that if you do, you will come to see that God has a glorious future for the nation of Israel. I don't believe there's any good way you can interpret Romans 11 without coming to that conclusion. And that even now our Savior is interceding to the Father on behalf of the nation of Israel about their radical redemption. So I would urge you this week to prayerfully read through Romans 11. But as believers in Jesus, we ought to find great encouragement in this passage, because if God did not cast off Israel, Neither will he cast off you and I who have come to him by faith in Jesus Christ. In fact, that's the entire reason Romans eleven is written. If God could forsake his promises to national Israel, then he could do the same to us. And that's why Paul uses the strongest grammar possible to answer the question. So I asked, did they stumble in order that they may fall? And he says, by no means If he could cast them off and not fulfill his promises to them, then he could do the same to us. But he can't, and he won't, and we are secure as well. Christians, do you know and believe that the Father delights in you because of Christ Jesus, that he rejoices over you with loud singing? Do you know the glorious security that Jesus Christ, the beloved Son of God, is interceding for you before the Father? When you feel defeated or unworthy, take your eyes off of yourself and look at Jesus Christ, who is your intercessor And rejoice, because he is there before the Father pleading his righteous works on your behalf. Let's pray Father, I thank you for Christ, who is our intercessor, who is the suffering servant and the anointed warrior, and in him we have perfect peace. I thank you, Lord, for these glorious truths. And we pray for the peace of Jerusalem and we long for that day when the Prince of Peace will step foot on this earth again And Father, we pray that until that day you would help us to shine brightly as lights in the darkness. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.