It's good to have you here this evening. I invite you to turn with me to Exodus chapter three. Exodus chapter three. I wonder if you know the name of Daniel Webster, often confused with Noah Webster of dictionary fame. They're not the same guy. Daniel Webster was one of the most famous political leaders in our nation in the first half of the nineteenth century. He was a leading lawyer, congressman, senator, and secretary of state. He was known as the greatest orator in the land. He was eloquent, logical, and gifted with a powerful voice that people said sounded like the voice of God. He gave early evidence of his quick mind and his way with words. One day, Webster's father was about to leave home and he left his older brother Daniel and his brother Ezekiel specific work instructions. But when he returned he found that they had not been accomplished. So he questioned his sons about their idleness. And he said, What have you been doing, Ezekiel? And he said, Nothing, sir. And then he said, Daniel, what have you been doing? And he said, Helping Zeke, sir. Excuses are often humorous and often telling. They reveal the hardened character. This evening I want to return to the call of Moses. You may recall we looked at this passage about seven weeks ago. When God called Moses at the burning bush. And in that message, I focused on God's revelation of Himself to Moses. God revealed Himself In the burning bush, and we considered the symbolism of that. And then God revealed himself to Moses in the giving of his personal name, revealing himself as the great I Am. But this evening I want to focus not so much on the revelation of God to Moses, but on Moses ' response to that revelation. It's very clear that Moses was reluctant to obey the Lord. And in some ways he had a good reason not being so eager to lead the children of Israel out of Egypt. Moses, of course, had been away from Egypt now for 40 years. And he must have wondered if any of the Hebrews would even remember him. Forty years is a long time. Of course, when he was last there, he committed murder, and so he was afraid that he might be arrested by the authorities. And Moses knew how arrogant and proud the Egyptians were. He had grown up. In their elite culture. And he knew how difficult it would be to convince the leadership of Egypt to let all this slave labor leave the nation. It would have been, he knew, a monumental task. And he also knew that it would not be easy to lead the Hebrews out of Egypt. He knew that they were fearful, stubborn, and they had a complaining spirit. The fact is that Moses knew better than anyone else in the world, how difficult it would be to complete the task that God was calling him to. And I suspect that Moses was content to be where he was. He had long lost any desire to return to Egypt. For him, it was a land filled with bad memories. I think Moses was very comfortable living on the backside of the desert. He'd never been happier in his life. Life was good, peaceful, quiet. But now God was calling him to leave his comfort zone and perform the most difficult task that Moses could imagine. And the fact is, the Bible is filled with the Lord calling reluctant people to serve Him. We think of Gideon, think of King Saul, think of Jeremiah the prophet, and Jonah that Nick spoke about this past Wednesday night. They were all very hesitant to follow the call of God. So Moses ' reluctance is not unique to him. Bible scholars have noted that in the call to fearful people, there's often a similar pattern. There's a call or commission, and then there's an appeal objection by the one called. And then there's a word of reassurance from the Lord. And then often there is a sign given by God that He will help them. And we find that pattern in the call of Moses. Moses ' response is very human, something we can identify with. And I think it's also instructive for us. The fact is God is still calling men and women to serve him. I don't know if it's just my imagination. I can't quantify this, but when I was a kid, I heard sermons all the time. urging people into the ministry, exhorting them to consider God's call, whether it be to missionary service or to the pastorate or whatever. I don't hear much of that anymore. But the God does still call people. He still calls people that are fearful and feel inadequate. And one of the things we see in this passage is God's patience. with the weakness of individuals. So I would have preached you this evening on a reluctant response to the call of God. And I want us to consider some common reasons why we are afraid to follow God's call to ministry. I think that's the uh alert of something probably that's going through. I'm not sure. Yeah, that's what I figured it would be. All right, so turn with me please to Exodus chapter 3. Exodus chapter 3. I want to notice the five excuses. Some scholars and some books will say four, but really there are five excuses that Moses gives. Look with me at verses 11 and 12. And Moses said unto God, Who am I that I should go unto Pharaoh and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt? Now, what is amazing about his response is what the Lord says right before it. Look with me at verse 7. And the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people. which are in Egypt, but have heard their cry by reason of their taskmasters, for I know their sorrows, and I am come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians. to bring them out of that land and a good land and a large unto a land flowing with milk and honey unto the place of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, the Jebusites Now therefore, behold, the cry of the children of Israel has come unto me, and I have also seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptians oppressed them. Come now, therefore. And I will send thee unto Pharaoh that thou mayest bring forth my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. A very compelling case. mentions the anguish, the agony, the cry of his fellow Hebrews But he's not moved. He says basically, I'm not the man for the job. Now I wonder what you think about this. Bible scholars have interpreted these words differently at times. Some have seen this as nothing more than what's called mannerly modesty. The idea is that in the ancient Near East and and still in many parts of the world when you say something or give someone a great task or give them a wonderful compliment. they will respond with some culturally appropriate way of saying, oh, it's it's not very good. There's still many places in in Asia I'm told. That when you tell them the meal was delicious, they'll say, oh, it was awful, it was horrible. Oh, I I that wasn't even fit to serve you. Because that's the culturally appropriate way of responding to a compliment. Now some say that's all that's going on here. I don't think that's the case at all. I think That Moses is accurate and honest when he says, I don't feel like I'm up to the task. Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the children of Israel out of Egypt? And you know what? Moses has come to the right conclusion. He is insufficient for the job. And by the way, this is the kind of person that God delights to use. A person who feels I can't measure up to the requirements for that important task. The person who responds like, well it's about time you called me. You know, I've been waiting here ready to go. That's the person that you need to be concerned about. It's the person who doesn't feel that they are qualified, who is often the person who is truly ready To serve the Lord. The fact is that Moses had some reasons why he felt unqualified. We know that 40 years earlier he was brimming with confidence. When he slew that Egyptian taskmaster, he believed that that would be the first step in the liberation of his people. And he believed that they would rally around him. But that's not what they understood. They did not want him to disrupt the status quo. They saw him as a troublemaker. And he was really hurt by their rejection because that was a step of faith. In Hebrews 11, we read about how he thought about this and carefully considered his decision and how he turned his back on the riches of Egypt. And how he had his focus on God and on the treasures that were not, as it were, tangible, but that someday he would inherit. That was a huge turning point in his life. And ended up fleeing into the desert so that he would not be killed. When someone has something like that occur in their life, they're very reluctant to get back in the saddle. And so the Lord responds to him in verse 12 with these reassuring words, certainly I will be with thee. And this shall be a token unto thee that I have sent thee when thou hast brought forth the people of Egypt, ye shall serve God upon this mountain, because he was right there by Mount Sinai. This is always God's answer to our fears in our last message seven weeks ago in this passage. I mentioned about this Emmanuel principle that you find all throughout Scripture in the Old and New Testaments that for fearful people, God's answer is always the same. I am with you. And that's what the Lord said to Moses here. This is what the Lord said to Gideon, what he said to Joshua. What he said to David, what he said to those fearful disciples when Christ ascended, lo, I am with you always. And this is always the answer to our fears. Secondly, the second excuse I want us to look at is found in verse 13. We hesitate to obey the Lord because we are afraid that we will not be able. to answer the question of others. Look with me at verse 13, please. This is his second excuse. And Moses said unto God, Behold, when I am come unto the children of Israel, And shall say to them, the God of your fathers has sent me unto you, and they shall say to me, What is his name that I shall say unto them? This, of course, is the context of that great revelation of the sacred name of God. Despite God's reassuring promise, Moses offers another objection. Moses here goes from asking, Who am I, to who are you? And he raises a hypothetical objection. He surmises that the people, when he goes, will ask him, Who has sent you? The idea being they will be resistant. They will maybe say, Who has made you boss? That you should tell us what to do. One of the burdens of leadership is anticipating the objections and the questions of others. And all leaders try to anticipate that. People want to have confidence that their leaders have thought through their plan, that they have considered every contingency. And of course, answering people's questions can be intimidating. By the way, as I mentioned in our last sermon, when Moses did return to Egypt, we have no record they ever asked him this question That objection never came. Have you ever noticed that sometimes the things that we are so certain will happen if we obey God never happen? Some of the things we worry about the most, we fret about the most never occur. And so it's important for us not to allow our fear to keep us from obeying the Lord. Now, the Lord, of course, does reveal to Moses his name the great I am. We read that in verses 14 and 15. And God said unto Moses, I am that I am, and he said, Thou shalt say unto the children of Israel, I am hath sent me unto you. And God said moreover unto Moses, Thou shalt say unto the children of Israel The Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob, has sent me unto you. This is my name forever. This is my memorial unto all generations. God gives him another incredible revelation of his name. I'm not going to comment on this great revelation because we did so a few weeks ago. What I want you to see is that God patiently gives Moses everything that he has asked for in that great revelation of the I am. In fact, what we're going to see is that God gives Moses even more than he asked for. He gives him more than just I will be with you. And then he says, let me give you my personal name so you can answer this hypothetical objection. But then he gives them even more. Have you ever noticed these verses before? Look at verse 17. He says, And I have said, I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egyptians. of Egypt, the land of the Canaanites and the Hittites and the Amorites and the Perizzites and the Hivites and the Jebusites, unto a land flowing with milk and honey. Alright, so he gives them in verse 17, he gives them the big picture. Alright, let me tell you, you're going to go in, the people are going to come out. This is what I am going to do. And then he's going to give them some detail. So we have the first summary and then some steps to that, verse 18. And they shall hearken unto thy voice, and thou shalt come. thou and the elders of Israel, unto the king of Egypt, and he shall say unto thee, The Lord, the God of the Hebrews, hath met with us. Now let us go, we beseech thee. Three days' journey into the wilderness that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God. And I am sure that the king of Egypt will not let you go, no not by a mighty hand, and I will stretch out my hand and smite Egypt with all my wonders, which I will do in the midst thereof And after that he will let you go. And I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, and it shall come to pass that when you go ye shall not go empty, but every woman shall borrow of her neighbor and of Her that sojourneth in her house, jewels of silver and jewels of gold, and raiment, and ye shall put them upon your sons and upon your daughters, and ye shall spoil the Egyptians. This is an amazing thing if you consider about. This hasn't happened yet. We know how it works out, so it doesn't seem incredible to us. But Moses is fearful, he's spreading, he's wringing his hands, and God says, All right. I've given you the revelation of the burning bush. I've given you the reassuring promise of my presence. I've given you my personal name. I'll give you some more details. You want more details? All right. First of all, he says, verse 18, the people will follow you. Secondly Pharaoh will initially say no to your request to leave, all right? So when you get rejected, don't be discouraged, because I'm telling you it's going to happen initially. Thirdly, it says in verse 20, I will send plagues and he will let you go. We know it was ten plagues that would take place, but eventually Pharaoh would relent and God would let them go. And number four. He says, the Egyptian people will be favorable to your departure and will generously give you provision for your journey. Now that's incredible detail. I've run into a number of people who've been fearful and fretful of things, and they they said, if only, you know, I The Lord would reveal something to me. It would be nice to have like all of these things. God says, all right, I'm going to tell you four things are going to happen. That would be great. This is an amazing thing. By the way, I want to comment on this. The Hebrew slaves were not stealing from the Egyptians. You might read that and think that's what the passage is saying. You know, they just kind of looted the place before they left. That's not what the scripture is revealing here. It was a cultural norm that when your slave who had been serving you left, you loaded them down with gifts as thanks for their service. And that's what the people were doing here. God gave them that favor. The people may have worried, oh, you know, if we try to leave, our masters won't let us leave and they'll they'll wipe us out or something. And so God reassures them that's not the way it's going to work. They're going to send you with provisions for your journey. But Moses is still hesitant. And so we come to the third excuse found in chapter 4. Look with me at verse 1. And Moses answered and said, But behold, they will not believe me, nor hearken unto my voice, for they will say, The Lord hath not appeared unto thee. The third excuse is this. We often hesitate to obey the Lord because we're afraid that others will not follow us. The simplest definition of a leader is someone who has followers. A leader is someone who has followers They may not be a good leader. They may not be a wonderful model of a leader, but if you have followers, people who are looking to you, who are following your directions, following your example, then guess what? You are a leader whether you recognize it. That's why every parent is a leader, every manager is a leader, every employer is a leader. Now, this objection that Moses voices in verse 1 is very similar to the previous one. He's just said that they will ask you ascension. So God gave him the revelation of his personal name. We would pronounce it today as Yahweh or Jehovah. But Moses is still not convinced that the people will listen to him or believe that God has appeared unto him. Now, I want you to make no mistake about it. Moses is responding in unbelief. Because, look with me, do you remember what God said to him in chapter 3 and verse 18? Look at the first phrase there. And they shall hearken to thy voice. This is what God says is going to happen. They're going to listen to you, Moses. They're going to follow you. But the very next thing he says is, Behold, they will not believe me nor hearken unto my voice. We see here a stubborn refusal to believe and obey. What is behind Moses ' refusal to obey? Well, I think he is still remembering what happened 40 years earlier In Exodus 2 and verse 14, we read of this bystander who says to Moses, Who made thee a prince and a judge over us? Intendest thou to kill me as thou killest the Egyptian? And Moses feared and said, Surely this thing is known. This man in a very sarcastic way asked Moses, Who put you in charge? And I think that Moses was still haunted by that past rejection. One of the reasons why people fail to trust and obey is because we still are reliving painful memories of the past. Those jeering words, who may be a prince and judge over us, were still fresh in his mind after 40 years. And this should not be hard for us to understand because there are many people, many Christian people that I have known who have allowed one event in their past life perhaps decades ago. To completely change the entire rest of the trajectory of their life. They're still living haunted fearful of the pain, the suffering that they experienced, and they don't move past that. They stay there. They wallow in that feeling. They allow it to paralyze them and to color everything for the rest of their days. And so often they think of themselves as a victim as if it's something that they cannot control, but it's something they can control. By the grace of God. And I know there's many people that have had horrible things happen to them, and we do not minimize that But the fact of the matter is we have to move forward by faith and do what God has called us to do. God continues to be very patient with Moses. Notice what he does in verses 2 through 5. He provides these three signs. And the Lord said unto him, What is in thine hand? And he set a rod. And he said, Cast it on the ground. And he cast it on the ground, and it became a serpent. And Moses fled from before it. And the Lord said unto Moses, put forth thy hand and take it by the tail. And he put forth his hand and caught it, and it became a rod in his hand. There's a whole sermon in that. What should you do when you feel that God wants you to serve Him? Well You should do what you can with what you have. God says to him, What is in thy hand? All he had out there was a rod, a staff in his hand. But God said, I want you to even give that to me and let me use it to display my glory. It's very interesting that to consider the snake was one of the symbols of Egyptian power If there's anyone here tonight who is afraid of snakes, I want you to know you're in good company because apparently Moses was afraid of snakes. Says he fled from before it And then in verse 4 it says, When God said, Put forth thy hand and take it by the tail. In the Hebrew text, when it says, And he put forth his hand and caught it, it means that his very hesitant, his hand was trembling. That was a real test of his faith. He was terrified of that snake, and God said, take it by the tail. And sometimes we have to respond when God calls us to do something. We have to face our fears head on. Every time you relent in the face of a fear of something that God has called you to do, whether it's witnessing to a neighbor or teaching a Sunday school class or whatever it might be, and you say, oh I'm just going to decline. This is just so hard. I can't do this. And you do so because of fear. You are reinforcing that fear so that it'll be more difficult the next time. You have to face your fear and say, by God's grace, I'm going to do this even though my hands are trembling. I often wonder what would have happened if Moses just said, Lord, I'm not picking up that snake. I'm not touching that thing. I don't know what would have happened. It's hard to unravel the past. But by God's grace, and as a step of faith, Moses does pick that up. And it's, of course, returned to a staff again. And then we come to another sign in verses 6 Through eight, the Lord said furthermore unto him, put thou thy hand into thy bosom. And he put his hand into his bosom when he took it out, behold, his hand was leprous as snow. And he said, Put forth thine hand into thy bosom again. And he put his hand into his bosom again and plucked it out of his bosom, and behold, he was turned again as his other flesh Leprosy was the most feared disease in Egypt. This was again a test of faith. When he pulled that hand out, he must have been distraught. This was an absolute symbol that eventually death would come. He had leprosy, and the last thing he wanted to do was put it back in his coat next to his skin. But that's what he did. And God healed it. And it was back the way it was before. And then there is This third sign, verse 9, and it shall come to pass if they will not believe also these two signs, neither hearken unto thy voice. that thou shalt take of the water of the river and pour it upon the dry land, and the water which thou takest out of the river shall become blood upon the dry land. Of course, the Egyptians considered the Nile to be the source of life. In this case, the blood is not turned back into water as the other two signs were reversed Perhaps to indicate that God would use this as one of his plagues upon Egypt. But God once again has patiently answered Moses ' fearful objections with reassurance. That God will not forsake him. But believe it or not, Moses is still not finished making excuses. Look with me at verse 10, we have the fourth excuse. And Moses said unto the Lord, O my Lord, I am not eloquent, neither heretofore nor since hast thou spoken unto thy servant, but I am slow of speech and of a slow tongue. What does it mean that Moses was slow of speech? Well, there are many suggestions that have been made over the years. Let's consider these for a moment. Some say that Moses is simply saying that he hasn't spoken Egyptian for like forty years. He's very rusty at this, so He's not eager to go back to the court and speak to Pharaoh because he really has forgotten that language, as it were. Others have suggested this as simply saying that Moses got nervous when he spoke. spoke in public. And the fact of the matter is, this is one of the most common fears that people experience. We sometimes call it stage fright. People do not like, especially some personalities, do not like being in the spotlight. They do not like like being upfront when you speak People judge you. It's very easy to make mistakes. It can be a very embarrassing situation. Believe me, I know this well. Every pastor does. Every mistake almost is brought up to you again. You know, you didn't really pronounce that word right. And you know, that metaphor doesn't really go that way. And you know, it didn't really happen that year. I don't know if you know this or not. It's a very vulnerable thing. Nick and I talk about this all the time. It's a very vulnerable thing to stand up and speak before a large group of people. So maybe people would say that's what Moses is referring to. A third suggestion is that Moses was simply lying about his speech. Some would say this is just a made-up excuse, and they would point to the fact that the speeches that we have of Moses during the wilderness wanderings and before Pharaoh seem very eloquent. He seems to be a very able speaker. At the end of the book of Deuteronomy, we have him addressing as an elderly man about to die the children of Israel, and those speeches are powerful even on the printed page. And then there's this verse in Acts chapter 7 and verse 22. Don't turn there. Let me read this to you very quickly. Acts chapter 7 and verse 22 in Stephen's sermon, he says, it says, and Moses was learning in all the wisdom of the Egyptians. And was mighty in words and in deeds. Mighty in words and in deeds. So some would say, see, he was just flat out lying, making excuses he didn't want to go. When actually he wasn't someone who had trouble speaking. He was actually very eloquent. He just didn't want to go. But I don't think that's the case. I think that reference in Acts 7. 22 is a reference to Moses ' education in rhetoric that we know was very prevalent there in Egypt. So the fourth, and I think the most natural explanation is that Moses had some type of speech impediment. The Septuagint, the Greek translation of the Old Testament, says that he had a stuttering problem. I'm not sure that that was the case. I'm not willing to say that's what it was, but I do think he had a speech impediment of some sort. I don't think, if I can put it this way, that Moses sounded like Charlton Heston. I don't think he did. We often think that because of our experience in and movies and television and everything, that that every leader that has ever lived has been very good looking and very articulate. It's not the case. That's Hollywood. That's not reality We think of the Apostle Paul. Sometimes people speak of him as being the greatest preacher in the Christian era, but it says in 2 Corinthians 10, 10 that his speech was contemptible. And he says in 1 Corinthians chapter 2 that he came not with great eloquence of words. I think if we were somehow to be transported back to the first century and heard the Apostle Paul preach, I think we would be disappointed. I thought he'd be better than that. And I think if we could go back and hear Moses speaking to the children of Israel, we may say, you know, that's not very impressive. That's not what I thought it would sound like. He doesn't have a voice that sounds like God's. I don't know what kind of speech impediment it has, but I think this is the right interpretation for three reasons. Number one, it's the most natural reading of the text. Number two, this is how ancient Jewish commentators understood Moses ' words. And number three, and most importantly, the Lord responds to Moses' excuse. by speaking about disabilities in verse 11. And the Lord said unto him, Who hath made man's mouth, or who maketh the dumb or deaf or the seeing or the blind? Have not I the Lord's? This is the most important verse in the Old Testament that addresses the issue of disabilities. It tells us that even in those painful disabilities that limit people, God is in control. We may not like to accept that, but that's what the Bible clearly says. Notice the Lord doesn't say to Moses, you know, what are you talking about? You're slow of speech. You're a wonderful speaker. He doesn't rebuke him. No, he operates under the assumption that indeed Moses does have a disability. He doesn't sound normal in some respect. We don't know what that is. But for some reason he wasn't a great speaker. You may say, but what about Moses ' ability to speak throughout his ministry? Remember I mentioned about his speeches standing up before the the children of Israel who were going astray in the wilderness and getting all those people, probably a couple million people at least. To obey him and to follow his guide and his leadership? And the speeches that we find at the end of Deuteronomy, how do we explain that? My friends, that's the grace of God. God likes to take broken things and do incredible things through them because then he gets the glory. That's what we read about in 1 Corinthians chapter 1. The Lord is telling Moses , listen, I made your mouth, and I can use your mouth. I can speak through your mouth I didn't make a mistake. I made you exactly the way I want you to be, and I can use you just as you are But there's a fifth excuse that Moses mentions. And this is beginning in verse 13. And he said, Oh my Lord, send, I pray thee, by the hand of whom thou wilt send. Now what does that mean? Very simply, it means, Lord, please send somebody else. One clever preacher gave the title to a sermon on this as Here am I, Lord, send him, which is sometimes the way we think. Moses just didn't want to go because he knew how difficult it would be. And look with me at verse 14. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses. This is the first time in Scripture that we find that God was angry at a single individual. We have seen him angry like at the flood with humanity and and other groups of people. But here, God is fed up with Moses and excuses. Now the Bible teaches that God is slow to anger. But that implies what? That he does at times get angry. This is the fifth excuse that Moses has offered. And God has given him reassuring words and sign after sign after sign after sign after sign. And now Moses just says, Lord, send somebody else. And the Lord is angry because this is just stubborn unbelief. And so the Lord makes a concession, and letting him use his brother Aaron as a spokesman, and verses 14 through 17 And I think that it's very likely that Moses may have come to regret balking at this because Aaron, his brother Would bring some problems to him. Sometimes God lets us have what we beg for, even though it's going to bring us grief and difficulty. Now I want to conclude with some applications very briefly. First of all, God calls those who feel inadequate for the task. God calls those who feel inadequate. Do you feel inadequate to serve the Lord? Good. That's the only kind of person he wants to use. I think every preacher that I've ever spoken to who has felt the call of God on their life has expressed and has felt that they were inadequate for the task that God had given to them. Secondly, God answers our sense of inadequacy By reminding us of his sufficiency. It's not that God doesn't do what maybe our parents would say, oh, you can do it. You really are a good speaker. You really are a good leader, Moses. You've learned a lot on the backside of the desert. You've learned some management skills from Jethro and others. You'll do great. You'll do a fine job. No, the Lord doesn't say, you know, you really you just need some more self-confidence, some self-esteem, Moses. No, the Lord says, listen, stop looking at yourself and look to me, the Lord says. Consider that I am the great I am. Consider that I will be with you. We need to be careful that we don't tell our children cultural lies. You can do anything that you put your mind to. I've heard a lot of Christian parents tell their kids that. It's not true. It's not true. It's sentimental nonsense. You can do whatever God's called you to do, but you can't do anything open-ended. Always so concerned with building up our children's self-esteem so they feel good about themselves. You know what? A lot of times we've seen God's dealing with people He's making them feel bad about themselves so that they rely more fully on him. So don't tell your children cultural lies that you can do anything and You have all the resources at your disposal on. You're an exceptional exceptional person. You have incredible abilities. I'll spare you the statistics, you know. 75 to 80 percent of people think that they're far above average. They're much more intelligent than most people are, they're more talented and more skilled because their mommy told them that Guess what? It's not true. Most of us have a lot of limitations, a lot of shortcomings. And rather than thinking, you know, I just really need to pump myself up with some self-talk and say, you can do it. You're really powerful. You're really strong. You're really intelligent. No, we need to turn to God and say, I can't do it. I need your help. We see that God is very patient with fearful people. Moses is a fearful person. He doesn't want to go back to Egypt. He doesn't want to face those people that hurt him, rejected him. He doesn't want to face the elite establishment there in Egypt. But that's what God wants him to do. God wants him to take the snake by the tail and to trust his word. And sometimes, often, we have to say, I am going to do what God wants me to do, even though I don't feel comfortable doing this. I don't feel at peace about this. I feel nervous about this. I feel upset about this. I've talked to so many Christians. They get these foolish notions in their mind, you know, if I don't feel completely at peace about something and comfortable with something, then I shouldn't do it. You know what? Moses didn't feel comfortable picking up that snake. But God said, pick up that snake. And he did. And if you only do what is comfortable to you, Once you feel reassured, all right, now I I I I have the sense everything's going to turn out right, so now I can do this, and now I'll step forward by faith. Then that's not faith. That's not faith. You can't live your life by your feelings of comfort, or you'll never go far in obeying the Lord. Fourthly, God will provide everything we need to do His will. Moses was so fearful, God gave him all of these signs. God gave him his presence. God gave him a spokesman. God gave him miraculous powers to convince the people and to Convince the Egyptian leadership to let them go. God has everything that we need , but we must step out by faith to follow him. And finally, I want you to know that God will never disappoint those who answer his call. Perhaps you would question me about that because we know at the end of Moses ' life what happened. He wasn't able to go into the promised land. Because Moses failed in this area of strength. This is something you often find in Scripture. Moses is called what? The meekest man in the earth. He didn't stand up and defend himself. He wasn't a person that had a short fuse and would blow up. He was a very patient man. But towards the end of his ministry, he lost it. In his area of weakness. And God said, all right. You're not going to enter the promised land. You may have thought that perhaps Moses would have said, you know, here I've done all this, I've let these people out, and now, you know, my life has pretty much been a failure. But I don't think That Moses regretted that. When you see him at the end of Deuteronomy, you see a man who has walked with God and is full of faith and joy. And in Hebrews chapter 11, we read that he had recompense unto the rewards. He knew that his reward would not ultimately be in this life. And I want to assure you that Moses today, this man who walked with God, who spoke to God face to face, like no one else has described in the Old Testament, I want you to know that Moses does not regret. That he obeyed the Lord and followed his will. And we have so many promises in Scripture that those who follow the Lord and put their trust in him will never be disappointed. in the end. And we need to remember that. We will never make a sacrifice and say, you know, if I had it to do all over again, I think I would have said no to God. No one in heaven. has that idea in their minds. They are so glad that they follow the Lord's leading and did what he had called them to do. Let's close in prayer tonight. Father, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you that The individuals that we consider like Moses are just like us. They're fearful, disobedient, they're haunted by the past. They have a sense of their own inadequacy. We thank you, Lord, that you're patient and you're compassionate and gentle with people like us. And we thank you that you give us your grace to do what you have called us to do. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen