Invite you to turn with me, please, to 1 Peter chapter 2. It's a new month, and we're going to start a new chapter in the book of 1 Peter today. Over twenty years ago, I was visiting down at Johns Hopkins Hospital I'm not sure if it's still there, but in one of their lobbies they had a very interesting exhibit that someone had loaned to a hospital and it was a very impressive collection of baby bottles through the centuries. There were some baby bottles there from as far back as ancient Greece. And others were there from the United States in the 1950s. There was a remarkable diversity among these specimens. Some of them were rather large and crude looking. And others were very small and delicate works of art beautifully painted. And all of these exhibits were carefully labeled with helpful explanations. The bottles that were most disturbing came from Victorian England And they were used by the upper classes. They were very beautiful, beautifully painted, wonderful form to them. The only problem was is they were made with lead paint. And so as these very elite, wealthy families purchased these very expensive baby bottles and fed their babies, the lead was leaching out into the milk and poisoning their children. What babies need and want is pure wholesome milk. It is through the consumption of milk that babies grow, and it's through the appropriation of the Word of God that Christians grow. This morning, as we continue our study of 1 Peter, we come to the second chapter. I've mentioned to you before that the chapter and verse divisions are not inspired. They were done many, many centuries ago by uh well-meaning editors who um made the best uh judgments they could for divisions and they generally did a very good job and I'm glad that we have chapter and verse divisions because it'd be very difficult to find where I was preaching today if you were just turning back and saying, where where is he at in the Bible? So I'm very glad that they did this, but Sometimes the divisions aren't exactly right, and Peter here is still in the middle of a discussion that he was going through at the end of chapter one. Peter is dealing broadly with the doctrine of sanctification, that is, the growth of the holiness of the people of God. May remember in chapter 1 in verses 15 and 16, he mentions that God has called us to be holy because he is holy. The next major command is in verse 22 that we would love one another with a pure heart fervently. And then in verse 23 of chapter 1, he begins to talk about the vital ministry of the Word of God in our sanctification. And that thought continues into chapter 2. Now the first three verses in chapter 2 are actually one sentence in the Greek text. And the key idea, the key command is found in verse 2. And the main verb there is the word translated desire. As newborn babes desire. And the idea there is the idea of that as infants crave their mother's milk, so Christians are to crave the milk of the word. And what is the whole purpose of taking in the Word of God? Well, he says in verse 2, that ye may grow thereby. There are a great deal of verses in our New Testament that tell us the beauty of the gospel and how it is that we come to put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ. But most of the verses in our New Testament tell us not how to be saved, but what it means to live as saved individuals, how to live the Christian life And the entirety of our Christian lives here on earth, we are involved in this process of sanctification. Where our standing before God is secure, but yet our growth and holiness, we are striving to become more and more like Christ by God's grace. so that our standing and our actual practice come closer and closer to matching one another. Now none of us will ever be exactly like that in this life. But someday we will when we are in heaven. And while we are here, we strive by the grace of God to grow to become more and more holy, more and more like the Lord Jesus Christ So let me ask you as we begin this new section in our study this morning, are you a growing Christian? Are you advancing in your walk with God? Can you look back and see sins that used to trip you up on an almost daily basis and they no longer do? That's almost like a distant memory. Those sins, those struggles that you had in one particular area are not with you today. Do you love the body of Christ more than you did ten years ago? Remember in our text here, this is one of the of the key elements of sanctification, which we often overlook, and that is our love for the brethren. Our love for one another in Christ, are we practically demonstrating that? Is it truly, can it be said of us that we love one another with a pure heart fervently? And are we growing in our love for the Savior? Have we become stunted in our spiritual growth? There are so many Christians. that I encounter who will express to me essentially this, that they haven't grown in decades. They've been stuck on some plateau or they're in some valley. There was some event, something that happened that just totally threw them off track derailed their spiritual progress and they've been in the same place which is not a good place for many, many years. I want you to know that you will never grow up spiritually without appropriating the instructions that are found in these three verses here this morning. I want to speak to you on the essential steps To spiritual growth. Now, there's many more that are found in our New Testaments, but this morning we're going to confine our attention to these first three verses of chapter two. Look with me, please, at verse one. Peter writes, wherefore, laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envies and all evil speakings. Notice how Peter begins this chapter with the word wherefore. That means that Peter is now going to make some application from what he has been saying. He's saying that Since you have been born again through the preaching of the word, which he talked about in chapter 1 and verse 23 through 25 These sins that he mentions here in verse one should not have a part in your Christian life. And what he's essentially calling them to do is to repent of respectable sins. I'm going to get back to that phrase respectable sins in a moment, but let me first of all talk about this matter of laying aside. This is a very common New Testament image for repentance. And it pictures someone taking off an old coat and throwing it aside and not putting it on again. They're taking it off. The Apostle Paul often employs this analogy when speaking of our sanctification. In Romans chapter 13 and verse 12, he says, cast off. the works of darkness. In Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 22 he says, put off the old man which is corrupt according to the deceitful lust. And in Colossians chapter 3 and verse 8, he says, put off all of these anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth. You'll notice it's a very similar list to what Peter gives us here. So the idea of taking off a garment is a helpful image for us in dealing with our sinful habits. Let me add a little more color to this. picture for us that's really conveyed in the original language. Let's say a friend of yours was giving away some clothing and you went over to their house and they had this beautiful coat. And you're like, oh, I really want that. And so you take it and you slip it on and it fits you just perfectly. And I say, oh, I might need to let you know that the last person who wore that coat died of Ebola. Now what would you do? I think you would get that coat off pretty fast. I think you might question whether or not they're really your friends. You couldn't get it all fast enough. That's the idea of this term cast off or lay aside you vigorously and quickly and with earnestness, you cast it away. It's something that is vile and infected. That's the way we should view our sinful actions Now, sometimes Christians think that repentance is something that you do once in your life when you are saved, and it is true That coming to Christ involves repentance. Faith and repentance are like two sides of the same coin. You can't really put your trust in Christ without also Turning from your sin. Those two are intricately connected. But that's not the only time we repent. Martin Luther was right when he said that the Christian life is a life of repentance. Now the list that we find in verse one of chapter two is a list that I described a moment ago as respectable sins. Not that there really is such a thing in the eyes of God as respectable sins. But I'm borrowing a title from one of the books of Jerry Bridges, entitled Respectable Sins. And he makes the point in that book that there are certain sins that are accepted and that commonly exist within the Christian church, that we know kind of are wrong, but no one really does anything about it. Or is really bothered by it if they have it in their life. You know, we're really bothered if if if someone commits murder We're really bothered if someone commits adultery. We're really bothered if someone goes out and robs a bank. You know, those are really bad things. And those are outward actions that literally everyone would condemn and say, that's not right. But when it comes to internal attitudes of the heart, Things that people cannot really see or prove that you have in your hearts We tend not to bother with those sins because they're private sins. And they're so common among us that they become respectable sins in the eyes of many. But in the eyes of God, they are just as vile and heinous as some of those other sins that I mentioned. Look at this list for me. We have five items here. I want to run through these quickly. First of all, he says, lay aside all malice. The idea of the term here is a desire for someone to be harmed or hurt It doesn't mean that you're going to actually physically assault them or slash the tires of their car. You would never do such a thing. What would people think of you But if you heard that someone slashed the tires of their car, your instant response to even the heart was made, good, they deserve it. That's malice. And then there's guile. This refers to deception, craftiness, or manipulation. This is the deliberate attempt to mislead people. You know, Jesus said that our communication should be yay, yay, and nay, nay. That is, it should be straightforward and clear. So much of our time in the world involves us trying to figure out now what are they really saying? What is really behind what they're saying? Because I know what they're saying, but that doesn't really match up what I'm seeing in them. There's something hidden here. They're not really speaking truthfully and honestly and in a forthright manner. That's not the way it should be with Christian people. You know, you can say something that's technically true but intentionally misleading. Did you know that Whenever I think of this concept, I remember the story I read many years ago about the captain of a ship. And of course these ships were owned by wealthy men, and uh one of the things they would do uh when they would come into court as the investors and the owners would go over the logs to find out how the ship was being managed and how the personnel were working. And so one day the captain wrote in his log, the first mate was drunk today. And one day as he was in the cabin there, the first mate saw that entry about himself in the captain's log, and he was furious. How could he get back at him? Well he had a log as well that was going to be read. And so he simply wrote in his log the date the captain was sober today. Technically true, but misleading. We also find hypocrisies Which refers to various forms of pretense, pretending to be something that you're not. This is a very dangerous thing for Christian people. How easy it is for us to become little Pharisees to adopt a pious attitude and put on religious garb as it were and to come on Sunday and to be well thought of by people and yet the rest of the week we are somebody entirely different We talk differently and we act differently and we respond differently to people and then we come back one Sunday and we put on a different show. You know, this is this is what lost people always go to as their excuse for not coming to church. What do they say? The church is filled with hypocrites. And I've heard that so many times, and every time they say it, I have a pet answer. Come and join us, we need one more Because everyone's a hypocrite. Everyone knows better than what they do. You ask people certain things, is this right, is this right? Is this right? Is this right? No, none of those are right. Do you do those? Well yeah, I do. Then we have envies. This is the displeasure that a person feels when someone has done well You will see this in every work situation in America, right? When someone gets a promotion. They promoted him. He does nothing around here. I remember the first time I had a job and I came home and told my dad that and he said, son, it's that way everywhere. That's the way it is in the world. Whenever someone gets a promotion, everyone else Although they may secretly congratulate him, they're thinking it should have been me. He didn't deserve this. There's an old apocryphal tale. Of some demons that were trying to cause this saintly man to sin. And all the inexperienced demons failed miserably. And finally there was This master demon who said to the young demons, watch and learn. And he went up to this saintly preacher. And he whispered in his ear that one of his friends, a peer of his, had just been made bishop. And the expression on his face instantly changed to outrage. And he said to his apprentices, that's how it's done. How true that is. When we see others who are promoted, we often have envy in our hearts. This is no part of the Christian life. And then all evil speakings. This refers to slander or gossip. This is the way we defame people behind their backs. It is a very easy habit to fall into. to tear people down with our words. There's something that is enjoyable to our fallen nature of taking people who perhaps have achieved certain status, who have worked hard, who are well thought of, and just absolutely dissect them and destroy them with our words. makes us feel better about ourselves. It's very easy to develop a critical spirit, since sometimes people think they have a special gift from God. To be able to find the fly in every ointment, to find the flaw in every character. That is not a gift from God. It's been said that slander is what we would never say to a person's face, while flattery is what we would never say behind their backs. These relational sins, all five of these are relational sins about the horizontal relationship that we have with others. All of these sins have to be cast out of our lives. So often our focus is on our walk with the Lord. And so if I'm not doing anything that's gross and disgusting and that is taboo to my Christian community, then it's fine. But my heart can be filled with with malice and hypocrisy and envy and slander. And yet I can think that I am a wonderful Strong believer, not true, because you have violated one of the central commands and the most commonly given evidence of salvation in the New Testament, that is, to love one another And so these must be cast out of our lives if we are to grow in grace. And secondly, I want you to notice with me in verse 2 that we must repeatedly receive the Word of God. Let me remind you that this is the central idea in this very long sentence. It is all centered on that verb desire, or as some have rendered it, crave. Now let me first of all say that Peter is not comparing here babies to new or immature believers. If you know your Bible well, you know that in 1 Corinthians chapter 3 the first two verses of that chapter. And in Hebrews chapter 5, verses 12 through 14, there is a contrast made between the milk of the Word and the meat of the Word. And in both of those passages, it's basically saying you've got to move beyond the milk. Don't stay a baby And there's a tendency on the part of some to try to read the teaching of those two passages because of the similar imagery into this passage, but that would be wrong. Because Peter is not saying you should not desire milk like a baby. He's saying that all Christians should have that desire. That instinctive, powerful craving for milk, that kind of desire should characterize us as Christians. Now it's fascinating to me that notice that Peter does not say here that Christians should desire or should read the Word of God or memorize the Word of God or study the Word of God or hear the preaching of the Word of God. His command is simply that we would thirst for or crave the Word of God. Why is that? It's because if we truly have a hunger and a thirst for the Word of God, all those other things will fall into place. We will come to hear the preaching of the word. We will be faithful in reading the word. We will want to hide God's word in our heart. We will gather with other believers. to study the Word of God. All of these things will fall into place if we truly have this kind of desire that he's talking about here. Do you realize that our big problem in the Christian life is a problem with our desires, right? Have you figured out yet that the reasons why you don't do things that you should do is because you don't want to. And the reason why you are you give so much attention to some things that other people don't is because you want to. You enjoy that, you have a thirst for that, you have an interest in that. And so a key part of growing in grace is to fan the flames of our holy desires that God has given us from our new birth. And to follow those. Now, what can we learn from this analogy of an infant craving? Their mother's milk. Let me mention three things. First of all, Christians instinctively desire the Word of God You know, babies do not have to be taught to want milk. They do it naturally from the moment they're born. They want milk That's the way God made them. It's instinctive. The same is true for believers. This is one of the things that I look for when someone makes a profession of faith in Christ. This is one of the signs of new life, of health, spiritual health. Do they have an instinctive thirst for the Word of God? Many times I've worked with new believers. They've made a profession of faith, and we always want to go right into discipleship. And so where do we begin? We start talking about it's very important that you try to read a little bit of the word each day and we give them suggestions for how to do that. And it's really important that you come to church and it's really important that you memorize some key passages that have foundational truths for the Christian life. And sometimes they just soak that in and they go great guns for that and they they want to come to church every time the doors are open. And they're involved in all kinds of Bible studies and they're reading the Word every day and they still want more. And my heart is so encouraged because that's a sign of spiritual life. But when a person makes a profession of faith, and I try to meet with them, well, I didn't read the Bible this week, and sorry I haven't come to church in a month. And they keep making excuses, and it's obvious to me that they have absolutely no desire. To hear or to read this book at all, I know something is seriously wrong And that is probably that they never truly have been born again. Because babies instinctively want the words. Some of you here can remember when you were first saved, how you loved coming to church and you loved reading the Bible, and everything was new and exciting. That's the way it should be. That's a sign of new life. And we should continue to have that here. Now perhaps you're here and you've been a Christian for 14 years, but you rarely turn to the Bible. Why is that? I want you to know that there is a connection between verse 1 and verse 2. You know what the connection is? The connection is this. If you have a heart that is overgrown with these weeds, with these sins that we read of in verse 1 of malice and guile and hypocrisy and envy and evil speaking. You might be a church member, you might be a church leader, but if your heart is filled with these sinful, hateful responses to other people, you will not have an appetite for the Word of God. Just like when you have some horrible disease, you don't have a desire to eat. It takes your appetite away. So it is when our hearts are filled with sin. Parents used to write in the front of their children's Bibles, Sin will keep you from this book. Or this book will keep you from sin. It's true. If you have a heart filled with sin, you will not have a desire for the Word of God. Secondly, I want to learn from this analogy that Christians should eagerly desire the Word of God, just as a baby drinks with earnestness, with intensity. You know, a little baby does not take no for an answer. Many of our moms know that. They will cry and cry and cry because they want some milk. They're earnest about it. They don't make a polite request. They demand things. That kind of intensity should characterize our hunger and thirst for the Word of God. This is one of the unmistakable signs of spiritual health. You delight As the scripture says in the Word of God. We read this throughout the pages of Scripture in Psalm 1. Blessed is the man that delights in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. In Psalm 19, David says that the word of God is more to be desired than gold, yea, than much fine gold, sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb. In Psalm 119, 103 it says, How sweet are thy words unto my taste, yea, sweeter than honey to the mouth. Job says, I have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. And the prophet Jeremiah says Thy word was unto me the joy and rejoicing of my heart. You want to gauge your spiritual health this morning? What kind of an appetite do you have for the Word of God? Is it healthy, strong , or is it really not there at all? Thirdly, from this analogy, I think we learn that Christians should incessantly or regularly seek the Word of God. Just as babies need regular feedings, so do the people of God. This is one reason why you need to come to church on a regular basis. You may say, of course you're going to say that. You're the pastor. It's true. It's true. You know, you've never run into anybody and says, you know, I don't like food at all. I I maybe get a little something to eat it once a month or You know, every every blue moon I'll I'll get a craving for something. I'll eat something. But other than that, I just really don't I don't like to eat. If a person lives like that very long, they're gonna die But that's the way many people approach who profess to know Christ, the Word of God. They come to church very infrequently. They rarely brush off the dust of their covers and read the Word of God. The Bible is a strange and an unknown book to them. You need to be on a regular basis in the Word of God. Some Christians get the mistaken idea, you know, that they learn the basics the first few years of the Christian life, you know, they can find their way around the Bible. They know the Old Testament and the New Testament and know some of the main Bible stories and most of the really important Bible verses. So they've got it done. I've kind of got it mastered. I don't really need to give the Word of God much attention anymore. That is not true. That's not the way you regard your food. I ate last year. I don't need to eat any this year. No. You need regular feeding of food, so you need regular feeding of the word of God. Now there's two main reasons why Christians are malnourished. One is that they simply don't get enough spiritual nutrition. They rarely read the Word of God. They rarely listen to a sermon. They rarely come to church. They rarely attend a Bible study. They're just not getting enough. What they are getting may be good, it may be healthy, it may be wholesome, but they're just not getting enough nutrition. And this is why so many Christians are weak and sickly. You know, coming to church is not enough either. You can come to church and yet not really take in what is given. I think in every family there's some child who has a stage in their life where they just don't seem to want to eat very much, right? And the mom gets really nervous and she puts the food on the plate and they come to dinner and maybe they don't like the vegetables or something and they kind of move it all around the plate, but it never really ends up in their mouth. Some of you have had children like that. People are like that in the spiritual realm. They come to church on a regular basis, but they never really eat. The word of God, they never take it in. They never really pay attention. They never receive it by faith. They never say, yes, that needs to change in my life. They never digest. The word of God. It goes in one ear and out the other, and they're like the kid who is starving to death even though he's coming to a meal on a regular basis. But another problem why Christians are malnourished is because they feed on the milk of the word that is Not pure. It's been diluted. It's been tainted in some way Now he mentions here the sincere milk of the word, and it's a word that refers to the fact that in the ancient world where people were often very poor, they would get into the habit of diluting milk with water. Make it go further. But you know what? That's not what a baby needs. It doesn't need diluted milk. It needs the real thing. It also could have reference to people who put all kinds of additives into it. Now What I'm speaking of here is primarily those who listen to preaching and teaching of the Word. And this, by the way, is a very helpful way to take in the Word of God. This is something that the Scriptures mention. He says in the end of verse 25 of chapter 1, and this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you. One of the most important avenues of receiving the word of God is is the preaching of the word. It's not enough for you just to read the word of God on your own and say, I don't need to come to church. God blesses the preaching of his word, and there's a way in which the preaching of the word of God will reach your heart that just you running your eyes across the page will not But not all preaching of the word is really the preaching of the word. Now we live in a blessed age where we have technology and we can listen to creatures anywhere in the world at any time we want and from back in history. That's a wonderful thing, a wonderful resource that we have to us. You can go on the internet and on on places like sermon audio where where our sermons are and there's over a million sermons for you to listen to. Literally But some sermons that you will listen to and some famous preachers, it's very diluted. In some cases it's like junk food. It might make you feel good. It may feel like you just had a a nice powdered donuts. You have kind of a spiritual high afterwards, but it doesn't last very long, and it's not very nutritious, and it's not going to build you up and make you strong in the Lord's. And then there's other things that are far worse than junk food. And that is they're actually tainted with poison. Things like the prosperity gospel that would teach that God is here to serve you, that he's here to make your life better, he's here to give you the American dream. He's here to make sure that you're healthy and that your kids are strong and that you have a big, beautiful home, and that your business thrives, and that's what he's there for. It sounds good. It's very inviting. And you can dress it up with gospel language, but it's really poison. It is a man-centered gospel. This is what false teachers do. They take truth and they mix it with error, and it's usually a very interesting proportion. It's not like it's 90% poison and 10% truth. No, it's like 99 % truth and 1% poison. You say, well, most of what he says is right. That's true. But it's the 1% that's strychnine that'll kill you. Be careful of who you listen to. Be careful of what you read. Thirdly, as we come to verse 3, an essential aspect of our spiritual growth that we often overlook is that we should reflect. on our personal experiences of God's goodness to us. He says, if so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious. He's saying that if you're truly born again, you're going to have a craving for the Word of God. And then he says, if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is gracious. Peter here is paraphrasing Psalm 34 in verse 8, a great verse that says, Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. Now what Peter what is Peter referring to in this verse? Well, notice that the word tasted is in the past tense. He is calling on believers to reflect on how the Word of God ministered to them in the past. Now this might be hard for you if you're a little kid. And you know you you you your memory goes back about three years. But for many of us, our memory goes back a lot further. And I think that as we grow in the Lord and as we walk with the Lord year after year after year after year, our minds should be filled with wonderful memories. of how the word of God ministered to us, how God spoke to us in our time of need through the timeless word of God. And I know that many of you can testify to that. Some of you can testify to how precious the Word of God was to you when you first were saved. Some of you know of perhaps a particular verse that God used in bringing you to himself, and that verse to you today is precious. Some of you may recall the first verse that you ever memorized. Others can testify to how the Psalms came alive when you were going through a crisis. The Psalms have been the refuge of God's people when their hearts are broken and they go there and they find comfort and strength. Martin Luther said there are some psalms that we cannot understand or truly read until our eyes are filled with tears. And those passages become so precious to us. They were like a rock that we found when we were sinking. And how many of you can testify that at a difficult time in your life when you really needed guidance in your regular Bible reading, you came to a verse that just spoke to your heart and gave you hope and strength and courage to face the problems of your life. And some of you have known what it is to come to the house of God beaten down and despondent Not really wanting to come, but forcing yourself to come. And then you have been revived by the preaching of the word. And you walked away saying, that message was for me. That's what I needed to hear. This is the experience of God's people throughout the ages that the Word of God is our spiritual nourishment. It is our constant companion. It is the way that God speaks to us. And this wonderful source of spiritual fortification is still available to you. It is the Word of God, and it liveth and abideth forever. Now, this is a component of script of spiritual growth that we often ignore and forget. There is great benefit in reflecting back on the goodness of God. And how God has been faithful to you in the past. This is especially true when you are going through a crisis and you say, you know what, this is going to be the end of me. I can't make it over this mountain You need to stop and you need to think about all the other times in your life when you thought the same thing And you need to remember how God has been good and how God has answered your cry and how God has sent people into your life and how God has shown you great insights into the Word of God. You need to fortify your mind. with the truth that God is gracious and good because that's what you need Peter here is saying that if you're truly a child of God, you have experienced the gracious goodness of the Lord. And you know, I can testify to this. I can't tell you how many times I have gone to visit elderly saints who are in their final days, and they're confined to a bed, and they're wasting away And they know they're going to die soon. And you know what the most frequent testimony they give in their pain and suffering? They say to me, Pastor, God has been so good to me. They're not filled with bitterness or regrets or anger. They're filled with an overwhelming sense that God has been so good to them. This is the testimony of God's people, and this is what we need to reflect on if we are going to grow and walk in newness of life. In 1773, an English clergyman wrote a new hymn for his congregation in Only England. The hymn was entitled Faith's Review and Expectation, because in this hymn the author looks back over his life and remembers the goodness of God to him. The hymn is better known today, of course, to us as Amazing Grace. It's a hymn of reflection. It is autobiographical. reflecting God's amazing grace and saving a foreman former slave trader who was noted for his sinful acts and his blasphemies and how God brought him out of that to become a preacher of the gospel. And I think the verse and that famous hymn that always resonates with me and with every child of God is this through many dangers, toils, and snares I have already come. Tis grace hath brought me safe this far, and grace will lead me home. That is what we need to remember as we walk with the Lord. Let's close in prayer this morning. Our Father in heaven. How good you have been to us. How you have answered our needs. How you have met us in our affliction. How you have shown yourself to be faithful to us. We thank you for this. I pray, Lord, for those here right now who are going through intense trials and difficulties and afflictions. And their soul seems overwhelmed. I pray that they would find hope in what they have heard today, and they would reflect back on your goodness to them in the past and your deliverance for them on many occasions. I pray that they would cling once again to those wonderful promises. Which are like rocks that will not fail us. And Father, I pray for those here today. Who have found what I have said to be very strange because the Word of God is not precious to them. It has not been their companion through life. It has not been a lamp to their feet or a light to their path. Because they are strangers to your grace, and the word of God is essentially a closed book to them. I pray, Father, that you would disturb them with this reality. Help them, Father. to have a desire for you and to be alarmed at their own spiritual deadness And of the wickedness that is pervasive in their lives, help them to seek the Savior, to seek deliverance from their sin, and to recognize that they can do nothing to save themselves but cry out to you. I pray that you would use these words to accomplish your purposes. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.