If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Romans chapter eight? Romans chapter eight One of the most popular types of TV programming in recent years has been reality court TV. Believe it or not, there are over 50 such programs currently airing on various networks. Raises the question, why do people want to watch a judge passing sentence on those found guilty? I think there are a variety of reasons. One is we often feel better about ourselves when we see the foolish things that people do We also like to see justice served. We like a judge to cut through the nonsense and put the wrongdoer in their place. We find it very satisfying. But perhaps another reason why people like to watch court TV is because there's often high drama. This is especially the case in real court cases. You've undoubtedly seen video clips of important cases, capital cases. And you can sense the the tension in the room as the jury foreman reads the verdict and a person's fate rests in the declaration that is made. Often there are great outbursts of emotion on the parts of family members. And I've seen those when they receive the sentence of life imprisonment Or death, collapse at that ultimate bad news, and are literally physically unable to walk out of the courtroom. This morning I want us to consider Romans chapter 8 and verse 1. Just thirteen words, this first part. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. This is one of the most important declarations in the Bible. I wonder if you understand the full meaning of this declaration. In order to have some appreciation, we need to understand the context of this verse. It's found at the beginning of what many Bible scholars and preachers consider to be the greatest chapter in the Bible. Romans chapter 8. Often this comparison is made that if the book of Romans is compared to a mountain range, it would be the Himalayas, the highest mountain range in the world. And if A chapter is compared to Mount Everest, it would be Romans chapter 8. It's the highest spot imaginable. Notice this verse has the word therefore in it, which indicates that it's a summary statement of what has gone before. Now there is some debate among scholars whether this goes back just to chapter seven and some because of their theological persuasion really emphasize that, emphasize the teaching of sanctification. But I think a better idea is that this looks all the way back over everything that Paul has written so far in Romans chapter 8. Kind of like a person who is climbing a high mountain and they stop and they look back over the terrain they have covered and where they began their journey. That is what Paul is doing here, and he has done this several times in the book of Romans. In Romans chapter 3 and verse 20 He says, Therefore, by the deeds of the law, there shall no flesh be justified in his sight. And there he is summarizing everything up to that point. that whether you are a religious Jew or whether you're a pagan Gentile, that no one can be saved by the law, that we are all guilty. That no flesh on its own merit, no human being can be justified by their own deeds And then in chapter 5 and verse 1, he says, Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. And this comes after several chapters of explaining the great doctrine of justification by faith alone. And now in chapter 8 and verse 1, Paul makes another landmark declaration. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. This verse is a great pivot point. Looking back over the terrain Paul has covered and looking forward to what he is about to explain in Romans chapter 8. Romans chapter 8, by many scholars, has been summarized with just one word, and that word is assurance. We sang today of blessed assurance. Jesus is mine. My question for you this morning is, do you have that assurance? That you are truly a child of God, that your sins have been forgiven, that God's love for you will never end, that you will spend eternity with the Lord someday in heaven. This is why it's described as blessed assurance, because if you know the answer to those questions is yes, then what a blessing, what a gift you have. But unfortunately, there are many people who do not have this assurance. There are many professing Christians Who struggle with the assurance of their salvation and their sense of being accepted by God changes from day to day. It all depends on perhaps the mood they're in or how they feel emotionally or how successful they feel they have been as a Christian that day. If they read their Bible in the morning, if they have a time of prayer, if they witness to a coworker, they feel that God is truly pleased with them and they feel certain that they are a believer. But if they get up late and they didn't read their Bible and they become angry and they curse at the traffic and they lose their their their temper with their spouse They feel that perhaps after all they are not really a child of God and that God has turned his back on them. This is a very common perception. But it betrays a poor understanding of the gospel. What I want you to see in this phrase this morning , is that Christians should enjoy full assurance because they are not under the condemnation of God. And I'm going to approach this message by answering the big questions that arise out of these 13 words. The first one is this. What does it mean to be not under the condemnation of God? Paul says that believers are not under the condemnation of God. What does that mean? Well, this term condemnation comes from the world of law courts. That's why I began by talking about reality court TV shows. It's a forensic word that refers to the declaration of a judge. It's important for you to understand that the word condemnation Refers both to the verdict of guilty and the sentence of death. They both are wrapped up in that word Now, in our law courts, we separate the verdict phase from the penalty phase. But law courts have not always done that. Some of you have watched um black and white Western TV shows. or movies that were made years ago and sometimes they would have a a judge there in the courthouse and the person would be accused, would be guilty, would be declared guilty of murder, and immediately the judge would say that this man should be hanged from the death until dead. So the two were often combined in the past, and that's the way it was in the Greco-Roman world in which this was written. This is the worst news that a human being can hear. Not only are you guilty before the law and before society, but you have been deemed unworthy, unfit to live. Your life will be taken from you. This is, in a sense, the state of every human being apart from the grace of God. We read together Romans 10, Romans 3, 10 through 19. It's not the most uplifting passage of scripture in the Bible. Because it tells us that there is no one that is righteous, there is no one that is good, and then it describes the speech of the wicked, the heart of the wicked, their perspective that there's no fear of God. It describes fallen humanity, and then it comes to that concluding statement in chapter 3 and verse 19, which concludes the case that Paul has been making. for all of Romans chapter one, two, and three, and that is that all the world may become guilty before God. It's as if God has shut the mouths of everyone who would proclaim their own righteousness and has said, No, you are guilty. And the fact of the matter is, on the basis of that truth, I can say that everyone here this morning either was once under the condemnation of God, but you no longer are. Or today you are still under the condemnation of God. That is the sentence of eternal death, separation from God's. Now, did you notice in our text this morning that little three-letter word now? There is therefore now no condemnation. That's a very significant word. It implies that we were once under condemnation, but not any longer. It also declares that right now we can enjoy this assurance of no condemnation. This is not just a status that we will obtain someday in heaven. It's a status that a human being can possess today. That they are no longer under God's righteous condemnation. Now the specific Greek word that's translated condemnation here in Romans 8. 1 is only used two other times earlier in this book. I would invite you to turn with me back to Romans chapter 5, please. These two verses are very helpful in explaining to us what is meant by condemnation Romans chapter 5, verses 12 through 21 is one of the most profound theological paragraphs in all of Scripture. And I cannot begin to explain to you all the theological nuances that are present there. But suffice it to say, there's a contrast between Adam and how his disobedience Permeated and affected every human being, and the way Christ's obedience had a profound impact in saving all who would trust in Him Now look with me at chapter 5 and verse 16. It says, and not as it was by one that sinned , So is the gift, for the judgment was by one to condemnation. That's speaking of Adam. And that word condemnation is exactly the same word as we have in Romans 8. 1. But the free gift is of many offenses unto justification. Now look with me at verse 18. Therefore, as by the offense of one judgment came upon all men to condemnation. There's our term again, speaking of Adam's sin. Even so by the righteousness of one, the free gift came upon all men unto justification of life. These verses are telling us that when Adam sinned, we were all in some way present in that sin. And that when Jesus died, in some way we were present with him So what can we learn about condemnation from this passage? I want to mention five things very briefly. First of all, To face no condemnation is to be justified. You may have noticed in verses 16 and 18, it has the word justification in those verses. Justification is the essence or the very core of the gospel. It means that God has declared us to be not guilty, but righteous. Because we have been credited with the righteousness of Christ who died in our place Secondly, the standing of no condemnation is not something that we earn, but a free gift given by God. Notice in verse 16 it speaks of it as a gift, and again at the end of the verse, as a free gift. This is not something that we can earn. Salvation is all of grace. And this status of no condemnation is only due to the work of Christ. In verses 17 and 19, it speaks of this one This one, and then it's defined as and at the end of verse 17, Jesus Christ Fourthly, those who are no longer under condemnation possess eternal life. It speaks here at the end of verse 18 as justification of life. A reference here to eternal life. And it mentions this again in verse 21, that as sin hath reigned unto death, even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord. And let me fifthly say that this status of no condemnation will ever be revoked. Remember, it's equated with eternal life, and eternal life is something that you can't lose. That's why it's called eternal life. Not only is a Christian not under condemnation, but the teaching of Scripture, I believe, is that they never will be under condemnation. Because they have been declared to be not guilty, but just because of the righteousness of Christ. And you think about it in our own court system, you know, there are appeals process, and things can be taken up to the Supreme Court. There is no higher judge or higher court than the declarations of God. who created the universe, who rules over all. If you'll turn back with me to Romans chapter 8, we have at the towards the end of this great chapter, these incredibly assuring words. Look with me at Romans chapter 8 and verse 33. Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifieth. There is no one who can overrule our God. There is no one who can challenge him. There is no one who can bring to light new evidence. He knows all, and he is God, and he has declared us to be righteous in Christ. And then it says in verse 34, who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea, rather than is risen again. who 's even at the right hand of God who also maketh intercession for us. As if you weren't secure enough and knowing that our judges Ruling will never be overturned. Consider who is your advocate, who is at his right hand. It is his beloved son who has died in your place, who makes intercession for you. That makes it doubly secure. That gives us even a greater sense of assurance. The one who died for us is yet interceding for us. So there is no one that can condemn us and declare us to be not guilty. declare us to be condemned and guilty when our God, our judge, has declared us to be not guilty. This is a glorious truth. This is a wonderful assurance. But notice this text says that this is only for those who are in Christ Jesus. And so that naturally brings us to our next point. And that is, what does it mean to be in Christ Jesus? This is a very profound concept that Paul refers to about 200 times in his writings. It's often referred to by theologians as union with Christ. And means that in some way, perhaps even in several different ways , We are united with Christ so that what he has done for us we have done. This is what the Bible teaches in Romans chapter 5. There's different theories about how exactly this comes about. But the Bible teaches in Romans chapter 5 and verse 2 that in some way when Adam sinned, we all sinned as human beings. And when Jesus died, those who have united with him by faith died as well. This is what we find in Romans chapter 5 and verse 19 and also in Romans chapter 6. It says in Romans 5. 19, for as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. So on the basis of Romans chapter 5, I can make this distinction. Everyone here is, in the eyes of God, either in Adam Or in Christ. If you're an Adam, you're under God's just condemnation. But if you are in Christ, you are safe and free from the wrath of God. We can think of an Old Testament illustration of this. Think of Noah's Ark. Remember how Noah built this ark over a long period of time and he preached Righteousness, people mocked him and rejected him when he said that a flood was coming. But those eight souls that went into that ark We're saved because they trusted and acted on God's provision of salvation for them God graciously saved them. Not that they earned it, not that they were intrinsically better than other people, but they responded in faith to the good news. But those who rejected that message and were outside of the ark that were in the world, they all perished. If you wanted to survive, you had to be in the ark. And if you want to live eternally, you have to be in Christ. In Romans chapter 6, we read of this mystical union with the believer in Christ. It says that Because we are united by faith in Christ. When Christ died, we died. When Jesus was buried, we were buried. And when Jesus rose from the dead, there's a sense that we which we rise from the dead. We walk in newness of life. Now perhaps you would say, I don't fully understand this concept. Neither do I, but I know that what it says is true, because truth is not dependent on my level of comprehension I must simply accept it by faith, and this is a glorious truth to grasp hold of. I want to quote the words of a contemporary Baptist scholar. He says, believers are not under condemnation. because they have died with Christ and thus the condemnation that they deserved as children of Adam has been removed by the second Adam. Those in Christ experience the benefits of his death. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says, For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. So you see, God is just in declaring those in Christ to be not guilty because Christ died in our place, and therefore we have been credited with his perfect righteousness. But now I want to move to the application of this text. And want to divide our application between those who are Currently children of God. You have trusted in Him. You have been born again. You are Christian. And those who are yet unbelievers, first of all, I would like to address Christians. And I'd like to ask this question, what assurance does this statement give to Christians? But before I give these positive reassurances, I want to begin by saying, by making seven statements about what this does not mean for Christians. Because all of scriptural truth is bound by other scriptural truths. We have to keep it in the right proportion. So these seven things, it does not mean. This declaration does not mean that your standing before God was accomplished through a simple legal transaction. No, it required the incarnation and death of the Son of God. We must never look at this and think that God just simply decreed That we were good to go, that we were righteous. That's not the gospel. The gospel is that he sent his own beloved son to come and die in our place, and therefore he could make that declaration. Secondly, this declaration does not mean that you have a license to sin. Sometimes people object to the doctrine. of the security of the believer. And they say that can't be so because if a person was taught that they could never lose their salvation, that they were forever held by the grace of God, then they would feel they had a license to sin and they can go out and sin however they want and still go to heaven. But no true believer will reason this way. They will not believe , they will not accept God's gracious gift of salvation as some license to sin, because their own heart will not desire that. That is not how they will want to live their lives. This declaration does not mean that you will never struggle with sin. It is true that Christians are no longer in bondage to sin. We are not slaves of sin. But we still struggle with sin because we have a sin nature. Number four, this declaration does not mean that you're exempt from the consequences of your sin. Sometimes Christians think that when they come to Christ that everything is going to go away and all the problems for the things they decisions they made in the past will somehow disappear. That's not the case. Remember when David Committed adultery with Bathsheba. He lost his son. But God had already forgiven him. Number five, this declaration does not mean that you will never be corrected for your sin. Hebrews chapter 12 tells us of God's correcting hand for his children. But it's important that you realize that this is not God pouring out his wrath of judgment upon his children. It is the loving, correcting hand of a father. His judgment was poured out on his son, and you will bear none of it. This declaration, sixthly, does not mean that your sins are insignificant. Every sin that we commit is an act of rebellion against God's love and hinders our fellowship with Him. And finally, number seven, this doctrine does not mean that you will never be judged by God. The Bible teaches that all human beings will be judged by God. The Bible speaks of the beam of judgment for believers, but there we will not be judged for our sins, because all of our sins were judged at the cross. We will be judged for how we have served him. But no believer, no matter how unfaithful they have been, will hear the declaration that they have been condemned. But now I want to apply this doctrine positively to those who truly know the Lord. The truth that we are not under the condemnation of God should keep us from thinking that we need to earn God's love. Sometimes Christians think that we sometimes are described as living on a performance treadmill. And if I perform well today, then it means that God loves me. If I don't perform very well, then it means that God doesn't love me. And so we go back and forth in our minds thinking that God is pleased with me today, but tomorrow he's not pleased with me. At the end of a day, when we think we've done fairly well, we feel like we're basking in the rays of God's love, but tomorrow I might be in the doghouse. And there are millions of Christians and every day of their Christian lives they live this way. They're going up and down. It looks like the stock market. It's up and down. There's no stability. There's no security. There's no assurance. That's not the way we should live the Christian life This is a profound truth and it seems almost too good to be true. But if you are truly a child of God, if you have been born again, Then you are in Christ, and it means that God's love for you is as secure as his love for his beloved son. Do you think the Father could stop loving his son? No, he could not. And you are in him. Therefore, his love will never fail you. You have been washed in the blood of the Lamb. You have been wrapped in his righteous robes. There is nothing you can do to cause God to love you more. Because he loves you in Christ. So you must never think about your Christian walk as a way of earning his love. Number two, the truth that you are not under the condemnation of God should give us full assurance of our acceptance with God's. If you were to look at this verse in the Greek text, the first word is the word no. The word order would indicate that this is emphatic. Paul wanted the reader of this verse, the first thing their eyes fell on were the word, no, no condemnation. It doesn't say that we have some condemnation or that we have abbreviated condemnation or delayed condemnation. No, it says in categorical terms No condemnation. God 's grace is amazing. The gospel is truly good news. Every Christian needs to live in light of this glorious identity. So many of our spiritual problems would evaporate if we simply grasped and took this by faith and lived with the reality that there is no condemnation to us. Thirdly, the truth that we are not under the condemnation of God should keep us from being tormented about our sins of the past. Now there's a balance that we have to maintain here. There is no problem with us thinking and reveling in the grace of God who has brought us From where we were to where we are now. John Newton, the writer of Amazing Grace, speaks of The grace that saved a wretch like me. I once was lost, but now am found was blind, but now I see. There's that's not a problem for us to think of the before and after view of who we are. But there are some Christians that are tormented daily by the sins that they committed before they came to know the Lord. And so if they get a diagnosis of cancer, the first thing that will pop into their mind is God is paying me back for what I did when I was twenty-one. But whatever the explanation for their cancer is, it's not that. Because if you're truly a child of God, all of God's wrath was poured out on Christ when he died in your place. What you must learn to do is accept your full forgiveness And live by faith. The Bible is filled with imagery to help us grasp this unbelievable truth of complete forgiveness. You ever thought about all the word pictures that the Bible gives to us? Verses like this, Psalm 103 and verse 12, as far as the east is from the West, so far hath removed our transgressions from us. And then Isaiah chapter 1 and verse 18 Though your sins be as scarlet, as red as scarlet, they shall be white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. For thou hast cast all of my sins behind thy back. The idea there is that you don't see or think about what's behind your back. Or I, even I, am he that blotteth out thy transgressions for my own sake, and will remember thy sins no more. I have blotted out as with a thick cloud thy transgressions, Isaiah 44, verse 22. For I will forgive their iniquity and will remember their sin no more. Jeremiah 31, 34 Or this verse, he will subdue our iniquities and will cast all their sins into the depths of the sea. Micah 7, verse 19. And then in the New Testament, we read this, having forgiven you all trespasses, blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us, nailing it to his cross. Just think about all of this imagery, all of these promises, these reassuring words. This is where we must find our standing. This is where we must live in what was accomplished at the cross. But now I come to my application to those who are yet unbelievers. And I want to address how does a person come to be in Christ? Our text says that if we are in Christ, there is no condemnation. So how can a person come to be in Christ? Would you please listen carefully to this? Because this is a matter of life and death. Everyone who is not in Christ is under the condemnation of God. That is, they have been given a death sentence. And that doesn't just mean that you're going to die someday on this earth. It means that you will die eternally. It means that you will go to a place the Bible describes as the lake of fire. It means that you will be cut off from everything that's familiar and comforting and assuring to a place of torment and suffering. And the worst part about it is the Bible says that it's for eternity. So how can a person go from being under condemnation to being in Christ? The first step is this: you must see that you are under the condemnation of God. The first step to no condemnation is self-condemnation. Where you come to the realization that you are indeed a sinful, wicked person. And if God were to be just, he would condemn you forever because of your sins. Or perhaps you're thinking right now, I'm not worried. I've lived a decent life better than a lot of my friends, and I think that God will accept me the way I am. I've heard many people say something similar to that. I want you to know that's the way a condemned person who's headed to hell thinks. They think they're not condemned. They think they're okay because they're a decent person. But those who have been saved. Everyone here who could give testimony of coming to Christ would tell you the time in their life when they realized that they were condemned. That they were headed to hell, that they were lost, that they had no hope. And that was the turning point They came to the realization that if they were going to die, they would perish eternally. The book of Romans tells us, as we read earlier, that we are all condemned, that we are all under the wrath of God because we are all sinners. That God's holy law stops every mouth from proclaiming its own righteousness and demonstrates that all of humanity is guilty before God. There is none righteous, no not one. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. We have all missed the mark of God's righteous target. No one has come even close And the result of this is the ultimate sense of death. The Bible says the wages of sin is death. What we have earned through our sin is death, not just physical death. but eternal death, eternal separation from God's in a place of suffering. This is the ultimate result of being under condemnation. But God has graciously provided a way for sinful people like us from going to a place of torment. This is the good news of the gospel. You've heard the word gospel? Well, the word means good news. The good news is this, but God commendeth or demonstrates his love for us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. When Jesus died on the cross, he paid the penalty for our sins. This is how a holy God can allow sinful people like us to be forgiven and accepted by Him. This is not something we can earn. This is a gift that we must receive by faith. The Bible says, for the wages of sin is death, but the gift of eternal life, the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. You can be saved today by trusting in Christ alone as your Savior. Listen to John 3 36. He that believeth in the Son hath everlasting life, and he that believes not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him. Everyone here, everyone in the world right now is either under the wrath of God or they are an individual who is believing in the Son that is in Jesus and possesses eternal life. So what category are you in right now? Are you one of those who at this very moment is condemned under the sentence of death? Or are you in Christ because you are trusting in him and in him alone Listen to the words of Jesus in John chapter 5 and verse 24. He says, Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death Unto life. So have you heard the word of Christ today The word of the gospel? Do you believe it to be true? Are you willing to turn from your sin and trust in Christ's sacrifice for your sin? If you are, you can be saved today. You could say from your heart, no condemnation now I dread But you must first repent and believe the gospel. If you call out to the Lord and trust in Him alone, According to John 5. 24, you will instantly pass from death that is a standing of common condemnation unto life that is a possessor of eternal life. And you will live forever with the Lord. Won't you trust Him today? Won't you seek Him today? I'm going to ask that every head be bowed, every eye closed for just a moment here. I just want to ask you one question. Don't want you looking around But I just want you to listen to me. If you're here this morning and you recognize that at this very moment you are under the condemnation of God, that you are lost in your your sins, but through the preaching of the word you have become convicted and convinced of this and concerned about this. Would you raise your hand so that I can pray for you? I'll pray for you today. Anyone like that today? I know I'm condemned and I I know I need to be saved. Would you pray for me? Anyone like that this morning? Just raise your hands, lip it up, and I'll pray for you Father, thank you for those who have raised their hands this morning. I pray, Lord, that they would come to full assurance, that they would see their need of a Savior. And Father, that they would understand the gospel and believe it to be true. True, and that they would pass from death unto life. Thank you, Lord, for your word and for the blessed assurance that you offer us I pray that you would help us all to respond in faith to what we have heard today. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.