If you have your Bibles, you can turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 10. This morning, we are going to celebrate. Communion. This is one of two ordinances that God has given to his church. It's described in three ways. in the New Testament. It's called the Lord's Table in 1 Corinthians 10, 21. It's also called the Lord's Supper. And thirdly, it's called communion. And this is found in 1 Corinthians 10, 16, where it says, the cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ, the bread which we break? Is it not the communion of the body of Christ? The Greek word that is translated communion here is the word koinonia. It means to share with someone in something. It refers to a relationship that is based on something that two parties have in common. But what do we have in common with God? He is infinite and we are finite. He is omniscient and we are ignorant. He is omnipotent and we are weak. He is holy. And we are wicked. His thoughts and his ways, the scriptures tell us, are very different from ours. But the Bible teaches that there is a way that sinful people like us can enjoy fellowship or communion with God. And so I invite you to turn with me to 1 John chapter 1. This is towards the very back of your New Testament, passage that we read together a moment ago. This book of 1 John is all about enjoying fellowship with God. Notice what it says in verses 3 and 4 of this first chapter. That which we have seen and heard, declare we unto you. That you also may have fellowship with us. And truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ. And these things write we unto you, that your joy may be full. Now the Greek word that's translated fellowship in this passage is the same word that we read as communion in 1 Corinthians chapter 10. And so I want to make that link from this passage to what we are doing this morning. John is doing many things in this Little epistle of 1 John. One of them is combating a heresy which had just started to infiltrate the church, a form of Gnosticism. These false teachers taught that A person's moral behavior really isn't that significant because it's what you know that matters. This is why John says what he says in verse 5 of this chapter. This then is the message we have heard of him that is of Christ, and declare unto you that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. And then John is going to have three statements in verses 6, 8, and 10 that begin with the words, if we say. And John here, it seems, is referring to the claims of these ancient false teachers. They claimed in verse 6 that a person could have fellowship with God and still live in a moral lifestyle. That's what's mentioned in that view here in verse 6. They claimed in verse 8 that they really didn't have a sin nature. In verse 10, they claimed that therefore they had not truly sinned before God. They taught that fellowship with God was something that was mystical and something that was in no way hindered by sin. But John corrects their false claims with God's truth. And he shows that there is An indelible link between our fellowship with God and our forgiveness of sin. Let me ask you this morning, are you enjoying fellowship or communion with God? Do you even know what that means? Do you understand the joy of walking with the Lord? Or is that something that's seems a little too strange to you, a little experiential, and something that you think is for just a select group of people. The fact is that God desires that all Christians enjoy fellowship with God. And I believe there are three key truths for enjoying fellowship with God that are mentioned in this passage. I want you to notice with me, first of all, that Christians must realize That we still need God's forgiveness to enjoy fellowship with God. And under this point, I need to deal with some theological matters that may come to your mind as we discuss this issue. The Bible teaches clearly that for Christians all of our sins Have been forgiven once for all. The moment we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ Our sin debt was canceled. Romans chapter 8 and verse 1 says, there is now therefore no condemnation. to them who are in Christ Jesus. Romans 8. 34, later in that chapter it says, Who will bring anything against God's elect? It is God who justifieth. Galatians 3. 13 says, Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law. And I could go on and on. There are many verses that tell us. That for the believer our sins have been forgiven. Not just our past sins, but our present sins and our future sins. And yet there are other passages that seem to teach that our forgiveness is an ongoing process. Do you remember how Jesus taught his disciples to pray? He said, Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And what he means there by debts is our sins. As he says in Luke chapter 11, Jesus taught that a regular part of the Christian's prayer life should be a request that God would pardon our iniquity. And there are other passages, of course, that address this as well. And one of the most famous of those is our key text this morning, which is 1 John 1. 9, a verse that many of you have memorized. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Although this verse is sometimes considered a salvation text, it is actually a verse for Christians. Notice who John is writing to. If you look at chapter 2 and verse 1, it says My little children, these things I write unto you. He's writing to Christians. He's writing to believers, to those who have been born again. So are we as Christians forgiven, or do we still need to be forgiven? The answer is yes And let me explain that to you. There are two aspects to our forgiveness. I've mentioned this before. There is, first of all, a judicial aspect of our forgiveness. That involves our salvation. This is our legal standing before God. This is why the scripture uses the picture and the terms of the court of law. But there is also a paternal forgiveness that affects our fellowship with God. This is relational. You see, God is not just the judge of all the earth, but he's also our Heavenly Father. And so in our relationship with God, there is both our legal basis, our legal standing before God, and there is also a relational aspect to it, and that is our fellowship with God. The Bible teaches that all your sins were nailed to the cross. You have a righteous standing before God. on the basis of the merits of Jesus Christ and your sin cannot change that. God has declared you to be not guilty And his verdict will never be changed or overturned. But God is not just a judge, he is also our heavenly Father. And so when we sin against him, our relationship is damaged. We feel guilty, and his spirit is grieved. And this is why we must seek his forgiveness. Let me illustrate this for you. And this is not hard for us to grasp because this is the nature of all relationships. Let's say that there's a husband and wife, and they have a very significant anniversary coming up, something like their 25th. And let's say that they've been saving money to go away on a cruise to celebrate their 25 years of marriage together. But a few days before they are ready to purchase this, the husband goes down and he sees this beautiful motorcycle for sale. And it's everything he ever wanted in a motorcycle. And so he says there'll be other anniversaries. And he goes and he purchases that motorcycle and he brings it home and his wife understandably is furious and he says, But honey, you y you said those vows before everyone, you said for better or for worse. And this is the worst part. Legally, we're still married, and that's not going to change. So He would be very dense man to do that because there's a, although they are still just as married as they were the day before, there's been a relational strain. Or let's say there's a teenage son and he's just got his license and he's been getting into some trouble and so he's been grounded. He's not allowed to borrow the family car anymore. But he really wants to go out with his friends. So one night he sneaks in, he takes his father's keys off of the dresser. He goes out with his friends. They drive. They they're drinking. They he wraps the car around a telephone pole and it's totaled. And his father is called to go to the police station and pick him up and he goes in the wee hours of the morning and brings his son home. And his son said, but Dad, when I was a little boy, you said that no matter what, you would love me. And that I would always be your son. So why are you upset? Now these are two ridiculous examples because I want you to know that we all inherently understand that there's a difference between our legal standing with someone and the relational aspects. of that. So this is what we find in Scripture. We as Christians. Have our assurance of salvation rooted in the unchanging work of Jesus Christ But our fellowship, our enjoyment of that relationship is dependence, as it were, on us confessing and repenting and seeking to walk with the Lord. I was asked at my ordination, what happens to a Christian who sins and then dies right after that, before they ever had a chance to ask for forgiveness? That's a very good question. And the answer is that if they've truly been born again, they will go into the presence of the Lord because Jesus died for all of their sins, including the sins that they have failed to ask forgiveness for. In John chapter 13, Jesus spoke of salvation like a bath that cleanses us once and for all. But he also taught that we, as we walk through this wicked world, our feet get dirty. And so we need to have our feet washed on a regular basis. But how exactly do we seek this forgiveness? This brings us to our next point. Christians must realize that we still need to confess our sins to enjoy fellowship with God. We see this in verses 8 and 9. If we say that we have no sin , We deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. I want to first of all dispel some misconceptions about confession. This verse is not speaking of bringing your confession to an earthly priest. There have been some churches that have taught this and many that have practiced this, but you will not find it in Scripture. The Bible says that as New Testament believers, we are all priests before God. It tells us that there is only one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. The clear implication of this verse is that we should bring our confession directly to God. The second misconception is that some people think of confession as like some magic words that somehow erase your sin. But this is not how confession works. Confession, our forgiveness is not rooted in our forgiveness, but in what Christ has done for us. And thirdly, confession is not simply admitting that you have messed up. Just about everyone would admit that they're less than perfect and they have failed in some area. So what is the meaning of confession? The Greek word for confess actually means to say the same thing It means that you agree with God about his assessment of your situation. It means that you yield to the convicting power of the Spirit of God. It means that you agree with his declaration about your actions and your thoughts. Now the term sin has almost been deleted from the English language. You don't hear many people talking about a day except perhaps as in a joke. Instead, we hear things like indiscretions, inappropriate behavior, poor judgment. We hear of sexual freedom, adult entertainment, or same-sex relationships. But God calls all of this sin, and it's affront to his holy character. Sometimes we think of sin as just some kind of arbitrary list of rules that God came up with It's not true. Sin and the law of God stem from his very character of who he is, his being. And that's why sin is not just a matter of you breaking some law, some rule that's been written down. It's a personal affront against him and his person. And therefore, when you confess your sin to God, you must never minimize or excuse or rename your transgressions. You must agree with God that it is wicked and sinful and wrong as he says it is. And if you agree with God about your sin, you will despise and seek to turn from it. These are not just some words that roll off your tongue, but a true change of heart. Proverbs 28, 13 says, He that covereth his sins shall not prosper, but whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy. This passage is very instructive about confession for the believers. Confession is like a subset of repentance. We should confess our sins specifically. Notice our text says sins, plural, not sin. You shouldn't at the end of the day simply say, God, if I've sinned today, please forgive me. No, we need not a nebulous confession, but real repentance that names our sin. We need to confess our immoral thoughts and our judgmental spirits. We need to ask God to forgive us of our gossip. And the words that come out of our mouths. The believer's confession, however, is not limited to what Jerry Bridges called respectable sins. God can forgive. The most wicked actions that a human being is capable of doing. This is why we have these wonderful expressions. Notice in verse 7 it says, if we walk in the light as he is in the light, We have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. It doesn't say except for the following list. It's all sin. And if you look with me at verse 9 at the end, it speaks of all unrighteousness. You need not fear that you have committed some sin that God could never ever hope to pardon or forgive. Because God's grace is amazing. Secondly, we should confess our sins to God on a regular basis. The term confess is in the present tense. We need to keep on confessing. Matthew Henry, the most famous Bible commentator of all time, says the Christian life is a life of continued repentance, humiliation for the mortification of sin. That sounds a little old-fashioned, but it's biblical. It's true. Martin Luther in his first of the 95 theses said the entirety of the Christian life is a life of repentance. Repentance is not something you do the moment you were saved, indeed you should, but it's something that continues from them on out. You continue to repent and confess your sin and struggle and fight and beg for God's grace to have victory over your sins. This is what our approach must be. So let me ask you this question, a very pointed question. When was the last time that you asked God to forgive you? For some specific sin that you committed. Was it today? Last week? Last month? Last year? The Puritan said that believers should keep short accounts with God. But I think that many Christians rarely confess their sins. I think they either think it's not necessary because all of their sins were forgiven at the cross. Or they feel that they have sinned so often that they are embarrassed to ask for God's forgiveness. They feel buried by a backlog of sin. And so they just give up coming to God in confession. I think sometimes they think, you know, if someone wronged me as often as I wrong God, I would just reject any request that they would make for forgiveness. But the problem is that God's not like you. And God wants you to come to Him with your confession. So many people live with just a sense of distance from God, a sense of failure without any joy of communion. But God's desire is that we walk with Him in the light. Thirdly, Christians must realize that the unchanging ground of our fellowship. With God. Notice first of all in verse 9 that our fellowship is possible because of who God is. It says what? If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just. It's essential that we remember that our forgiveness is not based on who we are, but on who God is. So often we fail to go to God with our burden of sin because we're thinking about us and our failures, and we're not thinking about who God is. Our text here says, first of all, that he is faithful. What does this mean? Well, most often in Scripture, this concept of faithfulness is connected to God's promises. You can trust in God's word. You can trust that God will fulfill his promises. And the scriptures are full of promises that God will forgive our sins. It says in Psalm 103 and verse 12, As far as the east is from the west, so far hath He removed our transgressions from us. It says, Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Isaiah 43, verse 25 says, I even I am he that blotteth out thy transgressions for my own sake. And will not remember thy sins. And on Jeremiah 31, God says, I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more. These are beautiful promises that we must grasp by faith. God is always ready to forgive broken sinners. He will be faithful to his promises that he will forgive us when we confess our sin. Secondly, our fellowship is restored because of what Christ has done for us. The second basis of our forgiveness is found. And the fact that God is just, it says he is faithful and just. Now, this text sounds surprising to us because we would Expect to find not the word just here, but the word mercy, right? When someone asks for forgiveness, it's a merciful thing to forgive them. But it doesn't say here that God is faithful and merciful. Of course, God is merciful, but it's significant that it says just Because I think in many of our minds we would think that when God does forgive us for our sins, that He's really not being just, He's being merciful, because we don't deserve to be forgiven. But the way we answer this question, of course, is found in the gospel. The answer is found in what Christ has done for us. God does, do you think in your mind that God just forgives sins? Because you ask him to forgive you and for no other reason. The Bible teaches that if God were just to dismiss our sins And there was nothing else involved in the equation, then God would be unjust. But the fact is that he is just in forgiving us our sins because as believers our sins have been paid for. They have been taken care of at the cross, and that is why he can retain his standing. as just. This is how God, who is completely holy, can have fellowship with sinful people like us Because a perfect substitute died in our place. This is why we find this wonderful truth before and after this text. We find it first of all in verse 7. Where it talks about the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. And chapter 2 and verse 2, and he is the propitiation for our sins and not for ours only, but for the sins of the whole world. So God accepts us and forgives us not because we are acceptable or because our confession has been so heartful felt that God receives it. No, he forgives us because Christ has paid the penalty for our sin. You see, your fellowship with God is not based on your perfect confession, but on the perfect sacrifice of Christ. This is our hope and our assurance. If your salvation was rooted and conditional on you keeping up and asking God to forgive you for every single sin that you ever commit every single day of your life. How could you ever have a moment's assurance that you're truly his child and you will not be cast out in the end? Because how many of us are accountable and are sensitive to every single thought and every word and every action that we do that is not for his glory? The answer is none of us. No one has a record of perfect confession. And so that is not the ground of our assurance. Our ground, our hope. is rooted in what Christ has done for us. God is not waiting around for you to get Every single thing perfectly confessed, and for you to repent of every single sin in a perfect way, He's not put out with you that you have not measured up to a standard of holiness. I do not say this in any way to make excuses for our sinfulness and our failures, but the fact is that we all come woefully short. But there is one who perfectly fulfilled the requirements of his Father. And that was our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And so our Father is not reluctant to forgive us. Instead, he is like the father of the prodigal son. He is eager to forgive. And like when the pr prodical came and he had the carefully rehearsed words of confession, before he got all those words out of his mouth, the father was already embracing him and kissing him and restoring him to full fellowship. That's the way it is with our Heavenly Father. He is ready to embrace his children and welcome them back into fellowship with Him. But all of these wonderful promises and things are true only for those who have been born again and have been saved by the grace of God. And so I trust this morning, if you do not know what it is to have your sins forgiven, if you've never repented and trusted in Christ's atoning sacrifice, I would ask you to seek the Lord today. That you might experience this wonderful communion that the Bible speaks of, this fellowship with God This morning, as we partake of these elements, let us enjoy communion with God, not because of what we have done, but because Jesus died in our place and has made a way for us. to enjoy this fellowship. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it answers all of the deep questions that we have in our In regards to our relationship with you, I pray that you would help us now as we partake of these elements to do so in a way that would be pleasing to you. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.