Lord, we come before you tonight as we open your word that you would guide your preacher, Father, that your word would be first and foremost. Everything true and honorable and right and good would come forth, and you'd give ears for us to hear the truth of your word tonight. And so we ask all of this in your Son's name. Amen. Alright, well, many of you probably, I'm assuming, have seen this recent viral video. Okay, put your phones down before I tell you what it's called. But if you haven't, it's called Seven Dogs Traveling Home Together. Have you seen this? Maybe you haven't. Now you're itching to Google it. It's a big deal. It's a big deal right now. I'll explain it to you if you don't want to Google it. It's basically seven random dogs. Traveling along a highway in China, kind of Milo and Otis style. They're kind of going somewhere, you can tell there's some kind of mission involved. The story behind this video is that these seven dogs have escaped from a meat processing plant. They're traveling out of this village. They're being led heroically by this small corgi who's leading the pack. Away from danger to safety. It's a real video, telling you. You're gonna Google it later, I'm sure. But here's the thing about this video. It's fake. Not that it's like AI fake. But that the meaning connected, the story with this video, is not true. Now there are millions of views, tons of comments, it's been on like every major news network. But this narrative behind the doggy exodus is not true. It's all emotion, it's outpouring, it's all reactions kind of based on a lie. What we're seeing in this is something that psychologists call projection. It's when we project meaning or thoughts or desires. into something rather than the truth in front of us. Now this is fairly common with animals, nothing new. We project personality and thoughts into them, which may or may not have the capacity to actually have, sorry. But it's actually quite funny at times as well when we do this. But the reality is that this phenomenon shows a tendency in us. A tendency for a sinful flesh that has some dangerous consequences You see, we all have this tendency to kind of look for support for the viewpoint we want to be true rather than the truth. We tend to look at the data and the evidence and kind of put together that it supports what we would like to be the reality rather than what is. Because generally we face realities many times in our lives that don't please our sinful flesh Now when we consider the scriptures, we look at the Bible, this idea of projection actually has a term, has a technical term. It's called eegesis. It means actually inputting a meaning into the text rather than its counterpart, exegesis, which is taking meaning out of a text, which is what we faithfully do here. So tonight I'm going to take you to a passage. A passage that for many people falls into this category Through an improper reading into the text, many have fallen from the truth and adopted a very deadly belief that baptism saves you. Not only is this an improper reading, it has disastrous implications for those who believe it. And it flies in the face of what the actual truth of this verse is that I want to present to you tonight is that God saves not by works. but by his mercy. Turn with me in your Bible to Titus in the beginning of the book. If you don't have a Bible with you, the little black Bible in the front of the pew there, it's on page 839. The whole book's on one page. It's a short book But I encourage you to follow along. And if you really would like a Bible, you can take that black one home with you tonight if you don't have one. Again, the book of Titus, page 839. So before we get deep into the context of the verse we want to get at tonight, I'm going to make a few points just in the larger context of Titus as we get started. Now, the overarching theme of Titus could simply be argued as sound doctrine leads to sound living. That phrase comes up in the book. And it's spoken from one pastor to another. Paul, who writes the book, is writing to Titus, who's another pastor, so it's kind of pastor to pastor, if you will. Paul's likely writing this around the mid-60s, not like the 60s we talk about, but actually the 60s, like the actual 60, like 060. Which means he wrote to Titus around the same time that he wrote 1 Timothy. The similarities of these two books here are the point, the primary concern being about false teachers and righteousness. And the book of Titus, for those of us who maybe are familiar with it, is known for its clarification on the role of an elder, the character of elders, godly living for those who follow in Christ. Now, namely for those who are on Crete, but generally for all of us today. So what we have in this book is Paul writing to Titus. with further instructions for Titus, for himself, and those believers under Titus ' care. So it also just briefly, for those who aren't so familiar with it, briefly understand the relationship between Paul and Titus. Who are these two folks? Paul and Titus are great friends and coworkers. But see, Titus, if you're familiar with Paul and his journeys through Acts, Titus is actually never mentioned in Acts. He calls him in the beginning of this book, Titus, in verse 4, my true child after the common faith. You probably see it again there in verse 4. We do know that Paul took Titus along with him to the Jerusalem Council, which is mentioned in Acts 15, but it's not, Titus isn't mentioned there. as an example of his Gentile converts and as a test case to Jerusalem for the validity of this gospel to the lost world, to the Jews, to the Greeks. In Galatians 2, he says this. This is Paul again speaking. He says, Then after 14 years, I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, taking Titus along with me. I went up because of a revelation and set before them, paraphrase, though privately before those who seemed influential, the gospel that I proclaim among the Gentiles. in order to make sure I was not running or had not run in vain. But even Titus, who was with me, was not forced to be circumcised, though he was a Greek. So here's Titus, this Greek, this non-Hebrew convert working with Paul. But Titus kind of disappears. at that point. We don't really hear of Titus. He pops up again somewhere in the third missionary journey. We hear of him in 2 Corinthians. Paul talks about Titus being sent as an emissary to Corinth. There's some challenges in Corinth. This is an understatement a little bit. But Paul is sending him there. He does some work among the believers. He reports back. He basically has to deal with some repentance issues in Corinth and some financial matters. And for the financial gathering for the saints in Jerusalem. But Titus is there in Corinth ministering to people. He's working through contract resolution, reconciliation in the church. And this is where we first get a glimpse of this guy, Titus. What does he do? What's he doing in the church? He's got this track record starting, reconciling working in the church. But see, Paul never makes it to Crete in the book of Acts. In Acts 27 is the only mention of Crete, but that's on his way to Rome. And if you know Paul's been captured, he's on his way to Rome. They pass through Crete, and Paul wants to stay at Crete, but he's like, let's not go. If you remember the story, they press on and they get shipwrecked. So Paul was never at Crete. There's no indication, because Paul was in prison at that point. There's no indication that Titus was with him. So he never really ministered in Crete. So we don't know how Titus or Paul ended up in Crete. But it's most likely that, more probable based on what we have, is that when Paul was released from prison after the end of Acts, He returns to Crete with Titus at that time to minister freely. But we know the reason why they're there from the letter. If you look at verse 5 in the book of Titus there. Much like his previous work, Titus has been put on the island to finish the work and help Paul do this work. He says, this is why I left you in Crete. That you might put what remained into order and appoint elders in every town as I directed you. Here's the thing. Titus is doing what he's been trained to do. And he's done before. He's putting in order to the church, establishing elders, dealing with the offense of false teachers And pastorally, he's admonistering believers, he's building up the church, he's giving bright doctrine that leads to right living. This letter as a whole is just a continued direction and instruction for Titus, as well as encouragement, which Titus needs, as he's doing something he's familiar with, which is leading in ministry. Personally, I think this ties into Titus being a great church planter, but that's another sermon. So why all this background? The book of Titus is intentionally instructive in nature. Actually, 75 % of the book is applicational, it's instructive, it's kind of commands, it's imperatives. rather than just theological. This is actually true of all the pastoral epistles. Paul writes to Timothy in the same way. It's very instructive. You see, Paul, the author, is always rightly theological. He's gloriously theological in many ways. Yet in the scope of this text, he's building applications on theology he's already transmitted. to Titus. He's a faithful friend and co-worker. Paul is faithful always to anchor his imperatives in the theological. He can't help but give glory to God, his beautiful doxologies. But he's giving the necessary precision he needs to give Titus for the work and the audience he's talking to. He is precise when he needs to be precise. And this is foreshadowing. I'm going to come back to this later tonight. Paul does not mince words, he's not obtuse for creativity's sake. His book is clear, instructive, and to the point. And now, for some of you thinking that, I will also get to the point. When we consider the truths of the Trinity, salvation, baptism, it is gravely important that we know what we're talking about. What we're confessing when we see people submit to the Lord in baptism and what it means and what it doesn't mean. Because the stakes are eternally significant. I'm going to present to you the truth of actually Titus 3. 5 tonight in three points. That God saves not by works, but by his mercy. Again, God saves not by works, but by his mercy. Let's look at this text, Titus 3, verse 5. He says, he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness. but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and the renewal of the Holy Spirit Point one, God saves. Right at the beginning of verse 5, we have this clear statement. He saved us. This is the central clause of this kind of whole section. See, we know this because if we didn't have the rest of the verse, the truth would still stand. He saved us. The rest of this verse gives us details or insight into the truth here, kind of expanded. We can see though, as we look at this. That the begin this whole verse structure doesn't really begin in verse 5. It actually starts back in verse 4. It says, But when the goodness and loving kindness of God, our Savior, appeared. He saved us. This conditional statement that Paul is using builds up the theological weight behind that saving statement. proclaiming to us that the goodness and loving kindness of God is the basis of this salvation. We hear this also in Ephesians 2, when Paul says, but God being rich in mercy because of the great love. with which he loved us. Even we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. So the foundational basis of God saving us Is the work of God. This happened when the goodness and loving kindness of God appeared in Jesus Christ. But this is where we need to slow down for just a second. I ask a question. You may be seeing this yourself. But let me ask you, who is that he and he saved us? My friends, this verse is actually richly Trinitarian in its nature. How do we know this? Well, we can see the Holy Spirit here at the end of verse 5. If you look in your scripture, you'll see Holy Spirit there. But the question comes is who is God our Savior? Maybe you're off the top, you kind of assume he's talking about Jesus here. Let me give you two points to consider. First, the attribute of loving kindness is overwhelmingly given to God the Father in the Bible The Hesed of God, the loving kindness of God is use of Paul of God the Father. I believe Paul uses this term intentionally to draw us to that truth. Also, the word translated goodness here is actually the only place in the ESV in this translation where it's translated goodness. Everywhere else it's translated kindness. Paul uses the same word in Romans when he says this. Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience? Knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance. This also points to the Father. In Mark 10, 18, Jesus said, Why do you call me good? No one is good but the Father, but God alone. See, goodness and kindness are attributes of God the Father, but the manifestation of those attributes comes forth in Jesus Christ Jesus said, whoever has seen me has seen the Father. That manifestation of the Father's attributes. Because he is the appearance of that goodness and that loving kindness. The second point is simply the syntax of verse 6. If you look ahead one verse, he said, Whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior. Well he and Jesus Christ can't be the same referent. That he has to be the same one back in verse 4, pointing to God the Father. So God saves. Yes, in the fullest, most beautiful demonstration. Of the Trinity in salvation. That God the Father wills salvation brought forth out of his loving kindness and his goodness, manifested in Jesus Christ, the perfect Lamb who dies for our sins. That in faith the Holy Spirit would do that work of regeneration conforming us to Christ. Amen. God saves. He is alone the actor. It's not God saves plus Peter, God saves plus the Bible, God saves plus E. E. God saves and God gets the glory alone. Soleteo Gloria. It is God that saves. So now I want to turn us a little bit further into the rest of the verse, where Paul's going to clarify this critical statement. He saved us with more doctrine. And to help avoid any confusion and clarify this while reminding him of the faith once for all transmitted to the saints. My second point for tonight. Salvation is not by our works. Look at the next line. He says, not because of works done by us in righteousness. Paul is emphatically clear throughout the entire New Testament that we do not play any part in the righteousness or our salvation or the merit for our salvation. In fact, it's actually quite the opposite. Our works condemn us. In Isaiah 64 it says, But we are all as an unclean thing, and all our righteousnesses are filthy rag. Sorry. In Galatians 3 , all who rely on works of the law are under a curse, for it is written, Cursed be anyone and everyone who does not abide on the things written in the book of the law and do them. You see, our works, in a sense, condemn us. We are cursed because of works. We do not do anything that could earn our salvation. No amount of giving, no amount of being nice, no amount of caring for your neighbor, none of this can earn your place in heaven You might think you're a really nice person. Maybe you're not as bad as your neighbor. Well, Romans 3 says, All have sinned, all have sinned, and fall short of the glory of God. You might be saying, well, what about my righteous deeds? I mean the really good stuff that I've done. Paul just takes it right out and just humbles it up. Your works get you nowhere with God. Not because of works done in righteousness. He assumes that the only people that are going to think they even have righteousness are those who would use this argument. I mean, I've done some pretty good stuff. I mean, it's good works, right? No one who does bad things is going to use that argument. But there's something in our sinful human nature that we want to contribute to that salvation We want to do something where we can kind of put God at our disposal. But the Bible is clear. The only way to saving faith is through Jesus Christ alone. with no contribution from you. Romans 3. 28 says, For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. Or Galatians 2 says, yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ. So we have all believed in Jesus Christ in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law, because works of the law no one will be justified. He says it three times in that verse. Galatians 2. 16. He gets the point across. You will not be justified by your works. Paul makes it abundantly clear. Throughout his epistles and the other authors of the New Testament clarify this as well. There is no amount of work, no amount of meet good meaning, no amount of best trying, no good works will merit yourself. Now some of you were here this morning for the sermon, and this point bears repeating. Many of you may be hearing this for the first time. You've been told that if you do your best, God sees it, and it will all kind of work out in the end. My friends, that's not what the Bible says. Believing this has set you up for eternal damnation. None of it will count when God comes. It's like taking a million dollars in cash and going to a foreign country and they say, that means nothing here. You are bankrupt. See, Paul is working us systematically through this truth that God saves us and we have to put everything down. It is the saving power of God and mercy that he saves, not by works. But I don't want to leave us there. Because if works do not save us, how does anyone become saved? How does anyone become good enough for heaven? Because we are hopeless in ourselves. Let's read on. Point three. Salvation is the mercy of God. Now I'm gonna warn you, this is the longest of the three points. I already told you there's three, this is the last three, you're watching the clock And there's actually two parts to this last point. So stick with me, stick with the text. We're going to work through it. This section is where I'm going to talk about this bad view of baptismal. Regeneration. Get your fork and knife out. We're going to dine a little bit here in the Word. He starts off by saying, but according to his own mercy. This term here shows the contrasting reality. So if it's not by works, what is it? but according to his mercy. This according could be translated because of. Simply stated, the basis of our salvation is the mercy of God God alone is the author of our salvation through mercy. It's the work of God that saves, not the work of man. Yet we hear this word so often, mercy. But it's such a critical word to the way that Paul is explaining this and emphasizing this doxologically even to Titus. Mercy is compassion or forgiveness shown to someone Whom with it's within that person's power to punish or harm them. It's well within God's power and justice to execute judgment on all of us. We have all heaped it on our heads. It's mercy that he hasn't crushed us already. Romans 6. 23 says the wages of sin is death. And we are all successful billionaire CEOs of CININC. We've got big wages. We are reaping the cumulative wealth of that sin upon our pay stubs. I'm reminded of Dickens' Christmas Carol. When the ghost of Marley comes to Scrooge and he says this, he says, I wear the chain I forged in life. I made it link by link, yard by yard. I girded it on my own free will. And on my own free will I wore it. Is this pattern strange to you? It's not strange to us. Day by day, our sins, lying, cheating, stealing, evil thoughts, lustful thoughts They all accumulate, link by link, dollar by dollar, forging our guilt against the God who is there. The God who is an objective reality exists outside of your comprehension, whether you want to acknowledge him or not. This is a real guilt against a real God who is perfectly just in his holiness demands justice. Let's not fool ourselves tonight, folks. God knows everything and sees everything. You can try to ignore this reality, but God knows the depths of your sin. Yet despite this, despite this, in his mercy Knowing we have no power to save ourselves, yet fully justify in the punishment we deserve by the overwhelming evidence and conviction right of our right and just punishment of eternity in hell. He sends Jesus Christ to save us. Christ makes that payment for your sin which you cannot make. God shows mercy. And Paul does not leave us here. He gives us two realities that expand this mercy a bit more for us. Both of these realities are contained in the person and the work of the Holy Spirit. He gives us these two works in the next two lines. The first work is the regeneration of the Holy Spirit. He says, by the washing of regeneration. Okay, we've finally arrived at the verse that I've alluded to in the beginning of this sermon and the tension tonight. Now on a cursory glance, if you look at this by the washing of regeneration, you can probably understand why this is. If you wanted to read this in the text, it's not that hard. Well, let's press further to eliminate this confusion. He says, by, which is the connectors and that mercy. How does he do it? Well, by this way. He says the washing of regeneration. As we look at this term, you look at it in your Bible, it kind of makes some sense to you in some ways, I'm sure, but here's some things that aren't quite as clear just by looking at a translation. The first thing is that both of these words are nouns in the Greek. They're not verbs. There's no action here. Both the washing and the regeneration are both in the genitive, if you know what that means in the Greek, but otherwise it just means that they're associated, but they're both nouns, which means it's speaking of something that's finished. It's not an act, it's finished. The critical debate among the scholars and theologians really hinges on which one does the other. Is it the washing that regenerates or regeneration of the washing? In other words, are we saying that washing brings regeneration? Or are we saying that washing is from the regeneration? Does it go the other way? Again, this verse is widely used to support the idea, this the concept called baptismal regeneration Which simply means that it's the act of baptism in which the Holy Spirit actually regenerates someone. In other words, that's when they're saved, when they're baptized. But it's an act. Now, those people who believe this will not go as far as saying that, well, the Holy Spirit is not involved, but they're simply tying the act of baptism to an event which takes place at salvation. Most Lutherans, Roman Catholics hold to this view, but they're wrongly putting their trust in the baptism they received as an infant or as an adult. as the act that brings them into the right standing with God. Now, you may understand be surprised by this. I wholeheartedly disagree with this view. I want to take a moment to bring some arguments to you. There are five, they're pretty brief. They're no particular order, yet I pray that they will be equally convincing to you by the grace of our Lord. Argument one. The nature of regeneration. Regeneration is where the weight of this whole little verse here lies This term is only used twice in the New Testament. For as much as we talk about it in church and we sing about it, it's actually only used twice in the New Testament. But again, this word is a noun, not a verb. The idea of this is that there's something that exists. That is made new. It's made fresh. It's regenerated. It's used of the soul. But it is a definitive act. It's something that has happened It's not something that continues, but something that happens and it's complete. So it means it's not a process. We're regenerated in a moment. But that's not the case for washing, or at least human washing. Human washing is a process. in the human sense of washing. But this, as I've already mentioned in this verse, is a noun that speaks of a completed state, not a continual activity. So here's kind of the the kind of thought question. If the washing here was an act that completed regeneration, at what point in the act is someone regenerated? When they submit to it, when they come out of the water, when the pastor says they've been washed, when the water dries off, when the water comes out of their nose. The Bible never speaks to any of this because this is not what the Bible is talking about. It's not the point of this text or the idea of baptism. If the act of washing regenerated us, we are so much poorer as Christians for the lack of any clarity of this in the scriptures. How does a process produce a definitive result or generation? See, they're just not compatible. Man's ways and God's ways are not compatible. This is an instructive epistle. Remember, I talked in the beginning. Frankly, this is not the idea Paul's trying to express, but I'm going to come back to this. So again, the first argument, the nature of generation doesn't fit a process. Second, washing is not the same as baptism. Washing is used many times in the scripture. It's not a cause or an act. It's used, sorry, it's used many times, but it's also used many times as a result, and it's also used in other contexts that have nothing to do with baptism. Many people who like this view of baptismal regeneration like to say, well, washing equals baptism. But so many other places in the scripture, washing has nothing to do with baptism. In Acts 22, Paul confesses, he believes, and he's encouraged to rise and be baptized and wash away your sins, calling on his name. Why would they say to Paul, rise and be baptized and be baptized? If they were the same thing. Now I'd love to come back to this verse in a future sermon, but we have to kind of leave it at this point. But here's the recognition of Paul's believing faith. followed by the ordinance of baptism, who is baptized into Jesus as a witness to those in Damascus. Again, they're confusing an inner reality with a work of man. Also in Hebrews ten, it says, Let us draw near with a true heart and full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed. with pure water. See in this verse the full assurance has already come. Salvation has already come. The result is this sprinkled hearts and washed bodies. There's no mention of baptism here at all. It's not even the point. It's actually an echo of the Old Testament promise. You hear it in Ezekiel 36, where it says, I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you should be clean from all your uncleanliness, and from your idols I will cleanse you, and I will give you a new heart and a new spirit I will put within you. It speaks of this cleansing of sin, this cleansing of a person, nothing of baptism. This phrase is actually used quite frequently for this idea of this removal of sin or what we might call the sanctification process I believe here in Titus, Paul is using it in the context of salvation to express the work of the Holy Spirit in a believer. In this regeneration, this removal of sin, which can only by our worldly comprehension be expressed as this idea of washing As I mentioned, washing is not exclusive to baptism or salvation. In Ephesians 5, he says that He may sanctify her having cleansed her by the washing of her water with the word. There's no plausible way that's even literal here. She can't wash someone with words. He's simply speaking of the cleansing, the spiritual cleansing that comes from the Word of God. It's used widely metaphorically. And I believe that's what Paul's doing here. There's just not enough evidence to make washing synonymous with baptism. Argument three. This is pretty straightforward. If he meant baptism, I think he just would have said baptism. Paul uses the word baptize in every not every epistle, but just at every epistle he comments on that baptism. It's not like he can't articulate what he's trying to say. He's talking to a pastor. He's talking to Titus who knows the rightful place of baptism as an ordinance in the believer's life. The point is if he's gonna if he's gonna refer to baptism, he just would have said it. I know this is an appeal to logic, but it's a vividly rational one, knowing all we know about Paul and the nature of this letter being applicational and instructive. What he's really speaking about here is the result of regeneration. That the result of regeneration is that washing away of past sins, that unity in Christ by the mercy of God. Lest we forget 1 Corinthians 1. 17, where Paul goes to the ends and basically say, I didn't come to baptize. But to preach , if Paul is talking about the importance of baptism for salvation, he clearly would have not said a statement like this. Two more arguments. Stick with me. I'm almost done. Argument 4. There really isn't any clear, explicit command we can point to for baptismal regeneration. Now I've previously had the pleasure of preaching on Acts 2. 38 and 1 Peter 3. 21 with the proper understandings of these verses, trying to systematically work through this doctrine of baptism. If that interests you, please uh review these sermons that are online. But with the numerous clear instructions we are given in Scripture, if there was an act required for salvation It would be very prominent in the scripture, much more explicit than what we have, because we believe that it would be contrary to the work of God to hide something so essential to us from us. We believe in something called the perspicuity of Scripture, which is kind of an ironic word because it sounds confusing, but what it means is clarity. It means that the scriptures are clear. It's clear for us to understand. It's meant for us to understand it. We also believe that he gave us all things for life and godliness. So if this was so essential to salvation, why does it require so many interpretive backflips and maneuvers to make it work? Now the people who support this will point to Mark 16, 16, but you can just read the second part of that verse and understand what he's getting at. It's not to say there's nothing spiritually significant about what we're about to watch tonight. There absolutely is. Read Romans 6. or Colossians 2. What I'm arguing is simply that Scripture does not put forth clearly the explicit work of baptism, the act of baptism as the vehicle of salvation. Faith in Jesus Christ is what saves someone. Believe, believe is used 248 times in the New Testament. Washing and baptism is not even close. The last argument. The principal actor in regeneration is God by his mercy. Let me ask you the question, who's the one washing in this verse tonight? Who's washing? Look at the text. The grammatical instruction or construction of this puts the Holy Spirit as the one who regenerates and renews. This should blow up any conception that man has anything to do with it. God is the one who regenerates. He's the one who washes away sin. It takes it out of the scope of the physical and speaks to something spiritual. Which is very fitting of Paul. He's not even talking about anything in the world. He's talking about God's work, spiritual work. We don't even know how regeneration works and all of its details. It's only known to God. Yet when we try to express the reality of what's happening in our lives when we go through this, it can be rightly expressed as a washing. It's a good way of expressing it. With the principal actor as God in his mercy washing away our sins, making us new. So what's the conclusion? As one kind of to the point comment or said, Washing has nothing to do with baptism in this verse. I could have saved you the last ten minutes and maybe read that. Yet the challenge with this verse that in our minds, if we want to, we can make that washing connected to baptism. We can project. That in there, but this has nothing to do with baptism. We project when we think that way. Is the Holy Spirit The work of God that cleanses us from sin. And this washing is an inner washing. It's a washing away of our sins, not about our clothes or our dirt. Washing shows this spiritual reality. And it's the first work of the Spirit. The second work is in the next line. He says, the renewal of the Holy Spirit. Now we've covered the more theologically sticky verse. This one, this line is actually really clear. The Holy Spirit, part of the Godhead, person of the Trinity, is the one who renews. In 2 Thessalonians, he says, But we ought always give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved of the Lord, because God chose you as the first fruits to be saved through sanctification by the Spirit. And belief in the truth. The Spirit renews. Interestingly, this is the first and only mention of the Holy Spirit in the entire letter of Titus. Yet his role was twofold. In the regeneration, that washing of regeneration, and the renewal. The regeneration spoke to that washing away of past sins. And the renewal is the commitment of God to the sanctification of his people. I love 2 Corinthians 3. 18, where he says, And we all with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord. are being transformed into the same image, one degree of glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. God is committed to not leaving us in sin, but conforming us to the image of Jesus Christ. While we sojourn on this earth, as we stumble through, we can hold to the promise that God is not finished with us. He will not forsake us. He is building us up. He is transforming us. He is not abandoning us. He's going to work in us to will and to act for his good pleasure. So what Paul's really talking about in this mercy is this two-step work, this regeneration. Washing away your sins and then renewing you in the image of God and continues to renew you into that image of glory. We just sang in one of the first songs, and I actually wrote it down, just hit me as we were singing it, when it says, My chains fell off. And I rose and followed him. This speaks of the same reality, that sins being wiped away, and we follow him in sanctification. towards this. But it brings us back to the main point. That it was done by God in his mercy. So I have to wrap up my time now because I'm very excited as you all are as well to see these individuals follow in the obedience of baptism tonight. Yet I hope that you've seen through this sermon the point that I set out to accomplish, and that this verse clearly presents that God saves not by our works, but by his mercy. Salvation is completely the work of God. We can add nothing to it. We only receive it by his mercy. What we're about to witness tonight is something that started in the early church. That people, when they believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, they followed in obedience to baptism. joining the community of believers. This baptism stands as a testimony before the church of their commitment and their new life in Christ. It is a picture of a spiritual reality. The death in one man and the new life of another. It unites us to our Savior. It's a witness of this new life in Him and in this body that represents Him here on earth And we rejoice as God continues to build his church. So I will close with just one application tonight. If you are here tonight and you are trusting in your works for your salvation, in your kindness, in your charity , hoping that this is going to bring you to heaven. My friend, the scriptures are incredibly clear that your good works will not do that work. The only way to escape your pain and guilt is to cast your eyes upon the cross where the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared in Jesus Christ Repent and believe this gospel. It's the only way to salvation Repenting means that you acknowledge you're a sinner and you need a savior, that you're guilty, and that guilt requires and is worthy of its punishment. And that you, even though you try, have no way of saving yourself. You need a savior. You need someone to save you. The Word of God says that if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord , And you believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified. And with the mouth one confesses and is saved. Everyone who believes on him will not be put to shame My friends, do not turn from this word of the Lord and be found wanting on the day of his return and judgment. Let's close in prayer. Father, let your word do its work in the hearts of those here tonight, and I pray that many might bow the knee to Jesus Christ the Lord And Father, we rejoice every day as you are adding to your family and the joy of the true Church of Christ. Tonight we are seeing many committing their lives to you. Bless them, Father, as they take this step of obedience. Be with them in the days to come. Let their lives be a shining testimony of the goodness of God and his loving kindness, that the world might see their need of a Savior. And let us ask all this in your son's precious name. Amen.