Bring your Bibles with me, please, to Hebrews chapter 9. Perhaps the most intriguing piece of furniture in the history of the world. is the Ark of the Covenant. It was built by craftsmen under Moses and was the most holy piece of furniture in the tabernacle. The last mention that we have of it in the Old Testament was when it was returned to the temple under King Josiah in 2 Chronicles 35. In 586 BC, the Babylonians came to Jerusalem and destroyed the temple and looted its contents. But the Ark of the Covenant is not included in the items taken to Babylon, nor in the items that were returned some 70 years later. So there has been a rumor that the prophet Jeremiah, before the Babylonians came, hid the Ark of the Covenants. But we cannot verify that for certain. And so for many, many, many centuries There have been legends and rumors and speculations about where the Ark of the Covenant is. It's the stuff even of pop culture. The church in Ethiopia claims that they have the ark in safekeeping, but they refuse to let experts examine it. There's a legend that it was taken to the Sartre's Cathedral in France during the Middle Ages by the Knights Templar. Some claim that it was secretly brought to the United States during World War I for safekeeping. The British Israelites believe it's buried in a sacred mound in Ireland. And there are many other possible locations. People have superstitious beliefs that somehow this piece of furniture contains magical powers, that if someone could somehow find it and possess it, that they would have incredible um power at their disposal. But I'm going to suggest to you that that's all nonsense. It likely has been destroyed. It may have been destroyed during the sack of Jerusalem in 586 or even before then. We don't know, and it doesn't really matter where it is, because our faith is not based in a piece of furniture. This morning we come to a passage in Hebrews that provides for us the most detailed description of the Ark of the Covenant in the Bible. We're beginning a new chapter this morning, Hebrews chapter nine. Let me remind you that chapter eight concludes by demonstrating from Jeremiah's prophecy that the new covenant is superior To the old covenant. And it's better in three ways. People in the new covenant know God internally, that is, from our hearts. Most of the Israelites in the Old Testament had only an external religion. Being a member of the covenant was a matter of following the law's teaching about dress and dietary restrictions and Sabbath keeping and for most people that's all it was. But all the people in the New Covenant Have been given a new heart, brought about by the regenerating work of the Spirit of God. Secondly, people in the new covenant know God personally. Now, and and this is true not just for the most mature believers, but the scriptures there at the end of chapter 8 emphasize that from the least to the greatest All believers know God in a personal way. And if you don't know God in a personal way, then you're not a believer. And thirdly, people in the New Covenant know that their sins have been forever forgiven. People in the old covenant repeatedly offered sacrifices. Because they kept on sinning. And they wondered, I hope I've remembered to have enough sacrifices. I hope what I've done in observing God's requirements and law was enough. But in the new covenant, we have full assurance of our standing before God because Christ died once for all. Now in chapter 9, the author of Hebrews is going to continue to demonstrate the superiority of the new covenant to the old covenant. And he's doing so because there were some who were part of this first century Jewish church who were beginning to experience more persecution who were considering going back to their old Judaism. And perhaps some of them wrongly thought, well there's not really that much difference. Between Judaism and Christianity. And the Lord won't mind if I do that. But the author of Hebrews writes and says, No, you can't go back. You see, all of those ceremonies, all of their worship, all of their sacrifices pointed to Christ. And if you abandon Christ , You have committed apostasy, so you must not go back. He urges them to cling to Christ because he is a better priest who offers a better sacrifice. on the basis of a better covenant. These three truths will continually resurface in the chapters ahead. Now this morning we're going to consider the limitations of old covenant worship. In verses 1 through 5, we have a detailed description. of the structure and furniture in the tabernacle. And it would be very easy to miss the points. But what I want you to see from this description is that in the tabernacle there was very much restricted access to gods. That there was very little real communion with God that was available in the tabernacle. And then we're going to see in verses 6 through 10 We're going to examine the priestly ministry that took place in that tabernacle. But this is not a lesson in worship architecture or the Levitical sacrificial system. It's a comparison between the obsolete worship of the old covenant and the Christ-centered worship of the new covenant. Now perhaps this doesn't sound very important to you. Here we are on a rainy Sunday. It would be very easy for you after hearing this introduction to say, you know what? I think this might be a good time for a nap. But please do not do that. Because all of God's word is profitable and significant and relevant for us. And unless you embrace new covenant worship that is found in Christ, you will never know God in a personal way, and you will perish eternally. The inadequacies of old covenant worship should cause believers today to worship in the blessings of new covenant worship. So let's begin first of all. With this first point, I want us to see the inaccurate adequacies of Old Testament covenant worship are evident in the structure of the tabernacle. Look with me, please, at chapter 9 and verse 1. Then verily the first covenant had also ordinances of divine service and a worldly, or we might say, earthly, sanctuary. It seems that the author of Hebrews is responding to an unspoken objection from his Jewish audience. Perhaps the writer suspects that some of his readers will object to this talk about the Israelites not knowing God internally or personally. And not knowing their sins are forgiven by saying, What about the tabernacle and the sacrifices that were performed there? Didn't they provide true atonement and worship? And so the author of Hebrews is going to convincingly show that this worship was limited and only figurative of the redemption that Christ would bring. Now, beginning in verse 2, the author provides a description of the tabernacle proper. Before we consider this description, let me answer a question that may have come into your mind. Why doesn't he talk about the temple? instead of a tabernacle, because at this time the children of Israel in the first century were not worshiping in a tabernacle, they were worshiping in a temple. Well, the answer seems to be that it was in the giving of the Mosaic law that the instructions for the tabernacle were given, and throughout the book, the contrast is made primarily between the Mosaic legislation and Christ. And the word tabernacle is simply a specialized word for a tent. Let me quickly say that the author does not give us a description of everything. in that tent or everything in the tabernacle courtyard. For instance, we know that there was an outer court that was surrounded by white linen that symbolized holiness. And when you entered the courtyard, you would come to the altar of burnt offerings. Let me just say before I go into description of that That entering into the courtyard was something reserved just for Jews. If you were part of the mixed multitude that came out of Egypt, say you're an Egyptian. And you came along to begin a new life. You could not go into even the outer courts. That was not for you. It was restricted from all Gentiles. And so I think for most of us here, if somehow we were along with that group that came out and we are Gentiles and you are a Gentile, you would be excluded. That would exclude the vast majority of us. and the vast majority of humanity. Now when you enter the courtyard, if you were an observant Jew, you first would come to the altar of burnt offering. It was a large bronze altar that actually had four horns at the corners of the altar. This is so that people could tie up their sacrifices so they wouldn't get away. And here the sinner would place his hands on the head of the animal sacrifice and confess his sins. And then the animal was slaughtered and offered up as a sacrifice. But this is as far as any Jew could go except for Levitical priest. They could only come partway into the courtyard. That was it. What was beyond that into the tabernacle proper that tent? Well, you were never allowed to go there, not once in your life. That was reserved for the Levites. Behind the altar, a little bit to the right, was a bronze labor. This was essentially a was a wash basin for the priests to wash their hands. They did that at the beginning. of their priestly duties in the day, and they washed their hands and their feet before they offered any sacrifice. And Exodus 30 says, lest they die. That's how important it was. That they washed up. You see, the tabernacle was a dangerous place because God is holy and we are not. And directly behind the labor was the tabernacle itself. It was a rectangular tent with a flat roof. The tabernacle was forty five feet long and fifteen foot wide and fifteen foot high. It contained no windows, and so the lighting in there was dim, and perhaps added to the sense of mystery in this place. The tent was divided into two rooms of unequal size. The first room was thirty feet by fifteen feet, and that was known as the holy place. This room is designated here in our version as the sanctuary. The second room, which was a cube of 15 foot by 15 foot was known as the most holy place , or the holy of holies or the holiest of all, all referring to the same room. Now look with me at verse 2. For there was a tabernacle made, the first, wherein was the candlestick, and the table, and the showbread, which is called The sanctuary. Now the wording of the King James makes it sound as if there were two tabernacles or two tents, but that's not the case. This is referring when it says the first, it's referring to the first room in this tent. And we read of two pieces of furniture in that room. We first read of a candlestick. This candlestick is a solid gold lampstand with seven branches, which we commonly know as a menorah. This flame was never to go out and was carefully refueled by the priest with olive oil every day. Next, we read of the table of showbread in the holy place. This was also known as the table of the presence, and on it were placed twelve fresh loaves every Sabbath day. Which represented, of course, the twelve tribes of Israel. Now, before we come to verse 3, let me remind you that only the priest could enter this room. And for most of Israel's history, that would only be for one week in their lives. You see, as the tribe of Levi increased and grew in number , There were many, many thousands of priests, but they couldn't all serve in the tabernacle. And so they developed the casting of lots so that they would take turns. We read about this in Luke chapter 1 in reference to Zacharias. Now we know historically that there were many priests who never once served in the tabernacle because their number never came up. And if they did serve, they served only one week in their whole life. That was it. It was undoubtedly the highlight of their career as a priest. And so once again we see here the sense of restricted access. There were even many Levites who lived and died who never got a chance to go into that sacred tent. Not once. And if they did somehow get that opportunity, it was only for one week and their entire life, a week they would never forget. Now look with me at verse 3. And after the second veil the tabernacle which is called the holiest of all. This is a reference that there was a curtain that separated that first room, the holy place, from the second room, the most holy place. This room that's fifteen foot by fifteen foot that housed the tabernacle. That veil separated and spoke of restricted access. And as many of you know, only the high priest, only one day of the year, could go in to that room, the most holy place. Now verse 3 and verse 4 mentions which had the golden censor. This has sparked some a great deal of discussion. This is a reference to the altar of incense, not to the censer that the priest would carry. And the problem is that in all of the Old Testament texts we read that the altar of incense was not in the Holy of Holies, but was at the entrance Of the Holy of Holies. It was actually in the other room. So some people will seize on this and say, well, you see, the author of Hebrews didn't know his Old Testament very well and he got it wrong. But that's not the case. If you look at his wording carefully, he is trying, he's using a term that speaks of belonging or being associated with Because the altar of incense was so significant on the Day of Atonement. The altar of incense, the priest would pour fragrance on this so that it would burn and there would be this cloud of incense that would go before him into the most holy place. And we know that the priest also would sprinkle blood not only on the mercy seat, but on the altar of incense as well on the Day of Atonement. But now I want to hasten to the description of the Ark of the Covenant that we find in verse 6. It says, the Ark of the Covenant overlaid roundabout with gold. Wherein was the golden pot that had manna and Aaron's rod that budded and the tables of the covenants The Ark of the Covenant was simply a chest made of acacia wood. Acacia wood was one of those woods that does not rot easily, and so it was chosen for this task. And it was covered inside and out with gold. This chest was about 45 inches long, about 27 inches wide, and 27 inches high. The offer of Hebrews tells us that the sacred chest contained three things. First of all, the golden pot of manna. This was an urn that contained about two quarts of manna, according to tradition. And then secondly, we have Aaron's rod that sprouted. This goes back to Numbers chapter 17. When Korah challenged Aaron's priestly status. And so God miraculously caused Aaron's rod to blossom to show that he was the one that God had chosen to be the high priest. And the thirdly, we have what's described here as the tables of the covenant, what we better know as the Ten Commandments. And then look with me at verse 5. And over it the cherubims of glory shadowing the mercy seat of which we cannot now speak particularly. We read first of the cherubim that were on the lid of the Ark of the Covenant. These winged angelic creatures were rendered in gold. And at the end of each ark they face one another with their wings spread out in front of them. They are guardians of the holy presence of God. Now, the climax of this entire descriptive passage is the mercy seat. It was here on the lid of the Ark of the Covenant that the high priest would sprinkle blood on the Day of Atonement. The Greek text. That reads mercy seat literally means the place of propitiation, the place where God 's wrath was appeased. Now notice the last phrase in verse 5. He says, which we cannot now speak particularly. The author refuses to give a detailed explanation at this point for the meaning of all of these parts of the ark And about the significance of the mercy seat. He's going to come back to the mercy seats later in this book and make a great point, but he doesn't want to get distracted and go off on a rabbit trail at this point. The tabernacle itself reveals the inadequacies of old covenant worship. That is the point of these five verses. He's not trying to remind them or give them a quiz on what was in the tabernacle and all the different pieces of furniture. The point of his Description here is that the tabernacle was a place of restricted worship. The Gentiles could not even enter into the courtyard. The vast majority of people, 99% of them, could own the Jews, could only go to the altar to offer sacrifice. And then only some of the priests ever were able to serve in the holy place. And only one priest once a year was able to go in to the Holy of Holies. The tabernacle is all about man meeting with God. But the message that we get from the tabernacle is that God is absolutely holy and man is sinful and that their fellowship is a very tenuous thing. A great Dutch theologian a century ago put it this way: The furnishings of the temple were a delight to the eye, but they spelled out two terrible words. No admittance. That's the point the author is making in these first five verses. And now in verses six through ten we will see the inadequacies of old covenant worship are evident in the priestly service of God. of the tabernacle. Now the focus is shifting from the tabernacle itself to the priest who ministered in the tabernacle. Verse 6 is a transitional verse. Look with me at it, please. Now, when these things were thus ordained, the priest went always into the first tabernacle, accomplishing the service of God. And when he speaks of the first tabernacle again, he's referring to the holy place, that first room Notice verse 6 emphasizes that this is where they always served. In other words, they never went into the Holy Holies. They always served in this room. Now look with me at verse 7. But into the second went the high priest alone once every year, not without blood, which he offered for himself and for the heirs. of the people. The second mentioned here, of course, is the most holy place And this is a reference to what the high priest would do on the Holy of Holies. Not on the Holy of Holies, excuse me, the Day of Atonement. The Day of Atonement was the most significant day in Israel's calendar. Rabbis simply refer to it as the day. The Day of Atonement, literally in Hebrew, Yom Kippur Yom is the Hebrew word for day. Hippor comes from a Hebrew verb kafar, which means to cover. On this day the high priest made a covering or an atonement for the entire nation. Now, why was this necessary? Didn't the Israelites offer sacrifices continually throughout the year? Well, many did But not everyone took care of their sin the way the law prescribed. And so there was this annual provision. This event took place on the tenth day of the seventh month. Israel observed a lunar calendar, and so the seventh month would be the equivalent of mid-September through mid-October. Jewish tradition states that the high priest would leave his home seven days before the Day of Atonement and stay day and night in the tabernacle or temple to avoid any defilements. And on the morning of the great day, he would offer a burnt offering and then bathe his entire body. And then instead of putting on his impressive priestly robes, he would wear a white tunic. that symbolized his purity. And then he would offer sacrifice for his own sins because he himself was a sinner. And for the sins of his family. Then he would cast lots before two goats. One of them would be a sacrifice. The other would be let go into the wilderness, the scapegoats. The high priest would pour two handfuls of incense on the coals so that a cloud of incense would cover his entrance into the Holy of Holies. And he brought in the bull's blood and sprinkled it seven times on the mercy seat or lid of the Ark of the Covenant. And he would there pray that God would forgive the people. And we know that there were ancient instructions given to the high priest not to pray too long. Lest the people worry that God had struck him down and that they would all be doomed and would face the wrath of God. What was the point of all of this solemn ritual? Look with me at verse 8. The Holy Ghost, this signifying that the way into the holiest of all was not yet made manifest, while as first the tabernacle Was yet standing. The author of Hebrews is saying that the way that the Holy Spirit describes the tabernacle and the priestly functions should lead the reader to the conclusion that old covenant worship was inadequate. Why was it inadequate? Well, he says in verse 8, because the way into the holy of holies was not yet made manifest. It was not yet open. For people. This is why when Jesus died on the cross And he uttered his final words. The Bible records at that precise moment the veil of the temple was rent. Signifying that now full access was granted to those who came through the blood of Christ into the very presence of God. No longer was access restricted to the Holy One. Now look with me at verse 9. Which was a figure for the time then present, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices that could not make him that did the service perfect as pertaining to the conscience. All of the symbolic Worship pointed unmistakably to the fact that old covenant worship was inadequate. And flawed. But here in verse 9, we find a second problem with old covenant worship. Look at the last part of verse 9. The idea is that the tabernacle worship could not perfect the conscience of the worshiper. The conscience here is being used to refer to the inner man. And of course, it's our conscience That lets us know that we are guilty. Do you know what it is to have a troubled conscience? A conscience that will not let you rest? Because you did something that was wrong, that was displeasing to God. God has given all of us a conscience The Puritans called the conscience God 's spy in the heart of mankind. And the idea here is that tabernacle worship did not have the ability to put the conscience of guilty, sinful people at rest. You see, the old covenants and all of those sacrifices and all of those washings did not really cleanse the hearts of the people. Yes, there were some people in the Old Testament who were regenerated who did believe. Who did have a new heart, but many of them went through the motions. They still had a defiled conscience and a heart for idolatry. And some of them were keenly aware of their guilt. And this profound sense of guilt was a greater better barrier to fellowship with God than even the veil that covered the Holy of Holies. This is one reason why people sometimes with a troubled conscience will avoid other Christian people. Or they'll avoid going to church. Because who wants to hear that you're condemned? Who wants to have that troubled conscience stirred up even more? And so when we feel guilty before God, we tend to avoid God. We tend to stop coming to church. We tend to stop reading our Bibles. We tend to stop praying. We go further and further apart because we are so aware of our shortcomings and our guilt. But in New Covenants, we have a solution for man's guilt Look with me at verse 10. He goes on to say, which stood only in meats and drinks And various washings and fleshly ordinances opposed on them until the time of Reformation He's continuing what he has said in verse 9 to say that the old covenant could not address man's greatest need Instead, they addressed external concerns like dietary restrictions, like wash, ceremonial washings , like bodily restrictions These regulations were given by God and served to prepare the way for Christ, but they were temporary and not ultimates. Notice verse 10 ends with the words, until the time of reformation It literally has the idea of a time of a new order. This is a reference to the coming of Christ and the inauguration of the new covenant through his death. You see, the author of Hebrews is urging his Jewish readers not to go back to old covenant worship because it's inadequate It did not bring people close to God. It did not ultimately cleanse them of their guilt and sin. So let me ask you this morning, do you have a sense of guilt between you and God? Sometimes people try to take care of that guilt by doing good works or even by coming to church They want to make amends. They want to compensate for something they know is wrong and now is bothering them keenly. I want you to know that you can never find a solution to your guilt apart from the blood of Jesus Christ. Did you know that Christianity is the only religion that offers a solution to man's guilt? Judaism had the sacrifices, but Judaism today, of course, since the destruction of the temple in AD-70, they don't offer sacrifices anymore. There is no solution for man's guilt. There is no way for a sinful human being to be right with a just God. Islam has no solution for guilt. Yes, they have many religious practices. They can follow many discipline patterns for life, but there's no solution for guilt. The same is true of Hinduism and Buddhism, and down the list you go, the only solution for man's guilt is found in Christ. Now I want to conclude this message with two points of application. I want you to see we've been looking this morning at the inadequacies of old covenant worship. But this contrast Is being made so that we rejoice in new covenant worship, not just so we look at old covenant worship and say, well, that didn't work. No, it's intended to drive us to new covenant worship. And what I want you to see is that new covenant worship is not filled with ceremony and liturgy. It's filled with Christ. New covenant worship centers on Christ. This is what we find. This is what the tabernacle was all about What do all these different pieces of furniture mean? I would suggest to you they all point to Christ, the altar in that outer court where people offered sacrifices, of course. spoke of Christ's death on the cross for our sins. The labor that washbashin speaks of cleansing from sin that Christ's death provides. The lampstand speaks of Christ who is the light of the world. The table of showbread anticipates Jesus, who is the bread of life, the only one who truly nourishes the souls of his people. And the altar of incense speaks of the prayers of Christ on behalf of his people. The Ark of the Covenant. Is symbolic for Christ Himself. The gold representing His deity and the wood, His humanity. The Ten Commandments point to His sinless life because Jesus was the only one who was truly obedient. The sprouting rod points to Jesus as the ultimate high priest who rose from the dead. And the urn of manna teaches us that Christ became Our bread, and that he will forever satisfy our souls. And the mercy seat points to the once-for-all redemptive work of Christ on the cross, that God's wrath has been appeased, satisfied, propitiated. You see, authentic Christian worship is all about Christ and his cross. You want to know if you've come into a good church? You want to know if the place where you're going is a place of authentic worship. So often people look at small things that in the big scheme of things are trivial and don't matter. But this is fundamental. This is essential. Does the preaching? Does the prayers? Does the music draw my heart to Christ? Does it exalt a risen Savior? Does it remind me that my only access to God is through the Lamb? Is that the message that I hear Sunday after Sunday after Sunday? Does it remind me of my glorious Savior? Or does it teach a dead formalism or moralism? Or, like so many so-called evangelical churches today, it gives you some life hacks on how to have a better life and how to get ahead and enjoy life more on this earth. No, my friends, authentic New Covenant worship points the worshiper to Christ again. and again and again because that is what our worship is to be about. My second point of application is this the insufficiency Of old covenant worship should lead us to find our only hope in Christ. I want you to look at the verses that follow. These ten verses we've considered this morning. Look with me at verses 11 and 12. But Christ, beingcome a high priest of good things to come by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building. Neither by the blood of goats and of calves, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us Now I'm not going to expound these wonderful verses because I want to save them for next week. But I do want to ask you this question. Are you a recipient of Christ's eternal redemption? Do you know that your sins have been forgiven? Do you have the sense that you have access to God? How could you know? Well, the question is, what is the basis of your hope of salvation? If I were to ask you that right now, what would you say? Would you say, well I think I've lived a pretty decent life. I think that my lifestyle will stack up pretty well against most people. And I think that God will let me into heaven because God is love. Or perhaps you're banking on the hope that God will overlook your indiscretions and see that you're really a good-hearted individual. I mean, you've given money to people along the road before who had need. You might sometimes do things you shouldn't do and say things you shouldn't say. But deep down inside, you've got a tender heart. Or perhaps your confidence is found in religious observance. That you attend church, that you tithe, that you're accepted as a member in good standing. And everyone would describe you as a person who is serious about their religion. These are some of the most common answers that people give. And I want you to know, in case one of those answers resonates with you, that all of them are wrong answers. This isn't like a quiz where you get a wrong answer, and oh well, I guess I don't get credit for that. No, this is a matter of eternity. This is a matter of eternal life and eternal death. You see, these wrong responses do not lead to eternal redemption. They lead to eternal damnation You see, everyone who possesses eternal life has come to recognize at some time that they could never save themselves. That they were a sinner who had incurred a great debt that they could never begin to hope to pay. In fact, every day of their life, that debt is only getting larger. Never mind dealing with the debt from the past. And they recognize that they can never hope to approach God on their own merits. Because God 's requirement is not that you be a pretty good person. Or that you'd be a person who is not a convicted murderer or rapist. That's not where the bar is. The bar is perfection. And all of us come short of that bar. And so ironically, until you recognize that you can't save yourself, You can never be saved. You see, people who have eternal life are counting on the fact that Jesus Christ The perfect Son of God died in their place as a sacrifice for their sins. And that is where they're banking all of their hope They're not hoping on anything else. They're not doing a 50-50 thing. I do my part, he does his. No, he does everything. That is my only hope. That's my only plea. Let me ask you, is that your hope? Is that what resonates in your soul? Is that the way you think That you don't deserve to be saved, but by God's grace you have been born again. And it's all through the work of Jesus Christ. Can you say from your heart, my hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness? I dare not trust the sweetest frame, that is how I feel, but wholly lean on Jesus' name. Your salvation, your eternal security is not based on how you feel on a given day, but on the objective reality of Christ's death on your behalf. Have you trusted in Christ alone? Have you repented of your sins? This is the only way you can have access to Christ. to God. This is the only way you can enjoy that fellowship, as it were, in the Holy of Holies is through the merits. Of Christ. May God help you to trust in Him and Him alone. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you, Father, that it's always what we need to hear. I pray that you'd use this message, Father, to draw sinners to the Savior to show them their need of a righteous sacrifice. But Father, also I pray that it would strengthen your children Who may struggle with a lingering sense of guilt, and who seek, Father, to make up for it in various ways that never quiet their conscience. I pray, Father, that they would find that cleansing through the merits of Christ and find that joy and satisfaction in Him. alone for it's in Jesus' name we pray amen