If you're visiting with us this morning, we have been going through a study of the Lord's Prayer. That's why we read it together. This morning, and this morning we come to a very familiar verse that undoubtedly most of you have memorized. The fourth petition, verse 11, give us this day. our daily bread. Read a story that took place at the end of the Korean War When that war ended in 1953 and Allied forces went in there, they discovered that there were many, many children who were starving to death because their parents their families had been displaced, many of them had lost parents. And so they rapidly set up a number of orphanages there. But those who cared for these children encountered a very perplexing problem. Even though the children were given three nutritious meals a day, they still had trouble sleeping at night. Because they were worried that there would be no food the next day. The workers would go around and reassure them that They had plenty of food. There was nothing to worry about. Just as they were fed today, so they would be fed tomorrow. But still, because of their experience of nearly starving to death, the children were still very agitated and troubled with this. Finally, one nurse discovered a solution to the problem at night as they went around and visited their rooms before the children went to sleep. She went around and she put a piece of bread into each of their hands. It was not for them to eat. It was like a security blanket. And that reassured them that come the next day there would be food for them because they had it right there in their hand. This fourth petition speaks of our Father's provision for his children. This is part of what we commonly call the Lord's Prayer. And I've mentioned to you in our series that this is a pattern prayer. I don't think the Lord gave this to us so that At every church service we would recite it, although there's nothing wrong with reciting it. It's scripture, it's God's word, and it can be prayed. But the Lord intended it to serve like an outline or a skeleton of the different elements that should be present in our prayers. And the first three prayers, three first three petitions. Deal with God 's rights. Like, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come. Thy will be done. We must begin our prayers with worship. We must remember that we're coming before our Father who art in heaven. And we begin with the request that his cause, his name would be glorified, that people all over the earth would come to know him. like we know him. That's where we begin our prayers. We begin with worship. And after we have brought these requests before the Lord, then And only then do we bring our needs before the Lord. And the first petition, which begins the second half of this prayer , Where we have our needs laid out before the Lord. Is this one? Give us this day our daily bread Now there's something in this order of the petitions that is perplexing to Bible scholars and preachers. I've mentioned to you many times that things are not haphazardly found in Scripture. They weren't just thrown out there. The Lord wasn't just, if I can say this, thinking of what came next to his mind. But everything has significance and intention to it. And the question that puzzles scholars is this, why is it that we have this physical request here. Give us this day our daily bread. Come before our spiritual needs. The next request, number five, is forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, and then lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. So why do our physical need come before our these spiritual needs? Well, there are some who have solved this problem by saying that This request for our daily bread must actually be a spiritual request. That's the way many of the early church fathers viewed it, and they would say this is a reference to Communion. It's saying that every day Christians should celebrate the Lord's table. We should partake of communion. And that's the way they dealt with that. Others have said, no, that's not the case. What it's talking about, the fact is that we should trust in Christ every day because he said that he is the bread of life. So when it says, give us this day our daily bread, what it's actually saying is that every day we should be trusting in Christ. Of course, that's a good thing to do, but the question is, is that what the Lord meant? Now the idea behind these explanations Seems to be that God's not really that concerned about our physical needs. That in this heavenly prayer we should not come in here with our material concerns. This is all spiritual in nature But the fact of the matter is God is concerned about our spirit, our physical needs Just like any parent is concerned about every kind of need that their child possesses, whether it be emotional, whether it be mental. Whether it be attention, whether it be physical, whether it be food, they are concerned about their child's needs. So our Heavenly Father is concerned about every kind of need that we have. So why the physical need here of give us this day our daily bread before even the need for forgiveness? The best explanation seems to be that a person who is starving, who is anxious about where the next meal is coming from, probably will not listen very carefully to the gospel or be concerned for their spiritual needs when they feel like they are starving to death. That seems to be the best explanation that I can find. And we find this pattern elsewhere in Scripture. Do you remember when Elijah, the prophet of fire, do you remember when he ran for his life? From that threat from Queen Jezebel. And he went out into the wilderness and he ran and he ran until he couldn't run anymore and he was exhausted. And he collapsed, and God sent an angel of the Lord. You know what? That angel did not give him spiritual counsel initially. He gave him food and he told him to rest and sleep. See, God knows us so well. And so this morning as we come to this request, we see once more that our Father is gracious. Now, I want you to understand that the word bread here is being used to refer to all of our physical needs, not just the need for food. What's included in bread here is food and clothing and housing and our health needs and transportation and a job and everything else that you feel you need to live All physical material needs are encompassed in this fourth petition. And what we simply can learn from this is that Christians should pray for God to supply our physical needs. God wants us to bring our physical needs to Him in prayer. And I want to make three points from this. Number one, we should pray with a spirit of dependence, recognizing that we need the Lord to meet all of our physical needs. We come to Him like little children who are asking their parents for food. We are utterly dependent. Now God made us this way. God made us composite creatures. We have both physical and a spiritual side to us, and therefore we have physical and spiritual needs. We need air to breathe. We need water to drink. We need food to eat. We need clothing to keep us warm. And we need some type of shelter to keep us out of the weather. And the fact of the matter is we are dependent on God to meet every one of these needs. And God has given us a wonderful creation to meet those needs. We have on planet Earth the perfect atmosphere for us to breathe in. The right levels of oxygen and nitrogen and all those other gases that are just perfect for us to breathe. He made an earth with a hydraulic cycle so that we have a renewed source of fresh water for us to drink. He's provided sun and soil and rain to sustain crops and bring forth a bountiful harvest. We often forget about this. We go to the grocery store and we buy the food that we need and everything, but the fact of the matter is Every drink of water, every bite of food, every breath of fresh air is a gift from God. This is why Christians have traditionally, according to biblical patterns that we see, prayed and thanked God for their food. I hope you do that. I hope it's not just a ritual. The idea behind that is it's an acknowledgement of dependence. We are saying, Lord, this food on this table has come from you. And apart from you, we wouldn't have it. And therefore we give you thanks. The Lord has filled the earth with trees and minerals and metals so that we can make beneficial products. He provides for the plants. He provides for the animals. You can read all about this in Psalm 104. And the psalmist, when he reflects on this, says, O Lord, how manifold are thy works and wisdom hast thou made them all? The earth is full of thy riches. What a great God we serve. Now I wonder if you, on a regular basis, pray for God. to supply your physical and material needs. I know many do. But I think there are many people who do not because I think they think this way. They say, well I supply my own needs. I go to work every day. I put in a long day. I work hard. I plan. I save. I schedule. I am the one who provides for my needs. Perhaps you're thinking right now, you know, I studied hard in school. When my friends were goofing off, I had my nose in the book. I have saved and I've gone without And now I'm self-sufficient. I have a nice piece of land. I have a beautiful home. Everything's paid for. I have a nice retirement thanks to my careful investments. I don't ask for help And I don't need anyone's help, not even God 's. I think there are many, many Americans, even Christian Americans, who have that mindset We live in a nation that is renowned for our rugged individualism, self-reliance. And there are some good aspects of that. But the reality is that we are all dependent on God 's. Let's examine this for a moment. 1 Corinthians 4, 7 says, For who maketh thee to differ from another? And what hast thou that thou dost not receive? What talents and skills do you possess? Where did you get those from? Did you order them? No. They were given to you by gods. Perhaps you would say, yes, but most of my success is not due to my talents, but due to my own hard work. Well, let me ask you this question. Where did you learn to work so hard? Chances are you had a mom and a dad who instilled a work ethic in you. And you know what? Some people don't have that. And you might say, well, you know, I work hard, and it's not really because my parents instilled that in me. I put in really, really long hours and I've done that for decades. Well, in order for you to do that, you would have to have really good health. So where did you get that good health and that stamina to work 12 hours a day, six days a week, like you have? The answer again is from the Lord. So you see, no matter how you look at it, when you really analyze it, your success, your ability To find a good job and to buy a nice home, and all of those things ultimately come from the Lord's. It's very important for us to acknowledge that all of our success and prosperity comes from Him. If you have your Bibles, I want you to turn with me to a passage that I think is very relevant for us as 21st century Americans. Deuteronomy chapter 8, if you can find it. Deuteronomy is the fifth book of the Bible, the last book attributed to Moses. And here we have the children of Israel about to enter the promised land, and Moses is exhorting them, and he's going to warn them about something. Deuteronomy chapter 8, verse 11. Beware that thou forget not the Lord thy God, in not keeping his commandments and his judgments and his statutes which I command thee this day. Lest when thou hast eaten and art full and hast built goodly houses and dwelt therein, and when thy herds and thy flocks multiply, and thy silver and thy gold is multiplied, and all that thou hast is multiplied. Then thine heart be lifted up, and thou forget the Lord thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. Who led thee through that great and terrible wilderness wherein were fiery serpents and scorpions and drought Where there was no water, who brought thee forth water out of the rock of flint, who fed thee in the wilderness with manna which thy fathers knew not, that he might humble thee, and that he might prove thee to do thee good at the latter end. And thou sayest in thy heart, my power and the might of my hand hath gotten me this wealth. But thou shalt remember the Lord thy God, for it is he that giveth thee power to get wealth, that he might establish his covenant which he swear unto thy fathers as it is this day. If you have some unusual ability to accumulate wealth and possessions, that came from God's. And there's a real danger, if God has given you that, that you will think that you have done it and you will allow those possessions To make yourself reliant instead of God dependence. See, the fact of the matter is without him you would have nothing. And so when we go to the Lord in prayer, we should acknowledge our dependence on the Lord. Can I say that this is sometimes why the Lord allows there to be a turn in our prosperity? Because we become so arrogant to think that we've done it. And so the Lord says, well, let me show them that they really haven't done it, and that circumstances can change in an instance. Now he's not being mean, he is still a loving heavenly father, but he knows affluence that can often breed arrogance. Is not good for us spiritually. And so he will check that. And he will remind us and he'll bring us to our knees until we understand I am dependent on you, Lord. I can't put food on this table without your assistance. So what material needs do you have this morning? Perhaps you need a job. Maybe you're experiencing a health crisis. Maybe you feel like your life is on hold. I mean, these physical, material things can just completely color everything in our lives. Could be you're anxious about many of these situations. Perhaps you're afraid you will lose your home You know what God wants you to do? He wants you to take it to Him in prayer. He wants you to express your dependence as a little child and lay it out before Him. That's what this prayer is teaching us to do. We should always pray with a spirit of dependence, knowing that we are utterly reliant on the Lord to meet all of our physical needs. That brings me to my second point. We should pray with a spirit of confidence, knowing that the Lord will supply all of our physical needs. One of the great ironies Of the modern age is that our nation, which is so affluent, is also one of the most anxious I seriously doubt that anyone here got up this morning and wondered if you were going to eat today. Could be wrong, but I seriously doubt it. I don't think anybody woke up with this gnawing sense of hunger and anxiety saying, I wonder if I am going to get a meal today. Most of us have refrigerators and freezers and pantries filled with large supplies of foods. Some of you have emergency supplies. And you can live in your house for weeks and maybe months with all the food that you've stored away. And you know what? If the cupboards are bare, you can drive a few miles to a grocery store and swipe your card and get what you need. And if for some horrible situation you lost your job, you lost your health, you lost your family. And you lost your home, you know what? There are many places, thank the Lord, that you could go in any of our cities or even our larger towns, and there's a place that will provide free food for you. We have safety net after safety net after safety net in this country. Now, when the Lord spoke these words and gave this model prayer to the multitudes, they could not have imagined the kind of food supplies that we have. Some of you know that I spent four years of my childhood in third world countries, in a third world country, and I can remember When I came back here and uh many years later there was someone from that nation of Papua New Guinea who came to the States and I remember talking to him and when he first came to America and he walked into a grocery store His mouth just fell open. Thought he was in heaven. I mean, who had ever seen this much food in one place before? And all these varieties. It was mind-boggling to him. We go about it every week and don't think a thing of it, complain about the prices and everything else. I've said this before, but you eat better than the Pharaoh of Egypt, who was the most powerful man in the world. He didn't have all the variety of fruits and vegetables that you have and the fresh he didn't have any he didn't have refrigeration. He didn't have any of the variety of foods that you enjoy every day. This is very hard for us. We are more likely not to pray, give us this day our daily bread, but Lord help me not to eat too much today Most of us cannot imagine the lingering fear that dominates millions and millions of people in the world about starvation and hunger. There are many hundreds of millions of people who begin every day thinking Will I get something to eat today? Will I be able to feed my family? And those were the kinds of questions that dominated the thinking of our Lord's hearers of the Sermon on the Mount. And I know that because of what he's going to say just a little bit later. We are in Matthew chapter 6, and we've been looking today at verse 11. I want you to skip down with me to verse 25. The Lord is going to address here people 's worries about their physical necessities. I'm going to read this beginning at verse 25. Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life what you shall eat, or what you shall drink, or for your body what you shall put on. Those are all necessities. Is not the life more than meat and the body than raiment? Behold, the fowls of the air, they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly Father feedeth them, are ye not much better than they Which of you by taking froth can add one cubit unto his stature? And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow, they toil not, neither do they spin. And yet I say unto you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Wherefore, if God so clothed the grass of the field which today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, Shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith? Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or wherewith shall we be clothed? For after all these things do the Gentiles seek. For your heavenly Father knoweth that you have need of all these things. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Therefore, take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself, sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. Are you worried about your physical needs this morning? I want to very quickly give you five reasons from this passage why Jesus says you should not. This is a sermon within a sermon. Notice the first thing he says in verse 25 is, at the conclusion of that, he asks this question, Is not life more than meat and the body than raiments? In other words, if your entire life is obsessed with just finding clothing and food, and that's all you spend your entire day thinking about and doing, that's kind of a waste of life. That's not the point of life. The point of life is not survival or existence Now we don't worry about survival, but how many Americans, their lives are dominated with what we call a materialistic philosophy? about getting a really nice car and a really nice house and really nice clothes and everything else. You see, materialism is idolatry. When does people always want to know when does materialism become sinful? Because you know nobody thinks they're materialistic. Nobody thinks that. I've never, and I've said this before, I've never had anybody come into my office really and you know weep tears and say, Pastor, I'm so materialistic. They don't do that But it's the sin of our age. So when does it become sinful? Let me let me tell you three things very quickly. I remember my mind with S The first one I would say this is when you acquire things in order for status. You want people to know that you have arrived. That you are successful, that you have made it. I mean, look at my house. Look at my car. Look at my clothes. Can't you tell I'm an important person? I have status in society because I have made it. And secondly, is when you find significance in that, where your identity How you think about yourself, how you consider your own worth is based on how much money you have in the bank or how nice of car you have or how how stylish your clothes are, your sense of well-being and purpose and significance is rooted in what you have, the things that you possess If that's the way you think, i i if you judge your worth by that, then that is sinful Now the third one I think is most prevalent, however. Not these two. See, most of you say, oh yeah, I'm not worried about my status. Oh no, I don't think about my significance that way. What about this third one? It's another S, and that is your security. How much of a people's sense of security is rooted in how much they have, how large their nest egg is, how much money they have in the bank, how things are doing with their investments in the stock market. Those sorts of things. In other words, there are some people, and I've talked to many people this way. They've got everything lined up for their retirement and you know if their car breaks down that's good because they've got money in the bank. If they have all those contingencies taken care of, then they can sleep well at night Because I have a sense of security. That's materialism Now, is it wrong to plan ahead? Is it wrong to save? No, I'm not against saving at all. The Proverbs talks about the ant that stores up for the winter The Lord's put instincts and squirrels to hide their food for the winter. God wants us to foresee, he says, the evil day and make preparations for it. It's folly not to do so. But when you find your sense of security and say, oh, now I can rest because I finally have that much money set aside, that's materialism. All of those things I talked about, your status, your significance, and your security, they all are to be rooted in God. You see, whatever it is that you make those things Is your God, your idol. When you find your significance and your sense of status in a community of people and your security in things, then that's your God. And you take away your God, you're going to be miserable. But when the true God of heaven and earth, your heavenly father, is your God, you can take away everything you own and you're still okay. Because he's God. You see, when we live, like he says here in verse 25, when you live just for clothing and food and possessions, you know what you're living like? You're living subhuman. You're living like an animal. That's the way animals live. They live by instinct just to survive. We're designed for things much greater than that. Food and clothing, these are just means to an end, so that we can serve our God and glorify Him. They're not the end when we make them the end. Then we miss the whole point. The second argument he gives is He makes it a lengthy argument here is since God provides for animals and plants, don't you think he'll provide for you? An argument from lesser to greater It says in verse 25, 26, Behold the fowls of the air, for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they? Goes on in verse 28. Why take ye thought for raiment or clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow, they toil not, neither do they spend. They don't spend garments and fabrics. And yet I say unto you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. God provides for plants and animals. Isn't he going to provide for you? Now the reason he gives is in verse 27. Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit under his stature? You know what we would say about that? We would put it this way. Warring doesn't Solve your situation. You ever notice that? Worrying about a financial need and making yourself sick about it doesn't solve the problem. It's counterproductive. And then the fourth reason that he gives, when we allow our lives to be filled with worry about things We're living like unbelievers do. Look with me at verses 31 and 32. Where therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or wherewith shall we be clothed? For after all these things do the Gentiles seek. When he's speaking there of Gentiles, he's speaking to a Jewish audience, and he's talking about people who were lost, who did not know the true God, Jehovah. We would say today, lost people, people who do not know the Lord. This is how they live. They are consumed by material things. It's the whole purpose of their life. Achieving the American dream, achieving a sense of significance and status and importance. That's the way lost people live, but we should know better than that And then finally, in the last verse, we should not worry about our future needs, but we need to live one day at a time. He says, sufficient Under the day is the evil thereof. If you live with the what-if scenario, you'll never be at peace You have to live one day at a time. And this is the same of us as the Lord said moments earlier In the Lord's Prayer. Remember how it goes? Give us this day our daily bread. Twice in this short little phrase, there's a mention of the word day or daily. Now this word daily is a rare word. It's found only here in the Bible. It's not even found in secular Greek. So there's some disagreement about exactly what it means, but we know that it refers to an immediate, ongoing need. Short term is what it's talking about. And this makes sense when you consider the audience that Jesus was speaking to. In the first century, those peasants that lived in Galilee, most of them did not have salary jobs. They got paid at the end of the day to harvest crops, to work in a farmer's field, or maybe because of catching some fish and taking it to the market later in the day and selling it. That was their wages for the day. So most people got paid daily And so guess what? Guess what would happen if you didn't earn any money today? You couldn't find any work. The fish weren't weren't weren't biting and uh you couldn't find anybody who wanted who needed your services. Guess what happened? The next day you're going to go hungry. Because you didn't make any money today. You didn't earn anything. So it was a daily thing. The other thing is that most of them would make their bread or buy their bread every da They didn't stock up in their covered a whole bunch of bread. No, you kept it for one day. And this probably, this reference to daily bread, would have reminded Jesus' Jewish hearers of what? Manna in the wilderness. Remember in Exodus chapter 16? Children of Israel there. And they say, all right Moses, what are you going to do now? We're starving to death. And so God sends manna from heaven. Do you remember the regulations and restrictions about it? Could they stock up for a whole week? That way I don't have to worry now. I got some finan I got food security. No, they had to go out every morning and gather because if they kept it it would rot or become worm-infested. He says you're not to gather it for the next day. It was their daily bread. And this is the way God wants us to live our lives. Every day expressing our dependence on him in prayer. However, even after People work and plan and save and so forth. Sometimes people get into problems. Let me just say that the Bible does not in any way, shape, or form saying that prayer is to replace hard work. Because remember the Bible says if a man does not work, neither should he eat. If we were to implement that policy in our country, there'd be a lot of people going to work tomorrow. Hunger is a very powerful motivator. It truly is. So what should we do if you're struggling to make ends meet, as we say? The first thing I would say this is make sure certain that you're spending your money to the glory of God. Notice what he's talking about here is your daily bread. That's a necessity. Philippians 4. 19 says, My God shall supply all your needs, but it doesn't say all your greats. The vast majority of people that I've spoken to as a pastor who are absolutely consumed with anxiety about their material needs is because they're in a mountain of debts. And a lot of the debt is for things that are not necessities, living far above their means. This is anxiety that is self-inflicted. Like the guy who shoots himself in the foot Self-inflicted problems. So make certain that your spending is for the glory of God's. And then make certain that you're living for the right priorities. Remember that famous verse that we read a moment ago in Matthew 6. 33? Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. What things? Food, clothing, shelter. the necessities. But that's not what you're living for. You're living for God. You're living to advance his cause And then thirdly, I would say, take your knee to the Lord in prayer. You remember these verses also from Philippians, be careful for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. And the peace of God that passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Bring your petitions before the Lord. Lord, I have this need. I can't meet this need, but you are my heavenly Father. Would you meet my needs? We should pray for our needs with a spirit of dependence and with a spirit of confidence. But I have one further point, and that is that we should pray with a spirit of compassion, since there are many who have great physical needs. One of the things I've emphasized in our study is that the Lord's Prayer is a community prayer. Notice the prayer doesn't say, give us this day my daily bread. It says our daily bread. The point being that we are not just to pray for our own personal needs. but for the needs of others. We are to pray that God would provide for those who lack basic necessities. According to the scriptures, our priority should be, first of all, to the people of God. Galatians 6. 10 says that we are to do good unto all men, especially those who are of a household of faith. You know, it's very difficult. Have you ever discovered this? It's very difficult to pray for people 's physical needs and earnestly pour out your heart for them. without doing something about it yourself. Have you ever realized that? I always think of this Christian movie Sheffield, this a traveling, uh itinerant Methodist preacher and he comes across this poor, struggling family and their horses died and they don't know what they're going to do. They can't plow their fields. They can't provide for their children. And so he kneels down there and he prays, Oh God, would you provide for them a horse? And there's a horse next to him, his horse. And he says, All right, you can have my horse. It's impossible to really enter into the suffering of another when you know you have the capacity to solve the problem yourself. We find exhortations all throughout the New Testament about this matter. James chapter 2 says, of a brother's sister's naked and destitute of daily food. And one of you say to them, Depart in peace, be warmed and filled, but you do not give them the things that are needed for the body. What does it profit? Someone comes to your church and they're starving to death and you say, Well, you know what? I'll be praying for you. I really hope you get that job. Hope things work out for you. Pat them on the back. James says, what good does that do? And 1 John we read, Hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. But whoso hath this world's goods and see if his brother have need, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him. How dwelleth the love of God in him My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed and in truth. These two apostolic writers are saying the same thing. We need to put our faith into practice. And that means giving to our brothers and sisters in Christ. You see, prayer does change things. Often it changes us so that we become the means of God's loving provision. Sometimes we have a very impractical and almost mystical thought about this, don't we? We hear of a need. Maybe in a missionary church family, someone in the community, make it on our prayer sheet. Maybe there's Somebody out of work and some other person has grave medical issues and because of that they're really limited in how they can provide for their family. And so we go to the Lord in prayer about it. Now, how do you think God's going to answer that request? Is there going to be like a briefcase full of cash? that floats down on a parachute and lands on their front porch. And they're going to go out in the morning and there's that briefcase they're going to open up and say, this came from God. Of course not. You know how God is going to answer that prayer? Through his people. Through people's hearts being touched and them digging into their wallets and bringing out sacrificially some money and using that to meet the needs. He uses our bread, our clothes, our money, our time to answer the prayers of others. This week I came across this interesting quote from one of the church fathers. So this was written a long time ago. And I think it's very convicting for 21st century Americans. He says, the bread that is spoiling in your house belongs to the hungry. The shoes that are mildoing under your bed belong to those who have none. The clothes stored in your trunk belong to those who are naked. The money that depreciates in your treasury belongs to the poor. Ephesians chapter 4 says that God gives us more than we need so that we can give to those in need. That's a very important message for us to learn. Now, the gist of my sermon this morning is not so give more money to the poor. That would be great. It's not stop worrying and trusting God. No, my my message is that we would live out the gospel. that we would demonstrate in the way we pray, in the thankfulness that permeates our hearts because we have so much by our generosity given to others. that we demonstrate that we are children of a great God who has been so good to us, who has so abundantly supplied our every needs. We should be the most generous people in the world, the most thankful people in the world. Because even the poorest among us have so much. We have a wonderful Heavenly Father, and we need to reflect that to the world. Let's close in prayer. Our Father in heaven, we thank you that you are a good and faithful Heavenly Father. I pray that you would help us to bring our needs before you, not with worry and fear, but with confidence, with dependence, and with a desire that you would meet our needs so abundantly that we would in turn give to others For it's in Jesus' name we pray, amen.