Gave your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to Hebrews chapter five? Hebrews chapter five. In my study, I have a large frame picture of the Baptist preacher C. Spurgeon. He's one of my heroes of the faith. He was a godly man. He faced a great deal of suffering in his life. His wife was an invalid for most of her life. Shortly after they were married, she had some serious health problems that confined her to her bed for most of the rest of their married life. He suffered greatly from gout and Bright's disease and he also suffered from depression that on occasion kept him out of the pulpit. On a wall in his bedroom he had a plaque with Isaiah 48 and verse 10 that says, I have chosen thee in the furnace of affliction. I have a book in my library entitled The Suffering Letters of C. H. Spurgeon. And one of these letters he says this, I thank God. that I have not been allowed to doubt the goodness of the Lord in afflicting me. I bless his holy name for every sharp pang, and I entreat him to bring some good out of this present evil. If he will but glorify himself in me or by me, I shall be the happiest of men. Spurgeon suffered a great deal, but nothing like our Savior. This morning, as we continue our study of Hebrews, we come to a few verses. That speak of our Savior's suffering. The book of Hebrews was written to people who were suffering. And who were about to encounter more suffering because of their faith in Christ. And as a result, at least some in that community of believers were considering going back to Judaism. rather than face the possibility of death. And so the pastor who wrote this book strongly exhorts them not to go back, not to apostasize, because Jesus is superior than anything or any person that Judaism has to offer. Let me pause for a second and say, you may be confused. You might think, well Wasn't Judaism of the Old Testament, wasn't that ordained and instituted of God? Indeed it was But by the time of our Lord, as exemplified by the religious establishment, Judaism had gone far off course It had become a dead religion of works and self-righteousness in large parts And it also must be remembered, as the book of Hebrews so clearly reveals, these sacrifices and ceremonies, these priesthoods And even these individuals were all pictures and symbols. They were types of the ultimate sacrifice, the ultimate savior that would come in Jesus Christ. Now in Hebrews chapter 5, verses 1 through 10, we have a paragraph that is contrasting the Levitical priesthood. With the priesthood of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And the paragraph begins by providing three qualifications. That were necessary for a person to serve as Israel's high priest. The high priest had to, first of all, be one of the people he represented, according to verse 1. According to verses 2 and 3 of this chapter, he had to be compassionate with the sinful people because he himself was a sinner. And third, the high priest had to be called by God to this holy task. We find that in verse 4. But then beginning in verse 5, the author is going to demonstrate the superiority of Christ by contrasting our Lord's priesthood with that of the Iranic priesthood. Last week we discovered in verses 5 and 6 that Jesus was uniquely appointed to God, to the office of high priest, in that he was both a son and a king. This meaning is strengthened and confirmed by these two quotations from the Psalms. And then in verse 7, we see how Jesus is able to sympathize with his people because he faced the agony of the cross, and yet he demonstrated complete trust in God by yielding to his will. And now the author at Hebrews is going to prove that Jesus is much better qualified to serve as our high priest. And one of the qualities that set Jesus apart from all the high priest who came before him was that he suffered for his people. Now, I suppose you could argue that the ironic high priest did face some hardship in their God-ordained work. They were constantly slaughtering animals and handling blood, which was not a pleasant task. They also dealt with sinful people every day, and that could certainly become frustrating. And of course, their work never ended. They had the ultimate job security. Because people never stopped sinning. And so they just continually offered sacrifices. But I don't think that anything in their job description could be considered real suffering. But Jesus, our perfect high priest, suffered to the point of death. And amazingly, it's our Lord's suffering that makes him a much better high priest for us. Because through his suffering He is able both to sympathize with us and our suffering, and of course it's through his ultimate suffering on the cross that he has provided atonement for our sins. Now, the idea of Christ being a better high priest than any other Levitical high priest seems far removed from our life context. But it's not so far removed. This is a vital message for us to hear. Perhaps the idea of a mediator seems irrelevant to your life issues. But unless Jesus Christ is your great high priest, your mediator between God and man, you are lost in your sins. You are in a pitiful state. You are facing the judgment of God. And so, as we consider the qualifications of our great high priest, Let us give it, give God's word the attention it deserves. Our great high priest is perfectly qualified to be our mediator through his suffering. I'm going to bring two main points out of our text this morning. First of all, our great high priest can identify with our suffering because of his suffering. Verses 7 and 8 are intended to show us that Jesus is fully qualified to serve as our great high priest because he can have compassion and sympathy. For us, because he himself faced great suffering in his quest to do the will of God Now, verse eight provides a specific example of Christ's godly fear. You'll notice that Chapter 5 and verse 7, it says, and he was heard, and that he feared. And we mentioned that was his godly fear. His reverence, his submission to his father's will. And now in verse 8, we're going to have that expanded and that brought out. Now verse eight has a phrase in it that strikes us as odd or perhaps um almost um Against our theological understanding of Scripture. We'll get to that in a moment, but I want you to notice this first phrase. It says, though he were a son. If you've been with us in our study of Hebrews, you know that one title for Christ that is brought out, and perhaps the favorite one of this author. is the title son. Jesus is the Son, the exalted Son. This makes him superior to angels, to Moses, and to all the Levitical priests. Notice how this is brought out in this book. If you look with me at chapter one and verse one, God who at sundry times and in diverse manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son. whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds, who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person. and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the majesty on high You'll see how the Son is brought forth here as this exalted creator, sustainer, and redeemer of the worlds. He goes on in this opening chapter in verse 5, for unto which of the angels said he, at any time, thou art my son? The answer is to none of them. And verse 8, but under the sun he saith, Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. And then in chapter 3 , Verses five and six, and Moses was verily was faithful in all his house as a servant for a testimony of those things which were to be spoken after. But Christ as a son over his own house, whose house we are if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of hope firm until the end. So the title Sun reveals the full deity of Jesus and highlights his exalted status. And so one might easily assume that if you were the Son of God and you had this status, this exalted status of which there is no status higher. That you would be exempt from any suffering or hardship, but that is not the message of Scripture The Bible says, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Although he was a son, yet he suffered. But now let's look at that phrase in verse 8. That strikes us as odd, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered. What does this mean? Let me first of all say this phrase does not mean that Jesus was once in a state of disobedience, but after a period of suffering, he became obedient. That's not the teaching of Scripture. Jesus is and always has been the sinless Son of God. In fact, there's probably no New Testament book that emphasizes the sinlessness of Christ. more than the book of Hebrews. We saw this just a few weeks ago in chapter four and verse fifteen. It says, For we have not a high priesthood which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities. But was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. And in chapter seven and verse twenty six it says for such a high priest became us who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, made higher than the heavens, who needeth not daily as those high priests to offer up sacrifices First for his own sins and then for the people, for this he did once when he offered up himself. Why didn't he need to offer sacrifices? Because he's the sinless Son of God. He had no sin. And there are many other references to this as well in this book. So in one sense Jesus didn't need to learn to obey in that he was like disobedient up until that point. So if that's not what it means, what does this passage mean? It means that Jesus had to learn through his suffering in order to serve as our great high priest. Now, what bothers us about this expression, about Jesus learning, is that it seems to contradict the full deity of Christ. Simply put. If Jesus is God, doesn't he know everything? And if he knows everything, then why does he need to learn? Well, this text reminds us of the mystery of the incarnation. Jesus with both God and And man. We have great difficulty understanding the balance of those two things. That's why we call it the mystery of the incarnation. And so often I think we we have notions that are a little bit off on this. The fact is you've encountered many expressions like this in Scripture before. For example, in Luke chapter 2 and verse 52, it says, And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature and in favor with God and man. Jesus grew up like any boy. He had to learn to read. He grew in stature. He grew in his His ability to function socially. That's what it means when it says in favor with man. He matured and grew up like any human being because he was and is a human being. And so often we forget that. Now I'm going to explain a little bit further of what this means that he learned through suffering But I want to mention something to you that hopefully will stick in your mind, and that is this idea of learning through suffering. Was a common saying in the Greco-Roman world. Every culture that has ever existed has their words of wisdom That are like common proverbs that people will say and other people mean. This was a memorable proverb that rhymed, the idea of learning through suffering. There are two Greek words here that rhyme. One is Mathain, which means to learn, and pathane, which means to suffer. You can hear how they sound similar. And so we we have a common sayings in in in our language and in other languages like this as well that rhymes. For instance We have like happy wife, happy life, right? You've heard that before. I won't expound on that It does not need explanation. Now, Pastor Aaron has taught me something from Swahili. That rhymes. Shogala boggala. Did I get it right? So we say, what does that mean? So parents, when you go into your teenager 's room And there's clothes everywhere and you can't see the floor, the proper thing to say is shaggala bagala. Right? Alright, so I got that right. Alright? This is a common saying. These sayings stick in our minds because they rhyme and they stick with our observations. So this proverb we learn through suffering. When they read this, they would have said, oh yeah, I know what that's about. I've heard that many times. But when applied to Christ, this is different. Because how what what is the implication when it says we learn through suffering? The implication, even in their day, was that we learned to do what's right. Through suffering. For instance, in Psalm 119 and verse 71, it says, It's good for me that I have been afflicted, that I may learn thy statutes. And in fact, the book of Hebrews is going to quote from Proverbs 3 and bring out this biblical truth. Turn with me, if you would, to Hebrews 12 for just a moment. Hebrews chapter 12. Verses five through seven. He writes, And ye have forgotten the exhortation. Which speaketh unto you as unto children. My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him. For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons. For what son is he whom the father chasteneth not? So you see here this principle that often God does bring suffering into the lives of God's children. So that we learn to obey. But that's not what is being stated here In fact, the exact opposite is the case. I want you to think about this. Jesus suffered not because of his disobedience, but because he obeyed. He obeyed and he went to the cross and he faced that ultimate suffering. So the learning here is a reference to experiential learning. For example, you may have taken a driver's ed course, and you were in the classroom and you were taught the rules of the road. And you may have watched some gory videos that were supposed to scare you into being a responsible driver. And you were taught about the location of the accelerator and the brake and how to change gears and and and things of that nature. But until you went out and got into a car behind the wheel Although you may have had a theoretical knowledge of how those things worked, you really didn't know until you got used to doing it. Because that experience helped you understand it better. Jesus knew intellectually That obedience to his father's will would be difficult, and that enduring suffering on the cross would be very painful But he was, it was a completely different matter when he actually experienced the agony not only of the cross, but of the cup, the agony of bearing the wrath of God. And part of what Jesus learned was how difficult it could be to suffer, to surrender, excuse me, to the will of God And to trust him in the darkness of unspeakable suffering. We see this human struggle very clearly in the garden when Jesus prays and he says his soul is Exceedingly sorrowful even unto death. And he says, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. So, because of that experience, and because he went to the cross, and because he experienced the darkness, and he cried out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Because he endured all of that. He is able to sympathize with his people, especially when they come to a time of suffering, and their suffering will come because of their obedience to the will of God. That was the situation of the audience he was addressing. Acknowledging that they were a follower of Christ and saying the simple words, Jesus is Lord. Would result in certainly some of their executions. The very people who probably first heard these words Died for their faith. And Jesus was able to sympathize with them because he faced that same choice. And he obeyed to the end. You see, suffering binds the hearts of human beings together like nothing else. Just think about this. If we'd taken an offering for the believers in Ukraine like say a year ago, if I just said, you know, we're just gonna Give some money to uh these missionaries in Ukraine that were ministering there and so we'll take a special offering. I'm sure people would give to it, but would we have given thirty-one thousand dollars? I suspect not. Well, why was it so different a year later? It's because we saw and we heard the suffering of the people in Ukraine and we saw the devastation there. We saw the hopelessness in their faces and it touches our hearts. And although these are people that we may never meet in this life, and we don't know their names, we don't know anything about them, yet we once and we feel obligated to minister to their needs. Because our hearts had been touched. In the same way, Jesus as the God man is touched with our suffering. And he responds to our suffering by giving us his grace. Oswald Chambers, the famous English devotional writer wrote, suffering is the heritage of the bad, of the penitent, and of the Son of God. Each one ends in the cross. The bad thief is crucified, the penitent thief is crucified, and the Son of God is crucified. By these signs we know the widespread heritage. You see, Jesus experienced this human suffering, but it was not a tragedy It was God's way of providing atonement for his people and of qualifying Jesus to be our great high priest. Because as Hebrew emphasizes, he is a merciful, faithful, and sympathetic high priest to his people. Why? Because he lived on the sin-cursed earth and he suffered. To the ultimate extreme that he might redeem a people to himself. That brings us to our second point this morning. And that is our great high priest provides eternal salvation through his suffering. Look with me at verses 9 and 10. And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him. Called of God a high priest after the order of Melchizedek. Now, once again, here in verse 9. We find similar language to what we found in verse 8 when it speaks about him being made perfect. Once again, this may set off alarms in our minds. I thought Jesus was already perfect. Well, he was and is. This phrase is speaking again about him being fully qualified. When it's talking here about him being perfected is referring to his experience for his qualifications as our great high priest. For example, this is not a complete and point-by-point example, but it gives you the idea. When I graduated from seminary at the age of 28 I was in an educational way of speaking fully qualified to serve as a pastor. And I wanted to go right into the ministry and I wanted to do what I'm doing right now. But you know what? I couldn't find any takers. You know why? Because I didn't have any experience. I mean I had some experience. I did work in seminary at a church as kind of a youth pastor and And I I've done some preaching and teaching and I'd worked with young people at my home church on many occasions, but I didn't have a title of a pastor and I and I and I w I didn't really have experience that shows, all right, this guy has proven himself through these years of service that he can do this job. This of course translates into every arena. How many people have these qualifications? But employers are a little hesitant to give them an opportunity because they haven't been proven. An actual experience. Jesus was always ready and willing to suffer and die. He was always obedient. He says in John 8. 29, I always do those things that please him, speaking of his father. But through the incarnation and his subsequent death on the cross, Jesus proved that he was obedient unto death, even the death. of the cross. He demonstrated in a very tangible way that he could face the agony of the garden and the temptation to avoid that bitter cup and yet remain faithful to his father's will. Even under the most dire circumstances, he was faithful and obedience. And what was the result of our Lord's willingness to suffer and obey for his Father's will? It's given right here in our text. He became the author. of eternal salvation. Now this term author has the idea of source Jesus is the only source of salvation. It's found in a person It's not found in a church. It's not found in a denomination. It's not found in works righteousness. It's not found by being a good person. It's found in a person Who is our Savior? The scriptures teach very clearly and very emphatically an exclusive gospel. This sets the Bible and its clear teachings at odds with everything that is taught in our secular society today. The world teaches it's all right for you to be religious. Just stay in your lane. Do not do not say that other people and other religions are wrong. That's what you must do. Now, even apart from scripture, this is nonsense. Because if a person with an open mind compares different religions, they will realize They're not doing what everyone likes to say, and that is all worshiping the same God. And they don't all teach the same things. In fact, in many cases, they teach the opposite of one another. So they can't all be right. The Bible makes the very emphatic claim that there is only one way to heaven, and that is through Jesus Christ. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. This is why you can't say that I love Jesus, but I also think that people of other faiths are going to heaven and that they're fine. Well, then you've just denied what Jesus said, and all that he means. The apostle said, For there is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. And the reason why we are so emphatic on this in preaching this and proclaiming this, even at the expense of being called bigoted, is because we believe it's true. If you believe that there was only one way of escape out of a fiery building and someone told you, oh listen. I think there are many pathways that lead out of here. But you know there's not. You would not say, all right, have it your way. You would say, no, you're wrong. There's only one way to safety, and that is through Jesus Christ. There was no other way. There was no other hope for mankind. And the only way That Jesus could save us was through his suffering. We have come across this idea before. Do you remember? Turn back with me to Hebrews chapter 2 and verse 10. Hebrews chapter 2 and verse 10. For it became him For whom are all things, and by whom are all things, and bringing many sons unto glory to make the captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings. He is essentially saying the same thing, repeating himself like all good teachers, here again in verse 9. It was only through our Savior's suffering that he could bring many sons to glory. But what kind of salvation does God provide for those who believe? Look at what it's termed here: Eternal. Salvation. Eternal salvation. This is a beautiful expression of the gospel. This corresponds to the everlasting life that is so frequently mentioned in the Gospel of John. This designation Is significant for two reasons. Number one, many Christians have interpreted the warning passages in Hebrews As proof that genuine believers can lose their salvation. In fact, in just a few weeks We're going to be in chapter six. And chapter six is a passage of scripture that at first glance does seem to teach That a person who is a believer can lose their salvation. That's not what it teaches. We're going to look at that in detail. But at first glance, at a cursory reading, that's what it seems to teach. And so many people who believe that you can lose your salvation will quote this passage, Hebrews chapter 6, and other passages in this book to make that case. But let me remind you here that in this very same book, it refers to genuine salvation as eternal salvation. So the author here was not contradicting himself. And we must interpret those warning passages in light of this designation. The fact is Scripture is filled with these reassuring truths. Let me read some of these for you. John chapter 6 and verse 37, all that the Father giveth me shall come to me. And him that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out. John 6 47 He that believeth on me hath everlasting life In John chapter 10, verses 27 through 29, Jesus says, My sheep hear my voice. I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life. And they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My father which gave them me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. And we read this wonderful ending of Romans chapter 8 that we considered about a year ago What shall that we say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us? He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifieth. Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea, rather that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? And the answer is nothing can separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. And in Philippians chapter 1 and verse 6, it says, being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. And in 1 Peter chapter 1, verses 4 and 5, we find this description of our salvation to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you who are kept by the power of God. So there are many, many, many, many verses and many more than I've quoted here That speak about the believers' security in Christ. That when we are saved, We are granted the gift of everlasting life or an eternal salvation, as it's termed here. This is the great gift that Christ has secured for us. The second reason that this expression, eternal salvation, is significant. is because it reveals that Jesus is much better than any of the Levitical priests. Remember, on the Day of Atonement, the high priest would offer a sacrifice for himself. And then he would offer a sacrifice for the people. He would take that blood into that holy chamber, the holy of holies, 15 foot by 15 foot. And he would sprinkle that blood on the lid of the mercy seat. But that atonement was only good for one year. And next year he'd have to go through the whole ritual again, and the next year, and the next year. Because that sacrifice was just a picture. It wasn't the real thing. It was just pointing to the ultimate sacrifice that would take place on Calvary. This is a recurring theme in the book of Hebrews. In Hebrews chapter 1 and verse 3 it says, when he that is Jesus had himself purged our sins. He sat down on the right hand of the majesty on high. I've pointed out to you before that there were no chairs in the tabernacle or temple. Because the priests were always on their feet offering sacrifices. Their work was never done. But when Jesus offered his sacrifice, he sat down. The author of Hebrews finds great significance in this fact. He brings it up several times. The posture of our Lord signified that his work was complete. And that our atonement is taken care of. In Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 12 it says, But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down on the right hand of God. Christ's work of atonement was once for all accomplished. This should bring great comfort and joy to the people of God. We have this hymn that we often sing here. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean on Jesus' name. When it speaks there of sweetest frame, it's talking about the disposition or attitude that you have on a given day. It's an implication that some days we may not feel like we're Christians. We may feel that we failed God so repeatedly. And so grievously that certainly he has rejected us, that our salvation is in jeopardy, that we are not his children. But if we have trusted in the finished work of Christ on the cross, our salvation is forever secure. But then we come to a passage that tells us who are the recipients of this eternal salvation. And perhaps I won't get as many amens on this point. But brothers and sisters, these are balancing truths. Notice how they're described here Eternal salvation unto all them that obey Him. Now, we don't like that word obey. The word obey means to submit your will to the will of another. And there's no fallen human being who likes to do that. We don't like being told what to do. We don't like someone claiming authority in our lives. But Jesus Christ has claimed authority in the lives of all of his people. Now there are two grounds that people would object to this wording here in verse 9. The first ground is that it could be interpreted to teach a works salvation. That is, that you have to earn your way to heaven. The second ground is that it could be construed to teach legalism, a term that people so often like to throw around today. Even the Lord's people. Anything that speaks of rules of obedience or of holy living, people will say that sounds a little legalistic to me Well, let's see what the scriptures say. First of all, let me say that this does not teach work salvation. I remember years ago a man saying to me that we should never sing trust and obey because it's adding works to grace. You can probably tell I did not agree with him because we sang it this morning. Let me be clear. We are saved by grace alone, through through grace alone, through faith alone in Christ alone. No one has ever earned their way to heaven. The reference to obedience here is not the cause of our salvation, but the result of our salvation. For by grace are you saved through faith, and then not of yourselves, it is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. But then it goes on to say, but we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus, unto good works. So often we like to quote verses 8 and 9 and kind of forget verse 10. A living faith Will always lead to obedience. Don't take my word for it. Listen to Jesus. In Matthew 7, 21 he says, Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father, which is in heaven. Do you recall when we were in Hebrews chapter 3? We were talking about the wilderness generation that failed to enter the promised land. And in that portion of Scripture, we noted that the terms unbelief and disobedience were used nearly interchangeably. Why is that? Because when you have one, you will have the other. When you have unbelief. It will always lead to disobedience. And whenever you see disobedience in a person's life, it's due to their unbelief. The reason why the children of Israel didn't enter Canaan is because they didn't really believe that God would give them the victory. Remember, they thought the people were all giants and their walls of their cities went up to heaven, and we're like grasshoppers. We could never do this, even though they had seen God break the heart of the most powerful man in the world, Pharaoh, and bring ten plagues upon him and his people. Oh, divide the waters of the Red Sea and make a path for them and provide food for them with manna from heaven and the fowl of the air and water out of the rock. They still didn't think that God could do the impossible And they defiantly refused to go in because they did not believe. They didn't really trust in God You see, the reason why people don't obey is because they don't believe So often I've had people say to me about individuals, maybe relatives, friends, and so forth. I said, Well Pastor, he is not the church going kind of Christian. You know, and he he he doesn't he doesn't follow the word like he should. And and he doesn't obey what the scriptures tell him to do, but he's going to go to heaven someday. Is that what the Bible teaches? I don't think so. There have been many preachers and pastors over the years. Who I fear in their attempts to protect the doctrine that salvation is not by works, which is what most lost people think. And in order to protect this precious truth, that it's by grace alone, they have gone too far. And have therefore made the evidence of someone's faith, which is obedience, a not so important matter. And the result is that we have a nation filled with nominal Christians. They claim to be Christians But they live a lifestyle of complete disobedience. God never comes into their thoughts about how they should live their life, how they should spend their money Their morality, their view of marriage. He has nothing to do with any of that. But they will say they're Christians. In our text we find that our Savior obeyed his father even unto death. And those who receive this eternal salvation will follow His example, not that they will all necessarily obey unto death, that will be called to die for their faith But there is a parallelism here, and that is the obedience of our Savior is the model for our obedience. Did you remember, did you notice when I was reading that wonderful, the most reassuring passage that I know of in Scripture? about the believers' eternal security. My sheep hear my voice, I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal, everlasting, eternal life, and they will never perish. It starts out with, My sheep hear my voice. I know them, and what? They follow me. So if you're not following Jesus' example of obedience, Then how can you claim that wonderful promise that nothing can take you out of his hands In verse 10, the author of Hebrews concludes this monumental paragraph. By summarizing that Jesus is superior to the Levitical High Priest because he is a high priest after the order of Melchizedek. He mentioned this earlier in verse 6, and he touches on it again at the end of this paragraph. But that raises the question of how does the fact that Jesus is the Melchizedekian priest make him superior to the Levitical priest? Well, the author of Hebrews is going to answer that in some detail. in chapters 7 through 10. But here this reference serves to pique the interest of his readers and to signal that more information about this mysterious figure lies ahead. Now I want to make some application from this passage before we conclude this morning. Number one We must never assume that our suffering is evidence that God doesn't love us. The Father never loved anyone more than his beloved Son. And yet he sent him to die on an old rugged cross. So the people of God, I say this, don't interpret your suffering as an indication that God doesn't care for you. How many people, how many Christians struggle with bitterness A lot. A lot of Christians struggle with bitterness and anger and resentment. Usually towards an individual. But often, if you really talk to them, it's towards God. Because if they believe what the Bible teaches , Then God could have stopped and controlled individuals who did painful things to them from happening. And therefore, ultimately, if they know their Bibles, their anger is for God. Their bitterness is for God. And so often they have interpreted their suffering as somehow God has unfairly tortured them. Brought pain and difficulty and limitation into their life, and that doesn't seem right. And they're angry at God. But let me just say that the reason why you feel that way is because you don't know all the facts. You don't know all the facts. I've had people in this church, good people, who've been furious with me about decisions that I've made. with other individuals because they look at the facts before them and it looks like I am being very unfair and discriminatory towards certain individuals. And the reason why they feel that way is because they don't know all the facts. If they knew what I knew, they would say, oh yeah, what you decision you're making makes perfect sense. And because of confidential matters, I can't share with them what I know I just have to take the tongue lashing. I think someday for Christians who have spent so much of their life being bitter and angry at God about their suffering , They're going to be embarrassed someday when God says, well, did you know this? Could you have foreseen this? Did you understand what I was doing over here? If I exempted you from this, do you see how this would have happened like this? And you would say, oh, so I was bitter for 40 years. For nothing, because I thought I knew as much about the situation as you did. And in fact, I was ignorant. And I charged you with being unfair. Dear Christian people, God 's suffering is always for your good and his glory. Secondly, we must never fail to learn from our suffering. Suffering is a time of instruction. Jesus experientially learned and was better qualified to serve as our high priest because of his suffering. And so we should certainly learn from our suffering. Some of you right now are going through a period of time of intense suffering What are you learning from it? My admonition to you would be don't waste it. Don't throw it away feeling sorry for yourself and wondering why God has been so mean to you. Are you learning how sinful you are? Are you learning how suffering drives you to prayer? Is the Lord making you long for your heaven? Has suffering made you more sympathetic to others who are suffering? These are things that God wants us to learn in our suffering. A third and final application I want to make is this. We should find great comfort In our Savior's obedience. In Romans chapter 5, in verse 19, it says, For as by one man's disobedience, many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one Shall many be made righteous. Theologians speak of two aspects of our Lord's obedience. They refer to his death as his passive obedience, and they denote his perfect life of obedience as his active obedience. In justification, we receive not only the benefits of Christ's death, that is, that our sins are pardoned, that his wrath is satisfied, but also we receive the blessings of his life. Not only does the Lord take away our filthy garments, but he wraps us in the righteous robes of Christ. You see, believers are all prodigal sons. Who have not only been forgiven but clothed in the garments of grace. This is the great exchange. Jesus takes our sin and gives us his perfect righteousness. It's sort of like our sin is often described in Scripture as a debt. And we understand debts because we're a nation of debtors. But let's say that you owe a billion dollars. But some wealthy benefactor comes forward and gives you a billion dollars to pay that debt that you could never pay. But if that's all that was true, you are now exactly at zero. You have no money at all. You are a pauper, although you're no longer in debts. But that's not the gospel. He not only pays for the penalty of our sins, but we are imputed with the righteousness of Christ. with the credit of his perfect obedience, his credit to our accounts. It's as if that billionaire said, oh, I see you need some more, and then he wrote out another check for a billion dollars for you. This does not mean that we have a license to sin or to live life on our own terms because that is antithetical to the gospel. But this is the glory of the gospel. It doesn't just remove our debts But it credits us with the righteousness of Christ. But this great gift of salvation, this eternal salvation that's mentioned in our text is only for those who repent and believe the gospel. You must turn from your sin because it's your sin that sent Jesus to the cross. And he came to save his people from their sins. And so you can't continue to cling and make idols in your hearts. You must let go of your sin and embrace the gift of salvation, the glory of the gospel. And there's only one way. And that is through Jesus. For there is one God and one mediator between God and man, the man, Christ Jesus. He is the only qualified, authorized person to make atonement for your sins. And he did it once at Calvary. And all those who trust in him will be saved eternally. May God help you to receive this gift of grace by faith alone today. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for giving us a great Savior. I pray that you would use your word to dispel the lies that lost people trust in and to draw them to yourself. And Father, may your people be straightened And encouraged and fortified the what they have heard this morning, for it's in Jesus' name, we pray, Amen