Favorite Bibles, please would you join me in Hebrews chapter 9? Hebrews chapter 9. Albert Speer was a brilliant architect. who became part of Hitler's inner circle in Nazi Germany. He became the Minister of Armament and War Production. And is credited by some for keeping Germany in the war far longer than would have been possible otherwise. Albert Speer was the only Nazi war criminal tried at Nuremberg who pleaded guilty. He spent 20 years in prison before he was released in 1966. An interviewer once asked him if he felt forgiven after serving his time. Spear responded that although he had served his sentence, he still carried a great burden of guilt for being part of the murder of millions of people. He wrote a book to clear his conscience, but it didn't work. And he concluded that it was impossible for him to enjoy. A conscience at rest. This morning we come to a passage in Hebrews that tells us that the blood of Christ can cleanse the conscience. of the vilest sinner. Today we are going to what is the heart of Hebrews chapter 9. And it's one of the great passages in this book. It's so full of truth. It's so rich we could spend many weeks on these four verses. This is, of course, part of the broader arguments of the book of Hebrews that Jesus is better than anything Judaism has to offer. Look with me please at verse 11. But Christ, beingcome a high priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building, neither by the blood of goats and calves. But by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. For if the blood of bulls and of goats and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling the unclean sanctifieth to the purifying of the flesh How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered Himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God? The book of Hebrews tells us that Jesus is better than anything else that you could live for or trust in. He's better than the angels. He's better than Moses. He's better than Joshua. He's better than Aaron or Levi or any of the priests who followed them. And that argument is the central point of the book that really covers from chapters five through the end of chapter ten, which makes up the body of the book. There's a sense in which the chapters before and after are like the introduction and conclusion. He's writing to Jewish believers in the first century who are encountering persecution. And are considering taking what they consider to be the safe routes and going back to their old Judaism, being welcomed by their old friends and family members to escape the Persecution that is ramping up. The author of this book says, you cannot go back To go back is apostasy. To go back is to go back to something inferior, to something that was but a symbol and a shadow of Christ who has come. Now in chapters eight through ten, there are three recurring arguments that just keep surfacing. one after another in different forms and in different wording. It is that Jesus is a better priest because he ministers in a better place He offers a better sacrifice on the basis of a better covenant. This is what he's going to say in our text this morning, and what he will continue to say in different ways. Until we come to the conclusion of chapter 10. Last Sunday we considered the first ten verses of this chapter in which the writer of Hebrews reveals the inadequacies of old covenant worship. And he he begins this chapter by describing in some detail The tabernacle under Moses and the furniture within that tabernacle. And he's not giving here a historical lesson. Or lesson in worship. He's talking about making the point that Old Testament worship was inferior because it restricted access to God. First of all, Gentiles couldn't come even to the outer court of the tabernacle. They were not welcome, and that was the majority of humanity. And those who were Jewish could come into the outer court, but only to the altar. They couldn't go any further. They certainly couldn't go into the tabernacle itself. And only the Levites, only those whose number came up to serve, generally speaking, would serve one week in their life And they would only go into the first room of the tabernacle. And many of them never got that opportunity because there were so many Levites, their number never came up between the ages of 30 and 50 when they served. And then the Holy of Holies, that final compartment in the tabernacle was reserved for the high priest. only one day a year, the Day of Atonement, and only for a brief time and only with blood. You see, the Old Testament worship system had this great problem. Sinful people could not really come into the presence of God. But all that changed when Jesus died on the cross. And the veil of the temple was rent. And light flooded into the Holy of Holies, signifying that a new era had come. Now, verse 10 ends by speaking of the conclusion of the old covenant worship with comes with the time of reformation, that is a new order. And then verse 11 begins by saying that with the coming of Christ, this has changed everything. Now, how are things different in the new covenants? Well, he's going to point out now the advantages of new covenant worship that were not present in old covenant worship. And at the very heart of the passage that we consider this morning, verses eleven through fourteen We have this expression that our Savior has obtained eternal redemption for us. But how was this accomplished? That's what we're going to consider this morning. Verses 11 through 14 contain two long sentences. The first sentence comprises verses 11 and 12, and the second verses 13 and 14. And each sentence provides a reason why Jesus has obtained eternal redemption for us. Now, the most important question that you must ask yourself as we work our way through these four verses is simply this: Can I claim the blessings of eternal redemption? You should not think that because you're at church, or because your parents are well known Christians in this assembly, or because you're well thought of Or because your compliance that you've obtained eternal redemption Because there were many Jews who were much more disciplined than we are, who did not obtain eternal redemption because they rejected the Messiah. Do you know that the blood of Christ has cleansed your sins? Do you know that your conscience Is clean. That guilt no longer keeps you from God. Today I want us to look at this great passage in Hebrews. And I want us once again to see that Christ is the only hope for sinful humanity. He's the only way to God. The great message of these four verses is that Christ has obtained eternal redemption for us. But how has he obtained that redemption? I want us to see two things in our text this morning. First of all, Jesus has obtained eternal redemption for us. Because he is a superior high priest. Look with me at verse 11. But Christ being come a high priest of good things to come By a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building. You'll notice this verse begins with the word but, which speaks of contrast. In contrast to the old covenant, Christ has inaugurated the new covenants. Now, some texts read That Jesus is a high priest of good things to come, while others have that the good things have come. And some of you perhaps have translations that say one or the other. The reality is a strong argument could be made for either understanding. They're both true. In the eschatological sense, the good things are yet to come. And he's going to say that exact thing in chapter 10 and verse 1. But the context would lead most scholars to believe that he's saying that the good things have come, even though, of course, the full realization of them is yet to come. Now, I want you to notice that he speaks of a greater and more perfect tabernacle. What is that tabernacle? We need to identify that. There are some who would see this perfect tabernacle as a reference to the physical body of Christ. Indeed, John 1. 14 says the word was made flesh and dwelt among us, or tabernacled among us, which is a reference to Christ's incarnation. But while this is true, I don't think that's what the author of Hebrews is saying. I don't think it's saying that Jesus is the ultimate tabernacle. Because elsewhere in the book of Hebrews, the tabernacle is identified with the heavenly sanctuary. If you look with me at chapter 8 , And verse 2, it says of Christ that he is a minister of the sanctuary and of the true tabernacle, which the Lord pitched. And not man. And then later in this chapter we're in, Hebrews chapter 9 and verse 24, it says, For Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands. Which are figures of the true, but into heaven itself now to appear in the presence of God for us So this tabernacle was symbolizing heaven itself, the presence of God. Now let me say something that hopefully will not astound you or anger you. But these verses are not saying that there is literally a tent up in heaven. There's some people that have a very literalistic way of thinking, and they read the type into the fulfillment of the type rather than understand the the type by the fulfillment itself. There's not a tabernacle up in heaven. When you get there, you're not going to see a big tent. You're going to see the glory of God. It's the presence of God. And also, of course, there's not the tabernacle furniture up in heaven as some have thought and speculated. No, these were all pictures of what Christ would do at the cross, and because his work is so multifaceted and profound. It requires many different pictures for us to understand. We have the altar that speaks where the bronze altar where the animal was sacrificed. which speaks of his substitutionary death for us. And we have the labor behind it, which speaks of the cleansing that will come through the blood of Christ. And we have the mercy seat where the blood was sprinkled on the Day of Atonement, which speaks of propitiation that would take place. through the death of Christ. But all of those are shadows and symbols of what happened at Calvary So in these first two verses that we're considering this morning, we have three evidences that Jesus is a superior priest. And some of these I've mentioned before in other chapters. The first one is that he is a superior priest because he ministers in a superior place, that is, in heaven itself, not in the tents. But in heaven, do you remember several weeks ago when I gave this illustration that where a person serves says something about their status? Now talk about two men who were chefs. One man worked in a diner where he taught himself how to cook. And the meals went for about ten dollars. And there's this other man who went to the finest culinary institute in Paris, France, and he serves at a Five star hotel where it costs a thousand dollars a plate and you have to make reservations a year in advance. Yes, they're both chefs. But where they serve speaks to their status, and it's not close. So the Levitical priest and Jesus are both priests, but boy, the status is really different. The second reason that Jesus is a superior priest is because he shed his own blood. For us. Look at the first part of verse twelve. Neither by the blood of goats and of calves, but by his own blood. He entered once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. For hundreds of years, Old Testament priests slaughtered probably hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of animals doing their priestly functions. Verse 12 is speaking particularly about the ceremony on the Day of Atonement. On the Day of Atonement, as I've mentioned in previous messages, the high priest would sacrifice Two animals, another one would the scapegoat of course would be let go, but he would offer a bull and a goat. Their blood would be mixed, some would be put on the altar of incense, and some on the mercy seat. But Jesus didn't offer any animal sacrifices. No, he offered up himself Now, once again, I want to make a point of clarification here. Some preachers have stated that after Jesus died on the cross , Either immediately or at his ascension, went up to heaven with his blood and sprinkled it on the mercy seat. You ever heard that before? I have. By many preachers. It's not true. Once again, you're looking too much at the illustration And not the reality. Why do I say that that's wrong? Because when Jesus died on the cross, he said it's finished. He didn't say, except I have to do one more thing. When Jesus died, the veil in the temple was rent in two, signifying that a new age of access had begun. To say that Jesus had to, after his death on the cross, go up to a tabernacle that I've already told you is not there, and offer in a mercy seat that's not there. To appease God is to say that somehow his death on the cross was insufficient. We have to stop focusing so much on the picture and look at the fulfillment. And what's the repeated message of Hebrews about the sacrifice of Christ? Once for all The Roman Catholic Church says that Jesus is in heaven offering a continual or perpetual atonement for the sins of people. But there's like this great vat of blood up there, and every time someone sins, he pours more blood on the mercy seats. If that is true, then his sacrifice at Calvary was no better than the Levitical priest. That had to be offered again and again and again and again because they were unavailing. But the message of Hebrews says exactly the opposites. His death on the cross, his blood that was shed was once for all. So we need to remember this. Sometimes our desires To understand things we end up negating other things the Bible is very clear of. You see, there's a multitude of pictures that points to Calvary. But there's only one Calvary. What was the result of his atoning work? The end of verse 12 tells us, having obtained eternal redemption for us. Redemption is one of the great theological terms of Scripture, especially as related to our salvation. The great picture of redemption in the Old Testament was the deliverance of Israel from Egypt. In its simplest terms, it means to buy back. It could be used for buying back a piece of property. or a slave in the ancient world, but a more technical definition is that redemption refers to the release of captives by the payment of a ransom. You see, redemption reminds us that we were all at one time slaves to sin. We were in bondage. Redemption is also often equated and connected with the forgiveness of sins. Ephesians 1 7 says, in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. According to the riches of his grace. So our redemption includes within it the idea that we have been forgiven. It also reminds us that our redemption was costly. We cannot purchase our salvation. We cannot earn forgiveness. But we must never think for a moment that it was easy. It was costly. It cost the precious blood of Christ. But our text does not just say that Christ has redeemed us, but he's obtained eternal redemption for us. In Hebrews 5. 9, we read of eternal salvation. In Hebrews 9. 15, which we'll Lord willing see next week, we will see eternal inheritance. But here in verse 12, we read of eternal redemption. This term is intended to be a contrast with the repeated ceremonies of the Day of Atonement. That offered some sense of forgiveness, but only for one year. Next year on this day, the high priest will be back in there making some atonement for the people. There was an expiration date, if you will. on this symbolic atonement. But when Christ died There was no expiration date. It was not good for a year or two or a century or two. It was good for eternity. Eternal redemption. Because Christ's death on the cross was once for all. And that's why Hebrew says that after he had purged us or cleansed us, he sat down. Because his work was done. It was finished. It was completed. There's nothing that you and I, who are his children, can add to it We are the recipients of eternal redemption You see, Christ is indeed a better priest. He ministers not in the tabernacle, but in heaven. And he sheds not the blood of animals, but his own blood. And he has obtained eternal redemption, not some temporary reprieve from God's holy judgment And that brings us now to our second point in verses 13 and 14. Jesus has obtained eternal redemption for us because he has offered a superior sacrifice. Look with me at these wonderful verses. For the blood of bulls and of goats, and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling the unclean sanctifieth to the purifying of the flesh. How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God? You can probably see that these verses argue from lesser to greater. If this is true, then this is certainly true. Now, verse 13 makes the concession that these Old Testament sacrifices did in some way offer cleansing for the people. But let's carefully define that. The answer is that these Old Testament rituals provided ceremonial cleansing for those who were ceremonially unclean. This is a little difficult for us to fully understand because it's not really a concept so much in our culture. But in much of the ancient world things were deemed clean or unclean. And by touching something that was unclean, then you would become unclean. This was not only true in the Jewish world, it was true throughout the ancient Near East. This is a reference to purification ceremonies that we find in Numbers chapter 19. I'm not going to have you turn there, but it gives examples like this. of a person who would touch a dead corpse, that person would be ceremonially unclean for seven days. They could not go to the tabernacle. They could not offer sacrifice there. They had to go through the cleansing ritual and wait for seven days before they could come before God at the tabernacle. And the idea was that only those who were clean could worship God And it was when they were then ceremonially clean that fellowship was restored with God. And so these ancient rituals helped people to understand the holiness of God and the sinfulness of man. And the need for cleansing to come into the presence of God. And this model enabled people To have restored fellowship with God. So when verse 13 speaks of the purifying of the flesh, it's referring to the ceremonial cleansing of the body. The point being that this was all an external cleansing. If you've been with us in a study of Hebrews, you know that this is a contrast the author makes again and again. The old covenant rituals were external. But the new covenant is all about the internal, the changing of the hearts. And that's where the author is going once more here. These rituals, which had their point and had their purpose, and produced some benefits were but symbolic, but they could not really touch the heart of the individual So we come to verse 14 now. How much more shall the blood of Christ Who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. His argument is here is even if these Old Testament rituals and Old Testament sacrifices that often involved the use of animal blood, if they could produce Some type of cleansing that would enable a person to come into the presence of God in a limited way, how much more will the blood of Christ enable us to come before the Father? So I want you to notice, first of all, the superior qualifications of the sacrifice that Jesus offered. In verse 14, there are four that are given. The first one is that the blood used in our purification is the blood of Christ or the blood of the Messiah, the chosen one of God. Have you noticed how often the term blood is used in the second half of this chapter? I have it marked in my Bible, so it stands out. In verse 12, we have two references to blood. We have another one in verse 13, another in verse 14. We have one in verse 18, another in verse 19, another in verse 20, another in verse 21 Two and verse twenty two And another one in verse 25. This chapter is full of blood. And so now I want to give an explanation that I've given before about what are we to understand when we encounter in our New Testaments a reference to the blood of Christ. What does that mean? What does God intend for us to take from that? So in Leviticus chapter 17 and verse 11 We have a famous verse that says, the life of the flesh is in the blood. And because of that reference, some have understood The term blood to be symbolic of life. And what that verse is saying, of course, is not so much about the blood that's outside of a body. with the blood that's inside of a body because we all know that if you lose blood, you will what? You will die if you lose enough blood But the vast majority of conservative New Testament scholars would say that blood is used in Scripture not as a symbol of life, but as a symbol of death. And this is seen throughout Scripture, including here in Hebrews, in Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 4, he says, you have not yet strived unto blood. What does that mean? He's saying to the people there, no one in your community has died for the faith. Blood is a symbol there for death. So let me just say this outright. The numerous references to the blood of Christ in the New Testament are not suggesting that there is something magical about the composition of his blood. Nor is it suggesting that there is somehow a container of blood up in heaven. The phrase the blood of Christ functions exactly like the phrase the cross of Christ. When we talk about the cross of Christ, are we talking about that piece of wood? When we read or we sing about the cross of Christ No. I hope you realize that. It's just a piece of wood. What we're talking about is what Christ accomplished on that piece of wood. And so both the cross of Christ and the blood of Christ depict in a powerful way the brutal death of Christ that was necessary for our redemption. You see, blood that is shed in murder is a disturbing evidence that a life has been taken. When there is a murder and there is a large shedding of blood, one of the first things they do Is they'll have the fire department come and wash that blood away. Because it's disturbing for people to see on the street this pool of blood. It's disturbing. The term blood in Hebrew is the word dom and in plural it's damim. Literally blood, which sounds strange to us in English. Whenever it's used in its plural form, it's referring to blood that has been shed as the result of violence. For instance, in Genesis chapter 4 and verse 10, we read, Thy brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground. Literally, his bloods are crying to me. His blood that was shed, indicating murder. In Psalm 51 and verse 14, that great penitential psalm, David says, it says in the King James Version, deliver me from blood guiltiness. Literally in Hebrew, it's deliver me from bloods. Deliver me from the guilt, he's saying, of the blood that I shed in Uriah the Hittite, who I had go to the front of the line so that he would be murdered, so that I could take his wife. He was filled with guilt over the shedding of blood. 203 times in the Old Testament, the word blood is used to convey the fact of death by violence. And so when we read in our New Testaments again and again, especially in the epistles of the blood of Christ, it's reminding us that Jesus was not killed in a humane way. His scalp was pierced by a crown of thorns, and this undoubtedly produced much blood. He was flogged by a whip that was intended to coat open the flesh. We know that some prisoners did not even endure this, but they perished because of the loss of blood. And at the cross, spikes were driven into his wrist and ankles. Which would cause a great loss of blood. The blood of Christ, and that expression points to the horrible violence in his death. And the incredible cost for our salvation. The blood of Christ is the concise and powerful way of referring to Christ's substitutionary death. on the cross. And that's how our hymn writers use it. That's how preachers have used it. That's how the New Testament writers are employing this term. Now, the second evidence of Jesus' superior sacrifice is that it was accomplished through the eternal spirit. But who is the eternal spirit? Although there's some debate about the meaning. Most scholars conclude that this is a unique title for the Holy Spirit that's found only here. The fact is that the Holy Spirit strengthened Jesus. And it points to the fact that all three persons of the Godhead were involved in our redemption. But there's a third evidence of Jesus' superior sacrifice found here in verse 14. It says that he offered himself. You see, Jesus was not a passive victim of the cross. He was not like the bulls and the goats who were slaughtered for sacrifice. Who were ignorantly led to their deaths, not knowing what was coming next. No, Jesus knew what was coming. It was prophesied in the Old Testament. He knew that his hour would come. And he was actively obedient at the cross. He voluntarily laid down his life. Remember when Judas and the soldiers came to arrest him in the garden, he didn't run and hide, no, he marched to them In Isaiah 50, we read that the Messiah would give his back to the smiters, his cheeks to those who plucked out his beard, and he hid not his face from shame and spitting. Jesus could have called 10,000 angels and easily avoided this degrading depth, but he did not. He was obedient unto death. He knew the horrors of hell that he would face at the cross, and yet he was perfectly obedient to the will of his Father. And fourthly, we see the superiority of the sacrifice in that it was offered without spots. The Old Testament lambs and animals were to be without spot, and certainly some of them probably technically were, but if you were to examine them very carefully. You would find a little spot here and there. There simply were not enough spotless lambs for all the need of sacrifices. And so they said that 's good enough. And of course, all of this requirement was symbolic of our Savior 's sinlessness. This truth is emphasized in Hebrews. Hebrews 4. 15 says that he was tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Hebrews chapter 7 and verse 26 says, For such a high priest became us who was holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and made higher than the heavens. And now we read here in Hebrews 9. 14 that Jesus was the fulfillment of all those spotless sacrifices over many centuries. He is indeed the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. But when we speak of Jesus' sinlessness, we must not just think of it in negative terms. That is, just that he did not sin. No. It means that Jesus was the only human being who positively obey the commandments, the great commandments like loving God with all his heart, soul, and mind. For all of his life that was true. And for all of those like he loved his neighbor as himself, how powerfully that's depicted, even the way he dealt with Judas, who was his betrayer at his death. Jesus was indeed a superior sacrifice It was by his own blood accomplished through the eternal spirit, voluntarily offered by the only perfect human being who ever lived. And because of that superior sacrifice, we have these superior results. Look at the last phrase in verse 14. Because of this, he's able to purge or cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. Once again, it's a reminder that the Old Testament rituals may have cleansed a person externally and ceremonially, but the blood of Christ cleanses us internally. There's a reference earlier in this chapter to the conscience. In chapter 9 in verse 9, it says, which was a figure for the time then present in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices that could not make him that did the service perfect as pertaining to the conscience But because of Christ's death, our conscience can be right with God. We're no longer people who have to live with a troubled conscience. We're not like the Old Testament saints who had to wonder if they'd offered enough sacrifices If the atonement on the Day of Atonement was truly sufficient for what they had done. Because Jesus offered himself and his sacrifice was once for all. Indeed, his blood can make the violas clean. His blood availed for me But what are these dead works that we have been cleansed from? We've seen this expression before in chapter 6 and verse 1. It says that we have repentance from dead works. These works are dead in the sense that they result in death. Dead works are a reference to the sinful actions, thoughts. and affections that lead to death, both physical and spiritual. This is true of every lost person because the wages of sin is death. But we have this contrast, this beautiful contrast. We have a reference to death, but then we have that we have been purged to serve the living gods. You notice it doesn't say To live your life however you want. It doesn't say so that you have fire insurance now, you won't go to hell, but you can live just like every lost person around you. No, the death of Christ is to change everything in our lives. We are to devote our lives to serving the true and living God 's. Everything is difference. Because we have been bought with the price. And we have a new view of life, a new purpose. A new mission. But now I must quickly turn to application. The first application I want to make from these verses we've considered this morning is that Christians should not live perpetually way down With a sense of guilt. If you are a believer, all of your sins, past, present, and future, have been forgiven by the atoning work of Christ. That once for all sacrifice covers it all. It's so good, it's hard for us sometimes to believe it It is true that Christians still feel guilt for our sins. In fact, we often feel more guilty than perhaps lost people because we have the Holy Spirit living within us. Reminding us. But what we must not do is allow our guilt to drive us away from God When we feel guilty, it should drive us to God. And repentance and confession. And it's not that as we repent and confess now. Our salvation is no longer in question. We are born again, again. No, it's sort of like when a child transgresses And does something wrong clearly to their parents, disobeys them. Is that child still their child? Absolutely. But the relationship's constrained. In fact, often when people feel guilty, what do they do? They keep distance from the person But when we feel guilty as believers, we sh must not run from God. We must run to God. And we need to confess our sins and ask him to give us that sense of cleansing again. And that fellowship is restored. You see Christians who are out of fellowship with God, who have that lingering sense of guilt and never restore it because they feel like I've really messed up and God could never forgive me in every They tend to be the most miserable people in the world. Because lost people, because they don't have the Holy Spirit living within them, convicting their heart. They can live to some degree and enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. But if you're a believer, you can't really enjoy living in sin. Because the Holy Spirit, it dwells in your heart, will be crying out, unclean, you have been bought with a price. And so don't be that miserable person who feels like they're living perpetually in God's doghouse. You need to come to him. You need to keep short accounts with God. You need to walk in fellowship with him every day with a clear conscience. What a blessing it is to have a conscience that is clear, that is not weighed down with a sense of defilement and guilt. That's what we can have through the atoning work of Christ. That is what every believer should enjoy. But I fear that many do not because they have some confusion in their mind and they believe some lies Sometimes people think it's godly to live with a crippling sense of guilt and to walk around miserable, and they think that somehow they're atoning for their sin. No! You can't atone for your sin by punishing yourself. Christ took all of your punishment on the cross. That doesn't mean that you shouldn't at times mourn for your sin or weep for your sin in repentance. Or if you're miserable for a time that you failed God in a certain way, but it must not be the way you live your life. You must be restored to fellowship. And remember the cross. And remember that Christ's blood was shed for you. And that that shed blood means that the wrath of God is no longer lingering on you. It's been appeased. It's been satisfied. This is what God wants for his people. He wants us to live lives of open access to him and fellowship with him every day. Because our sense Have been forgiven. We have all these wonderful Old Testament pictures. As far as the East is from the West, so far has he removed our transgressions from us. It talks about him casting our sins behind his back or burying him in the depths of the deepest sea. Talks about him remembering them no more and blotting them out. It speaks in Colossians of him nailing it to the cross. All of these are vivid pictures to remind us and convince us that our sins truly have been forgiven. They're under the blood. And therefore we don't live our lives saying, I just really don't measure up. I'm not like some of those other Christians, you know, I'm just kind of third rate and I don't know. God's probably like not very disappointed that he saved me. He knew every sin that you would ever commit when he redeemed you. And he did it anyway. You must not think that way. You must find your joy in the forgiveness of your sins. But I want to make the second application. Christians should live for the worship and service of God. Hebrews 9. 14 states that Christians are saved for this purpose To serve the living God, that is the God who truly exists. Not some pagan idol, not some concept of man, but the living God. Who is the creator of the universe, the great I am. That is the God that we must serve. The word serve here is a specific Greek word that refers to priestly service. You see, this is the idea. Because of Christ's great high-priestly work for us, we are now people who are all a priest before God. We are priests before God. That's, by the way, one reason why we don't have to go to an earthly priest. Because we're all priests Every priest is a every believer is a priest, and we've been called to live a lifestyle of worship and service. In fact, a form of this word serve is used in that famous text that So many of you know Romans chapter twelve, one and two. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God that you present your bodies, a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto him, which is your reasonable service or your spiritual service of worship. It's a word there that speaks of priestly service. Our lives are to be a living sacrifice because Christ made a sacrifice for us. You see the parallels? Because he is our great high priest who has made atonement, we are now priests before God. What does that look like? What does it look like to serve the living and true God? Turn with me ahead in this book. To chapter twelve, verse twenty-eight, the conclusion Of this wonderful chapter which we will come to in the Lord's timing. Hebrews 12, verse 28. It says, Wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace whereby we may Here we go. Serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear, for our God is a consuming fire. John chapter 13. He's going to explain what that looks like. And I'm going to do this very, very quickly because I've got to preach this someday and I don't want to use up all my ideas. Look at the first thing. Let brotherly love continue. You know what a life of service to God looks like? It means that we love our brothers and sisters in Christ. What else does it mean? Verse 2, be not forgetful to entertain strangers, for some have entertained angels unawares. We'll get to that. It's talking about hospitality. It's talking, verse 3, remember them that are in bonds. It's talking there about having compassion. Look at verse 4. What's it mean to live a life of service to God? It means a life of purity. Number five, what uh uh verse five, what does it mean? It means to live a life of contentment instead of coveting, instead of saying, Oh, I wish I had that, I wish I had this, I wish I had this, I wish I had this kind of a life I wish I had this kind of a marriage. I wish I had this kind of a house No one said you are content because you have the greatest treasure a person can possess, God Himself. It means that you don't live a life of fear, but a life of boldness. This is what it's going to say in verses 6 and 7 and 8. What else does it mean? Look at verse 15. It means that we live a life of praise. By him, therefore, let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually, but is the fruit of our lips giving thanks to his name. We don't walk around saying my life is so difficult and hard. No, we walk around saying God has been so good to me And we offer a praise to him. That's our sacrifice, just like the priests who offered sacrifices. He goes on to say throughout this book, throughout this chapter, that it's a life of obedience, not of grudging obedience, but glad obedience. I get to serve my God. I get to live for Christ. And finally, the blessings of eternal redemption are not for those are only for those, excuse me, who are trusting in Christ as their only hope of redemption. Can you claim the blessings of eternal eternal redemption. We talk about all these advantages, all these blessings in the new covenant, but they're only for those who are trusting in Christ alone. I meet a lot of people who agree that Jesus died on the cross, but they also think that they must earn their redemption as well. That's the way fallen people naturally think. We don't want to be dependent on anyone. We want to do it all ourselves. And the common delusion is that if we try really hard and do our best, that God will see that we had a difficult circumstance in life and we did our very best. Finally, He's going to let us into heaven. That's true that everything in the book of Hebrews is unnecessary and superfluous. It would mean that we could be our own Savior and not need one. But that of course is false. We could never offer a sacrifice through our own lives that would be pleasant. Pleasing to God. The Bible says that all of our righteousnesses, that is all of our self-righteous acts, are filthy rags in his sight. He is angered when we say, look how good I did. Look, look, isn't that good enough to save me? No. You must either trust in Christ. Or perish forever. Because everyone will either enjoy eternal redemption that's mentioned here, or experience eternal damnation. There is no other destiny. So I urge you to trust in Christ, to seek Christ, to rest in Christ alone. He is. the only Savior, the only sacrifice for sinful people like us. May you trust in him today. Father, thank you for these wonderful words that we considered this morning. Thank you for giving us a great Savior. Thank you that He is Our great high priest, who's offered a superior sacrifice that enables flawed, sinful, wicked people like us , To come before your holy presence and to find forgiveness and to live for your glory. To serve you, the true and living God. What a privilege. What a blessing. What a great Savior you have provided for us. Help us, Father, today to rejoice in this. And to find comfort in this. And Father, for those who are not your children, who have never come to repent and believe the gospel, I pray that today would be their day of salvation. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen.