The easiest way to find that book, if you don't know your books of the Bible, is to turn to Matthew and back up about 20 pages. And you will be a naham. On July the 8th, 1741, Jonathan Edwards preached the most famous sermon in American history. The message that he preached that morning in Enfield, Connecticut was entitled, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God. You probably know that the congregation became so distressed, they began crying out for help in the midst of a sermon. In fact, Edwards did not finish his sermon. I'm going to read a brief selection from this message. He says, there are black clouds of God's wrath now hanging directly over your heads. full of the dreadful storm and big with thunder. And were it not for the restraining hand of God, it would immediately burst forth upon you. The sovereign pleasure of God for the present stays his rough wind. Otherwise it would come with fury, and your destruction would come like a whirlwind, and you would be like chaff of the summer Threshing floor. The language sounds archaic to us, but I fear the theology also sounds out of date to our modern ears. I've got a question for you this morning. Do you believe that God is a God of wrath? I think that most people do not For about a century, the most common message of the church to the world is that God is a God of love. We see bumper stickers that say, smile, God loves you. This is a positive, uplifting, non-controversial message. And you know what? It's biblical. The Bible declares that God is love. The Bible declares that the greatest Christian virtue is love. And the most famous verse in the Bible is John 3. 16, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. But we must not confuse this precious truth with the notion that God is indifferent toward the sin in our lives. We must not make the mistake of thinking that God is like a senile old man who turns a blind eye to the indiscretions of his grandchildren. Our good, our God is good and gracious, but he's not gullible. The same Bible that declares that God is a God of love also declares That he is a God of wrath. As you can tell from my quote from Edwards' day, it was common for preachers to preach about the wrath of God. It is very uncommon today, but it is still found in your Bible. The wrath of God is not a minor theme. It's actually a major doctrine of Scripture. If you were to print out in single space in a ten -point font all the verses in the Bible that deal with wrath. of God, you would have about 15 pages. There are about 580 references to the wrath of God. This is not something that's rare and obscure and you find every once in a while in the Bible. No, it's there page after page after page. The Bible has many different terms for anger or wrath. There are more than twenty in your Bible. Anthropologists, when they study a people, they can find out the importance of something in a culture by the number of synonyms that it has. For instance, the native peoples who live in the Arctic Circle have a plethora of terms for ice and snow in its various stages. Because that's their life. They're always dealing with ice and snow. And people who live on the Arabian Peninsula have a multitude of terms for camels. But we don't because our lifestyle is not based around camels. But in the culture of the Bible There is a great deal said about the wrath of God. Now perhaps you would object to this or you would want to moderate what I'm saying by say, Pastor, just remember this. God loves the sinner, but he hates their sin. I wish I had a dollar for every time someone has given me that advice. And I know why people say it. It sounds really good. It seems to be kind of helping us out of an embarrassing situation. And I think I know what people are trying to say. There's only one problem with it. It's not biblical. You can't separate sin from the sinner. Let me quote some verses to you. Psalm 5, verse 5 says, Thou hatest all workers of iniquity. Psalm 7 verse 11 says, God is angry with the wicked every day. Psalm 11 and verse 5, the Lord trieth the righteous, but the wicked, and him that loveth violence, his soul hateth. And I could turn to other references as well. You see, the Bible doesn't say, now God loves you, but he can't stand that sin in your life. Because sin does not exist outside of the human heart. Have you ever realized that? We don't see sin like floating around in the air. There goes some sin. No, sin is found only here. And you can't really separate the sinner from his sin. It's a part of the very fabric of his person. This doctrine is essential when you consider the other attributes of God. Since God is righteous, he cannot take a passive approach to wickedness. Since God is just, he cannot excuse sinners. Since God is holy, he cannot tolerate that which is not holy. But did you know that the wrath of God is also linked to the love of God? Where there is real love, there will also be real anger. Isn't this true in your human experience? If some stranger came up and began to beat and abuse your small child, you would not respond with passive indifference. Because you love that child, there would be a reaction of anger and wrath and perhaps even vengeance. And you wouldn't say to them, you know, I love you, but I hate your sin. They would think that you were really angry with them personally. You see, since God is a God of love, he must also be a God of wrath. We live in such a soft and sentimental age that I suspect that most Christians are kind of embarrassed. with this aspect of God's character. We secretly wish that God was more was different, that he was more tolerant. After all, we are constantly being told that the greatest virtue is tolerance. But we should not allow the spirit of the age to distort our view of God's perfections. It is because we have such a superficial view of sin that this doctrine disturbs us. But our glorious God is perfect in every virtue. This is nowhere more apparent than the opening paragraph of Nahum's prophecy I hope that you have turned there already. We're looking at the opening paragraph of this little book. It is probably a hymn of praise. In this psalm, God is revealed as a majestic warrior about to destroy arrogant Assyria. They were a violent, idolatrous people, and they often attacked God's people. I know of no single passage of Scripture that has more explicit references to the attributes of God, perhaps other than in Exodus 34, where many of his attributes are listed. Just notice this in verse 2 we find that he is jealous. And in verse 3, we find that he is patient and slow to anger, and we read that God is just, he will not acquit the wicked. We read of his omnipotence. He hath his way in the whirlwind and the storm and the clouds or the dust of his feet. In verse 7, we read that God is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble. But most of this paragraph is taken up with describing for us the wrath of God. Now let me give you just a very little bit of background about this prophet Nahum. It's not one of the famous books of the Bible The name Naum means comfort or consolation. The prophet is comforting God's people with the fact that God will judge those who have oppressed them. The prophet is predicting that God's coming judgment will come upon Syria. Now the capital of Assyria was Nineveh. We read about that in verse 1. It says, the burden of Nineveh. When we think of Nineveh, we immediately think of Jonah. Over a hundred years earlier, the prophet Jonah came with the message of judgment for this wicked people. And amazingly, these pagan people repented of their sin, and God's hand of judgment was stayed. But that generation died long ago, and the following generations return to their pagan idolatry and violence. And now God sends a message of coming judgment, but this time there would be no repentance. About 15 years after this prophecy was written Nineveh was destroyed by the Babylonians in 612 BC. The danger of providing historical information is that when we come to view Passages like this is nothing more than ancient history, but that is not the case. If you are here this morning without Christ, God's wrath will come upon you with the same intensity. But it came upon these ancient sinners. The wrath of God should compel sinners to seek the Savior. Let me show you first of all the execution of God's wrath is certain. Look with me at verse 2. God is jealous. And the Lord revengeth, the Lord revengeth and is furious. The Lord will take vengeance on his adversaries, and he reserveth wrath for his enemies. Two reasons are given in this verse for the certainty of God's judgment. Number one, because of who God is. God is described here as jealous. Now that may strike you as odd because we always tend to think of jealousy as a negative trait. However, this is not a petty or paranoid emotion. The Bible reveals that God is jealous primarily over three things. He's jealous for his glory. He says, my glory I will not share with another. He is jealous for his word. And thirdly, he is jealous for his people. Why does God not allow his people to worship other gods, to be involved in idolatry? The same reason that husbands are jealous for their wives. Because their relationship of love requires commitment and exclusive devotion. Three times in verse 2, God is described as an avenger. From our perspective, it seems that people generally get away with sin. They sin day after day, hour after hour, and nothing bad seems to happen to them. But I want you to know that God has not changed. He is still an avenger. He still will not acquit the wicked. But there's another reason given in our text that God's wrath will certainly be executed, and that is because of who man is It says here in this text, he reserveth wrath for his enemies. The residents of Nineveh were the enemies of God. Throughout this book, their sin is recorded. They were known for their brutality. They were known of all the ancient peoples of the world to be the most brutal. They came in to the people they conquered. And their idea was is we will brutalize these people and torture them to such a degree that the next town over will not resist our attempts to conquer them. They will open wide their gates because the word will spread of the inhuman things that we have done to these people. That's how they were known in the ancient Middle East. They were a violent people. They were known for their arrogance and their pride. They were very proud of their civilization, of their military might and prowess And they were immoral. This was all part of their pagan idolatrous worship. And therefore God's wrath was reserved for them. Now perhaps you're here this morning and you would say, well, I don't have to worry about that. You know, I haven't killed anybody lately. I'm not an immoral person. I have not earned God's wrath, but I want you to know that if you are not found in Christ , then God's wrath is reserved for you, just as it was for the ancient residents of Nineveh. John 3, 36. says, the wrath of God abideth on you. And that is in such a tense that speaks of it as a present reality. We love that chapter for John 3. 16. But in that same chapter of Scripture, we also read of the wrath of God. as it were hovering over sinners, abiding upon them, as something that is about to come upon them. The wrath of God, the scripture teaches, in both the Old and New Testaments, is certain. But secondly, I want you to notice in verse 3 that the execution of God's wrath is controlled. In verse 3, the prophet is quick to qualify what he has said, lest the reader get the wrong impression and thinks that God is somehow out of control, that he has like anger issues. That he's arbitrary, that maybe he's a being that always has is in a bad mood, but that's not the case at all. He says this, the Lord is slow to anger. We have two factors found here that explain why God's judgment does not rain down on the ungodly immediately. The first factor given in our text is that God is patient. The Lord is slow to anger. In the Hebrew text, this literally reads, he is long of nostrils. Sounds strange to us. Linguists think that This imagery came to be because when people are enraged, they often flare their nostrils. And so the ancient people made this connection that maybe a person who has a really long nose, they also have a really long fuse. But we read here that God is a patient God. The Bible reveals again and again in the Old and New Testaments that God is long suffering. He does not bring judgment quickly He doesn't fly off the handle. His rage is controlled. He doesn't have bad days. This is why God did not instantly strike down these Assyrians. He gave them a century to repent, and now we know that he was going to give them another decade to repent of their sin. God is patient with sinners. One reason for this, of course, is obvious, and that is because he wants them to have time to repent. But our text provides another reason why he is slow to anger. And that's in the next phrase. He is great in power. He's all-powerful. We have this term. He is omnipotence. Do you believe that? I think there are a lot of people today who don't think that's true. But the Bible who reveals himself in Scripture, the God who reveals himself in the pages of this book is an omnipotent God. There is nothing too hard for him. So what's the connection between God's patience and God's power? The answer is this For people who have limited power and they are in a contest with someone else, they feel like they have to act quickly lest their adversary get the upper hand on them We see this in sporting events where one team going up against another team and the announcer will say they need to finish them off. Because if they let this team hang around at the end of the game, they may rally and they may defeat them. They've got to finish them off. They've got to put this contest out of doubt. They have to have such a lead that it's very clear that there's no way this other team can win. And in the ancient world, when one army would go up against another army, they didn't pace themselves. They put everything they into it because if they were to relax and somehow draw back, the other opponent that they're fighting, the other army may gain some momentum and gain insulation inspiration and think they have the enemy on the run and they may come and defeat them. And so we have expressions like, you've got to go for the jugular or you've got to finish them off. Because people, when they have limited power, they know you can't take your opponent for granted. But God is omnipotent. He can be as patient with sinners as he wants, because they're not going to ever defeat his purposes. They're not going to be able to gain enough confidence that in some way they can muster up enough might to really defeat him so he can be patient because he is the omnipotent God of the universe. And therefore, God is long suffering. It is a reflection both of his mercy and his might. The problem is that sinners invariably misinterpret the patience and the power of God. And they think, well, God must not be bothered by my sin. God must not be concerned that I'm living an immoral lifestyle. God must not care that I don't worship Him, that I don't serve Him. I guess all those things that I heard from preachers over the years were simply not true because it has not worked out in my experience. This is why people can live wicked lives and can come to church and they're perfectly comfortable They don't have a sense of being out of place or that they're in the presence of God because things are going pretty well for them. God has not rained his judgment upon them. They have not been struck down in the act of sin. They go day after day, month after month, year after year living in sin, and they see no repercussions from it. And so they interpret the goodness of God, the patience of God as the indifference of God to their sin. This is why people in the world can sin with a high hand, where they can live openly wicked lives, and they have no sense of a troubled conscience. Because they think that God is somehow asleep and unconcerned about their sin. But our text says here that he will not at all acquit the wicked. He will not excuse their sin. No one is getting away with anything. God has not forgotten. He will not excuse them. In fact, God's wrath is building up upon them. That may be something you've never thought about before. Let me again quote from Jonathan Edwards' famous sermon. He said, the wrath of God is like great waters that are damned for the present. They increase. more and more and rise higher and higher till an outlet is given, and the longer the stream is stopped, the more rapid and mighty is its course when once it is let loose. Do you believe that? You see, it's not A real wonderful thing that God doesn't send judgment right away in some respects. God tends to with his children to get their attention pretty quickly. This is what Hebrews 12 tells us. That he chastens his children. He doesn't let them stray too far before he gets their attention and says, hey, hey, you've got to come back to me. But for those who who live wickedly year after year It means that God's wrath, God's judgment is a crewing interest, you might say. And it will come and sweep them away. You might be here this morning, and you might think that God doesn't care about your pornography because nothing bad has been happening in your life, but it's not so. You may assume that God's not really concerned about your foul language at work or your deception or your theft. But God knows all about it, and he will not acquit the wicked. You may think that your bitterness towards others is no big deal, but you would be wrong. You may assume that because no disaster has occurred in recent years, that God doesn't care, but that would be to misinterpret his patience with sinners. God 's righteous judgment is often like the calm before the storm. And unless you repent, it will sweep you away. God 's judgment is certain. God's wrath is controlled I want you to notice that the execution, thirdly, of God's wrath is catastrophic. We have in the last part of verse 3 going all the way down to verse 6. a poetic description of God's judgment coming upon the Assyrians. And he is going to use many different pictures. Taken from nature to describe the wrath of God descending upon his enemies. First of all, God's Wrath is compared to a storm. He says, the Lord hath his way in the whirlwind and in the storm. We know what a whirlwind is. We usually use a term tornado for that. Or on a larger scale, a hurricane. Do you like severe thunderstorms? I find that people have one of two reactions to severe thunderstorms. Either they run and hide or they go to look more closely. I'm of the latter sort. I like a good thunderstorm. I like to go out and look at it. And look at how intense it is. You can ask my family about this. If I lived in a different part of the country, I might be one of those people who goes around and chases tornadoes. I find them fascinating to see the power of God on display. And that's the picture here. But I want you to know that judgment of God is not cool or fun, it's terrifying. When the Lord comes to judge sinners, he will come like a great storm, and there will be nowhere to hide. Secondly, God's presence is compared to a cloud of dust. Look with me at the last phrase in verse 3. And the clouds are the dust of his feet. Now what does that mean? That doesn't connect with our culture. But the thinking is this, the imagery is this, and the ancient world. And in the culture for which this was written, they were living in the Middle East, which has a much drier climate than we do. It 'll get nearly the rainfall that we receive. And so there's a lot more dust. They also lived in a place there where there was much more flat land. You go over to Israel, places like that, you can see for many, many miles, just like you can out west in many places. And so if you were standing and you saw off in the great distance a great cloud of dust It could be a sandstorm, or it could be an invading army. that was coming in with their chariots and was marching with thousands and thousands of men, and they were stirring up this great cloud of dust And that sight would strike terror into the hearts of people because devastation and destruction was coming. It was only a matter of time before that invading army would be here. And that is the background of this imagery. God 's judgment is coming. Thirdly, we see that God's presence is pictured as drying up the waters. In verse 4, he rebuketh the sea and maketh it dry and drieth up all the rivers. The great fear of people in the ancient Near East was of droughts because that killed more people than probably anything else when there was drought, there was famine, there was no water, there was no food. And so the prophet uses this as a picture of God's coming judgment. And then we see that the heat of God's anger is pictured as drying up all vegetation. Look at the end of verse 4. He drieth up all the rivers of Bashin and languisheth in caramel and the flower of Lebanon. This is probably a reference to a seasonal wind that takes place in that part of the world known as a Siraco. It 's very similar to the Santa Ana winds that they have in Southern California that often come at certain seasons of the year and bring wildfires. It just dries up all the vegetation so it's like kindling and the least little spark will start a blazing fire. And this is the picture here that they were ripe for the judgment of God. In verse 5, we see God's wrath compared to a volcano. The mountains quake at him, and the hills melt, and the earth is burned at his presence. Yea, the world and all that dwell therein. Volcanoes, of course, often produce earthquakes. And when the lava flows, it seems as if the hills are melting and it burns up everything in its path. This is the picture here of the whole world trembling and recoiling from the holy presence of God. In verse 6, the prophet asks a rhetorical question, which serves as really a summary of this paragraph, who can stand before his indignation? That is a timeless question. After using this terrifying imagery. The prophet says essentially, can you stand before his wrath? Can you withstand his judgments upon sinners? And that is a question that the reader is supposed to answer for himself. Can I withstand his wrath? The answer, of course, is no, you cannot. No one can stand before his wrath. But there is good news We come now to verse 7, and we find here that the only escape from God's wrath is found in Christ. He says, the Lord is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble, and he knoweth them that trust in him. After one picture of God's wrath after another, the prophet reminds his reader that God is good. We must never forget that. We must hold these things together. God is a God of judgment, a God of wrath, a God of justice. Yes, but He's also a God of mercy, a God of love. He is a good God. And all of these things are true of him. So if God is such a good God, why does he come to judge? Because he judges those who are not good. He judges those who are wicked, those who rebel against him, those who fight against him. So what is our only hope? Our only hope is to run to God's. You can't run from Him. You can't hide from Him. You can't battle against him. That is nonsense. You must run to God. You must find your refuge in him. and in the Son that He has provided for sinners. The real answer, of course, is found in our New Testaments. He mentions here the Lord is a stronghold in the day of trouble, the day of judgment. A stronghold is a place of refuge. The only way to flee from the wrath to come is to flee to the one who's already taken God's righteous wrath upon him. Sometimes people think that the Old Testament God is filled with wrath, but in the New Testament He's a God of love. That's a false dichotomy. The God of the Old Testament is also a God of love, and the God in the New Testament is, of course, also a God of wrath. The very first preacher in the New Testament was John the Baptist, and his message could be summarized this way, flee from the wrath to come. Matthew chapter 3 and verse 7. And Jesus said on several occasions, fear not him that hath the power to take your life, but fear him that hath power to cast you into hell. I mentioned to you earlier in the message John 3. 36. I want to read this verse to you. I know that many of you know it by heart, but let me remind you of it. John 3. 36 says, He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life, and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth in the world. I feel certain there are people right now under the sound of my voice who are under the wrath of God. If you were to die this instant, you would experience God 's wrath in a place called hell. But there is good news, there is hope for sinful people like us. One of the most complete explanations of the gospel is found in the book of Romans. And that book of Romans in chapter 1 and verse 18, it begins with these words, for the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. It says in Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. It says that we are all guilty, every single one of us. But God has made provision for wicked, sinful people like us. And one of the most important verses in the Bible is found in Romans chapter 3 and verse 25. You're welcome to turn there if you would like. I'm going to read this for you. It says in verse 24, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood To declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance of God. To declare, I say at this time, his righteousness that he might be just and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus. We don't use the word propitiation very much. The word propitiation means that Jesus Christ satisfied the just wrath of God at the cross. He absorbed that wrath. He drank of that bitter cup. He took upon him the punishment that we have earned through our sinful actions. This is the only way to flee from the wrath of God. We have to take refuge by faith in Him. We often read in the Old Testament about fleeing to the rock to hide you. In the Middle East, they don't have a lot of trees. And you could be out on a flat plain and there might be a mighty storm that would come up. Where would you go for shelter? Well, they don't have many trees, but they have a lot of rocks. And you would go and you would hide in the cleft of a rock. You would find a place of refuge there. And so this became a picture that's used throughout Scripture. Of finding shelter from the storm of God's judgment. This is the only way that we can escape the wrath of God. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says, For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. God does not excuse our sin. He does not say, all right, your sin wasn't that serious, I'll let you go on. No, he judges our sin in Christ. He judged our sin at the cross. But how do you enter this refuge of Christ? How do you escape from the wrath to come? The Bible puts this in several different ways, all connected one to the other. We just read in Nahum that God's wrath is reserved for his enemies. So I could very well put it this way. to stop being an enemy of God. You have to stop resisting his will and fighting against them and seeking to live life on your own terms. You have to turn and switch sides. You have to repent of your sin. The word repentance speaks of walking in one direction and then turning around and facing the other direction and following a different path. And of course, what goes and coincides with that change of mind that is repentance is a heart that not only turns from sin, but turns to God in faith. And trust in Christ alone as your only provision of salvation. You must repent and believe. You must trust entirely in Christ alone. Doesn't mean that all of a sudden you say, all right, I'll try to be a better person. I'll try to control my besetting sin a little bit more. Try not to be so angry all the time. I'll try not to be bitter. I'll try not to swear all the time. I'll try not to do whatever. Try to be more moral. That's not what the gospel is about. Because your good deeds will never be enough, and they will never be able to atone for all the sins you've committed in the past. Even if you have a perfect record for here on out, you still haven't made provision for what's happened before today. No, you must rely entirely on the sacrifice of Christ at the cross. That must be your only hope The idea in Naam 1. 7, it says, the Lord knoweth them that trust in him. The Hebrew word for trust there has the idea of leaning upon something. You have to rely, depend, lean on Christ alone There's a story once of a father who was out west with his son where they would have these huge prairie fires. And they looked off in the distance, and there was a great fire coming their way. In just a few moments' time, it would be where they are. And the father knew that they were in dire straits. And so he quickly and instantly started a fire and began to burn the grasslands around them and the woods around them. And the son said to him , Dad, why are you doing that? And he said, son, this is our only hope. We must go where the fire has already gone. And so it burned a little section for them, and then they went and they hid in those charred remains and the fire went all around them, but it did not burn them because there was no fuel for the fire. We have to hide ourselves in Christ because there the wrath of God has already burned and extinguished itself. That is our only hope. We have to rely on Christ and turn to him alone. We have a wonderful old hymn in our hymn book that speaks to what I've been preaching about this morning, Rock of Ages. cleft for me. Let me hide myself in thee. Let the water and the blood from thy ribbon side which flowed be of sin the double cure. Save from wrath. And make me pure. If you're here today and you are without Christ, the wrath of God is right now abiding on you. You must flee to the rock. You must flee to Christ. You must find your refuge in him, in him alone. And we invite you to call on him today. Today is the day of salvation. Let's pray. Father. It's a fearful thing to consider your wrath It's something that we seek to put out of our minds and to ignore. But we do so at our own peril. I pray that you would use the words that have been spoken today to draw someone, perhaps several people to the Savior. That they would stop playing games , they would stop thinking that they can live life on their own terms, that they can sin on without any repercussions. I pray, Lord, that they would see the plain teaching of your word that we've considered today is that the wrath of God will come. It is certain. And unless they hide themselves in Christ, they will perish eternally. And so I pray, Father, that they would seek the Lord while he may be found. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.