If you have your Bibles, please, would you join me in 1 Peter chapter 3 as we continue our study of this precious book? First Peter chapter three. Years ago, Chicago Cubs outfielder Andre Dawson was fined a thousand dollars by the league office for disputing a strike call by umpire Joe West. But Dawson got his revenge. On the memo line of his check, he wrote, Donation for the blind There's something in our fallen nature that enjoys the spectacle of revenge. Isn't that right? How many movies are put out where there is a victim who somehow in the movie at the end gets revenge? There are many, many movies like this because Hollywood knows that that resonates with the hearts of people. There's something inside of us that is deeply satisfied when someone gets what they've been giving to others back to them Of course, the Bible does teach justice, and there is very much a sense in which that desire is natural and is a reflection of God because God is a just God. He is a righteous being, and we, being made in his image, have a sense that things should be just But our fallen nature takes what is beautiful and right and twists it into a selfish desire for revenge. This morning we come to a text in 1 Peter that instructs us how we are to respond to those who mistreat us. Let me remind you where we are in 1 Peter chapter 3, the verse we looked at last Lord's day, Peter addresses how we are to live with one another in the body of Christ. He calls us to compassion and love and pity and courteousness. This is how we are to respond in the church with our brothers and sisters. But how are we to deal with those outside of the Christian community? in the world that is opposed to us and our values. This is what Peter specifically addresses in verses 9 through 12. Let me remind you that Peter was writing to early Christians who were hated by the world. The Jewish believers were ostracized by other Hebrews. They were considered traitors. Because they abandoned the faith of their fathers as it was thought. And so they were sent out of the synagogue in many cases thrown out of families and faced a great deal of difficulties as a result. Gentile believers were regarded by the Greeks and the Romans as a dangerous sect that was unpatriotic. And revolutionary, and people considered them to be disloyal to the Roman Empire. And so whether you were a Jew or whether you were a Gentile, if you were a follower of Christ in the first century, you faced a great deal of opposition. And persecution. And this has been the norm for most of God's people and most places for most of the time. We as 21st century American Christians live in an unusual oasis of freedom and favor. Christianity is part still of our national identity. In fact, most Christians still profess to be most Americans, excuse me, still profess to be Christians, at least in name. But that was not the case with Peter's original audience. And so Peter's instructs them how they are to respond. In fact, that is one of the major themes in the book of First Peter. He was going to really Delve into the details of this in the next chapter in chapter four. How do we live in a world that is hostile to us? And here in these few verses in this little paragraph, he's going to address that same thing. Now I want to expand the application a little bit beyond Peter's original targets. To include those within the body of Christ who mistreat us Now, I don't want you to misunderstand me. There are, of course, times when believers sin against us that we should involve other believers in the dispute. When we should involve the church, Matthew chapter 18 gives us specific instructions about this, and it could result in church discipline. There are circumstances when we should involve the authorities, the police, when actual crimes have been committed. However, most often relational problems do not rise to that level to warrant that kind of solution. So what do we do when we have been misjudged, when others have betrayed our trust, or when people gossip about us in a hurtful way? In some cases, we may need to confront the offender, go to them, as the Bible instructs, in places like Luke chapter 17, verses 3 and 4. But sometimes this will not solve the problem. In fact, it might make it worse. Peter will tell us in chapter 4. A very important admonition quoting from Proverbs, he says that love covers a multitude of sin. And that is that sometimes you're not going to get the response, you're not going to get the adequate apology or confession from those who have wronged us. And when we, by the grace of God, can go on in that relationship, what we need to do is allow our love for them as our brother and sister in Christ to cover that offense. But that's a sermon for another day. I want us to look at how we are to respond graciously. to those who mistreat us. And let me remind you again that this is not only difficult to do, this is impossible to do. apart from the grace of God, apart from the Spirit of God empowering us and doing what is contrary to our natural fleshly inclinations. This is not a sermon of moralism. This is not me again telling you to be nice to one another. This is the word of God that can only be obeyed by people who truly know the Lord and are filled by his spirits. And once again, we see that the New Testament puts an emphasis on our relationships with one another. So often when we think about what a good Christian looks like , We think about somebody who maybe is very devout on a personal level. They have their devotions every day and they read their Bible and they come to church on a regular basis. And they serve the Lord. They're active in ministry. And perhaps they share the gospel and they contribute financially to worthy ministries. And these things are all Good things, do not misunderstand me. But I think we tend to put how we interact with others and our relationships with others at a very low level is that it's not really important that that I'm always at war with my family or with other Christians or other individuals that my life is filled with turmoil. That's not really that important because I'm an upstanding Christian person. The problem is with that thinking is that the Bible says that the primary manifestation of our salvation, if you do it just numerically, is our love for the brethren. And so if we don't love the brothers very well, then we have not followed our Lord's last commandment that he gave to us that we would love one another. And so you see, this is why the New Testament is filled with instructions for us in our relationships with others because they are very significant. And let's just be really practical. How much difficulty do we bring in our lives because of our Friction with others. How much misery, how much grief, how much anxiety, how much fear and difficulty and depression comes into our life because we just can't seem to get along with some people. So you see, this instruction for us is is very relevant and very important for us. Now my message is going to have two main points. A how and a why, as we did in a recent message as well. I want you to notice, first of all, how we should respond to the mistreatment of others. Look with me at verse 9. Peter writes, not rendering evil for evil or railing for railing, but contrawise a blessing, knowing that ye are thereunto called that ye should inherit a blessing. Peter begins by telling us how we should not respond. And he says, first of all, that we should not seek revenge. Against those who have mistreated us. He says, not rendering evil for evil The first term, evil, probably speaks of some physical reaction, some actual attack. And what happens when someone attacks us? We want to respond in kind, except maybe we want to do it a little bit more. If they hit us, we want to hit them a little bit harder. That's the way our flesh naturally responds. And then he goes on to say, or railing for railing. Now let me first of all say, and I'm not going to deal with this at any length, that I do not believe that Peter here is advocating a position sometimes known as pacifism. that would teach that a Christian is never to defend himself physically or in any other way and that nations should not defend themselves and that Christians should not serve in the military. There have been Christians who have held that position for many, many centuries. And they will look to text like verse 9 to substantiate their position. I'm not going to take the time to answer their objections and go to other scriptures, but let me just suffice to say I don't think that's what Peter is saying, and most Christian scholars and most Christian people throughout the centuries have not held to that position. and for good reason. Having said that, I do think that on an individual level, which is in view here, Christians should not seek revenge. And this is a truth that is repeated and taught again and again in Scripture. And it's based And the words of our Lord Jesus Christ. I want you to keep a finger here in 1 Peter, please. Turn with me, if you would, to Matthew chapter 5. Matthew chapter 5. I want to begin reading at verse 38. This is our Lord's Sermon on the Mount. These are familiar words to us. Matthew 5, 38. He says, ye have heard it hath been said, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, but I say unto you that ye resist not evil, but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek Turn to him the other also. And if any man will sue thee at the law and take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also. And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain. Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that would borrow of thee, turn not thou away. Ye have heard it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thy enemy. But I say unto you, love your enemies Bless them that curse you. Do good to them that hate you. Pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. that ye might be the children of your Father which is in heaven, for he maketh his son to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. If you love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same? And if you salute your brethren only, what do you more than others? Do not even the publicans so? Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. Peter The man who is writing the epistle we are studying heard these words firsthand. He was there and he remembered them. And he's passing them on to his first century audience. The Apostle Paul says something very similar to this, giving the same teaching, the same doctrine. You don't need to turn here, but let me read from Romans chapter 12, again familiar words, verse 17. Recompense to no man evil for evil. provide things honest in the sight of all men, if it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men. Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. Therefore, if thy enemy hunger, feed him, if he thirst, give him drink. For in so doing thou shalt keep coals of fire on his head. Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good. You see how consistent the Bible is on this matter. Now let me ask you, let's bring this down to the individual level, to where we live. How do we normally get revenge on people who have wronged us? Do we violently assault them? I don't think so. I think just about everyone would agree that that is wrong and something that we must not do. But I think what we normally do is we use the greatest weapon that we possess, and that is our tongue, to get our revenge. Notice what it says in the next verse, verse 10, for he that will love life and see good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil and his lips from that they speak no guile. Now in verse 9 he says, not rendering railing for railing. This word railing was used in the previous chapter in 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse 23. There it is translated reviled. It says of our Lord Jesus Christ that when he was reviled, he reviled not again. This term refers to abusive or language that is insulting. The Lord did not return the mocking and the insults that he received. He didn't hurl them back at his accusers, at those soldiers who mocked him, or at the crowd. who jeered at him. That is not what he did. Jesus never returned insults, and neither should we. So let me ask you, how do we tend to get revenge verbally? Well, several ways. We might, in the heat of the moment when we're having a face-off with someone and we're arguing with them and things start getting heated and the the decimal level begins to rise. And our facial expressions begin to change and they begin to take it to another level and they start to attack us personally and perhaps they even begin to curse and to swear and use obscene language, we will be very tempted in our flesh to match that And let me just say that has that is never appropriate for a believer We must never respond to people, whether they're lost or saved or whatever. We must never respond that way. But I've heard many Christians over the years just kind of dismiss that, oh, I just, you know, I was really upset, so I said all these things. Yeah, I didn't mean them. The Bible says, out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. That venom that you poured out on that person was first in your heart, and that's what's most disturbing about it. We must not give our pass and think to ourselves, well, at least I didn't hit the guy. At least it didn't get physical. I mean it's just words. It's over in a minute. No, this is a serious problem. This points to a deep sin in your heart. You must not dismiss your language and your anger as if it is nothing. The Bible says that a soft answer turns away wrath. If you know your Bible well, you know that the book of James addresses the tongue. James chapter 3 and verse 8 he says this word, but the tongue can no man tame. It is an unruly evil full of deadly poison. Therewith bless we God, even the Father, and therewith curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God. Out of the same mouth proceed blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not so to be. Over the years I've talked to young people Who have left the faith. When they came of age, when they started making decisions for themselves, they had no interest. And coming to church and following the faith of their parents. And sometimes I've talked to them and asked them why and tried to understand where they were coming from. On more than one occasion, I've heard them say that so much of their parents' Christianity was hypocrisy. And one thing they would point to was the turmoil in the family and they would I remember one time them vividly telling me of the story of how they would be driving to church and there would be all this arguing and fighting in the car and everyone's yelling at one another and mom and dad are angry at each other and the kids are angry and there's all this chaos going on and all this tension And then they get out and they put a smile on their face and they walk into church as if everything's great and they sing those hymns together. And it all seems like a performance. And then they get back in the car and the tension continues right back where they left off. These things ought not so to be. This has no place in the Christian life. Perhaps the most damaging thing we can do to our children spiritually is to be hypocrites. Another way that we use our tongue is to get even is to lie or deceive others about the areas of disagreements Ever seen people that have a disagreement and then they go out and they tell their story to their friends and family and so forth? The problem is that so often the story is quite a bit different. We see here that they are told not to speak any guile, any deception, any lie. And tell me tell you how many times I've tried to referee Christian brothers and sisters who were fighting with each other And there's an incident that took place and they come into my office and they tell me what happened and they tell two completely different versions of the story. And it's not that they are bold face lying, but they just leave out the facts that make them look really bad. And they emphasize and underline the transgressions of the other person. If it wasn't so sad and so sinful, it would be funny. But this is the way we are as human beings. We deceive others. We go around and we tell others about what this other person has done and the wrong they've committed, hoping for their support and their sympathy and to punish the other person in some way Perhaps the most common way we use our lips to get revenge is to gossip the person who has wronged us. This is a very natural response. You are hurt by someone. They have done wrong to you. You're great tendency is going to be to pick up the phone and talk to others and say, you will not believe what they just did to me If you've truly been wrong, the Bible says your responsibility is not to pick up the phone and talk to others, but to talk to them. And to say, brother, you've sinned against me. You've wronged me. You said these things. You've misjudged me That is what you need to do, not try to poison the waters by negative comments about those individuals. But the Bible does not just tell us what we should not do. It tells us what we should do. Look with me at verse 9 it says, but contrawise blessing. Now this is so unnatural. Perhaps you're willing to accept the fact that you should not seek revenge But can you accept the fact that God does not just want you to be neutral, but he wants you to return their curse with a blessing? You see, this kind of response is something you're going to need God's grace to do. This is precisely what Jesus taught. Matthew 5. 44. We read it a moment ago. He said, bless them that curse you. Jesus would say this again in Luke chapter 6 and verse 28. And Paul in 1 Corinthians 4. 12 says, being reviled we bless. So what does it mean to bless someone? What does that mean? Does that mean that like someone is cursing us and we're saying, may God bless you? I don't think that's what Peter has in mind. I want to mention five practical ways. That you can bless those who mistreat you or who curse you First thing I would say is that you should seek to say honest but good things about that person. Why do I say that? Because the word bless is the origin of our English word eulogy. Do you know what a eulogy is? A eulogy is a term we use for a very nice, positive speech that you give of the deceased at a funeral. I've given many eulogies over the years. Sometimes people that I knew well, sometimes people that I didn't know very well, which is a challenge. And to be honest with you, sometimes it was difficult to find really good things to say about individuals. But you know what? If you really think and study, talk to others, you can find something good to say about that individual. In other words, instead of returning their words that tear you down, you are going to say things that are true. And affirming and positive about that person when possible. This is a real challenge because that's not what your flesh wants to do. But this is what God has called us to do. The second thing that blessing others means is that we should pray for those who mistreat us. This is how you can respond to those who have wronged you. Pray for them. This is exactly what Jesus taught in Luke 6. 28. He says, bless them that curse you. pray for them which despitefully use you. And Jesus practiced what he preached because at the cross he said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. An amazing example he has set for us. We need to pray for those who have wronged us. Often those who sin against us and do horrible things to us have deep spiritual issues and problems. People who wound others the most are often people who themselves have been wounded. You may be unaware of that. But I assure you, that person who has treated you with maliciousness and with a callous disregard, that person needs your prayers, not your condemnation. Thirdly, we should be merciful to those who have wronged us. Merciful. That may mean that you need to understand where that person's coming from a little bit more. I found time and time again when I've dealt with individuals who have wronged me or wronged others that if I when I get to understand them and really figure out where they're coming from and what they struggle with and their background and everything else Rather than anger for them, I feel pity for them. Because they have so many difficulties and so many obstacles in their life and and the anger that you see is is their desperate attempts to kind of make sense and to solve the problems they're facing. We should always treat people better than they deserve. And fourthly, when it says that we should bless those who curse us, I think this means that we are to forgive them. In Luke chapter 6 and verse 37, Jesus says this explicitly, judge not and ye shall not be judged. Condemn not and ye shall not be condemned. Forgive, and ye shall be forgiven. It is great when people are convicted of their sin against us and they come and they say, I was wrong, I should not have done that, I should not have said that. Will you please forgive me? But that rarely happens. Now, as I said earlier, there's a time and a place when someone has truly sinned against you, when it wasn't just a slight disagreement or you're looking at it through Jaundice eyes, but they really did obviously, objectively, sin against you, that you need to involve other people, you might need to involve witnesses, you might need to involve church church leaders and so forth. But often these things can be solved in other ways. And often the people who wound us the most are people who will never ever admit that they're wrong and seek forgiveness and ask for forgiveness. So what do we do? Do we just carry around this grudge the rest of our days? And every time we think of that person or we hear their name, we just have this This anger well up inside of us, and we're reminded again, afresh, of the horrible thing that they did to us. In situations like that, we cannot pronounce them to be forgiven when they admit to no wrong, but we can unilaterally forgive them in our hearts and say, Lord, I'm leaving this matter with you but I am not going to harbor this grudge or this bitterness or this anger towards them anymore. I leave this in your hands. And fifthly, we should actively look for opportunities to bless them and to help them. Jesus said again in Luke 6. 35, love your enemies, do good, and land hoping for nothing again. In Romans, the passage I read a moment ago This is exactly what Paul exhorted, quoting from Proverbs, that we would do good to those That we would not only just not respond to their aggression, but that we would look for opportunities to be a blessing and to help them in some tangible way. This week I read the story of a young man who was in basic training. He was a Christian. And at night, in the brief time before there were lights out, he would read his Bible and kneel next to his cot and pray. And as you can imagine, he was laughed at by many of the other young men in the barracks there. One man in particular took it upon himself. To mock this young Christian incessantly. And finally, one night he got so angry because this young man just would not respond that he took off his muddy boots and he threw them at his head. And the next morning, the attacker 's boots were next to his cot, cleaned and polished. That's exactly what Peter's talking about here. We've considered how we should respond to those who mistreat us. I want us now to briefly consider why we should respond this way to the mistreatment of others. They're so difficult to obey. It's so unnatural and contrary to conventional wisdom. The world says, don't get mad, get even. So how do we respond in this supernatural way that God has called us as believers to respond? Well, he gives us some good reasons why we should. First of all, because this response is the path Look with me at verse 9 again. He says, not rendering evil for evil or railing for railing, but contra -wise blessing, knowing that ye are thereunto called That you should inherit a blessing. Now, the question that Bible scholars debate about is what is the thereunto? It could either go with what's before it or what's after it. Grammatically it's possible, and there's good arguments for either way. Is Peter saying that believers are called simply to inherit the blessings of eternal life? That's what follows this in the next verse, verse 10. Or is Peter saying that we have been called by God as Christians to respond to the mistreatment of others with blessing? I think it's likely that Peter is saying the latter, and that is that we, part of our calling as Christians, part of what it means to follow Christ , His example and his teaching is that we seek to be a blessing to others, even to those who have mistreated us. It is those who follow Christ's instruction of blessing, those who curse that demonstrate indeed that they will inherit eternal life. So what is the greatest blessing that we could grant? To someone who has wronged us. Someone perhaps at work who is an unbeliever who makes your life difficult because you're a follower of Christ, the greatest blessing that you could give to them would be the gospel and see them come to Christ. When we respond in kindness to the cruelty of others, it makes a tremendous impact on other people. They quickly realize that you possess something that they do not. A few minutes ago I told you a story about this Christian young man who had those muddy boots thrown at him. What I didn't tell you is the man who threw those boots. was so overwhelmed with his response that in time he became a follower of Jesus Christ. This has happened countless times in the history of the church. Now there's another reason why we should respond this way given in our text, and that is because this is what the Bible commands us to do. Look with me at verses 10, 11, and 12. These verses are quotation that Peter uses from Psalm 34 verses 12 through 16. I want to read this for you and you'll see how similar it is. Psalm 34 And verse 12, it says, What man is he that desireth life and loveth many days, that he may see good? Keep thy tongue from evil and thy lips from speaking guile. Depart from evil and do good. Seek peace and pursue it. The eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, and his ears are open unto their cry. The face of the Lord is against them that do evil, to cut off the remembrance of them from the earth. Peter is not just randomly choosing a portion from the Old Testament to quote. Psalm 34 speaks of God's response to those who suffer at the hands of the wicked. Now the point that I want to make here is that Peter grounds his instruction in the Word of God. He goes to the Old Testament to substantiate what he has just said. And his assumption is that every true believer will submit to the authority of the Word of God. The clear commands of God's Word should settle every objection that we have in a given area. If God says it That should settle it. No matter how costly or how difficult it is to obey and follow, if God's word demands this, then we as his followers must obey. Now in my years of dealing with people and counseling situations, I've seen two very different responses to the authority of God's Word. Some people will come in facing a situation, and it's a situation that is absolutely clearly explained in the Word of God. It's not an extension. It's not like, I wonder what principle applies here. No, it's directly addressed in the Word of God. And they will come and they will ask me, and I'll open up my Bible and I will read it to them. And sometimes people will respond this way. They will say, well, I can't do that. Or I'm not going to do that. Or that may work for some people. Maybe in a perfect world, Pastor, that's what I should do. But And it's very clear that the Word of God has no authority in their life. And then I've encountered other people who have come in and asked similar questions, and I open the Bible and they say Well, that's going to be really difficult to do, but if that's what I have to do, then that's what I'm going to do. If that's what God wants me to do, then that is how I'm going to respond. And let me just say that this should be true of all of the Lord's people. We should all say, thy word is truth. There's a third reason that we should respond this way, and the answer is because this is the best way to live. Look with me at verse 10, for he that will love life and see good days. Now commentators wonder if Peter is talking about life on this earth or eternal life, and I think the answer is both. The best life a human being can live is a life of fellowship and obedience with God that begins in this life and continues into the next. Peter's not promising that if you follow the Lord that you won't have any problems. Remember, he's writing to persecuted believers. who were facing great difficulties, who often lost their homes, their families were broken up, they may have been imprisoned. So he's not preaching a health and a wealth gospel. But when you truly look at things from God's perspective, the very best life that a person can live is the Christian life, a life of following the Lord's. Christians who refuse to retaliate and seek to live at peace with others enjoy a better quality of life than those who seek to handle things in the flesh. God's way is best. In verse 11, we have these four brief commands. He says, let him eschew evil and do good. Let him seek peace and pursue it. This term is shoe evil means to turn from your natural desire for revenge. Do good means that we should actively seek to be a blessing to those who have mistreated us. Seek peace means that we should actively engage in finding reconciliation and peace. And then ensue it means that we should pursue this course of action. So are you the kind of person who seeks to mend fences? Or do you angrily wait for people to come to you and admit that they are wrong? Which one are you? God says we should be the former. We should be the ones who are going out and trying to make peace with others. God calls on Christians to be like oil that removes the friction and strained relationships. Listen to these passages. If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men. Hebrews 12, 14 says, Follow peace with all men, and holiness without which no man shall see the Lord. Paul says in 1 Timothy chapter 2 that we are to pray for our government leaders that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life and all godliness and honesty. And in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus said, blessed are the peacemakers. And James says that the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable. gentle, easy to be entreated, full of mercy. This is God's high calling on our lives that we would be those who make peace where we go, not those who create tension, not those who are creating strife, but that we would create peace. whether in our homes, whether in our workplace, or in our churches. And then the fourth reason that he gives. is found in verse 12, and it is because the Lord is watching our response. It says, for the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and his ears are open unto their prayers. But the face of the Lord is against them that do evil. Often when we suffer At the hands of others, we feel like God is not aware of our situation because He does not come to our rescue immediately. But this is not the case. The Bible assures us that he sees your pain. He hears your cry. And the Lord will in his time vindicate his suffering people. This promise is found throughout the Old and New Testaments. Now the last phrase in verse 12 is both a warning and a comforting assertion. On one hand, it's saying that those who have wronged us, he's referring here specifically to the lost, those who have wronged us, those who have persecuted us. those who have oppressed us, that he is mindful of what they have done, and he will in time judge them Perhaps in this life, but if not in this life, certainly in the life to come. But I said it's not only a comfort, but it's also a warning. And the warning is that if we do not heed our Lord's words here and we say, I'm not going to take it, I am going to get revenge. I am going to come back at them even harder than they came at me. I'm going to solve this myself. I'm going to use my resources, my words, my physical strength to get even with them. Then God says this, the face of the Lord is against them that do evil. Then you see you're no longer going to be one of those whom God is defending and vindicating, but one of those that God will punish. And so this is a good reason for us not to seek revenge, not to hold grudges, not to be bitter. Not to be antagonistic to those who have wronged us. This becomes a real test of our faith, does it not? This transcends just kind of an easy-going cultural Christianity. This really causes us to ask our question, do I really believe these things? Am I willing? to take the hurt and the mistreatment of others and rather than responding in anger to them, to leave the matter with God and not to seek revenge. This is the way of our Savior. Peter is going to use our Lord as an example again later in this chapter. This is The path that we must follow if we are to follow in his footsteps. And let me just say: this is the path of blessing. One of the most striking illustrations that I've ever read about this came from a man named James Taylor. He was the great-grandfather of Hudson Taylor. And he was a Methodist street preacher who often preached in very rough sections of town. He was often pelted with stones and even once dragged through the mud. And one day there were two men who were tired of his convicting preaching and they decided they were going to silence him once and for all. And so while one man was talking with him and distracting him, another man took a mixture of crushed glass and mud. and came up from beside him and rubbed it into his eyes. Taylor was badly hurt and nearly blinded for three months. He could not see There was a witness on the street who saw what happened. He recognized the men and he knew who they were. And he told Mr. Taylor about them. And he said he was willing to testify in a court of law, but Taylor refused. And he said, I will leave this matter in the Lord's hands and his effectiveness. as the minister of Christ increased because of his loving response. And one of these men, years later, as he was at the point of death, called for that preacher that he viciously attacked years before to come to his bedside because he knew that that man truly knew God because of the way he responded. That is overcoming evil with good. And that is what God has called us to do. Let's close in prayer this morning Our Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that It is indeed the word of God that its thoughts are not our thoughts. Father, you've called us to A very difficult aspect of obedience. I pray that you would help us to be a people who seek to live at peace with one another, who seek to forgive. and who not respond to the mistreatment of others by mistreating them. Help us, Father, to follow the example of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And for those here, Father, who are lost in their sins, who cannot possibly receive and follow these commands, I pray that they would seek the Lord today. And be saved, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen