To ask you to turn in your Bibles, please, to 1 Peter chapter 3. We read from Romans 12 because it is a parallel passage that uh in many ways echoes what we have been studying in the third chapter of 1 Peter. About a century ago, there were two well-known intellectual brothers in England, the Huxley brothers. Who were outspoken agnostics and did their best to attack Christianity. Adolphus and T. H. Huxley. T. H. was once at a group of men a group of leaders at a house party. And on Sunday morning as the men were dressing to go to church, Huxley of course was not going, he asked One of the men who was renowned for his Christian character, if instead of going to church, he would stay behind and talk to him. This man was a little reluctant to do so because he thought that Huxley was interested in one of his famous debates, and this man was not an intellectual, and so he said he really wasn't that interested in having a debate. And the man said, no, I don't want to argue with you. I I want you just to tell me what Christ means to you And so the Christian gentleman stayed behind and spoke to him very frankly and personally from his heart. about the difference that Christ has made had made in his life over the years. And when he finished, Huxley's eyes were filled with tears. And he said, I would give my right hand if I could have that. This morning, as we continue our study of 1 Peter, we come to a passage that calls on us. As suffering Christians to be a witness for Christ. Let me remind you where we are in this epistle. We're in chapter 3 And in verse 9, Peter begins a little section where he's talking to them about how they are to live in the hostile world and where they where they find themselves. And he says They are not rendering evil for evil or railing for railing, but contrawise blessing, knowing that ye are thereunto called that ye should inherit a blessing. For he that will love life and see good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil and his lips that they speak no guile, let him eschew evil and do good, let him seek peace. and ensue it. For the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and its ears are open unto their prayers, but the face of the Lord is against them that do evil. The message is clear that Christians are not to retaliate or re respond in kind to those Who are hostile towards us, but instead we are to be a blessing to them. And then Peter goes on And verse 13 and 14 and says, however, there is the real possibility that our gracious response will not result in the end of hostilities, but that the suffering will continue. He says in verse 14, But and if ye suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye and be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled. He says here that indeed if the suffering continues, we are not to be despondent. Or to feel that God has some us somehow failed us. No, we are to be happy. That is, we are to consider ourselves blessed. That God in his providence has allowed us to suffer for him. And then he goes on about our response and says that we are not to be afraid, we are not to be terrorized. by the threats of the hostile world. We are not to be shaken up and in a state of agitation as the term denotes. That is the negative admonition, but instead, in verse 15, we are to sanctify the Lord God in our hearts and be ready always to give an answer. to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. We are not to retreat in the face of opposition. No, we are to advance. And the testimony of church history is that persecution does not silence the church. It only provides a platform for suffering Christians to tell the world that Christ is indeed our treasure. As has been said before, the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the church. This is an important message for us to hear, even in the 21st century. We live increasingly in a secular age. Atheism is on the rise. and the moral underpinnings of our society are being eroded before our very eyes. The immorality that was once universally condemned By saved and lost alike is now accepted and protected. It would seem it is becoming more hostile to proclaim the message of the cross. So what should our response be? Should we be silent? Should we go underground? Should we be undercover Christians? Or are we to accommodate the spirit of the age and to incorporate these elements of degradation in our culture into the church itself. Of course, the biblical answer to both of these options is that we must not. No, we must advance with confidence, knowing that Christ has promised to build his church and that the gospel is the power of God unto salvation. This passage is very significant and important for us to consider. It tells us how we can be a witness even in a hostile world, even when we suffer for Christ. So this is what I would like us to consider in verses 15 through 17 this morning. First of all, would you notice with me That if we are going to be a witness for Christ, we must remember to keep Christ first in our hearts. when we suffer for Christ. The opening phrase in verse 15 is, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. Peter says instead of Fearing your oppressors, you must instead reverence Christ. And Peter here is once again quoting from the Old Testament. Listen to the words of Isaiah chapter 8 and verse 13. It says, Sanctify the Lord of hosts himself. And let him be your fear, let him be your dread. Peter uses only the first part of this verse, and he uses it in reference to the Lord Jesus Christ. Bible scholars all agree about this that the the Lord God in verse 15 of 1 Peter 3 is a reference to the Lord Jesus Christ And we know that because in the first century Christians were not persecuted for believing generally in God. But they were oppressed for declaring that Jesus is Lord. In fact, some early manuscripts have Lord Christ here instead of Lord God, and some of you may have that in your translations. Whether that is the case or not, we know that all Bible scholars know that this reference is to the Lord Jesus Christ. We see here another clear identification. of the deity of Christ because the Jehovah of the Old Testament in that passage in Isaiah 8. 13 is applied to the Lord Jesus Christ here in the New Testament. Now what does it mean to sanctify Christ. Obviously it doesn't mean that we somehow can make him more holy. The word sanctify can have that understanding, but that's not what it means here. We cannot add to our Lord Jesus Christ's perfection of holiness. The key to understanding this is to realize that it means to be set apart. Peter is calling on Christians to set Christ apart in their lives. Well, what does that mean? You know, it's easy to read phrases like this and to even understand it means to be set apart. But what does that practically mean in our lives? Let me give you four ideas of what this practically means. First of all, to sanctify Christ means that we should submit To his authority in our lives, that is, that we should obey him. One example and context here is that we must not retaliate when others treat us wrongfully. Because that's what's commanded in this very passage. If he is indeed our Lord, and we are going to obey his commands and make him the authority in our lives, as every Christian claims. Then it means that we are going to follow his instructions like we're not going to retaliate. When others have wronged us. We see that as given again and again in this book of 1 Peter. And in so doing, we are following the example of Christ. Secondly, to sanctify Christ means that we fear him more than anyone else. This is something that Peter has brought out several times in this epistle as well. And that, of course, is the context of Isaiah chapter 8 that Peter is quoting. We should be more concerned With disobeying God than we are with disobeying the laws of man. The Bible is not a revolutionary book as Peter mentions in chapter 2, we are to obey the laws of man except when they clearly contradict what God requires of us. But we obey God first. We ought to obey God rather than man because our ultimate fear is not what the officials or what human authority may do to us, but what God Almighty may do to us And so we should be more concerned with obeying the Lord. The exclusive claims of the gospel are offensive to the pluralistic world in which we live. But we cannot change the gospel to accommodate the changing times, and we cannot be silent. with what the Bible teaches. The Bible teaches an exclusive claim. It always has. That there is one way, that there is one Savior, that there is one God, and He has revealed Himself in Scripture. We cannot tamper with this foundation to please the world in which we live. But in standing up and declaring God's truth, we may encounter more and more opposition in the future. Thirdly, to sanctify Christ means that we must yield to the suffering that God sends into our lives. We must not be disappointed or shocked when following the Savior becomes costly. Remember, it's Jesus who said, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. From the very beginning, the Lord Jesus told his followers, it will be costly. to follow in my footsteps. And so as Peter will say later in verse 12, we should not think it strange concerning the fiery trial that comes into our life. And we must remember that Jesus said, in the world, ye shall have tribulation. We must not receive and believe the prosperity gospel that says that following Christ exempts you. from suffering and poverty and difficulty. No, the gospel teaches exactly the opposite. Following Christ involves suffering. And fourthly, to sanctify Christ means that we must have a personal commitment to Christ. Notice our text says, sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. This is something that is personal. What Peter is pointing at is that a nominal cultural faith will never do. A secondhand faith that is part of your family heritage will never withstand the purifying fires of persecution. It is a dangerous thing to be a professing Christian in the United States of America because it's very easy for you to not have a true faith. Because we live in a culture, especially if you're born into a Christian family, if you have Christian grandparents and uncles and aunts and And from a child you've been brought to church and Sunday school and vacation Bible school. It is so easy for you to think that because you are surrounded by the truth and because everyone expects you and encourages you. To be a follower of Christ, to just go along with the tide, as it were, in your Christian community. And be received, and yet you don't really have a heart that is set apart to Christ. The majority of Americans claim in some way or another to be followers of Jesus Christ. But how would that change if it was costly to follow the Lord? How many people would be here this morning if this was an illegal gathering? And that by coming here you knew that at any time the officials could come in and take the names of everyone here and either issue you a very high fine or arrest you or put you on some type of a watch list, would you still come? How many people would read their Bibles if owning a Bible was a punishable offense? A criminal act. There are countries in the world where just owning a Bible, not even talking about reading it, but just having a Bible in your home is illegal. Would you read your Bible if it was illegal? And how many professing Christians in America today would share their faith if this was considered a serious crime? And could even result in your arrest. You see, it's very easy to say, yeah, I'm a Christian, when there's no downside to being a Christian. But persecution has a way of separating the wheat from the chaff, the false professors from true possessors. The second thing I want you to note in our text this morning is that we must remember to look for opportunities to witness. When we suffer for Christ. Look at that next phrase. It says, and be ready always to give an answer To every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you This is one of the most significant statements in the book of 1 Peter. This is one of the key verses in one branch of theology known as apologetics. Apologetics has become very popular the last 20 years or so. And uh the word here that is translated answer in verse 15 is a Greek word apologia, and it is the origin of the term apologetics, and it means a defense. And originally this word was used To denote a legal defense in a court of law. And indeed, of course, this did occur in the early church. We read about the apostles appearing before the authorities. and answering questions concerning their faith. But Peter here has that in mind, but even more than that, because he speaks of this in a very broad way. So let me mention several implications of this command. First of all, we must have a real faith to share if we're going to obey this command. Anyone who is willing to share their faith when that could be a very costly endeavor obviously has a committed faith And perhaps this is one answer why so few Christians share their faith, as one preacher once told me. The reason why many Christians do not share their faith is because they do not have a faith to share. I am not saying by that that if you do not share your faith on a regular basis, you're not a Christian. But I do want you to know that Our New Testament and the entire design of Christianity is that it is something that you share. It's not a private matter. We live in a politically correct culture that tells us that your religious beliefs should be kept to yourself. They're private. And if you share them, they might be offensive. The only problem is that Jesus told us to go throughout the entire world and to share the gospel. Christianity is a missionary religion at its very core. And so we need to remember that. There are many people today As I mentioned earlier, who have a cultural Christianity, I fear. They believe in God. They claim to love Jesus. They attend church, perhaps on special events They may have a godly grandmother or an uncle who was a pastor, but the claims of Christ have little influence on their daily decisions. Years ago in the 1990s, there was a pollster who did the first really in-depth study of people in America who claim to be born again, who claim to be Christians, evangelical Christians. And he asked them a series of many questions. I believe it was hundreds of questions about their lifestyle, their patterns of behavior. about morality and what they did and how they spent their money and how they structured their day and things about their prayer life and Bible reading and church attendance and witnessing and all of these things were included in the survey And then this man went out and he did a survey of people and the general public in America that fit the demographic of the people that took this Christian survey. People that were the same socioeconomic level. And what he discovered is that for the majority of people in this country who claimed to be Christian, there was absolutely no difference in their behavior. And whenever they made a decision about their behavior or how they were going to spend their money or what they were going to do with their children, he found that their relationship with God had no bearing on any decisions that they made. This is why I say that so many who claim to be followers of Christ are indeed False professors. They are not followers of Christ because the Christianity, the faith that's presented in our New Testament tells us that our relationship with Christ changes everything. It affects every aspect of our lives. So let me ask you this morning, do you have a genuine faith, a faith that really makes a practical difference in how you live your life? That changes you at your very core, or do you just have a cultural Christianity, a civic Christianity, as some scholars speak of it? A Christianity that's Christianity in name only. It's very important that you evaluate your heart. And you understand that you cannot begin to follow this admonition to share your faith if you don't have a real faith to share. Second implication I'm going to bring is this. We must always be prepared to share our faith with others. Notice the open-ended emphasis of our text. It says that we must be ready. always to give an answer to every man, that is to every person. That is, as Christians, we are to be prepared to share the gospel 24 hours a day, seven days a week. We can so easily categorize things. It's wonderful when people intentionally do evangelism. Maybe they go out on visitation or they uh they go to a fair and they they and they give the gospel there to both. These are wonderful things. We do things like this. But you know what? If we think, all right, so that hour a week I categorize as my evangelism, which means the other 176 hours, I don't have to worry about that. It's not what the Bible teaches. We are always to be ready and looking for opportunities to share the good news of the gospel. No matter what the time, no matter who the person is, we must be ready. And you know what? Many of you can testify to this. Sometimes those opportunities come out of nowhere. They surprise you. You weren't looking for it or thinking about it, but all of a sudden this person is asking a question that naturally leads to a presentation of the gospel. We need to be ready. Now sometimes people have misunderstood scripture and thought that we don't need to be prepared because in Matthew 10, 19, Jesus says But when they delivered you up, take no thought how or what ye shall speak, for it shall be given you in that same hour what ye shall speak. But this verse is not saying that we should not be prepared to share the gospel. It's saying that we should not be worried, but trust in the Spirit of God to bring to our minds the biblical truths that we have hidden in our hearts. And let me first of all tell you, I don't think that God creates a miracle and puts all these verses into your mind that you've never learned or studied. Alright? You can't use what's not there. So we've got to be filling our mind with God's truth. So let me ask you this morning, are you prepared to articulate the gospel? Can you explain the gospel in an effective way to someone who would ask you, what does it mean to be a Christian? Or why exactly do you go to church and And what difference does that make in your life? And how does someone become a Christian anyway? Would you have the answers right there? You're ready to go to share that information with them. Do you have some key verses in your heart? Do you have some answers to the most common objections? Sometimes people are so worried about witnessing to people because they're going to ask me a question that I can't answer. That's okay. The vast majority of objections and things that people will say, there's only like four or five of them 90% of the time. You get those four or five ready and you have answers for them. Thirdly, we should recognize that Christianity is an open and honest religion. This is part of what I said earlier about it being a missionary religion. In the first century in which this text was written, there were what were called mystery religions that were popular. These groups had secret initiation rites and secret doctrines and practices. They were like many of our cults today that tried to hide their very identity. Everything was shrouded in mystery Christianity is different. We're not trying to hide anything. We're not like cults who sometimes will not tell you what group they're representing. We do not try to construct our building so that no one can see in. And coming in there is by invitation only. It's not as secretive. hidden, mysterious group that everyone wonders. I wonder what's going on in there. I wonder what those people really believe. We proclaim what we believe. We have nothing to hide. We invite the world to come and listen and hear. And this is why we disseminate the gospel. Christianity has nothing to hide but a great deal to share. Fourthly, we should recognize that Christianity is intellectually defensible expression of faith. Now, perhaps you've always thought that reason and faith are at odds with one another. But I want you to know that this is a false dichotomy. It's not true. Many secularists in the world want to portray it that way. You know, they will say to me, oh, you're a man of faith, but I'm a man of reason. No, no, no, I'm not playing on that field. That is a false understanding. Some preachers unfortunately give you the distinct impression that when you come to church you should park your brain at the door Because there's no serious thinking going on in here. It's just like a pep rally. Christianity is a thinking man's religion, and thinking woman's religion, by the way, too. I mean just consider our Bible for a moment. Is our Bible a logical, reasonable book? It is You may say, well, that's probably true of all ancient books. It is not the case. Sometimes people think that You know, I would keep people from ever reading like any other so-called holy text, books of the Buddhists and of the Hindus and of the Muslim. When people come to me and they're searching for answers, I encourage them to compare the scriptures to the other so-called holy books. There's no comparison. The Bible is constructed in an organized, structural, reasonable way. The book of Romans is one of the most reasonable and logical books ever written. We read of the Apostle Paul going into synagogues and reasoning from the scriptures. If this is true, then this must be true. Christianity is an intellectually defensible system of thought. This is why many of the great thinkers in the history of the world were committed Christians. And I firmly believe that Christianity provides the most comprehensive and coherent worldview available. The Bible has good answers for those who are seeking the truth. And fifthly, I would say under this heading that when we suffer for Christ, we have a great opportunity. to share the good news of the gospel. And this is the context of what we have here. These were suffering Christians. The idea is this. That as Christians were mistreated, as they were beaten, as they were thrown out of their homes. As they were maliciously slandered, and yet they retained a sweet and a peaceable disposition. And as they did good deeds to those who mistreated them, it would invariably cause those people to begin to consider maybe there's something to this. Maybe these people have discovered something that I have never encountered in my life before. And so sometimes Their guards, their torturers, their interrogators would come to them and ask them questions about this faith that they proclaimed. And this is how they were willing to witness. They would ask them questions like, why are you willing to suffer this way? How have you been able to maintain your composure in the face of this torture? Who is this Jesus that you're willing to die for? And like the Philippian jailer, perhaps what must I do to be saved? You see, suffering is an opportunity for you to witness for Christ. Now you might be suffering, but it may not be because you're a follower of Christ. Perhaps you have cancer. Perhaps you have severe osteoarthritis. Could be any number of things that bring suffering into your life. I want you to know that every time you are in a position of suffering, you have the opportunity to be a witness for Christ. You can be a witness to your doctors, witness to your health care providers, to your nurses. to your family members, some of who may be lost who are watching you to see how you handle this disruption in your life. Do you handle it just like any other lost person would? Or is it evident that you have a reservoir of peace and assurance that others do not possess? Every time we suffer, we have an opportunity, either explicitly or implicitly, to speak for Christ. And thirdly, I want you to notice in our text that we should remember to live a lifestyle of integrity. When we suffer for Christ. Now I want you to look with me at the last phrase in verse 15. It says about our being a witness, be ready always to give an answer to every man that asks you of reason of the hope that is in you, and then we have this. With meekness and fear. This is an important point for us to remember. We need to be humble when we share the good news. This means that we must be meek in our interactions with others, not that we're apologetic, not that we're quiet and cowardice about it. But it means that we must be humble in our interactions and we must fear the Lord more than we fear angering them with our answers. When it says with meekness and fear, it's not talking about our fear of those who are hostile to us. Every single time Peter mentions fear in this epistle, it's a reference to fear of God. So we have to fear God more than man. And so when someone comes and asks us about our faith, we should not think Well, this person is very hostile to Christianity. I can't share my faith because it might bring more suffering. No, we must fear God rather than man, and we must give them the good news. But let me go back and look at this first phrase of meekness. The call to speak for Christ must not be taken as an excuse to condemn sinful people and push them further away from Christ. Last thing I want to do is discourage anyone from being a witness for Christ. But I suspect that some of you have known individuals who did more harm than good. with their witness, perhaps to a relative, a friend or co-worker that you were trying to bring to Christ. They came across in such a prideful, arrogant way, in such a dogmatic way, in such a condemning way. that they pushed that person further away from ever considering the claims of Christ. Witnessing in the flesh can do more harm than good. We must never speak to loss in anger and hostility. We must never We must never witness to them in a condescending way as if we're so much better than you are. And we must never give the impression that they are ignorant because they've never heard certain Bible verses or certain Christian terminology. Sometimes people will do that. We have to be able to explain the gospel without using all of our Christian cliches and vocabulary because The people that we're witnessing often do not know those words, do not know what they mean. We have to express the gospel in a way that they can understand it and receive it. And we must never, ever give them the idea that we've got everything figured out. I've known Christians who came across this way before in their attempts to witness. It's very good to be prepared and to have answers for commonly asked questions. But we should not give them the idea that every complex difficulty in the world, whether it be human suffering or whatever it is, that we have a very easy answer to that. Ready to go. And before they get the question out of their mouth, we already have the answer formulated. No Sometimes the best answer we can get to a difficult question is to simply say, I don't know, but I'll get back to you on that. I'll do my best to find an answer for you. And we must never witness the people like they are a project or case study. You know, I don't really care about you. I'm not really interested in your life. But I'm supposed to go out and witness, and so I'm going to try to see if I can evangelize you. No, we must show them that we are genuinely interested in them as a human being. We must speak to them with genuine concern and compassion, knowing that they have a soul that will live somewhere forever. We don't have time to look at real-life examples of this, but the Apostle Paul's speeches before Felix and Agrippa in the latter chapters of Acts are great models of this. Paul speaks to them the truth of the gospel, but he speaks it in a winsome way, in a respectful way to those leaders. In a ways that was so appealing that one of them said, almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian. You can share the good news of the gospel in a way that does not push people further away. Now look with me please at verse 16. Peter writes, having a good conscience, that whereas they speak evil of you as evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse you of your good conversation. And Christ, for it is better, if the will of God be so that you suffer for well-doing than for evildoing, verse 17 being like a summary statement of what he's been saying. And what he's saying in verse 16 is very simply this. We must have a lifestyle that backs up our witness. It is true that if you are an outspoken witness for Christ, people will inspect your life more carefully to find a flaw. We must have a good conscience. What does this mean? Well, someone has said that the conscience is the soul Reflecting back on itself. The Puritans refer to the conscience as God 's spy in the heart The conscience is a revelation by the way that we have been made in the image of God, and our God is holy and righteous And therefore, every human being comes with a conscience that either excuses or condemns their behavior. I don't have time to go into and explain that your conscience is not infallible. But as we adjust our conscience in the light of God's truth, it becomes more and more of a sure guide in our lives. Christians are to have a clear conscience. We do this by examining our hearts on a regular basis and repenting of our sin. And those who have a clear conscience will witness more boldly for the Lord. How often do our inconsistencies at work, our failures in the home, keep our lips sealed? Lest we be charged with being a hypocrite. If we were to put this in the vernacular, it's saying that we must walk the talk. However, if a person's words and actions present a beautiful testimony of enduring suffering for Christ's sake, the accusations of the loss will not be received by others. It will in fact bring them to shame. The last part of verse 16 is talking about that they will realize that their accusations are empty. They will accuse Christians of being troublemakers, evildoers, and yet everyone knows that's not who they are. That's not the testimony that they've given. And it will be a compelling witness for them, both in this life and in the life to come. Sometimes a godly life will lead the loss to repentance and faith in the midst of suffering. Some of you know the name of Richard Warmbrand, who was once held as a religious prisoner in communist Romania. He was for a time kept in a cell that was only for those who were dying. And while he was there, he relates a situation once where there was a pastor there who had been badly beaten, and it was only a matter of time before he would die. And then ironically there was a man in there who had beaten him into that state. This guard had fallen out of favor with the authorities, and so the authorities thinking that The prisoners, the Christian prisoners would exact their revenge on him, threw him into their midst, thinking that they would kill this man who had so brutalized them and their loved ones. But they did not do that. They ministered to him. This man had also been badly beaten, and he knew that the end was coming. And so while he was there, he called for the pastor to come over and to hear his confession. The pastor came over with much help to get by his bedside, and the guard confessed to numerous murders and acts of brutality. But he was convinced that God would never forgive these atrocities. But the dying pastor told him otherwise. He told him that the man That told him that though he had beaten him severely, he would forgive him. And if he could forgive him as just a flawed human being, certainly God could forgive him. And that night, that wicked prison guard came to faith in Jesus Christ Both of those men prayed together and embraced one another, and in the morning they had both passed into eternity As forgiven sinners. God has ordained to use his suffering witnesses as a means For bringing many people to new life in Christ. That is happening in the world today. We live in an oasis of protection. and acceptance of Christianity, but many in the world today worship in an environment much like what Peter was addressing. And if we could see the big picture of the world and the church, we would undoubtedly see that there are individuals who are coming to Christ today through the witness of those who have suffered greatly for his name's sake. May God help us to be true followers of Christ, willing to suffer for him and to speak for him. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, we thank you for the difference that Christ makes in our lives. We thank you that the gospel is so powerful and so important. That we cannot be silent even when it costs us to speak the truth. I pray that you would help us. To be a people who are ready to share the good news of the gospel. Help us, Father, to look for opportunities wherever we go. Help us to remember that people are always watching us. Help us, Father, to be a light for you in a dark world, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.