Thank you, Michelle. It's amazing when the Lord brings coordination that we didn't do. I looked at my wife and I said, there couldn't be a more appropriate song for the message this evening than give thanks. If you would turn your Bibles to Psalm 118. But the reality is I hadn't told Michelle to repair that song. And uh it just is the Lord's work. And so I'm so thankful. For that ministry of music and song this evening. We're going to be looking at Psalm 118, not the entire Psalm, but just the beginning of Psalm 118 this evening as we prepare our hearts. For the Lord's Supper. Psalm 118 has a special place in church history. Martin Luther called Psalm 118 my own beloved psalm. He said, although the entire Psalter and all of the Holy Scripture are dear to me as my only comfort and source of life. I fell in love with this psalm especially. Therefore I call it my own. When emperors and kings, the wise and the learned, and even saints, could not aid me, this psalm proved a friend and helped me out of many great troubles. As a result, it is dearer to me than all the wealth, honor, and power of the Pope, the Turk, and the Emperor I would be most unwilling to trade this psalm for all of it. Would to God that all the world would claim this psalm for its own as I do. strong words of commendation to Psalm 118 that we will be examining this evening and over the next few Lord's Supper services. And I pray that this Psalm will be Become precious to us in a similar way as we see God's steadfast love revealed in Christ Jesus. And I would like us just to read this. It's a long psalm. I understand that it's 29 verses. But I believe as we read it together in its wholeness, it'll help us understand the message of it better. So I'm going to read this psalm before we look into the message this evening. He says, oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. Let Israel say, his steadfast love endures forever. Let the house of Aaron say, his steadfast love endures forever. Let those who fear the Lord say, His steadfast love endures forever. Out of my distress I called on the Lord The Lord answered me and set me free. The Lord is on my side. I will not fear. What can man do to me? The Lord is on my side as my helper. I shall look in triumph on those who hate me. It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in man. It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in princes. All nations surrounded me. In the name of the Lord, I cut them off. They surrounded me, surrounded me on every side. In the name of the Lord I cut them off. They surrounded me like bees. They went out like fire among thorns. In the name of the Lord, I cut them off. I was pushed hard so that I was falling, but the Lord helped me. The Lord is my strength and my song. He has become my salvation. Glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous. The right hand of the Lord does valiantly. The right hand of the Lord exalts. The right hand of the Lord does valiantly. I shall not die, but I shall live and recount the deeds of the Lord. The Lord has disciplined me severely, but he has not given me over to death. Open to me the gates of righteousness, that I may enter through them, and give thanks to the Lord This is the gate of the Lord. The righteous shall enter through it. I thank you that you have answered me and have become my salvation. The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Save us, we pray, O Lord. O Lord, we pray, give us success. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. We bless you from the house of the Lord. The Lord is God, and He has made His light to shine upon us. Bind the festal sacrifice with cords up to the horns of the altar. You are my God, and I will give thanks to you. You are my God, I will extol you. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. The theme of this sermon this evening is that Christians are called to give thanks to the Lord Because we share in the blessings of Christ's salvation out of deep distress. That we are called to give thanks to the Lord because we share in the blessing of Christ's. own salvation out of deep distress. Now this psalm, Psalm 118, perhaps as we were reading through, you're like, boy, I have questions. How does that all fit together? There seems to be some almost disjointedness to it because there are so many things that are taking place in this psalm. The context of this psalm is so important to us. How do we understand this psalm? When we understand the context, then we're able to understand what is taking place. The first thing we need to see about the Psalm Psalm 118 is this is the final Egyptian Hallel. We've been looking through the Egyptian hillels on our Lord's Supper services. And the Egyptian Hallels are Psalm 113 to Psalm 118. And they were sung at every Passover service in commemoration of the people of Israel leaving the land of Egypt and going into the wilderness. And ultimately to the promised land, that first Passover. So this was the final song that our Savior Jesus Christ would have sung in the upper room with his disciples. Before he left and went to the Garden of Gethsemane, and when he was betrayed, and the disciples scattered. This would have been the final song that our Savior sang that evening. This psalm is a call for thanksgiving to the Lord, for he is good. You notice that the first verse and the last verse are identical. They call for the people to give thanks to the Lord for He is good, for His mercy endures forever. So the goodness of God is seen in his eternally enduring mercy or the steadfast love of the Lord that endures forever. Another interesting thing about this psalm is the use of the name Yahweh. There are more references to the name Yahweh in this psalm than in any other 150 psalms that are in our Psalter. Twenty-seven times the name Yahweh is used. Every time you see Lord in capital letters, all capital letters, it is the name Yahweh. And he's describing the deliverance that Yahweh provided. But this psalm has many layers to it, though ultimately I would say it is a messianic psalm, meaning it refers to Jesus Christ, the Messiah. But it has these different layers which are important for us to understand so that we can see how it refers and points to Christ. The first layer that we have in this Psalm is it is a clear reference to the Exodus deliverance. That's obvious because it is one of the Egyptian hillels. It was sung at the Passover. It was a is a reference back to God's deliverance of the people of Israel. from Egypt. But there are other reasons why it has this Exodus layer to it. And one of those is that the Song of Moses is quoted in this psalm. The song of Moses is found in Exodus 15, and it records the song that Moses and the people of Israel sang After the Egyptian army was drowned in the Red Sea. And you remember, on the other side of the Red Sea, they see God's great deliverance and they sing a song to the Lord. And Moses is the one who led them in that song. And it says in Exodus 15, verses 1 and 2, then Moses and the people of Israel sang this song to the Lord, saying, I will sing to the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously, the horse and his rider he has thrown into the sea. The Lord is my strength and my song, and he has become my salvation. This is my God, and I will praise him. My Father's God, and I will exalt him Now you probably recognize as we were going through Psalm 118, verse 14 and verse 21 actually quote the song of Moses, where he says, The Lord is my strength. and my song, and he has become my salvation. So every Jew who would be singing the song at the at the Passover would recognize this is a clear reference back to the Exodus and God's deliverance from Pharaoh in that great day. This also has an important aspect because the Exodus is a picture of God's redemption. And God's redemption from Egypt is the picture of God's greater redemption from our sins. And so that layer comes out as we continue to look into this psalm. This also has not only an Exodus layer, but a Davidic layer. King David reigned about 430 years after the Exodus. So for him, the Exodus was a past deliverance. As David was reigning, this psalm would have been referring to things that took place in the past for him. We can't say for sure if David is the author of this psalm, though I think that's probably the case. And there are many uh themes in this psalm that are similar to themes of Psalms of David that we find elsewhere. For example, not fearing man. As we were going through this Psalm, you probably noticed the the emphasis on not fearing man. Psalm 56, which is a psalm of David. David writes, Then my enemies will turn back in the day when I call. This I know that God is for me. In God I trust, I shall not be afraid. What can man do to me? Now with that in mind, go back and look at Psalm 118, verse 6. Where he says, The Lord is on my side, I will not fear, what can man do to me? Nearly an exact reference to Psalm 56. He also describes not only not fearing man, but looking in triumph over his enemies. In verse 7 of Psalm 118, he says, The Lord is on my side as my helper. I shall look in triumph on those who hate me. Now you compare that with the Psalm of David, Psalm 59, verse 10, where it says, My God in his steadfast love will meet me. God will let me look in triumph on my enemies. So again, a very clearly a reference to this Psalm of David, so very similar to what David wrote in Psalm 59. It's also very easy to see how much of what is written in this psalm could have a direct application to the life of David. That this could be David's words describing his prayer for deliverance from the Lord. Think about this. He frequently called on the Lord to deliver him in distress. If you study the life of David, there are distresses and Fearful situations that David found himself in again and again, whether it's in the city of Zif or whether he's in Ziklag or Whether he is against Goliath, he was constantly surrounded by fearful situations where he would call out to the Lord in distress. And he knew what it was like to be surrounded by hostile nations. Like verses ten through thirteen talk about All nations surrounded me. In the name of the Lord, I will cut them off. They surrounded me, surrounded me on every side. In the name of the Lord, I cut them off. So David understood what it meant to be surrounded by hostile nations. He could easily say as well what we read later on in the Psalm, I shall not die. But I shall live and recount the deeds of the Lord. As Saul is chasing David, he knew that he would not die, because God had promised him the kingdom. God had promised him deliverance. So he could easily say, I shall not die, but I shall live and recount the deliverance of the Lord. Also, he had experienced the severe discipline of the Lord, as he says in verse 18: the Lord has disciplined me severely, but he has not given me over to death. God had not given him over to death, and God had disciplined him severely, as his life gives testimony to. There's also a sense in which David was a stone that the builders rejected. Now when you hear that phrase, a stone which the builders rejected, what does your mind instantly go to but Jesus Christ? Because the New Testament uses it of Jesus Christ. On a regular basis. But it also has an initial reaction or a reference point to David. Remember when Samuel the prophet came to anoint a new king? And he was told to go to the house of Jesse and anoint one of Jesse's sons to be king. And he goes to Jesse's house, and Jesse calls all of his sons in. And Samuel goes from the eldest down to the youngest, and the Lord says, none of these are the ones that I've called you to anoint. He says to Jesse, do you have another son? Oh yeah, I have a young one. He's out tending the sheep. He said, bring him in here. I will not eat until You have brought him in before me. And God had chosen David over his other sons. It's interestingly One ancient Jewish paraphrase of Psalm 118 actually has verse 22 saying, the youth that the builders left behind has become king and ruler. They clearly understood this as a reference to David, as a stone which the builders rejected, has now become the king and the ruler over the nation of Israel. Now, we know that it speaks of more than just David. It speaks of David, but it speaks of more than just David. How do we know that? Well, we can go 300 years into the future to the book of Isaiah, and Isaiah picks up this theme of the cornerstone. David is long since dead. Isaiah is in the 700s. David reigns in the 900s. And he says this, Behold, I am the one who has laid as a foundation in Zion, a stone, a tested stone, a precious cornerstone of a sure foundation. Whoever believes will not be in haste. And then, 200 years in the future, Zechariah picks up this theme of a cornerstone again in Zechariah 10, verse 4, referring to the coming Messiah. So we know that David, as the cornerstone that was rejected initially by Samuel and by his father, and by his older brothers, But later became the king, was actually a picture of Jesus Christ, the cornerstone, the great cornerstone, who was rejected by the nation of Israel. And became the salvation of all mankind. So this psalm is clearly messianic. It is clearly a psalm that speaks about Jesus. The words of David and about David have their ultimate fulfillment in the life of David's greater son, Jesus Christ. And so when you read this psalm, it's important to understand there's an element that's talking about the Exodus. There's an element that's talking about David and from the reference point of David. But the greater fulfillment of this psalm is in Jesus Christ, the greater son of David. And we know this because Jesus quotes this psalm about himself. Jesus himself says in Matthew 21, verse 33, as he's telling a parable of the vineyard and the tenants. In this parable, a master plants a vineyard, and the master refers to God, and he plants the vineyard, which is the nation of Israel, and he puts a fence around it, and he prepares a wine press, and he leases it to tenants. Those tenants refer to the leaders, the spiritual leaders of the nation of Israel. And he goes into a far country. When it was harvest time, he sent servants to get the fruit from his vineyard. But instead the tenants beat, and they killed his servants. Then he sent again more servants, and they beat some, and they killed others. And finally he says, I will send my son, they will have respect to my son, they will listen to my son. But when the sun came, they said, Ah, we will have the inheritance. Let us kill the sun. And so they kill the son. And Jesus then asked this question after telling that parable. When therefore the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those tenants? And they say to him, the leaders of the Jews, he will put those wretches to a miserable death, and let out the vineyard to other tenants who will give him the fruit in their season. And right after this answer, Jesus quotes Psalm 118, verses 22 and 23. And he says, have you never read in the scriptures? The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes I am the Son who has come, and I have proclaimed everlasting life, and you have rejected me. But this is what God promised. This is what God prophesied. And I will become the chief cornerstone. Jesus clearly implies that he is the stone which the builders, the Jewish leaders, rejected. It's also this psalm, Psalm 118, that the pilgrims sang about Jesus when he came into Jerusalem riding on a donkey. In Matthew 21. Verse 9. They quoted verses 25 and 26, and the crowds that went before him and followed him, it says, were shouting, Hosanna to the Son of David, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest Now you might say, I didn't read the word Hosanna in Psalm 118. Hosanna is the Hebrew behind Psalm 118. 25, which is, save us, we pray. And what's significant, Jesus also quotes this again about himself in Matthew 23, verses 37 and following. He says, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem. The city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it. How often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings? And you were not willing. See, your house is left to you desolate. For I tell you, you will not see me again until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. This refers to the time when Christ will come again and Israel as a nation will weep and repent and put their faith in Christ. And then they'll say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, quoting Psalm 118, 26, receiving their Messiah as salvation. So when we come to this psalm, it's important to know there's an Exodus layer, there's a Davidic layer, but the greater fulfillment is Jesus Christ. Now, if you notice when I was reading, what probably struck you is the change of speakers as we were going through this psalm Verses five through twenty-one, the psalmist writes in the first person singular. Notice how how he says, Out of my distress, I called on the Lord. The Lord answered me and set me free. This goes all the way from verse five. to verse 21. It's I, me, my, first person singular. The psalmist is saying, this is my experience. But then in verse 22, it says, The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in Not my eyes. Our eyes. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Save us, we pray. It goes to first person plural. There is a group of people that are now responding to the words of the first person that sang. The individual who speaks is David. But his words find their ultimate fulfillment in Jesus. These are the words of our Savior Jesus Christ. And when the crowd speaks, the us, we, and they are speaking about Jesus. So Jesus is speaking, then the crowd is speaking about Jesus. So maybe you're wondering, did David when he wrote Psalm 18 have a clue that this was happening? Did David understand what he was taking place when he was writing Psalm 18? That's a good question. I really don't know. I don't know if he fully understood the full depth of meaning of his words. Peter tells us about this in 1 Peter chapter 1. He says, concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully, inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories He said, they wondered, like, is this all about me? They're writing under inspiration of the Holy Spirit. David is writing his own personal experiences, but he's saying I feel like there's more going on here than just my own personal experience. There's something greater than just my deliverance from death that's taking place here. There's something greater about this than just my salvation. But there's a greater salvation. And he's searching and inquiring and seeking to understand what was taking place. But David describes his divine deliverance from distress, which prophetically foreshadows Jesus' divine deliverance from distress on Calvary. So all of that is introduction. All of that is introduction to this psalm, but I don't think we can really understand this psalm without that introduction. Understanding the different layers, understanding what is going on, and understanding that this is clearly a messianic psalm, David being the writer. And his words being fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Fully fulfilled in Jesus Christ. So what does this Psalm call us to do? Knowing that it's a messianic psalm, what does this psalm call us to do? It calls us to thanksgiving and praise for the steadfast love of the Lord that is revealed to us in Jesus Christ. It says in verse 1, oh give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. He is good. This answers the question that this world wants to know. Is this really a friendly universe that we live in? Is this really a friendly universe that we live in? This is a great question. What about sin? What about death? What about disease? What about war? What about persecution? What about cruelties that one person does to another? What about abuse? Is this really a friendly universe that we live in? And the psalmist says, oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. He is good. Goodness is the sum total of all of God's attributes When when Moses asked to see God's glory, God says, I will have my goodness pass by you. Goodness is the sum total of all that God is, all of his attributes. He is wise and he is good in his wisdom. He is good in his justice. He is good in his love. He is good in his wrath. All of God's attributes are summarized in this, his goodness. And the Bible tells us of a God who cares about his creatures, who is involved in his creatures, and has entered into creation. into our misery, into our distress, so he could save us from the curse of sin. Because of God's goodness in Christ. Nothing happens to a Christian that is ultimately not for our good. So the psalmist says, oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. Give thanks, Christian, for he is good. If you're here this morning this evening and you don't know Christ, I would say to you, oh, taste and see that he is good. He is good. There is nothing that comes into the life of a believer, no matter how difficult, no matter how painful. that isn't ultimately for the believer's good. And so we could say, oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. Why? Because he says here, for his steadfast love endures forever. Last month at our Lord's Supper service, we looked at Psalm 117, that little psalm of two verses. Somebody told me afterwards, it's amazing that you can preach so long on so little. That may be true. Just Psalm 118 is a long psalm, so I'm just telling you, be prepared. But we looked at in that psalm where he talks about great is his steadfast love toward us. That's that same word. Steadfast love and the faithfulness of the Lord endures forever. And we saw that God's steadfast love refers to his persistent unconditional tenderness, kindness, mercy, and grace that he gives to believers. It's a relationship in which God seeks after man with love and mercy. Beyond a sense of love and mercy, there's embedded here the meaning of covenant loyalty and relational faithfulness. God is faithful to his own. And the word great we mentioned is most often translated prevailing, that God's steadfast love is prevailing. And we talked about how God's steadfast love prevails over our sins. Psalm 65, 3 uses the same word saying, When iniquities prevail against me, you atone for our transgressions. How? Because your steadfast love prevails. Where our sins are great, God's grace is greater. God's steadfast love is greater than our sins. No matter how great your sin may be, no matter how far you have gone and run from Christ, Jesus on the cross assured that steadfast love is greater than your sins. But along with this glorious truth, that God's steadfast love is greater. It prevails. He says here, that God's steadfast love endures forever. There is no limit to God's steadfast love. And so he calls us here to give thanks to the Lord for his unfailing love. For his steadfast love for us. How is it that God's steadfast love endures forever? How can God so patiently forgive his sinful people? What secures God's patience, God's pursuit of us, God's forgiveness of us? It is his steadfast love in Jesus Christ. It is what Jesus describes here in the rest of the psalm. God's steadfast love endures forever because Christ's sacrifice on the cross secured forever a full payment for our sins. I picture our Lord in the upper room with his disciples around him singing Psalm 118. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever And as our Lord sang this song, he knew that in a few short hours he would be going to the cross to assure that God's steadfast love endures forever. Only because of what Christ did on the cross, only because he drank to the fullness the cup of God's wrath. Can we sing today, God's steadfast love endures forever? Christian, aren't you glad the steadfast love of the Lord endures forever? How many times have we had to run back to God in repentance and in brokenness with tears streaming down our faces? Father, I've sinned against you. And the word from Scripture is, oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. The prodigal son came running back to the Father, or came shamedly walking back to the Father, and the Father wraps his arms around him, and in so doing he says, Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. For his steadfast love endures forever. The fact is, how many times have we needed to lean on that great promise that if we confess our sins, he is faithful. And he is just to forgive us from all our sins and to cleanse us from all our unrighteousness. Notice what you see here as well in this beautiful Psalm. All people are called to praise the Lord for his steadfast love. His steadfast love is not just for some, it is for all who will receive it He says here, let Israel say, His steadfast love endures forever. Let the house of Aaron say, His steadfast love endures forever. Let those who fear the Lord say His steadfast love endures forever. If you notice in these verses, we talked about something very similar to this a few months back in Psalm 115. Verses nine through eleven. And in that Psalm, Psalm one fifteen, he said, O Israel, trust in the Lord, He is their help and shield. O house of Aaron, trust in the Lord, He is their help and shield. You who fear the Lord Trust in the Lord, he is their help and shield. Notice he starts out with Israel, then he goes to Aaron, then he says, You who fear the Lord The same pattern is found here in these verses. Israel, Aaron, you who fear the Lord. And if you remember from what we went through Psalm 115 at that time. There are three classes of people that are being described here. The reference to Israel refers to the entire nation, God's chosen people. You, God's chosen people, of all people should say his steadfast love endures forever because God has covenanted. with you as a nation. Then he says to the house of Aaron, meaning the the priestly tribe, you, because you have been chosen of the nation To serve in his temple should be able to say, his steadfast love endures forever. But then he says, you who fear the Lord. Who is that referring to? If you remember when we went through Psalm 115, we looked at the fact that this is a technical reference to Gentiles. Those of us who are not part of God's covenant community, Israel, but have been brought near, we see things like this in Acts 13. Where Paul preaching in the synagogue at Antioch, he said, Brothers, sons of the family of Abraham, and then he says this, and those among you who fear God. Those here who are Gentiles who fear God, this message is for you too. So when he says, Israel Aaron and you who fear God, he's saying, All people can say and should say, his steadfast love endures forever. This love that has been given is a love that transcends boundaries. No matter who you are, Jew or Gentile, Christian leader. or layperson, God calls you to come before him with joyful thanksgiving because his steadfast love has been revealed to you in Jesus Christ. When we come to the Lord's table, it's a time of remembrance and reflection. In fact, it's interesting when Jesus gave the cup to his disciples, the first thing he did was what? He gave thanks. When he broke the bread, the first thing he did was he gave thanks. That's why in some churches the Lord's Supper is called the Eucharist, which means. To give thanks. And we come before the Lord's table in remembrance and in thankfulness. For what the Lord has done for us, for his steadfast love that endures forever. But along with that, the psalmist calls us to vocal praise. So not just private In our hearts praise. But he says this, let Israel say, let the house of Aaron say. Let those who fear the Lord say. His steadfast love endures forever. The call is for corporate praise to God, Jew, Gentile Laity, clergy, rich, poor, all who have tasted of the steadfast love of the Lord, come and let us praise Him and give thanks to Him I want to look at one more point and then we're going to have to stop for this evening. Give thanks to the Lord, first of all, for he is good. For his steadfast love endures forever. Secondly, give thanks to the Lord. Because he hears us in our distress. He hears us in our distress. We find here beginning in verse 5, he says, Out of my distress I called on the Lord. The Lord answered me and set me free. The Lord is on my side. I will not fear. What can man do to me? The Lord is on my side as my helper I shall look in triumph on those who hate me. It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in man. It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in princes. We're called here to give thanks to the Lord because he hears us in our distress, and we know that because Jesus is the one who suffered the ultimate distress for us. If you remember that these are not only the words of David, but these are the words of our Savior Jesus Christ when he says, Out of my distress I called on the Lord. The Lord answered me and he set me free. We know that these are the words of our Savior who cried out in his distress to the Father, and the Father answered him. We see the Lord crying out in deep anguish in Gethsemane when he said, My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. Then he says, Abba, Father, all things are possible for you. Remove this cup from me, yet not what I will. But what you will. And on the cross, when our Lord was facing the wrath of God poured out upon him, and the Father, as it were, turned his face from him, he said Eli, Eli, Lama Sabakai, that is my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? He cried out to the Father in distress. But we're told here, I called on the Lord in my distress. And the Lord answered me, and he set me free. The idea of being set free literally means To be put in an open or broad place. He was constricted. He was pressed in on the cross. But the Lord answered and set him in a broad place. Jesus was hard pressed on all sides on his way to the cross. His brothers His blood brothers did not believe him. His disciples rejected him. His disciples betrayed him and abandoned him. His own people rejected him and mocked him. The powers of darkness surrounded him and tormented him. But in his distress, our Lord set the ultimate example for us by crying out to the Father. And finding help. And he was vindicated. Verses 10 and 11 tell us about the extreme nature of the distress that our Lord suffered for us. Notice what he says here in verses 10 and 11. All nations surrounded me. In the name of the Lord, I cut them off. They surrounded me, surrounded me on every side. In the name of the Lord, I cut them off. They surro Frounded me like bees, they went out like a fire among thorns In the name of the Lord, I cut them off. The theme of being surrounded on all sides is repeated here in a way that just leads to an intensity. It's almost like there was a note of terror in the repetition of these words. Everywhere I looked on all sides, I saw only enemies. Only my foes surrounded me, and they were coming in closer and closer. The foes, he described them like swarming bees. Have you ever incurred the wrath of a beehive? Maybe in your mowing and you accidentally mow over a beehive and all of a sudden you're just surrounded by bees and you're like you swat away one and fifteen more come and you're just surrounded and you look like a crazy man flailing in the in the yard and your neighbors are going, Oh, they've finally lost it. That's the idea of being surrounded by the enemies that Christ said everywhere he looked, he was surrounded. And there was no escape. He describes it like fire among thorns. Fire among thorns doesn't last long, but it burns quickly. Everywhere he looked, the fire was encroaching in upon him. If you've ever thought of this, Christ, when he was on the cross, he was not only surrounded by human forces that sought to destroy him. But he was also surrounded and tormented by untold numbers of demonic powers that molested him. All the power of hell was unleashed on our Savior on the cross. He was surrounded on all sides. That's the theme that we found when we look at Psalm 22 together last year. And in Psalm 22, the Lord says, Be not far from me, for trouble is near, and there is none to help. Many bulls encompass me. Strong bulls of bastion surround me. They open wide their mouths at me like a ravening and a roaring lion. The Lord on the cross was utterly surrounded. And he cried out to the Lord in his distress. And the Father answered him. And he accepted him. And he was received. And as a result, we ought to give thanks to God because the distress that Christ took upon himself that day was our distress. It was the sins and the punishment for the sins that you and I have committed. When we looked at Isaiah 53 , We saw these great words where it says, He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and as one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted. But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities When we think of the distress our Lord faced that day on the cross, not only do we find an example for ourselves to cry out to the Father, But we also ought to praise the Lord. We ought to give thanks to God because that distress that he endured was ours. That we would have had to endure for all eternity because our sins demand an infinite penalty. Our reaction should be like the old hymn that says, O sacred head now wounded. Verse 2 says, What thou, my Lord, hast suffered was all for sinners' gain. Mine. Mine was the transgression, but thine the deadly pain. Lo, here I fall my Savior. 'Tis I deserve thy place. Look on me with thy favor, vouchsafe to me thy grace. And then he says in verse three, What language shall I borrow to thank thee, dearest friend? For this thy dying sorrow, thy pity without end. That is the question. What words of thanksgiving are enough For our Lord who took upon himself our distress, who was surrounded by enemies that should have been ours, and endured the suffering that was ours. So that we might know the steadfast love of the Lord that endures forever. So that we might say, Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. For his steadfast love endures forever. Let's pray. Father. We thank you that you are good. We thank you, Father, that you have shown your goodness to us in our wretchedness, in our sinfulness. In our rebellion by sending your son to take on human flesh, And to suffer in our place. We thank you, Father , that you have poured out your love to us In such an immense way. Oh Lord God, as we come to this time of remembrance, I pray that you would thrill our hearts with the magnitude of your gift to us. That we would say, Oh, give thanks to the Lord for He is good. For your steadfast love endures forever. Lord, may we marvel at the steadfast love that is ours in Christ Jesus, at the cost of it, at the lavishness of it. And Lord, may we give thanks to you and worship our Savior Jesus Christ. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.