Please would you turn with me to Acts chapter 20? I could share a lot of stories. I could uh r reflect on the eight years of the kinsteads has have been here. And uh it might be very emotional and so forth, but uh What we need to hear tonight is not my memories, but God 's instruction. I'd like to begin by reading a fictitious letter. It says, gentlemen, understand that your pulpit is vacant. I should like to apply for the position. I have some qualifications. I've been a preacher with much success, and I've also had some success as a writer. Some say I'm a good organizer. I've been a leader most places I've been. I'm over 50 years of age, and I've never preached in one place for more than three years. In some places I have left town after my work caused riots and disturbances. I must admit that I've been in jail three or four times But not because of any real wrongdoing. My health is not very good, although I still am able to accomplish a great deal. The churches I preached in have been small, though located in several large cities. I've not gotten along well with the religious leaders in the towns where I have preached. In fact, some have threatened me and even attacked me physically. I'm not very good at keeping records. I've been known to forget whom I have baptized. However, if you can use me, I promise to do my best. This, of course, is someone's clever idea of what Paul's letter to a church today might sound like. I must say that I can't imagine Paul saying some of those things. I don't think he would be trying to sell himself. I don't think he would be trying to impress a pulpit committee. However, the letter does make the point. That Paul doesn't quite fit our modern ideal of what a pastor should be. But make no mistake about it, Paul is set forth in Scripture as a model minister. In fact, he set forth as a model Christian. Many times in scriptures we read things like this, be followers of me, even as I also am of Christ Jesus. And Paul writes in 1 Thessalonians 1. 6, ye became followers of us and of the Lord. And Paul says, you are witnesses, and God also how holily and justly and unblamably we behaved ourselves among you that believe. And Paul is an example of sacrifice in the ministry. He says, For you yourselves know how you ought to follow us, for we behaved not ourselves disorderly among you, neither did we eat any man's bread for naught, but wrought with labor and travail night and day, that we might not be chargeable to any of you. Not because we have not power or right. but to make ourselves an example unto you to follow us. He says in Philippians 3. 17, Brethren, be followers together of me. And in Philippians 4. 9, those things which ye have both learned and received and heard and seen and me do. And tonight, in this passage where Paul says farewell to the elders at Ephesus, we see that he is set forth as a model minister of the gospel. Turn with me, please, if you're not already there, to Acts chapter 20 and verse 17. Let me read these introductory verses. It says, And from Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the church, and when they were come to him, He said unto them, and then he begins the speech that we will consider tonight. Paul is on the move In context, we read that he's racing to get to Jerusalem for the celebration of Pentecost, and he doesn't have time. to make the journey out of his way to Ephesus because if he goes to Ephesus, he won't be in jer in Jerusalem by Pentecost. And so what he does is he sends a messenger as soon as he arrives in Miletus to travel the 30 miles to Ephesus. He has just enough time for the messenger to get there, either a two or three-day journey. Tell the men there to get together, gather their belongings, and then make the two or three-day journey back to Miletus, and then he would meet with them on that day, and then the next day he would travel to Jerusalem. This is the only sermon in the book of Acts and the only sermon by the Apostle Paul that we have addressed to believers. And so it's very significant. Now, to whom exactly is Paul speaking? They are called by three different terms in this address. In verse 17, they are called elders. You'll notice that. And then in verse 28 , a term is used for them as overseers The word episcopas, we get the word episcopalian from this. It can also sometimes translate it bishop. And then he's speaks of them feeding the church, and the word there literally is shepherding or pastoring the church. And so these men are described as elders. as overseers and as pastors, because they all refer to the same biblical office. And so these men were pastors of house churches in the city of Ephesus, this large city. These were small little congregations, and they made up the church at Ephesus. These were men that Paul brought to Christ, discipled on a daily basis, and trained them for the ministry. These were men that he had poured his life into. And Paul spent more time at Ephesus, as I mentioned in that letter, than any other place. It became the hub for his ministry in Asia Minor and beyond. And in verse 31, we read in this address of the three years that he had spent there. This was his longest stint as a pastor. Now often We don't think of Paul as a pastor. We think of him first of all as an apostle and then as a missionary, and rightly so, he is the apostle. And the scriptures refer to him in that role many times. But here we see him reflecting on his ministry as a pastor. And he presents himself as a model pastor for these men to follow. And in this particular address, it really has two major parts. It can be divided up further. But we have Paul's example that he sets before them. He reminds them of what they observed in him during those three years. And then he also provides instruction. So we have Paul's example and instruction of pastoral ministry. And so on this special occasion, as we say farewell to the Kinsteads, I thought it would be appropriate for us to look at this address. where Paul says farewell to these men in the ministry. And it's our prayer that this will provide guidance and will be a blessing to the Kinstead family as they begin a new phase of ministry. So I'm going to speak to you tonight on Paul's philosophy of pastoral ministry. And so we have these two main points. First of all, I want us to consider Paul's example. of pastoral ministry. And this begins in verse 18. Notice what he says in verse 18. He says, ye know From the first day that I came into Asia, after what manner I have been with you at all seasons serving the Lord with all humility of mind, and with many tears and temptations which befell me by the lying in wait of the Jews. We first of all see Paul's example of humility. He says that you were essentially, you saw me day after day. You live with me. You saw me in every phase of my life and you know that I conducted myself with all humility of mind. Now how did Paul show his humility to these folks at Ephesus. Well, first of all, he had a servant's heart. Although he was an apostle and the author of most of the New Testament epistles, he saw himself as a servant. He he often begins his epistles with the words Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ. And Paul the Apostle, this man who was incredibly gifted and called of God , worked as a tent maker rather than take money from the people, even though he had the right to expect it, because he didn't want to be lumped in with false teachers. who gave religious teaching only for the motive of money. Notice how he says this towards the end of this address. Look with me at verse 33 He says, I have coveted no man's silver or gold or apparel. Yea, ye yourselves know that these hands have ministered unto my necessities and to them that were with me. And he says, and have showed you all things how that so laboring you ought to support the weak and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, it's more blessed to give than to receive. One commentator said that when he says that you know how that with these hands I have ministered to my necessities, that he probably held up his hands. And they were old and weathered and scarred from all the hard work that he had done over the years, and they were a testimony to his integrity in serving the Lord. There's a second way I think that Paul expressed his humility, and that was through his emotions. It's interesting how often in this address there's a mention made of tears on the part of the Apostle Paul. He says here in chapter 20 uh that and verse 19, serving the Lord with all humility of mind and with many tears. And he goes on to say that this was due to the persecution and danger that he was facing. But then towards the end of his address in verse 31, he says this, therefore watch And remember that by the space of three years I cease not to warn everyone night and day with tears. Now, I don't think that Paul was a coward or a sentimental man, but he didn't hide how he truly felt. In 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and verse 3, we read these remarkable words. He says to these believers at Corinth, and I was with you in weakness. and in fear and in much trembling. That would be kind of embarrassing to say, wouldn't it? He says, you remember what I was like when I ministered to you? I was a mess. I was weak. I was trembling. My hands were shaking. He says in 2 Corinthians 2 and verse 4, For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote unto you with many tears. Not that ye should be grieved, but that ye might know the love which I have more abundantly unto you. Let me make some application from this. What is going on here? What does this tell us about the Apostle Paul? We see him weeping over different situations, over his love for the people, over the persecution that he's faced. over his sense of weakness in ministry. What do they all have in common? They reveal that Paul was authentic. He wasn't like putting up a facade and making people think I've got everything under control Image is everything. No, he was willing to open his heart and show people, I'm weak, I'm frail, and I care for you. It's very easy for pastors and other spiritual leaders to reject the image that we never have problems or struggles or weaknesses and that the Christian life is just a breeze. And that's not the case. That wasn't Paul's approach. And it must not be ours. Steve, I encourage you. To be authentic with the people that you minister, to let them know when you have struggles. Talk to people. Open up your heart to them. Paul's humility is also demonstrated in his frequent request for prayer. He says in Romans 15, 30, strive together with me in your prayers to God. And then he says in Ephesians 6, 19 and 20, praying always for me that utterance may be given unto me, that I might open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel. He says in Colossians 4. 3, with all praying also that God would open unto us a door of utterance And he says in 1 Thessalonians 3. 1, finally, brethren, pray for us that the word of the Lord may have free course and be glorified even as it is with you. And finally, in 1 Thessalonians 5. 25, he says, brethren, pray for us. Why was Paul always asking his people to pray for him? Because he wasn't afraid to express himself. He wasn't putting up a proud facade that I've got everything under control, unlike you people out there. He said, I'm weak, and I need your prayers, and I need your help so that I would not, due to persecution and hardship, silence my voice and no longer preach the gospel. Steve, I encourage you to ask your people to pray for you. Because you need it, because I need it. Because every preacher of the gospel needs it. So we've seen Paul's example of humility. I want to now look at his example of preaching and teaching. And this again is going to be in survey fashion. I want to point out just In outline form, seven characteristics of Paul's preaching that are found in this chapter. Notice in verse 20 of chapter 20, he says, How I have kept nothing back that was profitable unto you. First of all, Paul's preaching was bold. He said, I kept nothing back. Literally, I didn't shrink. From speaking the truth. I didn't say, well, I'm not going to go there. That's going to be a whole lot of trouble. That's going to bring a lot of persecution. No, his preaching was bold. And sometimes I think we think of Paul as a superhero. You know, he went from town to town, was beaten, there were riots, thrown in prison. suffered greatly for preaching the gospel and we think and yet he kept going. Yeah, but we talk, we read about him as I just did, being weak and trembling. He was a human being, and so the idea of the of the torment and the punishment that he got for doing that did register with him. And it was a temptation for him. to not speak out boldly, and yet he did. Paul's preaching was practical. He says that he said what was profitable unto you Paul knew his people, he knew what they were struggling with, what they needed to hear, and he spoke in a way that would connect with them. and would be helpful to them. Thirdly, Paul's preaching was for all kinds of people. Look with me at verse 21, testifying both to the Jews and also to the Greeks. Now Paul was Jewish. It would have been easy for him just to minister to the Jews. And we know that was his heart's desire. But he ministered to all kinds of people who came to him. It's very easy to minister to people who agree with us who have the same level of education, have the same standards and convictions, and see things exactly the way we do. It's not so hard to minister to them. But God wants us to minister to all kinds of people. Fourthly, Paul's preaching was gospel-centered. Look with me at verse 21, testifying both the Jews and the Greeks. repentance toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. He speaks here of repentance and faith. This is why Paul could say what he said in verse 26. Turn with me in the same chapter to verse 26 and notice what he says here. Wherefore I take you to record this day that I am pure from the blood of all men. What does he mean by that? He means that no one can say that I came and I heard the Apostle Paul day after day when he was teaching in that lecture hall, and I never ever heard the gospel. No, they heard the gospel again and again and again. Paul's preaching was gospel -centered. It's so easy for a preacher to fall into moralism where he gives some principles for living, where he talks about being doing what's right and being kind and helping people in the community. And none of these things are wrong, but if they're not centered in the gospel, then it's no different than the message that those who know not Christ will give to others. Fifthly, Paul's preaching was Christ-centered. He speaks about faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 1. 23, we preach Christ crucified. And you cannot read Paul's epistles without seeing that at the center of everyone is the Lord Jesus Christ. Sixthly, Paul's preaching was grace saturated. Look with me at verse 24. But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself. So that I might finish my course with joy and the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus, I testify the gospel of the grace of God. Steve, I would encourage you to fill every message with the gospel, with Christ, and with the message of God's unmerited favor to sinners like us. And finally, seventhly, Paul's preaching was doctrinally comprehensive. Look with me at verse 27. He says, For I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God 's Now what does that mean? Does that mean the Apostle Paul preached every verse in the Old Testament? No. He could not have done that in three years. It means that he covered all the major points of doctrine. They got a balanced diet. They didn't just hear his hobby horse. They didn't just hear some of his favorite themes in Scripture or from his favorite book of the Old Testament. That's not what they heard. They had a balanced spiritual diet that was comprehensive in its scope. And that's the way a pastor must preach. We've looked at Paul's example of humility, Paul's example of preaching and teaching, and now I want to look at Paul's example of suffering. Look with me in verse 22. Paul says, and now, behold, I go bound in the spirit unto Jerusalem, not knowing the things that shall befall me there. Save that the Holy Ghost witnesseth in every city, saying that bonds and afflictions abide me. But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy. And the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus to testify the gospel of the grace of God. Paul is very clear here that serving the Lord involves suffering. If you know your Bible well, and I'm not going to invite you to turn there, but in 2 Corinthians chapter 11, the Apostle Paul gives a brief catalog of his suffering for the Lord. He talks about his show shipwrecks and the times he's been beaten with stripes and beaten with rods and and all the other problems. But what always strikes me about this passage that is filled With his suffering is the last thing he puts there is the care of all the churches, as if that was the epitome of the suffering that he faced. Steve, you and I are probably not going to face the kind of persecution that the Apostle Paul faced. We're probably not going to be beaten and stoned and thrown in prison or left for dead or suffer shipwreck because we're serving the Lord. Those things probably will not happen to us. But we do have the suffering of the care of the churches. Some of Paul's final words to Timothy were, endure afflictions. Literally, take your share of suffering. He said to him, endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. And Steve, I want you to know that being a pastor is going to involve some suffering. It comes with the job. You will be maligned, misjudged, and slandered. And the sheep that you open your heart to, that you sacrificially minister to you, at times will bite you. And the people that you have tried to help the most will often be without any appreciation and have nothing but contempt for you. But it's still worth it all. And we must follow Paul's example when he says that the suffering of this present time It's not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us. But now I want us to look at the second half of this address, which is Paul's instructions for pastoral ministry. And the key verse in this entire address, and one of the most important verses on pastoral ministry is verse 28. Notice what it says, take heed therefore unto yourselves and to all the flock. over which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers, to feed the church of God which he hath purchased with his own blood. So how are we to be watchful as a pastor? As many commentators think that the Apostle Paul has in mind the analogy in the Old Testament, the book of Ezekiel, of the watchman Who was looking out for the stealthly attack of the enemy? It's interesting what he says. It's not what perhaps we would think. Paul begins here, he says, take heed unto yourselves. The first person a pastor must shepherd is himself. If the pastor is not right with God, he can never minister effectively. This is why Paul says to Timothy, take heed unto thyself. It is very easy to become so involved in ministering to others and dealing with others that we forget about our own spiritual life. Everyone is far too familiar with stories of pastors who have brought disgrace upon the name of Christ. We all know situations like that. And often people will ask, how could that happen How could a man of God, how could a pastor who preaches the word of God, how could he fall in that way I want you to know that it happened over a long period of time because the pastor stopped being vigilant and honest with his own spiritual condition. I want to read two classic books from two classic books in the ministry. One is by Richard Baxter entitled The Reformed Pastor, a book I know you have in your library. He says, take heed to yourselves, lest you live in those sins which you preach against in others, and lest you be guilty of that which daily you condemn. Will you make it your work to magnify God and will you have done dishonor to him as much as others? Will you proclaim Christ's governing power and yet condemn it and rebel yourself? Whenever I think of this matter of taking heed to yourself, I think of the young Scottish preacher Robert Murray McShane, a man who pastored a church in Dundee, Scotland. You've heard me mention him before. He died at the age of 29 of tuberculosis. And there was a friend of his that was being ordained, and he was too ill to attend, and so he sent them this letter. The man's name was Dan Edwards, and he said to him these words. Do not forget the culture of the inner man, I mean of the heart, how diligently the cavalry officer keeps his saber clean and sharp. Every stain he rubs off with the greatest care. Remember you are God's sword, his instrument. I trust a chosen vessel unto him to bear his name And great measure according to the purity and perfection of the instrument will be the success. It is not great talents God blesses so much as likeness to Jesus. A holy minister is an awful weapon in the hand of God. And it's our prayer, Pastor Steve, that you would be a weapon in the hand of God. We must be watchful of our own hearts, but we must also be watchful of the people we minister to. He says here in verse 22, 28, and to all the flock. There is only one way you can really shepherd the people, and that is to know their spiritual condition. And so I would encourage you to be available for your people, especially in these early days of the ministry. Go out of your way to get to know people, to be in their homes, to have them come over to your home. to get to know them on a personal level. You cannot minister effectively people if you don't know them. It's very easy for a pastor to fall into the trap of thinking of himself as a CEO of a company, especially if he has a larger ministry. of not being available to his people, of having all these barriers of people who come between the people and their needs and the pastor, where he doesn't even know the names of the people in his congregation. But how can you pray and minister to people if you don't even know who they are? So I would encourage you to get to know your people well. Make sure that they feel comfortable with you, that they can unburden their hearts to you, and that they know that you are always available. It is not a job that you have, that it is a calling, and that you truly care for them. So what are the duties of a shepherd? There's some that are outlined here. First of all, you must feed the people of God. The word Feed here in verse 28 is a broader word than what you would think in our English translation here. It means to shepherd the people. What were the duties of a shepherd? Well, first of all, he had to feed them. Every Sunday you should provide rich spiritual nourishment for the people of God. They don't need your opinions or ideas. They don't need your political perspectives. or your outlook on life, they need the pure word of God that they may grow thereby. You must also lead the people of God. You must lead the people of God. You must be out in front of them, not behind them. The imagery of a pastor is not that of a cowboy who drives the people. and constrains them to do things they really don't want to do. No, he's out in front and he leads them gently but persuasively I would encourage you. I'm going to give some unsolicited advice. The most common mistake that new pastors make is they try to make a whole lot of changes when they first go there. They go in and they see this problem and this problem, this faction, and this issue over here, and they go in and they say, these people have no idea what they're doing. I'm going to change everything. That's happened more than a few thousand times, and it always ends in disaster. You undoubtedly will find things that you don't like But you must earn their trust and their respect before you start dismantling the way they have done things for many, many years. You must love the people of God. Shepherds that we read of in Scripture loved their people. We read of the shepherd that went out to find the sheep that was lost. It was more than just a job to these shepherds. Often they would name their sheep, and they were with them virtually 24 hours a day. They cared for their sheep, and so must a shepherd. If your people ever get the sense that this is just a job that you have then you will lose a very important part of your ministry with them. You will need to make sacrifices As a pastor. You will have to sacrifice your time. You will have to sacrifice your sleep. You will have to sacrifice your privacy at times. You will have to rearrange your schedule to go and meet someone when they need to be met. And you have to remember that you're always a pastor. When you're on vacation, you're still a pastor. When it's the middle of the night, you're still a pastor. When you're far away from town, you are still a pastor. And therefore you must always be available. I love that parable in Luke 15, that series of parables of the lost and found. Of the shepherd who left behind the 99 to find the sheep that had gone astray. A pastor has to be willing to make real sacrifices if he's going to have an effective ministry with his people. You may ask, how far does this go? How many sacrifices does a pastor have to make for his sheep? Let me remind you. That the greatest example we have of a pastor is the Lord Jesus Christ. Three times in Scripture, it speaks of him as our shepherd. And the Bible tells us that the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. The fourth role of a pastor is that he must protect the people of God. Look with me at verse 29. Paul utters this prophecy. For I know this that after my departing shall grievous wolves enter in among you, not sparing the flock Also of your own selves shall men arise speaking perverse things to draw away disciples after them. Therefore watch And remember that by the space of three years I cease not to warn everyone night and day with tears Paul continues here the analogy of a shepherd. Wolves were natural predators to the sheep. And what was true in the natural realm is true also in the supernatural realm. The flock of God will always be under attack by false teachers of many different varieties who will seek to destroy God's work of grace. Some of them will come from without the church. They might come from the community. They may come through the the the TV or the radio or or the internet. They may come from many different directions. And usually these are fairly easy to spot. But according to verse 30, some will come from within the church itself. In fact, it's a fearful thought to consider. It's very likely that as Paul spoke to this group of pastors That at least some of them ended up being false teachers. Who heard this very warning because we read later of the problems that the church at Ephesus had with false teachers and how they had to expel false teachers. Some of the men who heard these warnings were themselves the ones that Paul was warning about. Shepherds must be constantly vigilant to guard the flock of God. And I want to conclude with this. Why must we be watchful as pastors? There are many motives given in this text. One is consider the one who gave you this ministry. He says in verse 28 Over which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers. Paul was very aware of this fact. Look back with me at verse 21. He says, Neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy and the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus. Paul knew that this ministry was not his idea. It was God's idea. This is why Paul would write to Timothy, no man that wore it entangleth himself. with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who has chosen him to be a soldier. And we see here that God has not only called us generally to the ministry, but he calls us to specific congregations of people in his providence. And Steve, I think that God has not only called you to serve him as a pastor, he's called you to a particular group of people. We know how the Lord has led very clearly and providentially in this matter. And so it's very important when problems come, and they will, that you remember this wasn't my idea. This was God's calling on my life. This is where God placed me. And therefore it's not up to me whether I think this is worth it. or whether this is going to work out well, or whether I'm really up for the difficulties and the tension and the stress that I'm going to have to face. No, this is where God has put me and I will remain here until He moves me on. Consider the one who owns this ministry. It's called here in verse 28, the church of God. And the grammatical construction here refers to the church that belongs to God. Don't ever think of the church that you're going to pastor as your own church. Many times people will say that I always shudder a little bit when someone says, that's Pastor Layman's church. No, it's not my church. It's not my church. It's the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm just an under -shepherd. It doesn't belong to me. I don't have the right to do with it whatever I want. It belongs to the Lord. And that church, that little body of believers up there in Wisconsin belongs to God And thirdly, consider the value of this ministry. It says here, which he hath purchased with his own blood. Paul reminds these men of the cost of their redemption. We encountered this verse recently in 1 Peter, for as much as you know that you were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. Why does Paul mention this fact to these pastors? They knew this truth. He wants them to remember that every believer in that assembly was precious to God. I'm going to tell you something, Steve. You're going to minister to people at times who are really going to frustrate you. And they're going to anger you and they're going to try your patience. And you're going to go home and you might talk to Mary and you might say, you won't believe what they said today. And everything and your body is going to say, you know what, I just want to tell them to hit the trail. This church is not for you. You obviously all she ever do is complain and criticize and you've got a problem about everything. Why don't you just leave? And there are some pastors that handle it that way. But what you need to remember is that they are the children of God. And they're precious. And you have to love them and be patient with them. Because they have been purchased by the blood of Jesus Christ. One of the greatest Baptist preachers of all time was a man named Alexander McLaren. He pastored a large ministry in Manchester, England, at the turn of the 20th century, from the 19th to the 20th century. But before he had that influential ministry, he pastored out in the country in the middle of nowhere in England. He had a little flock of people. And often he struggled to wonder if this would be what he would do for the rest of his life. And there was nobody there of much education or ability or notoriety. These were very common people, uneducated people. And it seemed like what he was doing was so utterly insignificant. But God changed his hearts. And later he would write something that I have in my office, printed out. It's been there for many years. He said, the smallest work done for Jesus Christ lasts forever. whether it abides in men's ministries or not, men's memories or not. The smallest work, the most insignificant church in the world. Has the attention of the Lord and that little band of believers is precious in his sights. And it will be remembered throughout eternity. So every ministry. is significant. Steve, you're going to a small ministry. Our prayer is, I guess, that it wouldn't remain small, that it would grow, that people would be saved. But that may not be the Lord's will. He may want to keep that a small ministry But you should never think that what you're doing is somehow insignificant and unimportant, that it will never be remembered or count for eternity because it will. because you're dealing with the souls of men and women who will last forever. And we are laboring not for the opinions of our neighbors or other preachers or the world. We are laboring to hear from our Savior someday. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. So I want to conclude with the benediction that we find in verse 32 of this chapter. And now brethren and sisters, I commend you to God and to the word of his grace. Which is able to build you up and to give you an inheritance among all them which are sanctified. I'm going to ask Stephen, Mary, and Lydia if they'll come up now. I'm not going to lay hands on them. We did that when Steve was ordained in November of 2011. I'm not going to give any speeches. Which they are grateful for. But I want you to look at them and remember them and pray for them. They will need our prayers. They will face hardships and discouragements and difficulties and opposition. How do I know that? Because that's what every pastor faces. And so they need our prayers. I know they're precious to us, so I hope that we will be faithful in this. Let's pray for them. Father. We thank you for them. We thank you for the eight years of faithful service. We thank you for the sacrifices they have made. Thank you for the way they have opened up their home and their heart. Thank you for the way they've ministered as a team. Thank you that they've always been a healing. uh influence in our assembly. Thank you for the example that they have been to our young people of godliness. Father, we know that this is your will. We know this is your calling. We know that you have opened the doors in a very obvious way. And you have provided one answer after another And so, Father, we do commit them to you and to the word of your grace. We pray that you would go with them, that you would strengthen them, that you would bless them That you would use them beyond their abilities and beyond what they imagine they will see occur. I pray, Father, that you would help us to maintain a close relationship with them And I pray that they would not forget us and our love for them and our support for them. So, Father, we commit them to your care, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.