Before we open up our scriptures this evening, would you join me as we bow our heads and just go to the Lord, enter his presence in a word of prayer? Father, we come to you through the Lord Jesus Christ, who shed his blood on the cross for our sins. Father, we ask that you would bless your word as we consider it this evening. Father, I pray that you would help us to comprehend the fullness of the atonement that was made for us and the profound uh significance of it for our lives today and for ourselves even this evening. Lord, I pray that for the Christian who is among us who is discouraged who feels um downcast, um despondent because of his or her sin or that battle with the flesh, I pray that the cross would lift up their head this evening and that they would see the fullness of the Son of God and what he has done for them on their behalf. And I pray that they would be warmed in their heart. and compelled by love and by the sufficiency of Christ to draw near, to not stand far back tonight. but to draw near to the table and to sup and commune with the body of Christ. Lord, use this time I pray for all of our hearts. Prepare our hearts to partake of your table tonight in a pleasing way, in a way that would glorify you and demonstrate our faith in the sufficiency of the cross. Lord, bless this time. Fill me with your spirit, I ask. In Christ's name. Amen. We are gathered around the Word tonight in preparation for the Lord's table. And so I thought it would be fitting for us to begin our time this evening evening by reading our Lord's institution of this supper. So would you turn with me to Luke 22? Luke chapter 22 verse 14. We are going to make two quick stops before we arrive at our passage tonight, and this is our first stop on the way. Luke chapter 22 and verse 14. It says, and when the hour came, he reclined at table, and the apostles with him. And he said to them, I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. For I tell you, I will not eat until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God. And he took a cup. And when he had given thanks, he said, Take this and divide it amongst yourselves. For I tell you that from now on I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes Verse 19. And he took the bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and gave it to them, saying, This is my body which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me. And likewise the cup, after he had eaten, saying, This cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood. On this night, our Savior instituted what we call the Lord's Supper. He commanded his apostles to partake of this meal in remembrance of his suffering. It is, in essence, a memorial. Do this in remembrance of me, our Lord commanded. Our Lord introduced two elements, the broken bread and the cup. To symbolize and focus our attention on his person. Christ wanted his disciples to remember his blood, which he shed for them. and his body, which was broken for them. So as we move further into the New Testament, We find the apostles obeying this command that the Lord gave to them that evening. They instruct the churches to establish this pattern. So now would you turn with me to 1 Corinthians 11? Verse 23, 1 Corinthians 11, verse 23. Here we find Paul instructs the church of Corinth regarding the Lord's table. Verse 23, 1 Corinthians eleven, verse 23. Paul says, For I receive from the Lord what I also deliver to you. That the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me. In the same way also he took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this. as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. Verse 26. For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. I want you to see Paul's instruction to the church preserves the same emphasis and symbolism of the elements that Christ assigned to them. It is the blood and the body of Christ that our Lord commanded us to remember at his table, symbolized by these two elements. So tonight, I would like to give special attention to the broken body of our Lord. And I would like to raise this question. What does the offering of Christ's body on the cross accomplish for the people of God? What does the offering of the body of Christ on the cross accomplish for the people of God? In other words, what is its effect on believers? To answer this question, we're going to need to press further into our New Testament. So would you please turn with me to our final passage? The passage we've been working towards, Hebrews chapter 10. Chapter 10, verse, beginning at verse 5. Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 5. What are the effects of Christ's crucifixion? Beginning at verse 5. Consequently, when Christ came into the world, he said, Sacrifices and offerings you have not desired. But a body have you prepared for me. In burnt offerings and in sin offerings you have taken no pleasure. Then I said, Behold, I have come to do your will, O God, as it is written of me in the scroll. When he said above, you have neither desired nor taken pleasure in sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sin offerings. These are offered according to the law. Then he added, Behold, I have come to do your will. He does away with the first in order to establish the second. And by that will, we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Christ or the body of Jesus Christ once for all. Verse 11, and every priest stands daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But when Christ offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God. waiting from that time on until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet. For by a single offering he has perfected for all time. Those who are being sanctified. The first point that I would like to make from this text tonight is this. I want us to consider the nature of Christ's atonement. The nature of Christ's atonement. And the second point we're going to consider from this text are the effects of Christ's atonement on the believer. Okay? So the nature of Christ's atonement itself. and then its effects on the believer. Those are going to be our two points from this text. I realize there's much that we could say from this text. There's a lot of verses here. There's a lot of insight that be could be given at each corner and each turn. We're not concerned about that. We're concerned about these two subjects. Effects of the bodily sacrifice of Christ and the nature of it. So let's begin with verse five. Verse five. Consequently, when Christ came into the world, he said, Sacrifices and offerings you have not desired, but a body you have prepared for me. The author of Hebrews is quoting from the Psalter here, and you might be able to see that if you look in the margin, if you have a study Bible, you look in the marginal footnote of your Bible, it's going to indicate that this Quotation is from Psalm forty, Psalm forty, verses six through eight. In quoting this psalm, he says that this speech, the author of Hebrews says that this speech is in fact the speech of Christ. Psalm 40, verse 6 through 8, is Christ speaking to the Father. And in this quotation, Christ is declaring his submission to do the will of the of the Father to take a body at his incarnation. Consequently, when Christ came into the world, that's speaking of his incarnation He said, what did he say? What did Jesus say? Sacrifices and offerings you have not desired, but a body, you, who is you, it's the Father, have prepared for me Christ. The incarnation and the atonement of Christ are inseparably linked The second member of the Trinity, the eternal Son of God, could not have done the will of God and atoned for our sin prior to or apart from the incarnation. The will of God here in this passage is that man be redeemed to God, that sin be atoned for. That is God's will. And in order for a Christ to accomplish that, he has to take a body. A body that God had prepared for him. I have come to do your will, he says. And Christ, it's important that we understand this, Christ could not accomplish the will of God in atoning for our sins apart from taking on human flesh, apart from the incarnation. He must do this. He must take a body to die for the sins of mankind. This body was prepared. It was fitted is the idea. It was fashioned by the Father specifically for his son. I want you to listen carefully to Psalm 139. You don't have to turn there. I just want you to listen. For you formed my inward parts. You knitted me together in my mother's womb. I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made Wonderful are your works. My soul knows it well. My frame was not hidden from you when I was being made in secret, intricately, intricately woven in the depths of the earth Your eyes saw my unformed substance. In your book were written every one of them, the days that were formed for me, when as yet there was none of them. If we apply the same hermeneutic to Psalm 139 as the author of Hebrews did to Psalm 40, Then we would see that these words in Psalm 139 are not primarily describing David, nor are they primarily describing me or you or our children. They are speaking of Christ. God the Father skillfully knitted together the body of our Lord in the womb of Mary. His body was fearfully and wonderfully made. A body you have prepared for me. It was absolutely necessary for Christ to become a man in order to die as our substitute. I would like you to turn with me Um over to Hebrews again, Hebrews chapter two, verse fourteen It says, since therefore the children of flesh share excuse me, since Therefore the children share in flesh and blood. He himself likewise partook of the same thing, that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is the devil. and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. Now catch this. Therefore, he speaking of Christ He had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God to make propitiation for the sins of the people. The incarnation is necessary for the atonement of sin. Christ had to share in flesh and blood. This is why John warns in his first epistle that the mark of a false teacher is that the denial Is the denial that Christ has come in the flesh. He says that over and over again. This is an essential doctrine. Christ had to share in flesh and blood. He had to take a body and become man in order to die for men on the cross. So my point, my first point here, when we consider the nature of the atonement, remember that's our first point. What is the nature of the atonement? Christ's atonement was a bodily sacrifice. Okay? It was a bodily sacrifice. Now let's move on to our second observation regarding the atonement in this passage. Number two, Christ's atonement was a pleasing sacrifice to God. Verse 7. We're back in Hebrews chapter 10, verse 7. Then I said, Behold, I have come to do your will, O God, as it is written of me in the scroll of the book. When he said, Above, you have neither desired nor taken pleasure in sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sin offerings. These are offered according to the law. Then he added, Behold, I have come to do your will. He does away with the first in order to establish the second. The writer of Hebrews here makes the point. By contrasting the bodily sacrifice of Christ to the animal sacrifices under the old covenant. Look at verse 7, he says, I have come to do your will. I have come to do what is pleasing to you, in other words. What is the will of God? Well, as we've already observed, the will of God is that sin be atoned for. This will of God could only be accomplished through his son taking a human body, offering himself as a sacrifice for sin. Now, contrast, the offering of Christ To the offerings of the law. How does God feel about the offerings of the law? Well, look at verse 7. Excuse me, verse 8. You have neither desired nor taken pleasure in sacrifices. and offerings and burnt offerings and sin offerings. He actually goes on to name four kinds of offerings. And what he's doing there is he's listing all of them to basically summarize All of the offerings that were represented underneath the Mosaic Law. All of those offerings and all of their diversity did not please the Lord. Because they didn't accomplish his will. What was his will ultimately? That sin be atoned for. And we're told in Hebrews that the blood of goats can never take away sin. So God takes away the first He takes away the first program, as it were, to establish the second. He takes away the Levitical sacrifices mentioned in the first part of this quotation from Psalm 40 to establish the second part of what Psalm 40 is indicating, the bodily sacrifice of Christ. It is fair to say that the first system, the animal sacrifices, the priesthood that sacrificed them, and the law covenant that regulated them, all were done away by the work of Christ. God takes away the animal sacrifices. Because the animal sacrifices never could take away sin. That's the point. These sacrifices were not pleasing to the Lord. So you might ask, well, what was the purpose of them then? Why did God establish this precedent? Well, there are three points and I think three realities that we take from the Levitical system here. They teach us about God. They teach about us about his holiness, man's sinfulness. They teach us that sin must be atoned for in order for man to draw near to God. Those are very clear lessons that we were learned from reading books such as Leviticus and Deuteronomy, do we not? They teach us about Christ. They typologically point us to the final and effectual sacrifice of Christ. And that is, of course, a lot of what the book of Hebrews is drawing on. Number three, they teach us about the futility of man's attempt to make himself right with God. From Cain's offering down through the whole of Levitical sacrificial system, we discover that man's best offering cannot please God. Man has nothing that he can bring to God that will atone for his sin. I want to illustrate this point. by sharing uh a personal testimony with you. One of the downsides of coming in and pastoring at a church that you have never uh that you didn't grow up in is that, you know, people they you guys don't know me from my teen years. You didn't know me as a child and in my fifteen, sixteen, you know, high school years and then as an early adult. Um the church that I grew up in back home in Pennsylvania, they they of course know me um in that way. But as a teenager, I was very, very troubled. Um in my high school years I struggled is incessantly and almost uncontrollably with assurance of salvation that actually at times had a physical there there was physical complications involved as a result And I receive pastoral and professional counseling, but I would skip meals just to give you a little insight into, you know, how much this was a part of my life. I would skip meals, I would stay up late at night, I would close my bedroom door for hours seeking God, reading. and praying, and I often cried out to God, confessing my sin, repenting with the most intensity and fervor that I could muster. I wailed in my spirit and with tears before the Lord. And I only gained momentary relief that really never lasted. And so this just became a habitual pattern in my life. And actually, in getting to know Victoria, I discovered that she experienced something very similar in her younger years as well. But looking back, I see now that those moments were many times my attempt to grieve over my sin in such a way that might compel God or please God to save me. And maybe some of you can relate to that kind of experience. Somehow I think I thought that God would see my sincerity. my earnestness, my remorse, and then accept me because of that. I was looking to myself But Christ says here in our passage, it is I who have come to do your will. I want you to listen to the words of Horatius Bonard that we sang this evening. Not what these hands have done can save this guilty soul. Not what this toiling flesh has borne can make my spirit whole. Not what I feel Or do can give me peace with God. Not all my prayers and sighs and tears Can ease this awful load. Thy work alone, O Christ, can ease this weight of sin. Thy blood alone, O Lamb of God, can give me peace within. Thy love to me, O God. Not mine, O Lord, to thee, can rid me of this dark unrest and set my spirit free. No other work save thine, no meaner blood will do, no strength save that which is divine can bear me safely through Thy grace alone, O God, to me can pardon speak. Thy power alone, O Son of God, can this sore bondage break I bless the Christ of God. I rest on love divine, and with unfaltering lip and heart, I call this Savior mine. I want to ask you tonight, are you relying on yourself? Or are you looking to the work of Christ? If there's anything that the Levitical sacrifice has taught us, is this, is this that we can't bring anything to God. That will atone for our sin. There's no work that can please him. All our righteousnesses are but filthy rags Have you looked and are you looking to Christ alone? He is the pleasing sacrifice. Third Christ's atonement was a sufficient sacrifice. This is why it was a pleasing sacrifice, because it was sufficient. I want you to see from our passage, the emphasis on the singular nature of Christ's sacrifice. The singular nature of Christ's sacrifice. Christ needed to only die once. Look with me at verse ten, would you? It says, and by that will we have been sanctified through the offering, that is the death of the body of Christ once for all. Now look down at verse 12. But when Christ had offered once for all time a single sacrifice, he sat down at the right hand of God. Now look at verse 14. For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. The sufficiency of Christ's sacrifice is made here by contrasting the redemption or excuse me the the repetition of the animal sacrifices to the singular nature of Christ's sacrifice. And we see that here clearly in the text. Day after day, hour after hour, bulls, sheep, goats, pigeons, doves, they were all put to death. Their blood was drained and sprinkled. The carcass of that animal was offered up in flame upon the altar. This happened repeatedly. Every day, month after month, the same sacrifices. And what did that teach us? That they could never take away sin. Now contrast that to Christ's sacrifice. And by that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Christ. Listen to this. Once For all once for all, there's no repetition It's final. It's unrepeatable. It's singular. It's definitive. It's complete. It atones sufficiently for sins for all time. Never needing to be done again. The sufficiency of Christ's death is proved then again by the session of Christ. The priest, notice, stands daily, verse 11, in the temple, laboring and striving. His work was never done. Priests didn't sit down. They didn't take a break. One animal after another needing to be slain. Now contrast that to the posture of our great high priest, who having offered his blood once for all, Sits down at the right hand of the Father, indicating by his posture, in contrast to that of the Levitical priest. that the job is done, the will of God is accomplished, sin has once for all been atoned for. And I declare to you this evening that Jesus Christ for you is seated still at the right hand of the Father Because his blood has been shed once for all, and it is sufficient. He need not stand again. It's done. This is the nature of Christ's sacrifice that we've considered this evening. It was a bodily sacrifice. It was prepared by the Father. It was a pleasing and acceptable sacrifice. And it was a sufficient sacrifice offered once for all time. Now remember I said we're going to consider two points from this passage tonight. Do you remember what the second one is going to be? I want us now to consider the effects of Christ's atonement. upon the believer. We consider the nature of Christ's sacrifice. Now we're going to consider its effects upon us as his people. The sacrifice of Christ upon the cross perfects the believer. The two verses in this passage that speak of the effects of Christ's work on the believer are verses 10 and 10. So would you look? We're going to have to skip a couple couple of verses here, but verse 10 and verse 14 are the ones we're going to consider. It says this, and by that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. Now drop down to verse 14. For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. These verses are filled with many weighty expressions that hold precious gospel truth. And I want to call your attention to three important expressions in these two verses, okay? First, in verse 10 and verse 14, we see the phrase, through the offering of the body of Christ, and by a single offering. These verses communicate that the single and only means by which God has perfected the believer is by the offering of the body of Christ. Speaking of his death, okay? What I mean by this, I know we've already made the point that Christ only had to die once. We understand that We're going to be talking now about the Christian being perfected, and we haven't gotten into what that means yet. But know this. The Christian is perfected by a singular act, the offering of the body of Christ. That act alone perfects the believer It is Christ himself, the shedding of his blood, the offering of his body on the cross. Christ alone as crucified that perfects us. Alright, now the second important expression is the term sanctified, verse 10. And then that term perfection, verse 14. These are the effects of Christ crucified upon the believer. These terms are not necessarily synonymous, but they both point to the same reality. The term sanctified in verse 10 means to make holy, to set apart. You should not think of the concept of progressive sanctification. That is a Christian becoming more and more uh morally conform to the image of Christ. That's not necessarily what these verses are indicating, even though it uses the term sanctification. These verses are not speaking of progressive sanctification, but a definitive sanctification. This is a one-time permanent act whereby God perfects the believer by the death of Christ. The term perfection refers to the cleansing from the pollution of sin. It does not refer to a higher state of Christian maturity or a second work of grace as our Wesleyan brothers espouse. What does this perfection involve? What does it mean that you have been once and for all perfected by the body of Christ crucified. What does that entail? It entails this. Number one, it includes the cleansing and forgiveness of sins we find in our context. It includes the cleansing of the conscience. It includes the new heart promised in the new covenant Hebrews chapter 8. It includes fitness to enter God's presence and consecration to his service, Hebrews chapter 10. And it includes the promised eternal inheritance. These concepts all make up what it means to be perfected. You see, a sinner has two great problems because of his sin. One is without and the other is within. Without, the problem without is he has incurred God's wrath. There is a record with God against the sinner And God's wrath is therefore against the sinner. But that's not his only problem. He's got a second problem. His heart is defiled. His mind and his will are corrupted by the defilement of sin. On the cross, both of those problems were addressed. Jesus Christ, when he was crucified, became our propitiation. That word means that he bore the wrath of God. He appeased the wrath of God. But on that cross, when Christ died, he also provided the perfect cleansing that we need from sin. We call this expiation, the defilement and corruption of sin upon the Christian, or excuse me, upon the sinner, is cleansed once and for all. By the cross of Christ. Christ's blood and his body cleanses the sinner So that God's wrath is appeased and the sinner is made holy. And both are necessary for our salvation. We have been perfected. The third observation I want you to make from verse 14, it says this. For by a single offering he has perfected for all time. What does this mean? It means that the Christian has been perfected. Please catch this. Permanently. The cleansing of Christ is finished. It is final. It is definitive It is complete. It is permanent. It never needs to be done again. The verb perfect is it perfected is in the perfect tense, indicating that the work has been accomplished, but has lasting results. You may not be understanding the connection I'm making here, so I want to make this very, very clear, because I think this is the heart of the passage. What is the effect of the atonement? What is the effect of Christ crucified for you? What is the effect of Christ upon the believer, it's that he has once and for all been cleansed and perfected before God. He has once and for all been declared holy before the Lord. I can say it this way. This passage is teaching that the effect of the atonement are of the same nature as the atonement itself. In other words, the perfection of the believer is of the same nature as the death of Christ. Just as Christ died once for all, never needing to die again, so the believer has been made perfect for all time, never needing to be perfected again. You and I, if we are in Christ, have been made holy once and for all By the once and for all death of Christ. That is the heart and the message of this passage. For the sake of time, I'm just going to raise one question that may be in your mind, possibly one objection, and then we'll make a brief application and transition to the Lord's table. Is there a need then to still confess my sin if I have been permanently cleansed? Have you ever thought about that? If I've been cleansed of all my sin. Then is it necessary to continue confessing that sin? Or you may approach it this way, I know the scripture commands me to confess my sin. Does that somehow contradict this other truth over here that I've been permanently cleansed? How do we reconcile these two truths? Well, the short answer is that there is no contradiction. Our Lord answered this very question. With the washing of the disciples' feet, which by the way took place during the Last Supper, right before the breaking of the bread and the passing of the cup. You remember Christ was washing the disciples' feet as he came to Peter. And Peter, do you remember what Peter said? Peter says, Shall you wash my feet And Jesus said to Peter, If I do not wash you, you share, you have no share with me. So do you remember then what what Peter's response was, Well Lord, then wash not only my feet, but wash my hands and my head. Wash all of me. Now listen carefully to what Jesus said to Peter. The one who has bathed does not need to wash, except for his feet. But is, but it is, excuse me, but is completely clean. And you are clean. What Christ was telling Peter is that he doesn't need to be bathed. He was bathed once. He was washed once. He doesn't need to fundamentally be cleansed again. What he needs is for his feet to be washed. And actually, that washing of his feet is necessary for fellowship with Christ. Peter can't cannot deny the Lord that if he wants fellowship with him. We have been made completely clean. We have been bathed, as it were, once for all. It doesn't need to be repeated again. Yet, at the same time, we need our feet cleansed because we still live in this body of flesh. And if in fact we do not confess our sins, if we say, as 1 John warns, That we have no sin, then the truth is not in us. No, confession of sin is necessary for fellowship. But here's the point, here's the heart of Hebrews 10, believer. You have once and for all been cleansed By the once and for all sacrifice of Christ. And that does not need to be repeated. It's done, it's final, it's full And the application for us now is found just a little bit later in Hebrews chapter 10, verse 9. It says this, listen to these words. Therefore, brothers. Since we have confidence to enter the holy place by the blood of Christ, by the new and living way that He opened for us through the curtain, that is, through His flesh. And since we have a great high priest over the house of God, what are we to do with all of this? Let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith. With our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water, let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. Believer, how do you respond to these words tonight? You come to this table. Believing that the blood that was shed, the body that was broken, is sufficient for you. And you have once and for all been perfected. And you are to come by faith. You are to come confidently. You are to come looking and depending upon Christ alone crucified for you. But you are to come. You are to come repentantly, confessing your sins. You need your feet washed tonight, and so do I. But let's not forget, weary downcast Christian. You have been cleansed once and for all. So come and fellowship. Draw near to the Holy of Holies, as it were. Draw near to the presence of God tonight. through the blood, through the body of Christ, and commune with him. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this time. I pray that you will bless our time now at your table. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.