If you have your Bibles at home, I'd invite you please to turn with me to the passage that Pastor Nick read a moment ago, Luke chapter 18. We are continuing our study of our Lord's Parables. And this morning we are looking at the parable of the unjust judge. The most famous Baptist preacher. At the turn of the 20th century in this country was a man named A. C. Dixon. He was born in a small town in North Carolina. But he became pastor in many large cities, including Baltimore and Boston and Chicago, and finally London, England. In fact, he pastored the church that was once pastored by Dwight L. Moody in Chicago, and then he pastored the church that Charles Spurgeon once pastored in London. So he was a very prominent preacher in this time. He was one of the main contributors to the influential series of books known as the Fundamentals. And in a book on evangelism, he said, when we rely upon organization, we get what organization can do. When we rely upon education, we get what education can do. When we rely upon eloquence, we get what eloquence can do. But when we rely upon prayer, we get what God can do. In January of this year, I mentioned to our congregation that I wanted to focus on prayer this year. Well, the Lord has certainly given us something to pray about and ample opportunity to pray. It could be that more people are crying out to God than ever before in the history of the world. Never have so many people around the world found themselves shut up at home, isolated and fearful. This morning I would like us to look at one of the parables that reminds us of the necessity of prayer. The Gospel of Luke is a gospel that highlights the prayer life of our Lord, and so it's not surprising that Luke has several parables concerning prayer. One that we look back at back in December is entitled The Parable of the Midnight Guest. You remember that man who had an unexpected guest arrive at midnight and he had nothing to feed him, and so he goes to his neighbor. Who he calls his friend and asks him to get up out of bed, even though he finally has all the children settled and give him three loaves of bread. And his supposed friend tells him to go away. But he just keeps knocking. He keeps asking. He makes a nuisance of himself He wakes everyone up. And so finally the man gets out of bed and reluctantly gives him the bread that he has requested. And the Lord's point is an argument from lesser to greater. This reluctant neighbor is not at all like our Father. But the argument is this if a reluctant neighbor will give you what you need, how much more will the Lord who loves you and is always available? The Lord applies this parable by saying, Ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be open unto you. Now, the parable that we're considering this morning is known as the parable of the unjust judge. And in the minds of many Bible scholars, it's essentially a twin parable. Of the parable of the midnight guest. It has a virtually identical application and purpose. It exhorts disciples of Christ to perseverance in prayer. Now, why would the Lord feel that the need to essentially repeat Himself? I think the answer is because we often do not persist in prayer. We pray for something for a while, but then we give up. And so the parable, the Lord emphasizes this important need by repeating himself here in this parable. Now the parable that we're considering together this morning has an eschatological context. It is, it has to, has it's flavored by end times things because at the end of chapter 17 The Pharisees, it says in verse 20, demanded when the kingdom of God should come. And he answered them and said, The kingdom of God should come cometh not with observation. Neither shall they say, Lo here or lo there, for behold, the kingdom of God is within you, or I think it could be translated better among you. because the king was in their presence. And then he goes on to talk about various signs of the coming of the Son of Man. He compares the end times to the days of Noah and the days of Lot. And so Coming into this parable, the discussion our Lord is having with the Pharisees and his disciples concerns the matter of end times. And the Lord is going to go back to make application to future events at the end of this parable, where he says, I tell you, he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, shall he find faith. Now I want you to notice how the Lord introduces this parable. Look with me at Luke chapter 18, please, in verse 1. And he spake a parable unto them to this end. That man ought always to pray and not to faint. We don't need to wonder why Jesus told this parable, because He gives the reason here in verse 1 that men would always pray and not faint. Now, when Jesus says always, he means not continuously, but in every circumstance. Now the Greek word that's translated faint in verse 1 is a very interesting term. The other five times that it's used, it's found actually in the writings of the Apostle Paul. This is the word that's used in that famous statement in Galatians 6. 9. Let us not be weary and well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. The word faint not means to lose heart. Six times in Scriptures, believers are exhorted not to lose a heart, that is, not to give up. And perhaps the most common reason that Christians lose heart is because they face a painful difficulty and they cry out to God to deliver them, and then nothing happens. Does that ever happen to you? Face a crisis in your life and you cry out to God and nothing changes. What do you do when that occurs? Well, I think most people quit. They stop praying. They give up on God. But this parable is intended to motivate us to continue in prayer, especially when we are facing discouraging circumstances. Christian disciples must demonstrate their faith by persisting in prayer. Now let's look at this parable that essentially begins in verse 2. There was in a city a judge which feared not God, neither regarded man. This parable has just two characters, and they are very different. One is a powerful man, the other is a vulnerable woman. Judges in the ancient world were often corrupt, and this judge is presented as the epitome of a corrupt judge. In fact, he's the worst judge imaginable. He's described in just two phrases that are intended to communicate This judge violated the essence of God's law. Do you remember how the law of God is summarized, those two tables? Love God with all your heart. Love your neighbor as yourself. This man did neither one. He didn't fear God. He didn't care about others. Now this would indicate That he was completely unsuited for the task that he was doing as judge. The implication of this passage is the reason why he was a judge was for the bribes that he would receive. Now you might logically ask, how could a man with this kind of horrible mercenary character rise the level of being a judge in Israel? Well, almost all commentators suspect that he was not a Jewish judge. It's very likely that Jesus is speaking here of a Gentile judge. This is why it says he didn't fear God or care about the people. He wasn't one of the people, and he certainly didn't respect their Jewish God. He was put in this position by the Romans to keep peace and to settle disputes. We know that the Jews had a name for these Roman-appointed judges. They were called robber judges. And that's of course because they used their power to gain riches through unjust. legal proceedings. They were hated by the Jews just like the Roman-appointed tax collectors. In verse 6, Jesus describes this judge as unjust. The same word is used to describe the unjust steward in chapter 16, who is representative of the children of this world. This judge is also the quintessential man of the world who lives as if there is no God, no authority greater than himself. But next we're introduced to this unnamed widow woman. Look with me at verse 3. And there was a widow in that city, and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of my adversary. Widows were very common in the ancient world. Many men, due to war, disease, and dangerous working conditions were cut down in the prime of their life, leaving behind a grieving and vulnerable wife. Widows had very few options in supporting themselves or any children in the ancient world. They could return to their parents if they were still alive. or they could become a beggar, or they could quickly remarry. Often there were no good options available for them. And because of this vulnerable condition, the scriptures are filled with words of protection and provision for them. Exodus 22, verse 22 says, Ye shall not afflict any widow. It says in Deuteronomy 24, ye shall not take a widow's raiment to pledge. Malachi 3. 5 says, I will come near to you to judgment that oppress the widow. This widow here has one simple request that the judge would avenge her of her enemy. Apparently, this woman has been cheated or robbed of some provision. that her husband made for her and her family. Her complaint probably alludes to some crafty maneuver by an unnamed adversary who took away the family property. This was the widow's only hope of providing for herself and her children. This woman was not asking, as you might suspect from the context. that somehow her enemy be punished and be tortured. When we read the words advenge, we hear the word vengeance there. But what she's simply asking for is justice that the land that has been taken from her or the money that has been stolen from her would be returned to her. She just wants to survive. Now it's important for you to realize that in the ancient world, women rarely appeared in courts. They were usually represented either by their father, their husband, or their brother. But this woman is a widow. She has no husband. It's likely that her father has already died, and perhaps the same could be said for her brother. She has no choice but to appear in court for herself. In verse 4, we read that this judge denied her justice at least for a while. It says, and he would not for a while Now, why didn't he help this vulnerable member of society? This is what judges are supposed to do. Well, perhaps he didn't like having a woman appear in his courtroom. Or it could be that the land that had been taken from her was taken by one of his friends. But most likely His inactivity can simply be explained by the fact that she had no money to bribe him. There was nothing in it for him to give her justice, and that's how he operated. And so when she first came before him, I imagine that he said something like, case dismissed, next. But the turning point in this brief parable is found in the phrase, for a while. What is crystal clear is that this woman would not take no for an answer. Every morning as this corrupt judge looked at those lined up to see him, he saw a familiar face. At first it was humorous, then it became annoying, and finally intolerable. Now we don't need to wonder what this man was thinking because we have a record of his internal dialogue in our text. This is one of the regular features that makes our Lord's parables so powerful. It says, He said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man, yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming She wearied me. So why did this judge give her justice? Well, it's explicitly mentioned that it's not because he feared God. Or he had any concern for her, this man, make no mistake about it, has no integrity, no real character. No, he was simply motivated because this woman had become a continual nuisance to him. And her only weapon was to nag this judge until he gave her what she requested. The Greek word used for weary is very interesting. It literally means to give a black eye. It's used again in 1 Corinthians 9. 27. We have a close expression of this in English. We might speak of someone browbeating another person. It doesn't mean that they physically attack them. But that they persuaded them with stern or abusive language. They put great pressure on them. Now I don't think this woman used abusive language, but she certainly wore him down. Most commentators think there's probably an intended note of humor in this description. This frail little woman beats down this mighty man. She bends his will to hers. And so the crooked judge finally gives her what she has been requesting for so long. He gives her justice. The family land is restored to her possessions, and now she has a means to provide for herself and her family for years to come. So what does this quaint story mean for us? We don't need to wonder because the Lord gives us application in verses 6 through 8. Look with me there, please. And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith. And shall not God avenge his own elect? Which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them It's important for us to remember that this parable, like many of our Lord's parables, is an argument from lesser to greater The argument is this, if a wicked judge like this will grant a persistent request, how much more will our loving Father You see, God is not at all like this judge. This is called the unjust judge. Well, our God, our judge, is just. Genesis chapter 18 and verse 25 says, Shall not the judge of all the earth do rights? Our judge is compassionate. All throughout the Old Testament, we read this attribute of God that his mercy endureth forever, that he is a God who pities his children. This judge didn't care for people, but our God cares for his people. The judge had no affinity for this widow woman. But we see here the people of God described as the elect, those whom He has chosen and called and redeemed. He has a covenant with us, a bond with us. He is compelled and constrained and motivated to hear and answer our request. And our God, our judge, always does what is right for us So it's important for us to understand that this parable is not at all suggesting that somehow in our persistent prayers we wear God down. That never happens. It's not like some exasperated parent who has a child who just keeps pestering them. and annoying them and asking them for something and they're so stressed and they're so tired of it that they just say, okay, go ahead. Just do whatever you want to do. God's not at all like that. Don't think that that is what is being taught in this parable. Now one of the things that may make you scratch your head about this parable is in verse 8 the statement that God makes, I tell you that he will avenge them, that is, the elect Speedily. Speedily. That's the problem, that one word. How can it be said that God will avenge his people speedily? Well, there are two suggestions the Bible scholars have made over the years. I mean, it's been 2,000 years since the Lord uttered these words. It could be that Jesus is saying from God's perspective, your vindication will occur quickly. In second Peter chapter three and verse eight we read that a thousand years are as a day and a day is as a thousand years of the Lord We're so often like children who are on a long road trip. We keep asking, are we there yet? Because to a child, five minutes seems like an eternity. But the parents, because of their maturity, have a much better understanding of time. Our painful waiting for God to intervene in our lives seems unbearable. But from God's perspective, it's only been a few minutes until He will bring us home. But I think another understanding of this promise to vindicate God's people speedily is that the coming of Christ will occur quickly and catch people ar off guard. We don't have to wonder what that would be like. Just consider this global pandemic that we're going through right now. It has come upon us so quickly. Just weeks ago, our lives were following a normal routine and cycle like they do every year And it would be hard for any of us to imagine that we would be where we are today, isolated, quarantined essentially in our homes. Businesses shut down, churches empty. We could not have imagined that. It all happened so quickly The Lord, I think, may be saying that this is how the coming of Christ will be. It will happen so suddenly people will be taken off guard. They won't be able to imagine what has occurred. Now there's a very interesting question our Lord asked at the end of this parable. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man cometh, shall he find faith? On the earth. The Greek text reads, Will he find the faith on the earth? It's a specific kind of faith that is in view, a faith that persistently cries out in prayer. Come, Lord Jesus. The Lord is asking, will there be faithful people still praying and looking for his return when that occurs? Now commentators, depending on their theological persuasion, like to speculate about the assumption of this question. Is the Lord assuming that very few people will be believers when he comes? Or is he assuming that there will be very many people who will be still praying when he comes? But the question is not intended to be prophetic, but motivating. This is sort of like a parent telling their child, When I return from the store, will I find that your room has been cleaned up? The question is not intended to predict as much as it is to compel that child to action Now, I would like us to take a few moments now to apply this parable, and I want us to consider four reminders. That this parable turns our attention to. Number one, life is often filled with prolonged, painful circumstances. Now that's not a very cheery prospect, but it is the truth. Life is often filled with prolonged, painful circumstances. This widow woman. Was in a dire situation and it lasted for some time until she received justice Peter tells us that we should not be surprised when suffering comes into our lives. It's to be expected on this fallen planet. You might be wondering, how is it that we have this microbe that is going all over our planet and is killing people by the thousands every day. How could that happen in something that God has created? Because we live in a fallen world. And things like disease and death and decay occur. This is not as God originally made this beautiful planet. We need to be careful when we go through a prolonged period of suffering that we do not think that somehow we're facing a unique tragedy. You must not interpret this as an indication that God doesn't care for you or that he is not in control. Instead, you must see your painful circumstance. As part of God's perfect plan for your life. This vulnerable widow in our parable, in some respects, is representative of the people of God, the elect. who are referred to in verse 7. And it reminds us something that we in America often forget. And that is the normal situation of the people of God is that we find ourselves vulnerable, oppressed, and dismissed by the powerful people of this world. You know, I was thinking, as we are confined to our homes for worship today, you know, in many countries of the world Where it's illegal to proselytize, where it's illegal to own a Bible. This is the way believers always worship. They always worship at home. They always worship in small gatherings, isolated, quiet That is their circumstance, and that has been the circumstance of the people of God for hundreds of years and in many locations. This should not discourage us or cause us to doubt God's goodness. Remember, Jesus promised to his disciples in the upper room? He said, In the world ye shall have tribulation. He says, this is what you could characterize your time in the world. It will be a time of tribulation, a time of persecution. You see, persecution is the norm for the followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. But then Jesus said, Be of good cheer, I have overcome the world. We don't live As victims. We don't live as those who have somehow been um destroyed by the powers of this world. No We live with joy. We live with courage. We live with confidence because someday our glorious Savior will come in his time and vindicate his people. Second reminder from this passage is that Christians must persevere in prayer. I think there are three reasons that are alluded to in this parable why we should persevere in prayer. Number one Because God cares for us. I've already mentioned to you that God is not at all like this corrupt judge in the parable. Our loving Father cares for us. He's eager to help us. We never have to wear him down through our incessant prayers. He loves us with an everlasting love. He sent his son to die for our sins. He cares for us. And because he cares for us, we should be free and bold in coming to him in prayer. But there's another reason why we should persevere in prayer because God is worthy of our trust. The judge in this parable had no character. He had no integrity. He was not trustworthy. But our God always keeps his promises And we demonstrate that we trust in him by continuing to bring our burdens before him in prayer. It is an expression of our faith. But there's a third reason why we should continually come to him, and that is because our God will do what is right. Genesis 18. 25, the Lord says to Abraham, Shall not the judge of all the earth do rights? I want you to notice, I want you to know that this is a text that we should cling to as the people of God during this time of global pandemic. God is in control and God will do what is right. Now, one reason that the widow in this parable kept coming before this judge is because she knew. She was right. It was not some imaginary offense that had occurred to her. There really was an enemy, an adversary. who had stolen what rightfully belonged to her. She knew she was right, and so she kept coming. And then likewise When we know that our request is according to the will of God, it should compel us to boldly and frequently come before His throne of grace. The third truth I want us to consider by way of application is that Christians must understand that our prayers may be delayed. And being answered. This widow had to wait before she received justice. And often the Lord makes us wait. before he answers our prayer requests. Why does he make us wait? I want to mention five reasons. Number one, the circumstances are not right for you. to have your request answered. Sometimes we think we know the timing of our life correct We see examples of this in Scripture. David wanted to build a great temple to the Lord. The intent of his heart was right, but the timing wasn't right. That honor would go to his son Solomon. Sometimes we have a burden, a desire for something for God to do in our lives, but the timing isn't right. The circumstances haven't lined up according to his will. And if we were to get our way, it would be like picking fruit that was not ripe. It would be a waste. So we must trust in God. when he delays in answering our request. Secondly, the second reason he delays our request is because he wants to stretch our faith. God is more concerned with our spiritual growth than he is in answering our prayers. And this is why we must pray and not faint. A third reason he delays in answering our prayers is to allow the wicked who oppress us to repent 2 Peter 3. 9 says this explicitly. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but is long-suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. This is one reason why our Lord has not returned. The people of God cry out and pray, Come, Lord Jesus. Well, why doesn't He hear our request? Because He is giving more time for the wicked to repent and believe. and not perish. There's a fourth reason why God does not answer our request, especially In regards to when we cry out that he would end our suffering and our pain, that seems pointless to us. And that is that sometimes God delays in answering our request to reveal his sustaining grace. God 's will is that some of his children would suffer for an extended period of time so that everyone around them can see how God's grace is sufficient. Have you ever seen that before? The life of a believer who is suffering for weeks and months and years with excruciating pain, and yet they maintain a sweet and submissive and godly spirits. What a rebuke that is to us. So often I've seen people like this and I've said They're better than I am. I could not have done that. I would be complaining. I would be angry. I would be depressed. But look at the sweet spirit they possess God allows some of his children to go through the fire to show to all of us, to believers and unbelievers alike, that he is more than enough. That his grace can sustain people even in the most painful and uncomfortable of circumstances And fifthly, God delays in answering our prayers. Because God is magnified when we pray for God to do something for years, something that seems impossible, and then God does it. Some of the most precious memories of my childhood come from our times of family worship. After dinner , My father would often read some scripture, and sometimes he would take out his guitar and we would sing a hymn, and then we would pray. One of the most mentioned prayer requests was that my grandmother would get saved. We prayed for her salvation when she lived in Tennessee. And my dad was in school preparing for the mission field. We pray for her salvation when we were missionaries in Papua New Guinea We continued to pray for her when we returned to the States and settled in Maryland. We prayed for her when I was in elementary school and high school and in college and in seminary. And finally, three days before she died, the Lord answered our prayers. And Christ was magnified and delaying the answers to our earnest petitions. The fourth application I'd like to make from this passage is that Christians must live with a longing for Christ's return. Jesus promises that he will come again. They were not given for our curious speculation, but to motivate us to live for him. His imminent return should have a sanctifying influence in our lives. The Apostle John writes in 1 John chapter 3. And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself even as he is pure. Every believer who has the hope that someday They will ultimately be purified and fully sanctified and glorified in heaven, and they'll be like Christ. That vision, that ultimate destination for us should motivate us to holy living. Now the coronavirus pandemic has shocked the world. It's been a wake-up call to all of humanity. These past few weeks have reminded us that everything can change very quickly. Our routines have been disrupted overnights. Our comfortable patterns of existence have been altered. Our false idols of security have been swept away in just a few days. Perhaps this surreal experience that we are going through right now should make us think more seriously about the certain coming of Christ. I mean have you ever heard sermon after sermon about the return of Christ and those things just don't seem real to you? They don't seem possible. They they seem almost like fantasy. Well, the things that we're experiencing right now don't seem entirely real to us. That some invisible organism is going and is killing people and disrupting our comrades and our travel and everything in our lives is different. And it's all happened so quickly. You know what? This is kind of like a preview of the kind of disruption that will occur in the world when Christ comes and returns to this earth. And it's the Son of God who will come as the great judge of all the earth. It's not a matter of if But when? The question is, are you ready to meet the Lord? Do you know the Son of God who will come to judge the earth. Is he your Savior, your Lord, your only hope of salvation? Do you view his his coming with fear or with fond expectation? Does your heart cry out? Even so, come, Lord Jesus. This disruption that we have faced in recent days should remind us That so many of the things that we find comfort in and find security in are untrustworthy. And so many of the assumptions and presumptions that we live our lives by are ungrounded. But the promises of God are true. And one of the promises of God is that the Son of God will return in power and great glory. And therefore, we must be ready. And the only way to be ready is to have a faith in The sacrifice that Christ has made for our sins. My dear friends who are watching This morning, I would encourage you to put your trust in Christ and Christ alone. Do not trust in your good works. Do not trust And all the other things that give us a sense of comfort and security. Your only hope is found in Jesus Christ. He is our Savior, our God, and he will come to judge the world. And we can find refuge in him And in him alone. And he will not dismiss us when we come to him by faith, like this corrupt judge. No, he will Be delighted to receive all who come in faith and repentance. May God help us to seek Him with all of our hearts. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word We thank you that it builds us up, that it reminds us of your truth. We thank you, Father, that it compels us and motivates us to live for your glory. I pray that you would use These words that we've considered this morning for your glory and your purposes in our lives. I pray for the dear people of Calvary Baptist Church that you would strengthen them and sustain them during this time. Help us, Father, to be lights and to show through our joyful, confident countenance. That we trust in a God who is worthy of our trust. And Father, for those under the sound of my voice this morning who are yet lost in their sins, I pray that even today They return to you and put their faith and trust in Christ alone. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen