In your Bibles, would you turn with me? 1 Peter chapter 2. One of the greatest books ever written Was written by a Baptist preacher in prison. His name was John Bunyan. And of course, he wrote the famous book, Pilgrim's Progress. The book portrays the Christian life as a difficult journey from the world to the celestial city. In his travels, Pilgrim and his companions encounter a place called Vanity Fair, which reflects a certain aspect of the world. primarily the commercialism of it. This is one of the most famous descriptions in the book. He describes how the people perceived these Christians. He says that they had three observations. First, the pilgrims were clothed with such kind of garment as was diverse from the raiment of any that traded in the fair. The people therefore made a great gazing upon them. Some said they were fools, some that they were bedlams, and others that they were outlandish men. This is old language. They were saying, these people are crazy. Secondly, as they wanted at their apparel, so they did likewise at their speech. For few could understand what they said. They naturally spoke the language of Canaan. But they that kept the fair were men of the world. Thirdly, but that which did not a little amuse the merchandisers was that these pilgrims set very lightly by all their wares. They cared not so much as to look upon them, and if they called upon them to buy, They would put their fingers in their ears and cry, turn away my eyes from beholding vanity, and look upwards, signifying that their trade and traffic was in heaven. Bunyan 's picture of the Christian life is out of step with the contemporary view of the believer's place in the world. But they are very biblical. The fact is the Bible describes Christians as pilgrims. Abraham confessed that he was a stranger in the earth. And so did King David on more than one occasion. And this morning we read the Apostle Peter addressing his Christian readers. as strangers and pilgrims. This morning we come to chapter 2, verses 11 and 12. He says, dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from flesh. especially lust which war against the soul, having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works which they shall behold glorify God in the day of visitation. Now Peter emphasizes this imagery of the Christian life in this first epistle. You'll notice he says early on in this epistle He addresses them as strangers scattered throughout, and he lists these various cities, that term stranger or exiles. is one of the synonyms for pilgrims. And then in chapter 1 and verse 17, he concludes that verse By referring to them, he says, past the time of your sojourning, or we could even say your pilgrimage here in fear. And now again in chapter 2. In verse 11, he directly addresses them as strangers and pilgrims. This is the beginning of a new section in the book. When we read the words dearly beloved, it sounds like the beginning of the letter. And there is a sense in which This is when Peter is really getting down to business. And because he has some very challenging things to say to them , He speaks to them as a pastor and he says, dearly beloved. This happens to be a way that he signifies that he's transitioning from one section of the book to another. If you'll look ahead with me to chapter 4 and verse 12 You'll notice that the first word in verse 12 is the word beloved. The same word is here. And that is the beginning of another section. So this middle section of the book, the largest section, goes from chapter 2, verse 11 through chapter 4 in verse 11. And he's going to be addressing in the main body of this letter, how we as Christians are to interact and deal with people in the world. And the first two verses that I just read for you really form an introduction to the section. He's starting out very generally, reminding them who we are. And how we must respond. These two verses function very similarly, like those famous verses in Romans chapter 12, where Paul says, I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. That is Paul beginning the second half of the book of Romans. And so he's beseeching them. He is exhorting them. He is appealing to them. And you'll notice in verse. 11, we have that same word, I beseech you, he says. Peter here is speaking to them from his heart. He is urging them. He is compelling them to hear, sort of like someone, perhaps a parent. or a loved one or a Christian friend and they say to you, listen, I want you to hear me. I want to really appeal to you. And they're speaking earnestly and seriously and very affectionately. That is what Peter is doing here. And so these verses are very significant for us because they're so general and they encompass the entirety of the Christian life. Now my message today is going to have two points because we have one point in verse 11 and another in verse 12. We have one that is negative and one that is positive, two sides of the same coin. Notice the first exhortation, abstain from fleshly lust which war against the soul. That's the negative exhortation. And then verse 12. having your conversation honest among the Gentiles. And that is the positive exhortation that he is making. So this morning I would like to preach to you on how to live as pilgrims in a pagan world. How do we as Christians live in this world where we are strangers and pilgrims? And I want to mention these two main points. First of all, you must continually battle the fallen desires of your heart. You see, it would be one thing if all of our problem was out there in the world, if it was external to us. If we can kind of shut ourselves up in a little closed Christian community, perhaps, and say now all of the world is outside those walls. But there's a problem. It's called the flesh. We have a traitor within. So our battle just can't be with the false philosophies and lies of the world, we have to, first of all, before we even think of that, we have to deal with ourselves and with our own hearts. We have to be honest about our struggles. Now let me we come to this phrase here, abstain from fleshly lust, which war against the soul. What are these fleshly lusts? What does Peter mean by this? I think that most people, when they read that phrase, they They think it means that desires that stem from our flesh, that is from our body. And it does include that But that would be too narrow. That's not only what Peter is referring to. The scriptures often use the term flesh to refer to our fallen nature. The desires of the flesh, in other words, includes more than just the sins that we do with our bodies. It also includes the sins of our mind, of our will, and of our emotions. And I think probably the most full description we have of what is in view here is found in Galatians chapter 5. We're going to come back here, but we're going to take a little digression now. And I would invite you to turn with me to Galatians chapter 5, verses 19 through 21. What we have here are described as the works of the flesh, and Paul is going to finish that complete that with the fruit of the Spirit. But before we get to the fruit of the Spirit, we have to consider the works of the flesh. So when Peter says abstain from fleshly lust, what is he talking about? He is talking about everything we read of in these three verses. Notice what we have in verse 19. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these. Adultery. Fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, stripes, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revelings and such like, of which I tell you before, as I have told you in time past, that they which do such things, they that practice such things, shall not inherit the kingdom of God's So let's break this down a little bit further. First of all, Peter addresses, excuse me. Paul here addresses sexual sins, and probably because that's the first thing that would come to our mind when we think of the flesh. And I'm just going to run through these different Items that are mentioned here. First of all, adultery. Of course, this is unfaithfulness in marriage. And then he mentions fornication, which refers to all kinds of sexual relationships outside of marriage. The Bible uses that term to describe incest, homosexuality, and adultery and anything else that is a sexual sin. And then uncleanness. This is the moral degradation and the psychological sense of being filthy that comes with being immoral. and lasciviousness. There's a word we don't use much today. It means uninhibited sexual indulgence without a sense of shame. And we see plenty of that today in our world. You can think spring break if you want to to think of what that means. It's become a rite of passage and everyone thinks, well, they're just young people having fun. They are young people who are scarring their souls and are starting a pattern of life that will eventually lead them to hell. It's nothing to laugh at or to dismiss or to regard as being something that is innocent fun. Now, I don't think I have to convince you that sexual sins are a problem in our culture to date. We are living in a time of radical shift of moral values. There's always been immorality in the world. There's always been sexual sins in the world. We all know that. But what we have lost is the sense of shame. The sense that these things should not be occurring. Virtues that were once taught to children like modesty and purity are merely scoffed at by almost everyone. Homosexual marriage is now the law of the land. Most children today, believe it or not, are born out of wedlock. And pornography, which once had a great stigma attached to it, is now regarded as commonplace. This is the pagan world in which we live. And that was, by the way, the world that Paul was writing to. in the first century. Sometimes we have this idea in our mind, you know, of the good old days that things used to be really great and perfect in the world until modern times. Believe it or not The environment that Paul was writing in was worse than it is today, if you can imagine. It was worse. You read the history, it was much worse than what we have in our society today. But Paul is calling on them to live holy, and so is Peter, because this is not some man's perspective. This is what God wants for his people. We have been called out of darkness into his marvelous light. We live in a time and age when even Christians are starting to push the boundaries back in this area. Ah, it's no big deal. That's the way people are today. We're more enlightened than we were in previous generations. I want you to know that the Bible is crystal clear in where it draws the line in these areas. And these are timeless values, not cultural values. These are things that distinguish, according to Scripture, the world from the church. One of those key boundaries is sexual morality. And we must never cave or give in to that, to the spirit of the age. Now we have something entirely different that comes next, and that is false worship. He mentions idolatry and witchcraft. It may surprise you that idolatry would be considered a work of the flesh. Well the fact of the matter is, I don't know if you've ever thought about this this way before, but idolatry is man's attempt to manipulate God. To create a God in his own image, a God that he can control, a God that he can offer sacrifices to so that that God then is obligated to him. To bless him and to give him good crops and so forth. This is the way man invariably thinks. There must be powers greater than myself, but now I've got to figure out a way to control those powers. That is idolatry. That is a work of the flesh that says, I will be in control. I will be God. I will rule over my affairs. And then we have witchcraft, which refers to occultic practices. Christians, of course, have no business toying with these things. These are the works of darkness. Well you may be surprised the next thing on the list that is a work of the flesh is troubled relationships. And this category has more items in it than any other. Maybe you're here and you're thinking, you know, I'm doing really good on this list so far. I'm not an immoral person. I'm not into idolatry of witchcraft. I am passing this test with flying colors. All right, let's look at the rest of this list now. We have hatred, which refers to hostile relationships between people. or groups of people. We have variance, which refers to strife or condemn uh contention. This refers to a person who's argumentative. They're always getting into arguments with people. And then we have emulations, which is jealousy or envy. Whenever someone is promoted or someone's doing really well. That person does not say good for them. They say bad for me. They don't deserve that. And then there's wrath. There's two different Greek words that refer to anger or wrath. One refers to like a slow burn. where a person is just seething with anger and maybe they have a nice smile on the outside, but inside they're kind of boiling. And then there's the person and the term that's used is the volcano. The person who just erupts and blows up and expresses their wrath in an unmistakable way, an outburst of temper. That's what's in view here. And then we have strife, which means selfish ambition. Seditions, that is, unnecessary divisions. A person who is always dividing people up into various groups in their minds. Heresies, these are people who are loyal to a fault to some kind of ideology or thing. And so if a person's not in their little camp or in their little group, they want nothing to do with them. And then envyings, a person who cannot bear when others prosper or succeed, and then murder the ultimate anti-social behavior. You ever stop to think how much misery there is in the world because of strained personal relationships? This is why so many of our marriages, even Christian marriages, are weak and fragile, why our homes are often like a war scene than a place of peace. This is why churches are fractured into various cliques and this is why people often have a list of individuals that they would prefer to avoid. We may whitewash our actions with pious speech, but the fact is that all of this are evidences of being controlled by our flesh, our fallen nature. And then he talks about the fact that the flesh is manifested in sins of intemperance. He rounds out this horrible list with two evidences of a lack of control, drunkenness and revelings, which commonly would be called partying today These two sins stand in direct contrast with the last fruit of the Spirit, temperance, which means self-control. This is the ugly truth of the human hearts. This is where humanity is and the way people live apart From God's grace and the sanctifying presence of His Holy Spirit. These are all the sins and desires that we must avoid. that should have no part of our lives that we should be rooting out and pulling out weeds from our hearts. Now turn back with me please to 1 Peter chapter 2 That raises the question of how do we battle our fleshly lust This question is worthy of a whole series of sermons, so I have to be very brief and condensed. I want to just mention three things. First of all, you cannot really abstain from fleshly lust unless you're a child of God. This is why some people fail miserably because they truly have not been born again. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. Notice that this instructions that Peter is giving here are given to Christian people. Look at the context. Verse 9. But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people. That's who he is addressing. And he calls them, dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lust which war against the soul. If you're not part of that body of believers, the followers of Christ, the church, then you cannot really in any way answer this requirements. Because you have not been born again. This is why trying to get lost people to live like Christian people is always going to be a losing task. Sometimes parents have children that they assume are Christians because they bring them to church and Sunday school and maybe they say said a prayer when they were four years old, but they're rebellious, so they have no interest in the Bible. They have no interest in going to church. They love the world and the things of the world, and their parents keep trying, trying to get them to live like a Christian. It will never happen until they are born again. Because they are living under the control of the flesh. It's like trying to get an animal whose nature is different, like trying to get a pig to stay out of the mud and to l live a nice, clean, refined life. It's not going to happen because that's not their nature. That's not who they are. The second thing I would say is that you must avoid anything that fuels your fleshly desires. Right in our text here it says abstain from fleshly lust which war against your soul. What desires trip you up? What appeals always seem to find an answer in your heart and before you know it you're engaged in something that you're embarrassed about and you've fallen again. What do you do in that situation? Well the word abstain here refers to avoiding or removing ourselves from a situation. This, of course, is amplified throughout Scripture. If you know Romans 13 verse 14, it says, make no provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. Do you know why so many people fall again and again into the same sense? Because they plan to. They may have never faced up to that reality, but it is the truth. It's the old hackneyed story of the man who was an alcoholic. And he was always drinking, and he went to the preacher in this little town, and he says, I just keep falling into the same sin. And the preacher says, well tell me your pattern. He says, well when I come into town, I come and the first place I go is I tie up my host, my my horse there in front of the saloon. And he says, you need to find a new place to tie up your horse. He had this old pattern from his lifestyle, and it resulted in him continually being tripped up in the same sins. It's saying that we cannot feed or fuel our flesh. We must learn to honestly battle the desires of our heart. And this means that we have to take some radical steps. This is an important thing. You know how to avoid getting drunk? Never take a drink. Then you won't get drunk. Get rid of all the alcohol in your house and never go to a bar and never purchase any. And all of a sudden you'll find that you're not getting drunk anymore. You want to know how to overcome your addiction to pornography? Which is a huge problem. And every time I mention it, it always gets very quiet in here. You have to take some radical steps, being honest with yourself, like maybe cutting off your private access to the internet. You might have to have some type of software so that every site that you visit, someone else, like maybe your wife sees every site that you visit. That'll take care of it. You have to take some radical steps, and you have to be honest instead of playing the victim card of why do I keep falling into sin? Because you want to fall into sin. That's why. The Bible calls our lusts deceitful. That means they deceive us. We think this will make me happy. I enjoy a little bit, I deserve a little bit of pleasure and enjoyment in my very difficult life. And when we get tripped up, and then we realize, oh no, now my life is worse than it was before. It's more complicated. I have more problems to deal with. Yes, you have been deceived by your own lusts. You want to keep from engaging in gossip? Don't call people who always drag you into those conversations. Or as soon as they bring it up, say, oh, we're not going there, we're not going to talk about that. You have to take radical steps. There's a third thing about not fulfilling the lusts of the flesh that I want to mention very briefly, and that is you must allow the Holy Spirit of God to control you. The passage that we read about the works of the flesh, a few verses earlier, it says, walk in the spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. We are not to be controlled by the impulses of our old fallen nature. We are to be controlled in our new life by the Holy Spirit of God. And He is a Holy Spirit. He will lead us in the paths of righteousness. And if we do that, you know what will develop in our life? Remember a few verses later we have the fruit of the Spirit, love. Joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, those fruits will invariably grow in our lives because We are being energized and empowered by the Spirit of God. The point is that you can never live the Christian life in your own strength. No, the Spirit of God must empower you. But then I want to answer this question, why should we battle our fleshly lusts? Well, there are a multitude of answers given in Scripture. But notice the answer given right here in our text. Abstain from fleshly lust. Why? Which war against the soul The flesh is fighting against you. Your fallen nature is not your friend Those pet sins are not a comfortable thing. They are going to pull you down. You have to recognize this. Now there are some well-meaning Christians. And some of them are very conservative. who believe that the Christian can come to the place where they have complete victory over sin. Where there's no more struggle, there's no more battle, there's no more failure, you are walking the victorious Christian life I wish it were true, but it's not what the Bible teaches. There are a multitude of passages that tell us, and this is one of them That all of our lives, while you're alive on this earth, you will have a battle against your flesh. That's the reality. That may not make you feel very good. It may not be very hopeful to you, but you know what? That's the truth. And you need to understand that and come to deal with that. The Bible teaches that there's a civil war occurring in our hearts every day. Our fallen desires are continually engaged in war against our souls. And if we allow our flesh to take its natural course, We will struggle with guilt and frustration and discouragement again and again because our very soul, the very spiritual nature of our bodies is under assault and it's being weakened. Because we are yielding to our flesh and not to the Spirit of God. This is why We must fight tooth and nail against our flesh every day. This is why we must pray and beg God for his spirit to empower us and strengthen us. This is why we must make plans that I'm not going to go over there and I'm not going to turn that on and I'm not going to watch this and I'm not going to talk to that person about that topic. I am going to be circumspect and careful because I am not going to cater to my flesh which wars against the soul. If we are to live as pilgrims in this world, we must learn to battle our fallen desires. But now I'd like to turn more from the negative to the positive, because that's what our text does. Look with me at verse 12. Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles. Let's start with that Now the term conversation means lifestyle or pattern of behavior. It's one of Peter's favorite words. It does not refer just to our speech But it refers more broadly to our lifestyle. When the King James Version was translated, this word had a more narrow understanding and meaning Over time, it has developed a more broad , I'm sorry, it had a more broad meaning. Now it has a more narrow meaning. It goes both ways with words and language. That's also interesting to note that the word honest, look at verse 12, having your conversation honest. That word honest is the same Greek word that's translated good a little bit later in the verse, that they may by your good works And notice when Peter here speaks of the Gentiles in this verse, he's not assuming that all of his readers were Jews. That was not the case. No, he's using this designation to speak of the lost, the people of this pagan world. So essentially, Peter is calling on Christians to live. A good life before the watching eyes of the world. This is not moralism This is talking about being a witness in our lifestyle. Now does the word of God call on us to be a witness with our words? and to speak to people about the Lord. It does. Sometimes people get the mistaken notion, you know, I let my life do all my talking. And they never ever say a word for Christ. That is a mistake. But on the other hand Is it true that if you are living a horrible testimony for Christ and then you're out there telling everyone about the Lord, that's not very effective either. You need both. You need through your words and through your actions to demonstrate that you are different from the world, that God, by his grace, has changed you. Now, what exactly is Peter referring to? I think that Peter, and many other scholars do as well, has in mind the words of our Lord in the Sermon on the Mount. Do you know Matthew chapter 5 and verse 16, a very famous verse? Let your light So shine before men, that they may see what? Your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven Peter was there when that sermon was first preached, the most famous sermon ever preached. And I think those words lodged in his mind. And right now, as he's writing, many years later, he remembers those words, and so he calls on his readers. to live a life that exemplifies these good works, a life that shines the light of truth. It's interesting that there are two different Greek words that are translated good in your New Testament. One of them has the idea of what is moral, what is right. And the other has the nuance of what is beautiful or attractive. And the word that is used twice here in verse 12 is the latter, that which is beautiful and attractive. Our Christian lives are to be attractive to the world, even though they may not admit it. But they cannot deny that what they see is unusual and virtuous and good. And although they may not say a word, it has an impact on their hearts. This is not calling us to really amp up our game and to be like really religious in an external way. Do you remember in Matthew chapter 5? Do you remember what Christ dealt with at the beginning of Matthew chapter 6? He dealt with the Pharisees who worshiped the Lord in external ways to impress people. He talked about their righteous deeds, their giving of alms, their fasting, and their prayers. And he says, they do these things to be seen of men. They had elaborate rituals. That people were impressed with, people are impressed with rituals and ceremony. But he says, no, that's not what I'm talking about when I say let them see your good works. He is talking about something that's much deeper, something that is undeniable You see, people don't need to see more examples of external religion. If they get any sense that there is hypocrisy here. that what you what you say doesn't match up with who you are and what you do, they're going to have one more reason to reject the gospel. But when they see genuine humility, when they see that you have real compassion for them and for others, When they can see that you go out of your way to live at peace with difficult people, when they see that you are broken and disturbed over the spiritual inconsistencies in your life. Those things are not natural and normal with people. Those things tell of a new creation, of a new heart, of being born again. That is what the world needs to see in us. So let me ask you this morning, do people in the world see that in you? I didn't ask, do people at work know that you go to church? I mentioned a couple weeks ago about Christians who are like undercover Christians, you know. Nobody in the neighborhood knows they're Christian. Nobody at work knows they're Christian. No one on their little league team knows that they're Christian. They just keep hush hush. They never talk about going to church. They never talk about their faith because they're just undercover Christians. That is nonsense. That's not what God has called us to be. But do people know more than just that you go to church? Can they tell that your lifestyle, the very structure of your life, that your values and your perspectives are different from theirs? And not just different, but attractive, where they envy and say, that person is so kind. That person is so compassionate. That person is so humble. That person is so helpful to others. Does anyone ever think that I want to be like that kind of person? I don't agree with their religion, but they are a wonderful human being. That's the kind of attractive, winsome testimony that God wants us to have. But notice what he says here in verse 12, right in the middle, he says, whereas they speak against you as evildoers , Even though they may be secretly impressed, you know what they're going to do, especially when they're with other unbelievers? They're going to slander you. This is a self-protective way. Just like people bully other people out of fear because they don't want to be bullied. People who bully are insecure people. Not strong people, as many people think. And so when they're in the break room, when there were others' people who said, look at that guy. And they may mock you and ridicule you although secretly in their hearts. They are impressed with the way you live your life. The early Christians in the first century were greatly slandered. We have secular historians who record this. They were called and described as being immoral because they had such close bonds of love. They were accused of being cannibals. because of the way that a scribe eating the Lord's Supper. They were accused of being subversive because they refused to say, Caesar is Lord. They were even accused of being atheists because they refused to worship the Greek and Roman gods. And they were regarded by everyone as to being a dangerous cult. And we still see this animosity sometimes in the world today, do we not? Whenever a prominent pastor or some well-known Christian falls into sin The newscasters can hardly restrain themselves from telling the whole world about it. And everyone talks about and they laugh about it, they joke about it, and they say See, that's the way Christians are. That's why I'm not a Christian, because I'm not a hypocrite. They claim to be really good, but they're not. I don't even claim to be that good. And so I'm superior to them, because at least I'm honest. That's the way people in the world think. But Peter encourages them by saying that if they continue to live a lifestyle of holiness, a lifestyle of undeniable goodness, that it will have an impact on people. It says, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, Glorify God in the day of visitation. It's interesting, it says, which they shall behold. That is, people are watching you carefully, is the idea there. You're at work, you're surrounded by lost people. You are a witness for Christ. People know you're a committed Christian. You know what? They are watching you to see what kind of a person you truly are. They might be watching to see if you mess up, if you're inconsistent, if you're in any way hypocritical, but they may also be watching to see if there's really something to this. Yet there really is something to the power of the gospel and the life-changing grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, what does it mean, this last phrase, that they shall glorify God in the day of visitation? Have you ever thought about that? What does that mean? Well, there are two ideas. That scholars have concerning this. One is that it's saying that those who see you, who slander you, and reject the gospel, will someday, at the end of the age, when they are judged before God, have to bear testimony that they are without excuse that they did have a Christian in their midst and that you did live out your faith before them And it would be very similar to what we read about those who will bow the knee in Philippians chapter 2 and confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, the glory of God the Father. It's a reluctance and a compelling bowing of the knee, but it's not one of submission and faith. And it is true that often this phrase, the day of visitation, is used in the Old Testament to refer to the day of judgments. And so some scholars see this as the persecuted church saying, someday I will have my vindication and those who have slandered me and persecuted me will have to confess. That the gospel that I proclaimed was true and right. But I think that that is not what is being expressed here I think the New Testament uses this expression several places to refer to the day of grace. That is the day of salvation. And so most Bible scholars see it this way. They're saying that although lost people may for some time oppress and mock believers , and laugh at them and just reject the gospel, yet they are watching them and taking all of this in And that some of them will be saved through the beautiful testimony of the people of God. And they will glorify God in their salvation. You see, this is a wonderful incentive for us to live for Christ because the world is watching. The world is looking for something that is real and authentic. The world is examining our lives. To see if there's anything supernatural or that's impossible to explain away. This is why we must live for the glory of God every day. I mentioned this to you last week, but you are the only Bible that some people ever read. They're not going to pick up their Bible. They're not going to go on the internet and start reading through the Gospel of John. But they're reading you and they're looking at you. Have you ever thought about the fact that you might be the only genuine Christian that someone knows? Maybe they have some nominal Christians in their backgrounds, but you're really the only Christian, the only born-again believer that they really have In their realm of associates, a person that they see on a regular basis. And so we must let our light shine. As we live in this changing world, a world where there is so much darkness and where it seems to be getting darker , We can be very discouraged and depressed with that, but we can also realize that this is the opportunity for us to let our light shine even brighter. If you're at a place where there are hundreds of employees and you believe you're the only one that's truly a born-again believer, that means that your light is all the more conspicuous and bright in that dark place. And it's incumbent upon you to let it shine brightly. Not in an obnoxious way that estranges everyone from you, but in a beautiful way that draws people to the lights. Our light shines brightest when the world is darkest. Herb and Ruth Clinchen were American missionaries to Japan. And they were there ministering when Pearl Harbor took place. They were arrested, and eventually they made their way to a prisoner of war camp. in the Philippines, where they remained for three years. There they were brutally tortured for their faith They very nearly starved to death. They were treated with great disrespect They were daily brutalized. And the camp commandant, a man named Kanishi, enjoyed seeing them suffer. Finally, after three years. of misery. Their camp was liberated by Allied forces. And Kanishi was captured. And he was put on trial for his war crimes. And he was found guilty. And he was sentenced to die by execution. And before he was executed, he asked to say a few words. And he said that he wanted everyone there to know that he was now a follower of Jesus Christ. That he put his faith and trust in Jesus Christ because he saw in those three years a beautiful example of a living faith in the lives of those missionaries that he could not deny, that he could not get out of his head, and now he had come to faith in Christ. It 's a wonderful example of how God is glorified in the day of visitation. May God help us to let our light shine in this pagan world. Let's close in prayer. Our Father, we thank you for the truth of your word. We thank you that it has always a relevant message for us. I pray that you would help us not just to walk away as hearers of the word But I pray that we would be doers and pray that we would reflect and consider how we are letting our light shine in this dark world Whether or not we are living as pilgrims, whether or not we are abstaining from fleshly lusts which war against our souls, and whether or not we are living a lifestyle of goodness that is attractive and irrefutable in the eyes of the world. Help us, Father, to be the men and women, the salt and light that you've called us to be. And Father, for those who are here this morning, who are not your children, who are yet in the dark, we pray that you would draw them to the light That even today they might put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen