This morning I'm going to break away from our series on the Lord's Prayer. I've been away this week. And so I have not had the preparation time that I would normally devote to a message. So I want you to turn to one of my favorite portions of scripture, Psalm 51. Psalm 51. Psalm 51 is one of seven penitential psalms. And if you were to ask me what my favorite psalm is, this would be it. I wonder if you know the background of this psalm. For nearly a year David lived in sin. He had taken another man's wife and arranged to have that man murdered. But God graciously sent a prophet by the name of Nathan to come and rebuke him. Nathan tells him the story of a pet lamb that was stolen by a very wealthy man. And since David was A shepherd at heart, this tugged at his heart strings. And so when David hears the story, he condemns himself and says, the man that hath done this thing must die. And Nathan says to him, Thou art the man. And David says, I have sinned against the Lord. And Nathan immediately replies, God has put away thy sin. And when we read that, there's a part of us that says, is that all there is to it? You mean David did this horrible thing? Adultery, murder, and he says, I've sinned against the Lord, and that's it. Well, that's not all that's involved. There's more to the story. And Psalm 51 helps to fill in that gap. The inscription at the beginning of this psalm tells us that the background that I just described to you In this psalm, we find a very instructive record of David's personal struggle with accepting God's forgiveness. A guide to repentance and restoration. And really the theme of this psalm is that repentance is the only path to spiritual restoration. It's the very best example that we have in Scripture of what a repentant person sounds like when they are really broken over their sin. This is very evident, especially in the first six verses. Let me read them for you. David writes, have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness, according unto the multitude. of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgressions, wash me thoroughly from my iniquities, and cleanse me from my sin, for I acknowledge my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against thee, thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight. That thou mightest be justified when thou speakest and be clear when thou judgest. Behold, I was shaped in iniquity and in sin did my mother conceive me. Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts, and in the hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom. David takes full responsibility for his sin. He doesn't excuse it. He doesn't minimize it. He begs God for his mercy and for grace. He owns his transgression. He recognizes that he deserves God's judgment. And then in verses 7 through 12, we have David's petitions. He is earnestly praying now that God would restore him, would refresh his sorrowful soul. Yes, in an objective sense, David was forgiven. But he still didn't feel like he was forgiven. Sometimes the way we feel and what is true about us and our standing before God do not really match. And that was the situation here. Often there's a disconnect between the reality of our standing before God and the way we feel about it. I've discovered as a pastor that there are many, many Christians who are pressed with a sense of guilt. things that they did perhaps many, many years ago. And they have indeed repented of it. They've asked them for God's forgiveness. They've turned from their sin. They're no longer practicing that. They're a completely different person today than what they were when they committed those transgressions. But they are still haunted. By a sense of guilt. And every time something goes wrong in their life, they think It's God's judgment. It's God's punishing me for what I did back those many years ago. They come to a good church. Where perhaps many people have been brought up from the time they were children in the faith, and they look at their lives And they did perhaps do not bear the scars and the evident traces of a sinful past And they feel like they don't measure up. They feel like they're second-class citizens. They feel like they're not fully accepted. Yeah, they may be part of the family of God, but they're black sheep in that family, at least in their estimation. But the Bible tells us that the gospel should change that kind of thinking. Look at David as he prays for God to give him a renewed sense of cleansing. Verse 7, purge me with hyssoph and I shall be clean. Wash me and I shall be whiter than snow. Make me to hear joy and gladness of the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. Hide thy face from my sin and blot out all my iniquities. David wants to feel as if he's really forgiven, even though objectively he has been declared forgiven. But I want us to focus this morning on this little section that begins in verse 10 Where David is going to focus on the inner man. Notice how this is often referred to in verses 10 through 12. He says, Create in me a clean heart, O God. Renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from thy presence. Take not thy Holy Spirit from me. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation, and uphold me with thy free spirits. David wants God to renew and restore his hearts, to change him in the inner man. There are many people, many Christians that I have encountered over the years who I think of the analogy of World War I and World War I, which they called the Great War It was the innovation of many weaponry, modern weapons, and one of the things that they were reduced to do was trench warfare. Most of the country of France was divided in two with a great trench that went from many, many miles. And these opposing trenches would be about a quarter mile from each other. And in the middle there would be all kinds of barriers and barbed wire. And every once in a while one group would mount an offensive and they would go through and they would cut the wire and they would run through an area in between the trenches that was known as no man's lands. It looked like a moonscape because there was nothing growing there. It all been destroyed through the artillery shells. It was pockmarked with craters everywhere. And it was called no man's land because no man wanted to be there. You were in between the two trenches. And I think that there are many Christians who kind of get stuck in no man's land. They've been redeemed. They've left the world, as it were. But they haven't really found the security and the victory of being close with God, of really understanding the greatness of their salvation, of really understanding that they really are forgiven, that they're a child of God. And so they're staying there in no man's land where they can't really enjoy the pleasures of sin, the pleasures of the world, because their spirit would convict them and they've left that, but they don't really enjoy the joy of their salvation either. Because they feel guilty, they feel somehow rejected a second-class Christian This might be because of a past that's riddled with guilt, or it could be because of difficult circumstances that they have not responded to in faith. But many Christians find themselves in a situation where their heart in some ways echoes what David says here in these verses. They need spiritual restoration. And perhaps you find yourself like that this morning. You're not the Christian that you used to be. You don't have the joy of your salvation. You're not actively serving the Lord. You don't have a love for God that pervades everything in your heart and your life. You're dry and you're broken. And you need God to restore you. I want to preach to you this morning on a personal cry for spiritual restoration. And what we have here is a prayer of David. And so I want to bring several points out of verses 10 and 11 this morning. The first thing I want you to notice is that broken believers should pray that God would recreate a heart of purity. Within. This is an amazing psalm. Every preacher and expositor who has ever lived recognizes the value Of this Psalm of David. But a most amazing thing that David says, I believe, in this entire Psalm is the first phrase there in verse 10 where he says Create in me a clean heart, O gods. By the way How does a person know if they truly repented of their sin? This will be your prayer. Create in me a clean heart, oh God. You will want to have that close fellowship with the Lord more than anything else. You're not negotiating with the Lord and saying, you know, I'd like to keep a little bit of my sin here. I'd like to have a little bit of defilement in my heart. I'd like to have a few idols in my life. But I also don't want this misery. No, no, no. You're crying out like David does here. Create in me a clean heart, O God. Whatever it takes for me to be right with you, that's what I want. And if that's not where you are, then you still have sin in your life that you need to repent of, and you can never have that blessed restoration. God will never give you He will never give his people that sense of wonderful assurance A pervasive sense of God's love working through your heart, of the joy of your salvation. You will not enjoy the fruit of the Spirit that we talked a while ago about of love, joy, and peace. You can't enjoy that while you cling to your idols. And while you're content with a defiled heart. Now what brought David to this desperate plea? Look at verse 5. I love this confession here. Behold, I was shaped in iniquity and in sin did my mother conceive me. He is not saying here that His mother somehow sinned in his conception. He is saying that from the very beginning from day one of his existence. From the moment he was conceived, he has had and possessed a sinful, crooked nature. This is a key text for the depravity of man. David is not using this as an excuse. He's using it to expose how incredibly sinful and depraved he is. It's not that he made a mistake in his sin with Fathsheba. It's not that he was seduced or or whatever. No, it's at the very core of his being. He is depraved. He is false. He is crooked. He's bent So he recognizes the cure must be an internal cure, not a matter of reformation, of cleaning up my act, turning over a new leaf. He knows the Lord is not pleased with the religious front. He says, Behold, verse 6, thou desire the truth in the inward parts. Then the hidden parts thou shalt make me to know wisdom. God demands that our hearts be pure and right with him. He has never been pleased with religious hypocrites, with people who live a wicked life during the week and then dress up and come to church and say some prayers and sing some hymns. And they go out and they go back to their wicked life. God is not, does not receive that worship. He's never been fooled by it. He wants purity within We see this reflected in the writings of David. You see there was a day when indeed David had a pure heart, when he was called a man after God's own heart, and in Psalm 24, verses 3 and Through five, he says this, who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? Who shall stand in his holy place? He that hath clean hands and a pure heart, who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity nor sworn deceitfully. he shall receive the blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation. One of the most amazing things is what David says here in Psalm 51, verse 10, is that Hebrew word creates. It's a very specific word. It's a word that is only ever used in the Old Testament to refer to God's creative actions. It's the word used in Genesis for God's creation of the world. This is something that he recognizes that only God can do. Jeremiah 17, 9 tells us that the human heart is naturally, incurably wicked. If you're here this morning and you are lost in your sins, what you need is nothing less than a new heart. Your problem is not a minor problem of your habits or your choices or your actions. No, it's a problem that goes down in the very depths, the very fabric of your being. The Bible speaks of being born again. It speaks of the doctrine of regeneration. This is something that only God can do. Now David is a believing man. He has already been saved, but he recognizes That he still needs God to work in his heart and to cleanse his heart. He recognizes that if he's really going to change, his heart must change. This is something you learn in ministry. You can talk to people, you can instruct people, you can give them God's word, they can memorize God's word, they can come to every service. But if their heart does not change, it will accomplish nothing. The heart. The heart must change. You can give all the reasons in the world why you should do this and why you should go in this direction and why you should follow the Lord, and it can all be logical and make perfect sense. But if they don't want to It won't happen. The first work that God does When he does a work of repentance in our heart is to change our heart so that we view our sin differently. We view ourselves differently. We view God differently. We don't view Him as our adversary, as the one who's keeping us from joy and happiness and really doing what we would like to do. But we see that the problem is ourselves, it is our hearts. God awakens our conscience to reveal the seriousness of our sin Why does God trouble our conscience? There are many people in the world who do everything they can to silence their conscience and to dull their conscience. And to drug their conscience. And to silence them so that it will no longer sound an alarm and saying what you're doing is wrong, what you're doing is a violation of who you are and who God is. They sear their conscience. Do everything they can to deface it and distort it. But to their own peril. God has given us a conscience A warning system. The Puritans call the conscience a spy within. It's God's agent who lives in the recesses of your being. And sometimes he cries out and says, this is sin, this is wrong. And it's very easy for us to try to silence that. I'm not saying the conscience is always foolproof. But it's usually right, and when we educate our conscience in God's truth, then it is effective in alerting us to our spiritual need. God allows our conscience, God allows us to feel guilty so that we come to the place of healing. so that we are whole again. This is his ultimate desire Sometimes a small child will get a splinter in their hand or in their foot, and it's painful. But removing it may also be painful. And sometimes a child will have a splinter there. They haven't told their mom and dad about it because they don't want to have it removed and it gets red and puffy and they say, don't touch it. But there's not really going to be the healing that's needed there and the relief that's going to come until you go through the pain And there are many Christians who are like a little child that don't want to go through the pain of repentance and of conviction. and of making right what they have done wrong. And so they say, just leave it alone. Leave that splinter in there. I don't care that it's red and puffy and causing me discomfort. I don't want to go through the pain of repentance. But repentance is the only path to restoration. You see, David's desire for a clean heart was an indication that God was indeed doing a work in his heart. And would you notice with me secondly, those who are broken should pray that God would renew a spirit of stability within David here says, and renew a right spirit within me. The key to understanding this petition is to grasp the meaning of this word translated right. I have a marginal note in my Bible that says, or a constant spirit. This word means to be firm or steadfast or constant. I want you to look with me at a few references where the same Hebrew word is used. Look with me at Psalm 57, please. Psalm 57 and verse 7. David cries out after he has been delivered and says, My heart is fixed, O God. My heart is fixed. I will sing and give praise. I've heard this verse used of those who have had heart surgery and so forth before. But it's not talking about fixed in that way. It's talking about like it's fixed on something. It's constant. It's steadfast. And that's the idea here, and it's the same word that is used. How would you know if your heart is steadfast, if your heart is healthy, if you're if you're really where you need to be spiritually? Well, Psalm 51, I think. gives us a wonderful portrayal of this. You will have a heart that delights in praising God. Psalm 51, verse 8 says, Make me here joy and gladness. Verses 14 and 15, deliver me from blood guiltiness, O God, thou God of my salvation. and my tongue shall sing aloud of thy righteousness. O Lord, open thou my lips, and my mouth shall show forth thy praise. If you're really healthy spiritually, if your heart is fixed, if it's steadfast, if it's constant, you know what? You will look forward to, you will enjoy singing praises to God, even if you don't have a good voice. There will be a song in your heart. Your heart will resonate when other people stand up and they sing the praises of God. You will be saying, That's right, that's true. Like our young people prayed or sang this morning, God is good, he is only good. You will have in your heart something that says, that is right. That's been my experience. That is the God that I worship. This is what a healthy Christian, a steadfast Christian is like. A steadfast Christian is also honest before God Turn with me ahead to Psalm 78, if you would. This is one of those historical psalms. Tells us about the history of Israel. I want to look At verse 33 and a few verses after that. Speaks of Israel, the wilderness wanderings. It says, therefore their days did he consume in vanity and their years in trouble. When he slew them, then they sought him, and they returned and inquired early after God. And they remembered that God was their rock and the high God their Redeemer. Nevertheless, they did flatter him with their mouth, and they lied unto him with their tongues, for their heart was not right with him. Neither were they steadfast in his covenant. Same term that's used here. They professed to repent of their sins, but they didn't really repent of their sins. They still loved their idols. They still loved the ways of Egypt. And they lied to God. Their heart was not right with him. David had lived the lie before the Lord for nearly a year. I think he probably still went to the temple to worship. He may have still heard his psalms being sung by the royal choir. I think he went through the motions of worshiping God, of being a pious king, but his life was a lie. And now that David has fallen and been restored, he's saying, in essence, I don't even trust my own hearts. He says, in the words, as it were, of Robert Robinson, the hymn writer, prone to wonder, Lord, I feel it, prone to leave the God I love, here 's my heart. Oh, take and seal it, seal it for thy courts above. Let me ask you this morning, are you living honestly before the Lord? Or are you cloaking your sin and hiding your sin? Or have you spread out your heart before Him? A steadfast heart is Not only delights in praising God, is honest before God, but it's a stable heart. Turn with me to Psalm 112 and verse 7. We read this Of the righteous man, it says in verse 7, he shall not be afraid of evil tidings. His heart is fixed, trusting in the Lord's. And that word fixed there is that same word where David prays, renew a right spirits within me. It's constant, it's steadfast. It's anchored in the rock, the Lord Jesus Christ. It's trusting in gods. The longer I've been in the ministry, the more I have seen that spiritual stability is a mark of spiritual maturity. Immature believers are always up and down. Their spiritual life is like a roller coaster. One Sunday, they're on top of the world. They got a smile on their face. They're living for God. They're eager to serve. And then the next Sunday, they're down in the dumps, they're angry at everyone, and their life is like this. It's a horrible way to live. God wants us to have spiritual stability, some some ballast as it were in our ship. that we're not so easily capsized with the circumstances and the adversities that come into our lives. You may say, well, how can I be that person? What does it say here? His heart is trusting in the Lord It's resting in God. It's learning to really come to trust in Him. Do you trust the Lord or not? If you're a believer, you would say that you've trusted him with your eternal life, your soul that will live somewhere forever. Well, if you can trust him with your soul, can't you trust him for the few years that you live on this earth? Can't you trust him that he will be good to you, that he will provide for you, that he will meet your needs, that he will see you through the difficulties, the afflictions that you're facing right now in your life? Is your heart fixed trusting in the Lord Some of you, the reason why you have difficulty trusting the Lord is exactly what I alluded to earlier in my message, and that is that you still have this overwhelming sense of guilt, that you're not really accepted by God. That he hasn't really welcomed you and forgiven you, that you're not on the same status as other believers And what you desperately need to do is to immerse your mind in the gospel. You need to go back to the cross. You need to remember the great exchange. That your sin, your guilt, your wickedness was transferred to Christ. It was imputed to him, and his righteousness, his perfect righteousness has been imputed to you. And therefore God has received you not as some second-class citizens, someone on probation. But he's received you as he would his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Of whom he said, this is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. That 's the beauty of the gospel, and it's so radical, it's so incredible, it's so contrary to the way we naturally think that we have trouble grasping it. But it's what the Bible teaches. It's very easy for us to get justification and sanctification confused and mixed up in our minds. And we think that God deals with us or loves us or accepts us on the basis of our performance. And so we never feel like we're fully accepted or that we really measure up because you know what? We all fail We all come short of the glory of God. We don't do the things The way we should, the way God has commanded us to do that. We don't pray as we ought. We don't read as Bible as we should. We're not as faithful in our witness as we ought to. We don't always have a heart of praise. We're not always serving the Lord as we ought. And it's very easy for you to come here every Sunday and say, oh man, failed again. Guilty as charged. Came short. And if you're not really resting in the gospel, you might feel beat up. You might feel that I'm not really, that you're not really accepted. But your performance has nothing to do with your acceptance before God or His love for you. I have to say this on a regular basis because we really have trouble getting a hold of that and believing that. You may have been brought up in a home where your parents doled out their love and affection based on how well you performed or how compliant you were. God's not like that. His love for you is unconditional because it's rooted in his son, not in what you have done, but what he has done. And this is so fundamental, it's so vital that if you don't grasp this, that you really have been forgiven. That all of your sins, past, present, and future, I say this to people all the time when I disciple them. You know, the moment you get saved, God already knows when He saves you all the sins that you will ever commit until the day you die. You may be shocked at how you fall, like I think David was. God wasn't shocked at all. He knew that would happen. He didn't approve of it, but he knew it would happen. And yet he loved David. And God loves us because our acceptance is not rooted in what we have done, but what Christ has done. It says the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. Sometimes people think, well, wait, be a little careful there, Pastor, you're talking about, you know, it's kind of like you're giving people license to sin. You know, God accepts us and loves us no matter what Not a license to sin. You know what often leads people into sin? When they think, I'm not I'm not even sure if I'm a child of God. I'm not even sure that He really accepts me. I'm going to give up trying. It seems like no matter how hard I try, I fail, I come short, I never measure up. So what's the use of trying? That's a much greater danger. And the fact of the matter is, when you truly come to grips with how much God loves you and what He's done for you, you know what that's going to do? It's going to make you and compel you and motivate you and inspire you to love him more and to obey him more. If you want God to restore your heart, you must pray that He would recreate the HD. a heart of holiness within you, and that he would renew a spirit of stability within you. And that God would restore a sense of assurance, thirdly, within you. We have a very interesting verse here. In verse 11, it's perhaps the most difficult verse in this chapter to interpret. David says Cast me not away from thy presence. Take not thy Holy Spirit from me. David is still afraid, even though the prophet has said God has put away your sin, he's still afraid that God's going to cast him away because that's what he deserves. The Hebrew word here for presence literally means face. Don't cast me away from your face, God. David longed to feel that God's face was yet smiling upon him. But the problem is that he knew the word of God says that God doesn't smile upon the wicked In Psalm 11 and verse 7, David would write, For the righteous Lord loveth righteousness, his countenance doth behold the uprights. But David was far from upright, he was crooked. And so he feared that God would abandon him and cast him away. In an earlier time, David would write in Psalm 16, 11, in thy presence. is fullness of joy. What a wonderful phrase. In thy presence is fullness of joy. But there was no joy as yet in David's hearts. That is why he would cry out in the very next verse in verse 12, Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. David was struggling with this matter of assurance. I find that many born-again, redeemed children of God. Struggle with assurance of salvation. This is a very important matter It's a matter of your basic identity. If you're not really sure who you are, and if you're really a child of God, that's going to play havoc. In your spiritual life, it's very important that this is something that you have settled in your hearts, that you are indeed a child of God's. David here says, take not your Holy Spirit from me. Some scholars would say that David is praying simply that God would not take away his position. as king from him, because in the Old Testament, when the king was anointed, the Bible will often say that the Spirit of the Lord came upon him. It was God's empowerment. for service. And indeed, there is a difference between the ministry of the Holy Spirit and the Old Testament and the New. John brings this out very clearly in John chapter 7. And we find it often in the book of Acts as well. In the New Testament, the Spirit of God indwells all believers. In the Old Testament, the Spirit of God empowered believers for specific acts of service. But I think the real key to understanding this petition is to recall the sad story of King Saul. After Saul disobeyed the Lord, the Bible says the Spirit of the Lord departed from him. Saul was agitated by an evil spirit, and so they called a young shepherd boy by the name of David, so that he could play his melodies upon his heart and soothe his troubled soul. Day after day, David saw a man in absolute misery. He was angry and agitated and jealous and paranoid. He even tried to kill David in the palace. And perhaps you recall that for ten years he chased David around the Judean wilderness, seeking to kill him. At the end of his tragic life, Saul was facing a major battle with the Philistines. And he wasn't sure what he should do. And so in 1 Samuel 28 and verse 6, he cried out to God. It says, and when Saul inquired of the Lord, the Lord answered him, not by dreams, neither by Urim nor by the prophets. God gave him no direction. Saul had no comfort or guidance or peace because God had abandoned him. Because he had earlier abandoned God. Now I don't believe that Saul was ever truly a regenerated man. But I think that David is thinking back And he is saying to himself, Lord, don't let that ever happen to me. Don't let that ever happen to me, where you stop directing me and guiding me and working through me. Don't let that happen to me. Have you ever felt that way? Have you ever seen someone like that? I think of it all the time. Think of men that I went to school with, men who were in seminary with me. who were able preachers of the gospel, with keen intellectual minds, with the gift of eloquence. And today they're not serving the Lord at all. They've fallen into sin. They've just been disqualified from the ministry And when I hear of that, when I see them, when I talk to them, there's something inside of me, a prayer that goes up and says, Lord, don't let that ever happen to me. Don't let me ever come to that place where I drift away David is still grasping with the sense of assurance. God desires That all children, all of his children, know who they are. And that is that they are truly a child of God's That he is their father, that he loves them unconditionally, even when they fall, even when they fail He loves them. He cares for them. He has only the best of intentions for them. And one of the great marks of a true child of God is that they will have the heart of David here, and that is, Lord, don't cast me away Cast me not away from thy presence. Take not the Holy Spirit from me. Lord, don't depart from me. Whatever you do, don't turn your back on me. And by the way, if you're truly a child of God, even though at times it may appear that God is not speaking to you that the heavens are as brass. The fact of the matter is it is then that you must cling to the promise, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. I think of Wesley's great hymn, Jesus, Lover of My Soul. He has that verse in there, leave our leave me not alone, still support and comfort me. Don't leave me alone. Don't leave me to myself. Don't leave me to my sin or my misery or in the world. No, stay with me. That is what a child says to their Heavenly Father. This is one of the marks that should bring assurance to your hearts If you're more than content for God to leave you and to be completely out of your life and you're so much better off without him being involved in your life, then you're not his child. But if you find there's a longing in your heart for his presence, for a sense of his love, a sense of forgiveness, if that's what wells up inside of you, then that's because you're his child. That's the way children feel about their parents. Let me ask you this morning, what is the basis of your salvation? Is it because of what you've done? Is your assurance based? Do you think to yourself, you know, if I could only be more faithful, if I only could serve the Lord more, then I would feel a sense of assurance. My friend, that is thinking Sant. Edward Mote was an Englishman. He was brought up in an ungodly home. His parents ran a public house and they left him to roam the streets Got into all kinds of trouble. He says that he wasn't even taught that there was a God. But at the age of 16, he went to hear a gospel preacher with some of his friends. And his heart was smitten and he was soundly converted. And he became a Baptist preacher and a hymn writer. And he would write a hymn, his most famous hymn, which was entitled The Immutable Basis of a Sinner's Hope. But we know it today as the solid rock. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean on Jesus' name, on Christ, the solid rock I stand. My friend, that is where you find your sense of acceptance, your sense of assurance, your sense of stability. is by going back to the gospel, going back to what Christ has done for you and resting in that truth. That is the solid rock of the believer. And if you have never come to trust in Christ, if that is not your rock, I would exhort you and plead with you to seek the Lord today. Seek the Lord now. Call upon him while he is near. And he will receive you. Let's pray. Father, we pray that something that is said would be used for your purposes in this body of believers. I pray that you'd remind us again of the basis of our acceptance and assurance before you. I pray that we would not struggle To appropriate your forgiveness, but that we would take it by faith and we would walk as children of God Not with a license to sin, but with confidence that we are the children of God. And that we have a Father who loves us and who sent his only Son to die for us. And therefore we can trust in him. And Father, for those who are yet in their sins, I pray that they would see the wondrous provision of Christ, and that they would come to trust in him today. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.