Turn in your Bibles, please, to Luke 15. If you're joining us today, let me just say that we are making our way through the parables, and the last three weeks we have been In one parable, the parable of the prodigal son. Some books have provocative titles that just grab your attention. Several years ago, I obtained a book like this. Nothing about the author or the contents of the book, but the title compelled me to get it. The book was entitled The Pharisee's Guide to Total Holiness. It has a little bit of sarcasm in it, and I don't Agree with every statement in the book. I suppose I could say that about every book except the Bible. But there are many thought-provoking ideas, and one of the things that this short volume conveys. Is that there is a little Pharisee in all of us, whether you care to acknowledge it or not. Even though we say we're saved by grace and we've done nothing to earn our salvation, we still tend to think that we're probably a little better than most. Probably not quite as sinful as most. And some of the things we see other people do, why we would never do that. I wonder what you know about the Pharisees. The Jewish historian Josephus tells us that there were about 6,000 Pharisees in the time of Christ. The name Pharisee itself probably comes from a Hebrew verb that means to separate. So literal translation would be that the Pharisees are the separate ones, the separatist. Most scholars believe they began during the Babylonian captivity when Israel was there for those years, those 70 years, the elders were afraid that they would lose. their distinctive beliefs and culture, and so there were ones who said, we will separate ourselves from the pagan world in which we live. They had a noble beginning and good intentions and many positive traits. In fact, it may surprise you to know that the Pharisees were very well respected. among the people that Jesus ministered to. When we see Jesus criticizing the Pharisees, we say, good for him. But the crowds would have said, what is Jesus doing? These are the good guys. The Pharisees were conservative, traditional, and patriotic. They were all about God and country. There were more Pharisees out in the country than there were in the cities. The big city of Jerusalem had a bunch of liberals in it. Things haven't changed that much. But the Bible reveals that the Pharisees were our Lord's constant antagonist. And he reserved his most harshest words of condemnation for them. And they were the ones who plotted the murder of the Son of God, their Messiah. The Pharisees remind us that it's very possible to have a dead religion that looks impressive on the outside, but is empty on the inside. Perhaps the best and most telling portrait of the Pharisees in the Bible is found in this last portion. of the parable of the prodigal son where the focus is placed on the firstborn, the eldest of these two sons. Let me remind you The impetus for these three parables that's found at the beginning of Luke 15. Look with me at verse 1. Then drew near unto him that is Jesus All the publicans and sinners for to hear him, and the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners and eateth with them. And he spake. This parable unto them saying, and then we have three parables in a row , that teach the same truth. The Lord answered their question with these three stories, and if you were to boil it down these three parables to the answer it would be the reason why I give attention and dine and talk to these notoriously sinful people is because God delights to rescue repentant sinners. It's kind of like the joy that Rescuers have when they go to the site of some great tragedy and they dig through the rubble and they pull out somebody who is still alive. There is great joy in their hearts because this is why they've come there And they've left their homes and they traveled to this place and they're working around the clock because there's great delight in saving another person. Now it's important to remember that this parable is about two sons, not one. Look with me at the introductory verse, verse 11. And he said, a certain man had two sons. We tend to put all of our emphasis on the younger son. on the prodigal, because he's a much more colorful character. In fact, if we were writing the story We would probably end this parable in verse 24, when the father exclaims, This my son was dead and is alive. He was lost and is found, and they began to be merry. And that sounds very much like, and they lived happily ever after. End of story. But that's not what Jesus does, the greatest storyteller the world has ever known. Because the story is not just about one son, it's about two sons. In fact, the real teeth of this parable The real application of it is in the last portion that deals with the older brother. And this is, I think, the portion that we need to really ponder this morning. Let me remind you that the prodigal son represents notoriously wicked people. The kind of people that Jesus ministered to, the kind of people that got him the title from the Pharisees, that he was a friend of sinners. These are the people that came to him in verse 1 of this chapter. They are represented by the prodigal son. But the older brother represents the Pharisees. And when Jesus came to this portion of the parable, it's like he was holding up a mirror For the Pharisees to see themselves. I can just imagine their faces turning red as they began to understand what he was doing. Now let me ask you an important question as we begin our study this morning, and that is, what do you make of the older brother? Do you sympathize with him? Do you think of him as a hardworking, responsible young man who just had an intense rivalry with his younger brother? That's not uncommon. Have you ever read this famous story and thought? You know, he does have a point. It really wasn't fair that the father treated this runaway the way he did. You ever thought that the prodigal was like a really bad sinner, but the older brother was just a little sinner? I think that's the way a lot of people read this parable. And if you do, it's probably the Pharisaical spirit in you coming out. How would you know if you're a Pharisee? Well, I want to mention from this portion of God's Word four timeless traits. of sinful Pharisees. The first characteristic I would like to bring to your attention is this: that Pharisees have no love for sinners. Look with me at verses 25 through 27. Now his elder son was in the field, and as he came and drew nigh to the house, he heard music and dancing And he called one of the servants and asked what these things meant, and he said unto him, Thy brother is come, and thy father hath killed the fatted calf, because he hath received him safe and sound. The older brother has not heard about his younger brother's return. He's probably off in a distant field, and so the word has not reached him yet. And as he comes closer to home, he strains his ear because he hears music. That's unusual. What is going on? And finally, a young servant boy comes and tells him what's going on at the mansion. And you can see in verse 27 that this servant who is giving him this information is excited about this. He's saying, you won't believe what happened. Remember your brother that ran away and went to the far country? Well, he's returned. He's alive. He's well, and your father is overjoyed, and he's thrown this huge celebration for him. That's the energy that's there in verse 27. Now, how would you expect his older brother to respond? This should have been the greatest news he'd ever heard. He should have dropped whatever he had in his hands and ran to that mansion and gone in and embraced his brother with tears streaming down his face, and then he would embrace his father, and he would say, My brother has returned. That should have been how the story went But that's not what happens. Verse 28 says that he was angry and would not go in. He had no real concern for his brother He didn't want to share in this joyful celebration. He wasn't glad that his brother had finally returned. Why is that? Because he didn't love his brother at all. He had no concern for him. He hadn't been thinking day after day, I wonder what's happening to my brother. I wonder if he's still alive. I wonder if he'll ever come to his senses. No, he was living as if his brother was gone forever, and that was that. The implication is he would have preferred if his brother never came home. He would have preferred if his brother just died in the far country. That was his attitude. He says here This my brother he refers to him not as no, he says to his father later on, excuse me, he says in verse 30, thy son. He doesn't say my brother, he's saying the son of yours. Rather than saying this brother of mine. Let me ask you a probing question. Are there some people that you can think of that you would prefer if they just never get saved? There's some people that the idea of them going to hell actually pleases you Perhaps they have hurt you or disappointed you or someone you love and you're bitter at them. Or maybe their sin is so disgusting and their lifestyle is so abhorrent that you secretly find some satisfaction in thinking of their future torments. You would never voice these things, you would never say them out loud because they're ugly and disturbing, but they're there deep down in your hearts. That was the attitude of the older. Brother. I wish he had just died and gone away. My friend, if that's the way you feel, you're responding to sinners more like the Pharisees than Christ. The second trait of Pharisees I'd like you to see in our passage is that Pharisees compare themselves favorably with other sinners. Look with me at verses twenty-eight to thirty. It says of the older brother and he was angry and would not go in Therefore came his father out and entreated him, and he answering said to his father, Lo, these many years do I serve thee, neither transgress thy at any time thy commandment and yet thou never gavest me a kid, that is a goat, that I may make merry with my friends, and as soon as this thy son was come, which hath devoured thy living with harlots, thou hast killed for him the fatted calf. The older brother doesn't come in. He stays outside sulking. And amazingly, the father graciously leaves this large celebration and comes out to speak to his son. And then the older brother begins to give his complaint, and he makes this comparison, which is something we all do, right? We compare ourselves with others. Notice how he summarizes his own track record. Lo, these many years do I serve thee. He's saying, I've been faithful, I've been dependable. He's saying, Dad, you know you can always count on me. And then neither transgressed I at any time thy commandment. He says, I'm obedient. I've always played by the rules. Of course, his obedience was far from perfect, but that's the way he summarizes himself. And then he goes to describe in the contrast now his brother. He describes him As those the man who has devoured thy living. That is, probably one-third of his state had been liquidated when he went to the far country. That was the inheritance of the younger son. He says he's wasteful. This is, of course, the very idea behind our English word prodigal. Look with me in verse 13 of this chapter. Not many days after the younger son gathered all together and took his journey into the far country, and there wasted his substance. with riotous living. He wasted, he blew all that money. One thing that's very clear about this older brother is that he's keenly aware of the value of things, of the monetary Price tag of things. He also describes his younger brother as immoral He spent his money on prostitutes. That is his accusation. Now, this parable is does not specifically say that about the younger brother. I think it's very likely and included in this idea. Of his riotous living. But perhaps his brother has heard from the far country, or perhaps he's just assuming the worst, or maybe he is saying, you know, if I were in his shoes, that's what I would do. At any rate, he describes his brother as wasteful, irresponsible, immoral, and disgraceful. You see, Pharisees always like to compare themselves with others because it makes them feel so superior. If there's one thing I want you to gather from this message today, it is that both the prodigal son and the Pharisee were wicked sinners. It's not that one was a really bad sinner and one was, you know, he's not perfect, but he's a really, really good guy. No, they were both equally wicked. That's what the Lord is presenting in this parable. You see, people sin in different ways. And their sin often corresponds to their personality. I wonder if you've ever thought about this before or not. We have here a contrast between a religious sinner and a rebellious sinner. One is sanconious. The other is sensual. One sins more internally, the other more externally. One sins more passively, the other is more active in his transgressions. But they are both equally wicked in the eyes of God. What we tend to do, all of us. Is measure people by our own perceived strengths. We get our own out our own yardstick and we measure other people. Let me get to meddling now. If you are a hardworking, disciplined, frugal individual that never wastes a penny on anything. You will be tempted to measure other people by that yardstick. And you'll be thinking and saying, you ever see how wasteful people are? Look how they're spending all that money on that. Why are they going on that trip? Why are they spending all that money on that car? They've already got another nice car. People are so rate wasteful. They throw their money away. Why can't they be frugal? Good steward like I am? You may say, are you saying, Pastor, it's wrong to be a good steward? No, I'm not, but I'm saying this That if you were a lost person, you would be that way. You would be pinching your pennies. There's a lot of lost people that are like that. This is not a fruit of the Spirit. Discipline does not reveal the unmistakable work of the Spirit of God because there are a lot of lost people who are very disciplined. Perhaps you're very proud of the way you manage your resources and what you've been able to accomplish in your life. You're quick to remind people of your track record of dependability and faithfulness and stewardship and how you have earned through hard work and determination everything that you possess. But on the other hand, there are people who are more impulsive. Who are prone to make bad choices. They never think of themselves. I wonder what other people are thinking about me as I'm doing this. They just do it. They're wasteful. And those people tend to say things like this I've made some bad choices in life, but I've got a soft heart I may not have always done the right things, but I would give anybody in need the shirt off my back. That's just the kind of guy that I am And then they would say this. I'm not perfect, but at least I'm not a hypocrite. I don't put on any kind of a facade or show and make people think I'm religious and better than I am. I mean, I am what I am, but I tell you this much: I'm honest about who I am. The point I'm trying to make is that whether you are a prodigal or a Pharisee, you are a wicked sinner who desperately needs God's grace. The third characteristic that I want to bring out about the Pharisees may surprise you, and that is that Pharisees have no real love for God. Oh, they would protest that if they were here. They were all about letting people know that they loved God. Remember their elaborate prayers in public and their very public displays of fasting and of giving that the Lord mentions in Matthew 6? Everyone would have thought if you ask and polled the common people in Galilee, do you think the Pharisees love God? Oh, yes. Oh, yes, they love God. They really love God. I mean, just look. At how they fast all the time and how they give money all the time to poor people. I mean, those people, they're really religious. But I want you to see who the Pharisees were in large part in this portrait. This son shows profound disrespect to his father. He doesn't go into the house to enjoy the celebration. In fact Many suggest that he should have been helping to organize and lead the celebration as the older brother. But rather than doing that, he sulks outside and he forces, as it were, his father to leave this great celebration where he is the host. and go out in the field to entreat his son. That was a disgraceful thing that he had to do, but he condescended to do it. You see, the older son and their culture was to guard his father's honor. But instead he places his father in a dishonorable position in this shame-based culture. That was a big deal. But the disrespect continues. Look with me at verse 29. And he answering and said to his father, Lo, these many years do I serve thee. The word low there is the word that means to look. He's saying look, Dad. There's a tone of disrespect in the way he addresses his father. There's some attitude there. There was no giving of honor. There was no respect. There was no concern for his father's glory. All of this was a picture of the Pharisees who professed to everyone that they were honoring God, that they love God, when in fact they were dishonoring him. Jesus said to the Pharisees in Matthew 15 and verse 8. This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth and honoreth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. They possessed a religion that impressed people, but it was actually abhorrent to God. Let me ask you this morning, do you have a reverence for God? Do you have what the Puritans used to talk about living in the fear of the Lord? Do you seek to honor him with your life? Do you ever stop and think about your actions and reactions and how they reflect on the Lord, that he sees everything that you do, that he knows everything that's in your heart, and that you must give an account to him? Do you ever refrain from doing something because it would be a poor testimony for your God? But there's even another evidence that this Pharisee failed to love his God. I want you to notice that he has no joy in serving his Father. In verse 29, he says, These many years do I serve thee. And the word serve there is the Greek word for a slave. This many years, he says, I've been working like a slave for you. Now you should not assume that this was backbreaking labor that he was doing. He was the oldest son of a wealthy nobleman. He wasn't out there with a hole in his hand digging in the dirt. He was telling servants what to do. He had a too high of a station to be actually doing the labor himself. But in his mind, all of this was an irksome task His life had no joy. His relationship with his father was simply one of duty and obligation, not one of love. And so his work for his father was tedious. Tiresome and monotonous. This is the consistent trait of man-made religion. How many people today Will gather in places of worship, and they have no joy in their hearts at all. In fact, if you look at their faces, they look miserable. And as soon as the benediction is pronounced, they scatter out of there as fast as they can because they put in their time, and now they can finally do things that they enjoy doing. Because they just hated the last hour that they spent going through various rituals to impress their family members to maintain their status in society and perhaps to quiet their troubled conscience Did you know that worshiping and serving the Lord should be something that you enjoy? Yeah. We sang together Psalm 100. It said, serve the Lord with gladness, come before his presence with singing. The Puritan Jeremy Taylor said, God threatens terrible things if we will not be happy. I love that quote. The Apostle Paul said in Romans 14 verse 17, for the kingdom of God is not meat and drink. But righteousness and peace and joy and the Holy Spirit, let me remind you that one of the fruit of the Spirit is joy. So let me ask you, do you worship and serve the Lord with joy? Did you look forward to coming here this morning, or did you just say, oh, Sunday, you gotta go to church? I can't wait till that's over. Let me ask you Sunday school teachers, deacons, musicians, others who have responsibilities that brought you here earlier and maybe will keep you here later. Did you see it as just a responsibility that you got stuck with? Or do you see it as something that you can joyfully do in service for the Lord? It's so easy to grow weary in serving the Lord and forget why you're doing what you're doing. But if we love our Heavenly Father, it will be our joy to serve Him. The reason this firstborn son hated his job is because he really didn't love his father. This is magnified by the way he describes the duration of his labor as these many years. He's like a man in prison who is numbering his days. You may say, well, if he hated it so much, Why was this older son remaining at home? I'll tell you why he was waiting for his father to die, because he would inherit that large fortune. That's what was motivating him to work every day. You see, it was not a labor of love. It was the work of a disgruntled employee. In Genesis 29, we read of Jacob. Falling in love with Rachel and Laban, this crooked father-in-law, of course, tricked him and asked him to work seven years. For marrying her. And the Bible says that even though he was working for a difficult man, that those seven years seemed to him but a few days for the love that he had for her. Someone once described that as the most romantic verse in the Bible. You see, your outlook determines your attitude. So if you put these things together about the Pharisee, they don't love God, and they don't love others. Do you realize what that encompasses? Ironically, that encompasses the two tables of the law. How could you boil down and condense the Ten Commandments to their essential truths? Love God with all your hearts, and love your neighbor as yourself, and the Pharisees who were supposedly upholding God's law didn't do either one. But why is that? That brings me to my fourth and final point of timeless traits of Pharisees. And that is because Pharisees have no understanding of the grace of God. You see how this brother believes that he has earned God's favor? He says, Neither transgressed I at any time. Verse twenty nine. This is very much like the confession of the rich young ruler who said, All of these commandments have I kept from my youth. You might say, How could these men be so blind? Why would they make such a proclamation? We would never say that. I don't think anybody here would stand up and say, I've never violated any of God's commandments. How could they say that? It's because They had a wrong understanding of obedience. To them, obedience was a matter of obeying a few external rules. They would say to themselves, I don't worship idols, I don't take God's name in vain, I don't commit adultery, I don't kill people, and I don't steal from others. Therefore, I'm a hundred percent compliant with God's law. But that of course is a superficial understanding of God's law, and Jesus brought that out so powerfully in the Sermon on the Mount. So let me ask you, do you think that because you've never been convicted of a felony, that you're better than most, and that God accepts you? Do you think that you have somehow earned God's favor because of your track record the last few decades? You would say I'm a responsible father, a dependable employee. I pay my taxes. I play by the rules. That has to count for something. Well the Bible says that all of your righteous deeds are as filthy rags in his sight. And it says, by the deeds of the law shall no flesh be justified. God is not impressed with your self-made righteousness. In fact, it's abhorrent to him. Pharisees also believe they deserve God's blessing. Says it's not fair. You never gave me. A goat to sacrifice and to enjoy and party with my friends. By the way, you notice it's not that he wanted to spend time with his father. He wanted to spend time with his friends. He had no love for his father. His father was just bank to provide for his own desires. He was saying, I deserve my own party. You get the very clear sense that he was at least to some degree envious of what his younger brother had done when he went to the far country and enjoyed his party life. It's so very easy, even for professing Christian people, to think that you have somehow earned God's favor. I've heard more than a few Christians say to me when some unexpected trial occurred in their life. I thought God would bless me if I followed him. Or I've been faithfully attending church and paying my tithes for 20 years, and now this happens? My friends, that's the spirit of the Pharisees. That's how the older brother thoughts We somehow think that if we toe the line and play by the rules that God owes us, my friend, God is debtor to no man. If God were to give you what you deserve, he would send you straight to hell. So how did the father respond to his disrespectful son? Look with me at verse 31. This is amazing condescension after this rude, disrespectful, selfish tyrate He says to him, Son, thou art ever with me, and all that I have is thine. In essence, he's saying, What do you want? I'm not excluding you. I'm not pushing you away. You want a goat to eat and enjoy your time with your friends? I'll provide that. What this reveals is an incredible graciousness on the part of the Father and a remarkable disconnect that the Son had with his father. How could he not realize that his father was this giving and gracious man? He'd grown up with him his whole life The reason is because he really didn't know his father. One of the things I mentioned about the prodigal son is that he didn't know his father very well. Thought of him as a foolish man who didn't know how to live. Well, guess what? The older brother didn't know his father very well either. He was ignorant of who he was. What's remarkable is that the Father is gracious and gentle with this religious son, just like he was with his rebellious son. The Greek word that's translated son in verse 31 is not the same term that's used the other times in this parable. It's a word that literally means my child. The father tenderly entreats his firstborn son with the words, my child! Now this should not be pressed to mean that the Pharisees were indeed children of God and were right with God. No, what it's intended to reveal is the Father's outstretched arms of love to his angry, sulking son. You see, you can be estranged from God in the far country, or you can be estranged from God out in the field, supposedly working for him. You can be estranged from God as a notorious sinner, or you can be estranged from God as a compliant sinner that everyone thinks well of, but inside You have no love for God and no joy. There are religious prodigals and there are rebellious Prodigals. You see, the message of this parable is not that God loves notorious sinners, but he rejects self-righteous sinners. No, the Father wants both sons to come home. Both types of sinners are to be reconciled to him because his grace reaches to both prodigals and Pharisees. He rescues both religious people. And rebellious people. The parable then concludes with the father explaining to the Pharisee why it was appropriate for him to give us time and attention. The lowest of sinners. This is Jesus' way of coming to a conclusion and answering the Pharisees' objection. Verse 32, it was meet or it was appropriate. That we should make merry and be glad. For this thy brother was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found. But there's something fascinating about this parable. Did you notice it? It doesn't have a resolution at the end. The reader is left wondering, well, what happened to this older brother? Did he come home? Did he say You're right, Dad. I'm sorry. Sometimes I, you know, get upset with my younger brother and sorry I was disrespectful to you. And I'll come in and we'll rejoice as a family. Is that how it ended? It doesn't say. Or did he stay out in the field sulking, saying, I will never walk into the house again as long as my brother's there? Intentionally, Jesus leaves the ending incomplete because he wants the reader or the hearer to say What would I do? Have I would I respond by coming in, or would I say, you know what? I have my rights and I'm going to stay out here in the field. I want to say something that may be alarming to you. And that is that churches are dangerous places. Churches tend to attract more of older brother types. Than younger brother types. People who like to be more disciplined and more respectful and are concerned about what people think of them and want to be frugal and careful in their approach to life. They tend to be the kind of people who are attracted to church. This is why you often hear the common complaint of notoriously wicked sinners. What is it? Churches are filled with hypocrites. Every time I hear that, I agree with them. I say you're absolutely right, they are. But we still would like you to come and join with us. It's so easy for us To become critical and judgmental and to look out at the world And to think we're so much better than people in the world. We're so much better than celebrities whose lives are notoriously wicked. The sensual world in which we live, we're so much better than they. And it's so easy to forget that apart from the grace of God, we would be equally Under the condemnation of God. We may not sin in the same way because our personality might be different. But it would still be wicked and abhorrent in the eyes of the holy Gods. You see, whether or not you're like the older brother or the younger brother. The point is, we all need the grace of God's. We all need to come home repented and broken over our sins with no claims on God's. Not coming and saying, you know, I've lived a pretty good life. I expect to be treated a certain way. No, we come as beggars. Recognizing that we have done nothing to earn his favor, but in fact we've done everything to deserve his wrath. That's the way we must come home. The younger brother repented and came home. But this parable ends with that religious older brother not coming home. May God help us to see our need of his grace And to come home. Because those who fail to come home will perish eternally. Let's close in prayer. Father We thank you for your word. We thank you that it's so relevant for us, that it speaks to us. In powerful ways. Father, keep us from having the spirit of a Pharisee. Concluding in our minds that we're better than others. Help us, Father, to see ourselves whether we are a religious type or rebellious type, as someone who's desperately in need of your grace. And of your forgiveness. And Father, for those here today who are yet lost in their sins, they may have a form of godliness. May be well respected , may be well thought of by the members of this church, and yet, Father, They may be like the older brother who is disgruntled and joyless and proud and stubborn and disrespectful. Father, I pray That you would bring them to repentance and to salvation. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.