If you have your Bibles, you can turn with me please to Proverbs 31 In 2015, the most valuable ruby in history was sold at auction for over $30 million. This gemstone is known as the Sunrise Ruby. It's over 25 carats, which is an exceptional size for a ruby. And it has a very vivid red color that is known as pigeon's blood. And this shade is found only in one remote mine in Burma. As valuable as this jewel is, it is not as valuable as an excellent woman. Proverbs 31 verse 10 says, who can find a virtuous woman for her price is far above rubies? This is not hyperbole. The fact is that you cannot put a price on a wife and mother who is a godly example and a wonderful blessing This morning on Mother's Day, I want us to examine these familiar words that conclude the book of Proverbs. I almost feel like I need to apologize to our ladies for preaching from this passage because I've discovered over the years that many women find it very discouraging. I'm wondering how many women this morning, when you opened the bulletin and you saw Proverbs 31, you said to yourself, here we go again. Another impossible challenge, another chance for me to feel guilty But I want you to know that this passage is here not to discourage, but to inspire Perhaps one reason that this passage seems so impossible to live up to is because sometimes preachers and teachers have focused on the wrong things in this passage. It's very easy to preach this passage or any passage on Mother's Day In such a way that a woman feels that if that she really doesn't matter to God unless she is married and has lots of children. It's common for mothers to feel also that the example here is kind of a superwoman And uh that it's impossible for mere mortals to live up to these expectations. But I want you to know that this should not be our response to the Word of God. And I think it's important to notice that this woman is exceptional, not because she is married or has many children, but because she knows the Lord and has become a woman of character by his grace. That is an important thing for us to understand. Any Christian woman, married or unmarried, can become a virtuous woman by walking with God. However, most women will marry and have children, and so this portrait helps us to see how a woman of virtue functions in a domestic situation. I also think it's also fair to say that God uses a woman's marriage and her children to mold her and shape her into the person that he wants her to become Being a mother involves a lot of self-denial, a lot of the foregoing of sleep. And dreams and expectations, perhaps, and other things that she would like to be doing, but she can't because she has this obligation. And so it's this role that God uses. to shape and to mold and to make a virtuous woman Now you may know, I'm sure many of you do, that this passage is actually an alphabetic acrostic. There are 22 verses in this poem, begins in verse 10. And the reason why there are 22 verses is because there are 22 letters in the Hebrew alphabet. You could say this is a virtuous woman from A to Z. And be very literal about that. Now there are several passages like that in Scripture. You know Psalm 119 is an alphabetic acrostic, the largest that we have in Scripture, the entire book of Lamentations. as an alphabetical crosstic. So why did God sometimes structure his word in this way? Well, most scholars believe it's because it was an aid to memory. It's not difficult to imagine young Jewish boys and Jewish girls memorizing this poem that speaks Now I want you to notice who is speaking in this passage. It may surprise you. Look with me at verse 1 The words of King Lemuel, the prophecy that his mother taught him. So, this truth is something that this king's mom taught him, and he is relaying that advice. So there's a sense in which the target audience for this portion of God's Word is actually young men. So let me just say here at the outset, young man, you want to get married someday and have a wife that's going to be a great blessing to you? This is the kind of woman you should be looking for. The virtuous woman is described here in Proverbs 31. This is a woman of excellence. I want you to also notice this woman is portrayed as a woman of wisdom. I never really thought about that until I was working on this message this week. Throughout the book of Proverbs, wisdom is portrayed or personified as a woman Proverbs chapter 1 and verse 20 says, Wisdom crieth without. She uttereth her voice in the streets. In chapter 3 and verse 13 and following, we read this, happy is the man that findeth wisdom. She is more precious than rubies. That sounds very much like Proverbs 31, 10. And we find similar ideas in chapters 8 and 9. And I think it's not a coincidence that this book of wisdom concludes with this portrait of the virtuous woman. But now this woman is not a literary device. She is a real-life example of wisdom in action. I've mentioned to you before that the essence of the Hebrew word for wisdom is skill. A wise person is skillful in living life. And this woman is the epitome of a woman skillfully navigating the various challenges of life that a woman will generally encounter of being a wife. and a mother and trying to minister to her community and trying to keep all of those things together. And somehow she does it. This remarkable woman is skillfully living for the glory of God. And so I'm going to speak to you this morning on the portrait of a wise woman. And I'm going to first of all start out by distinguishing her from two other examples of women found in the book of Proverbs. In the book of Proverbs, We have three types of women. Now there are many more women than this, but in Proverbs there are three types that are brought out in the pages So we see first of all that a wise woman is different from other women. So what are those other two types of women? Well And Proverbs, especially in the first nine chapters, we have many warnings about the strange woman. Proverbs chapters 1 through 9 are the instructions of a father to his son And the most common topic that this father gives to his son is warnings about the strange woman she's mentioned in chapter 2 and chapter 5 and chapter 6 chapter 7 and chapter 9. And his advice is stay away from her. Don't be seduced by her. Don't listen to her. Don't spend time with her. Avoid her. Now the word strange really is a reference to a foreign woman, because generally speaking, in Israel The women who had low morals and dressed immodestly were foreign women. And so the idea of a strange woman was a foreign woman. In time that term came to be used. For any woman that was seductive. And this is often the ideal woman of the world. Is that not true today? The celebrities that are held up as role models for women tend to be superficial and sensual. Their entire focus is on their outward appearance. You can't hardly turn your TV on Or turn your computer on to some news feed without having all of the celebrity news force-fed to you. And the most common feature of celebrity news is the strange woman. That is warned about in the book of Proverbs. This is the example, the model The epitome of womanhood that has held up in our culture today. And the repercussions of that have been horrible. There are many women today who think that if they do not look like a supermodel, there's something wrong with them This is the origin of numerous eating disorders that young women have in our culture today. This is why most of the popular fashions are modest. Young women today are being told in a multitude of ways that they are to put all of their energy into being seductive and sensual, that that is where their value is. And that is very sad, and that is not what the Word of God teaches. This is not the virtuous woman And then we have another woman that is portrayed in the book of Proverbs. She's not the strange woman. I would describe her as the selfish woman. This is found in about a half dozen verses scattered throughout the book of Proverbs. And this is the stereotypical nagging wife. This is a trap very easily that godly women, Christian women, can fall into. This woman is described in the book of Proverbs as rottenness to her husband's bones. She's like a disease. She is annoying as a dripping faucet. On two occasions, the husband is exhorted to go and live on the rooftop rather than with this kind of woman. And in another verse, he is told to dwell in the wilderness. This is not an ancient problem. This words were written about 3,000 years ago, but this is a very common trap. that women can fall into. I can remember when I first really understood this when I was a young man of 19 years old and I was working at a warehouse. My parents had a wonderful marriage, and you know when you're a kid growing up, you think that every family's just like yours. And so I was working at this warehouse and there's this man that would come in every day. at 630 in the evening to work. He worked from 630 to 1030. And we couldn't understand why he worked because he had an incredible job down in DC. He would drive up in a sports car. He had a suit on and everything, and he would go to the locker room and he would change into these old warehouse closes and he would work for four or five hours there every night. I remember once talking to him and saying to him, why do you work? I mean you've you've got you're obviously doing well. You don't need the money. Why are you coming here every night to work? And he says, because if I'm lucky when I get home my wife will be asleep. And he said, because when I do come home, all that I hear from my wife is negativity, negativity, negativity, and she's usually complaining about, you know what? You're never here. You're never home. You don't spend time with me. And so you know what happens? He doesn't spend any time with her. Now we laugh at that, but it's a very sad situation. We have expressions like this, don't we? Do you know these? When mama ain't happy? See everybody knows how to finish that. Or happy wife, happy life. Do you know they have expressions like that in every culture in the world? Because this is a stereotype that women can very easily fall into, and they can become very negative, and they can make everyone around them absolutely miserable. Without even saying a word. This is not the virtuous woman. This is not what God has called women to be. Now, what do you think of when you think of the virtuous woman? Virtuous is kind of an old-fashioned word to us. Perhaps you think of an elderly, pious lady who sips tea with her friends. That's not what the Hebrew word means at all. This word could be translated as capable or competence or excellence. This is a very capable and competent woman who excels at whatever she puts her hand to. You know people like this, don't you? They're capable. Will you give them a task to do, and it's done right And you can give them a variety of tasks to do, and they do it well because they're capable, they're responsible. In fact, this word has even been rendered by one ancient translator as strong A strong woman. This woman we often think of as perhaps being weak and being a servant to her household. But that's not the picture at all. This woman serves because she's strong. This particular Hebrew word was even used as a term for an heroic warrior. And this type of woman is rare. That's why the text says, who can find a virtuous woman? This king is saying to his sons, you're going to have to look carefully to find this kind of woman. Now in the ancient world and still in many cultures today, a husband had to pay a dowry for his wife. And the more capable the wife, the higher the price. Now we don't have that in our culture, of course, but that's the cultural background in which this was written. And the idea is Man, you're going to have to be saving up a long time if you want to marry a woman like this because she is priceless. The fact is, man, you can't put a price tag on all the things that your wife does for you and your family, what your mom has done in investing in our lives. If you had to pay someone for all of those tasks, you would go broke. I want you to notice with me secondly that a wise woman is dedicated to her husband. Look with me at verses 11 and 12. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil. Verse 12, this beautiful verse. She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life. And then I'm going to come to verse 23. Her husband is known in the gates when he sitteth among the elders of the land. I want you to notice that she has a satisfying relationship with her husband. It's a relationship built on trust. It says the heart of her husband doth safely trust. The thought never crosses his mind That she is somehow going to fight against him, that she is going to be a problem to him, that she is going to demean him in her conversations with other women. or lower his reputation because of the way she gossips about their relationship. He's not afraid that she will bankrupt the family with some frivolous purchases. This is why he delegates so much to her as seen in this passage. By the way, men, if you're a wise husband, you will delegate a great deal to your wives and just say you can take care of that part. I trust you. I'm not worried about it. I know you'll do a good job. I think husbands who micromanage anything are being very, everything are being very foolish. You have a capable wife, delegate to her and let her do things the way she would like to do them in those areas. She has his complete confidence and she trusts her husband as well. A relationship, the marriage relationship must be based on mutual trust. This is something I really emphasize in premarital counseling. Do you really trust this person? Because you're putting your life in their hands. Do you really trust them? Because if you don't, you're in for a tough road. Notice she has, secondly, a submissive relationship to her husband. She lives her life in subordination to his. She has voluntarily placed her life under his authority, and she is happy there. She is like Eve. She sees her role as her husband's completer and not his competer. I want to be technical for just a moment. Often in Hebrew poetry, There is a certain structure called a chiastic structure. Think in uh picture in your mind a V, alright, a V. And the first verse is at the top of the V on this side, that's verse 10. And the last verse is at the top up here, and that's verse 31. And if you were to go through, and we don't have time to do this, you would see that each section corresponds to the other. In other words, just like in verse 29 you have a reference notice it says many daughters have done virtuously but thou excels them all That is parallel to what you have in verse 10. Who can find a virtuous woman for her price is far above rubies? And if you were to work your way down the passage, you would see that there are pairs that line up. And what is the point of that kind of literary structure? It is where it comes down to the very bottom of the V And that is where the emphasis is. So that's where the dead center of the poem is. Now where is it in this poem? You know where it is? It 's verse 23. Look with me at verse 23. This is the emphasis of this passage. Her husband is known in the gates when he sitteth among the elders of the land. What does that mean? Why is that the emphasis? The emphasis and the understanding is that her husband would not have the reputation and the standing that he does in that community but for his wife. His wife has helped to make him the man, the leader that he is in that community. He's well thought of. He's with the elders. He's one of the officials who makes decisions there And so a godly woman, a virtuous wife, will be thinking, I know this sounds really old-fashioned. But it's biblical. How can I make my husband more successful? How can I enable him to accomplish his goals? How can I help him do what God has called him to do? My role is to assist him and to help him and to encourage him and to strengthen him, not to go off and do my own thing my own way. Thirdly, a wise woman is devoted to her family. Look with me at verses 13 and following. She seeketh wool and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands. She is like the merchant ship, she bringeth her food from afar. She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens. You get almost tired from reading this passage because this woman is so diligent and such a hard worker. You've heard it said before that a man works from son to son, but a woman's work is never done. And that is certainly brought out in this poem of the virtuous woman. And what is clear here is that she's working for the benefit of her family. She's not trying to make a name for herself. She's trying to provide for her family and for others. Scholars are agree that she apparently has a cottage industry at work in her home. It was very common in the ancient world for women to earn extra income by making garments and selling them and the marketplace. It says in verse 13 that she worketh willingly with her hands. And the word willingly has the idea of with delights. She's not a slave in that household. This is what she wants to do. She enjoys doing this. Moms, don't ever feel sorry for yourself that you are a homemaker. The home is the most sacred place on earth It was the first institution that God created, and it's the place where lives are shaped for eternity. It is indeed a high calling. Notice how her work is described in this home. She is resourceful in her work. She goes out and purchases the right materials and supplies and She's like the merchant ships, and the idea here is that she goes and she gets the best products from afar And she's joyful in her work at home, and she's selfless in her work at home. Verse 15, she rises also wild as yet night. And giveth meat to those to her household. How diligent she is in her work. Look with me at verse 16. She is discerning in her work. She considereth a field and buyeth it. With the fruit of her hand, she planted a vineyard. Now this would have been extraordinary in the ancient world. That's why I say this is a capable and competent woman. She's not locked up at home and doesn't know how to work in the outside world. She can go out into the world and she can purchase field. She knows how to barter. She knows about real estate and the value of things and how things work. She is very capable. And she is tireless in her work, verse 17. She girdeth her loins with strength and strengtheneth her arms. That is, she is a strong woman. She is always working. She is very active. Verse 18, she's proud of her work. She perceiveth that her merchandise is good, her candle goeth not out by night. She is working night and day to produce these products that will be a blessing to her household and even to the community. And she's involved in her work, verse 19. She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distif. She is doing this herself, and she's generous in her work, verse 20. She stretcheth out her hand to the poor, yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy. What a wonderful portrait this is. It's very easy for a mom who's busy meeting the needs of her household to say, I have absolutely no time to minister to anyone outside of these four walls. I've got my family, and so I'm going to stay here, and I'm just going to work with my family, and that's all I have time or energy for. But you know one of the most important things that you can teach your family, your children, is how to minister to others. How much did her children learn when they saw their mom giving the produce the money that she had earned by making these garments? giving them to poor people. How much did that teach them about kindness and generosity and giving to others in need? See, this woman was not only able to minister internally to her family, but externally to the world. What a wonderful example. This truly is her prosperity, and this is an upper middle class situation. Her prosperity has not made her proud, it's made her generous and a blessing to the community. And notice that she is successful in her work in verses 21 through 24, and there are five evidences that she is successful that are given in this text. First of all, notice the way her family is clothed. She is not afraid of the snow for her household, for all her household are clothed. With scarlet. Some ancient versions have the idea of that word scarlet is double thickness. That is, when cold weather comes, and it doesn't come that often in the Middle East. But when on those rare occasions it comes, she's prepared, she's ready, she has ample provisions for her family, whatever the weather, she is prepared for it. And notice here the appearance of her home in verse 22. She maketh herself coverings of tapestry. Her clothing is silk and purple. God gave to women a nesting instinct. And what a blessing that is. Sometimes husbands will complain about what I sometimes called frou fruit. You know what fru fru is? Does your wife go out and buy a lot of fru fru and little decorations and pillows and all kinds of stuff to accent the home and things to put on the walls and you're thinking to yourself as a as a very uh straightforward man. Why do we need that? What do we need that decoration for? The house looks great. But men, what would our homes look like if it wasn't for our wives? I yeah. I I I know what it would look like I know exactly what it would look like because, you know, just this last week I had to go down and pick up my son in the men's dorms. And I walked into men's dorms and I walked into some of those rooms and I was ready. It brought back a lot of disturbing memories Don't make fun of your wives, for this is a God-given instinct, and it is a blessing to make your home a beautiful, inviting place. That's a wonderful gift, men. That our wives and mothers of our children give to us. It mentions her appearance The Bible is going to say at the end of this poem that a charm or favor is deceitful and beauty is vain. But that doesn't mean that a woman cannot dress up and wear attractive clothing. This woman had nice, beautiful clothing. She was also generous to the poor. She wasn't being selfish and spending all this money on herself, but it's not a sin to look nice, to look sharp, to be attractive. And that's the way this woman was. It's also evidenced by the stature of her husband. The clear implication, verse 23, is that he would not be where he is. If she was not his wife. And that is a wonderful blessing. And then it mentions the quality of her merchandise. In verse 24, she maketh fine linen and selleth it and delivereth girdles unto the merchant. She is very competent, she is very skilled, she is very resourceful, she plans things out. You know, one of the very interesting, almost universal differences between men and women is this matter of details. You know that? Women tend to be detail-oriented. I can give you an example of this. Have you ever seen a husband and wife together and the husband starts telling a story? You know what inevitably is going to happen. He'll be saying, so, you know, we went to the store on Tuesday, and she'll say, no, honey, it was Wednesday. And and and you know we we we went to this Walmart and she goes, Well actually first we went to uh CVS, remember honey? And uh and and we got some eggs and she said no we got that at the other store I can't tell you how many times I've witnessed this in our lobby. Women are detail-oriented. And they are able to bring order and structure to our households. What a blessing that is. They can remember all of these things and put everything in order, and that's the way this woman is. She's very efficient because she is very orderly. And everything she does, she marks with excellence. And everything that she does is not to draw attention to herself. but to be a blessing to others, to her husband, to her children, and to the community. This woman is also dignified in her character. Look at verses 25 Through 27. Strength and honor are her clothing, and she shall rejoice. in time to come. She openeth her mouth with wisdom, and in her tongue is the law of kindness. She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. This is a woman of dignity. Notice she is dignified in her spirit. In verse 25, she has a quiet dignity. Strength and honor are her clothing. I told you she was a strong woman. She was honorable. Everyone respected her. They had observed her. They saw her character. They saw her family. This is a woman who is worthy of honor and respect. Not that she's trying to impress people, but it's apparent to everyone the quality of this woman. It says, and she shall rejoice in time to come. This woman If I can put it this way, is not a worry wart. She is prepared. She is optimistic as she faces the future. She is doing God's will. And in time to come , The blessings will continue to come back to her with children and grandchildren and the esteem of the community Notice she is dignified in her speech. This is so beautiful. She openeth her mouth with wisdom. Remember I told you that she was a woman of wisdom? And that's how she's being portrayed here at the very end of this book of wisdom. Well, it's seen in her speech. People would come to her for advice. Other women would seek her out because they know this woman is a woman of wisdom. And notice that she is a woman of kindness. She openeth her mouth with wisdom, and in her tongue is the law of kindness. And that word kindness there has the idea of mercy or love. She is not judgmental. She is not censorious. She is not critical. She does not have a constant stream of negativity about others, about her family, or anyone else. No, what comes out of her mouth is positive, it is edifying, it builds people up, it encourages them. And when someone And someone in the community does something that may be scandalous, she's not first in the list to cast stones at them. She is merciful to them and kind to them. She's not a gossip. This is what God's high calling for women And she's dignified in her selflessness. Verse 27. She looketh well to the ways of her household and eateth not the bread of idleness. What a beautiful picture. She's diligent. She's careful. She knows what's going on in the lives of her children She talks to them. She has a relationship with them. She knows what they're thinking and what their plans are and what's going on in their hearts. And this can only be accomplished by being incredibly vigilant and diligent. And that is the way she is. And not just her children, but the servants. The picture here of the household is of servants who live in the house. She doesn't regard them as second-class citizens. No, she ministers to them as well. She helps them as well. She counsels them as well. She's a very capable woman. You know, the life of selflessness is a life of dignity, a life that's lived for others, to be a blessing to others. This, of course, is not at all what the world teaches, but this is the kind of people that we gravitate to, the kind of people that we truly admire. And notice finally that this woman of wisdom will certainly be rewarded. In verses 28 through 31, I want you to notice That we have three mentions of praise here. Her children rise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and he praiseth her. And then in verse 30, Fair is deceitful, and beauty is vain, but the woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be Praised and verse 31, give her the fruits of her hands and let her own works praise her in the gates. So this passage concludes by saying that this is the woman that will be praised, that will be exalted. Notice that she will be praised by her children. That doesn't mean that they're going to praise their mom when they're three years old. You know, your little toddler is not going to say, Mom, thank you so much for staying up with me all night when I was sick. I know you've got a busy schedule. I know you really need your rest, but I really appreciate that. No toddler is going to say that. Be nice, but they're not going to say that. But when they grow up When they become mature adults and when they become parents themselves, then they will begin to understand the value of their mom and the blessing that she has been to them. And that's the idea here. What a wonderful thing it is in many of our mothers are experiencing that praise today. Your children are with you, or they're going to call you, or they're going to do something. They're going to express how grateful they are that you are their mom. This is a wonderful thing and this is appropriate. She's also going to be praised by her husband. Verse 29 is likely something that the husband would say to his wife. This is something I understand that traditionally Jewish husbands would say to their wives, many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all. Man, that's the way you should feel about your wife. And I know it's the way a lot of husbands do feel about their wives. You know why? Every time I've ever preached on this passage, I've had numerous husbands come up to me and say, you know, that's Pastor, you were describing my wife today. That's exactly the way she is. She's just like the scribe there. She's so devoted to her family. She makes me look good. She loves her children. She's always looking out for them. And she's always working hard. Pastor, this is a scripture of my wife. And I often say, well, don't tell me, tell her. It's wonderful for her to hear that. Man, it's important that we express to our wives and to our mothers how much they mean to us. You know, men are known for being non -communicativists actually about their emotions You know, the old stereotypical story of about the guy, the farmer, who told his wife on their wedding day that he loved her and he never saw fit to say it again because he meant it You need to tell your wife what she means to you and how you appreciate her. This is true in all realms of life. You know, I saw the study once, this is amazing, that they were asking employees, would you rather have a pay raise or would you rather have your boss Regularly express how much he appreciates you. And you know what? Most people said, I'd rather have the appreciation. I'd rather have that sense, you're doing a great job. You're very helpful. You're a blessing here. I know, men, you feel that way. You need to express that way. And children, you need to express that to your moms. It's important for her to hear that. And you know It says here that her price is far above rubies. She's a great treasure. She's like a costly gem. And men, you need to treat your wife that way. You need to be protective and considerate because she's so precious and so valuable and such a blessing that God has brought into your life So we hear from the children and we hear from the parents, but notice lastly we hear from God in this passage. Verse 30. Favor is deceitful, and beauty is vain. But a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. And then he goes on in verse 31 to say basically it's appropriate for society, for children, for parents to praise her and to give her the fruit of her labors This is interesting, this word favor. So often what people call social graces or tact where there is a place for these things can also be filled with deception. This woman's not two-faced. She's not like the woman who has this wonderful smile on her face and talks to another lady, and then as soon as she turns her back, she says, I hate that woman. That's not the way this woman is. She's not deceptive. Charm, the idea of favor here is charm. Charm is often deceptive It's very wonderful to have good manners around people. Don't misunderstand me. But what is in view here is a woman who is manipulative. She knows how to manipulate people and say the right things to them and get them to do what she wants, but she really could care less about them. Charm is deceitful. That kind of manipulation is deceitful. And there are many women who can be taught and learned from example. how to be very manipulative of their husbands, of their children, of everyone around them. And God here is saying that's not the route. That a woman should take, that's not what God wants for the virtuous woman. And beauty is vain. The idea there is empty again. As I mentioned earlier, the Bible is not saying that it's sinful for a woman to be attractive. But if a woman finds her value in strictly her appearance, she's fighting a losing battle. It's interesting, some of the most beautiful women in the world confess that they every day working on their appearance, but they think that they're ugly and unattractive. They don't think they're perfect. They're right exactly what they should be. And if a woman focuses on the external And not only internal. In time that external will fade. Her glory will be gone. And then what is she what's left? No, it's a woman who fears the Lord. It's a woman who fears the Lord who is really going to be praised, not only by God, but by her children, by her husband, and by society. What is meant by the fear of the Lord? This is one of the key concepts in the book of Proverbs. Chapter 1 and verse 7 it says the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. And chapter 9 and verse 10 it says the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom and the knowledge of the holy is understanding. This is a reference to a personal relationship with God. that is filled with reverence and awe and obedience and trust this is what it means to fear the Lord and there is a New Testament counterpart to this concept that is actually we're going to be encountering in just a few weeks in our study of 1 Peter and 1 Peter chapter 3. And verse 2, where Peter's addressing a woman who is married to an unsaved man, he says, while they behold your chase conversation coupled with fear. with reverence that is for God, whose adorning let it not be that outward adorning of the plating of the hair and the wearing of gold or putting on of apparel But let it be the hidden man of the heart, and which is not corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which in the sight of God is of great price. That sounds a lot like the virtuous woman whose price is far above rubies. Her focus is not on her hair and her clothing and her jewelry. That's not what her life is all about. She is a woman who has a heart that is meek and quiet. And my idea of quiet there is not that she never speaks. It means that she's tranquil. She's peaceful. She has a calming influence. I know people like this. They always put people at ease around them. People might be stressed, they might be tense, and they just enter the room and they're just able to calm everyone down, make them feel comfortable and at home. And this woman with this humble spirit is in the sight of God of great price. Dear women, let this be your goal. Cast aside those values, those models, those examples of the world. And cultivate this meek and quiet spirits, the spirit that serves others, the spirit that is a blessing to your husband, to your children, and to the church. Cultivate that spirit because God will bless you. God puts a premium on that. That is the woman who is truly wise. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it addresses every area where we need your guidance. I pray that you would help our young women to grow up to be virtuous women. Pray that you would encourage our wives to continue following the path that you've set up for them. Help our young men to marry women like this. And Father, I pray that you would be with those here today who may not be truly your children, who have never come to faith in Christ. Lord, we recognize that this woman can never be this character apart from your grace, apart from a personal relationship with Jesus Christ, apart from the repentance of sin. and trusting in Christ alone. And so I pray, Lord, that you would help us to see all of this as a beautiful manifestation of the gospel. And I pray for those here today who have yet to receive the gospel. I pray that today they would seek the Lord and they would come to be saved. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.