Open to 1 Peter chapter 1. If you're visiting with us this morning, a few Sundays ago, we began a series in this book of 1 Peter. And this morning we come to verse 3. Blessed be God, and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope. by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. John Wesley is one of the most remarkable figures in church history. He traveled over 200,000 miles on horseback during his ministry, and he preached over 43,000 sermons. Many historians believe That is still a record. He preached an average of four times a day. He's credited with founding the Methodist denomination. He died at the age of 88. In 1791, some of his final words express the philosophy of his life as found in a hymn by Isaac Watts. In fact, Wesley said this on his deathbed in a very faint voice, so that those who were by his bedside had to come right up next to his mouth to hear what he was saying. And he said this. I'll praise my Maker while I breath. And when my voice is lost in death, praise shall employ my noble nobler powers. My days of praise shall ne'er be past. while life and thought and being last, or immortality endures. The Christian life should be a life of praise. This is one reason why we find the scriptures are filled with doxologies of spontaneous praise to God. And this is how Peter begins the body of his epistle. The first two verses, as I mentioned last week, are the greeting, and in verse 3 is where he begins the body of this letter. And here Peter begins by praising God for the great salvation that He has provided. This is where Peter begins to console and minister to suffering Christians. This note of praise should characterize the Christian's life, I want you to notice how it comes up to other times in the opening verses of this book In verse 6, he says, wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now foreseason you are in heaven as through manifold temptation. Notice that the normal mindset of the Christian is that of great rejoicing. And now look with me at the conclusion of verse 8. He says, whom having not seen ye love, referring to Christ in whom though now ye see him not, yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory. This should be the way we live our Christian lives. And why is it that our hearts are to be filled with praise. So the answer in both of these verses is because of our salvation. Notice what he says right before this statement in verse 6, he says, who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. And then he says, Wherein ye greatly rejoice. We rejoice in our salvation. And in verse eight When he speaks of rejoicing with joy unspeakable and full of glory, he goes on to say, receiving the end or the culmination of your faith, even the salvation of your souls. You see It is our salvation that is to be the ground, the cause, the reason for our praise to God. This first paragraph, which runs through verse 12, believe it or not, is all one sentence in the Greek language. And the theme of this opening paragraph is all about the greatness of our salvation. In verse 3, he begins the body of this letter by talking about our great salvation. He talks about it again in verse 5, where he talks about faith unto salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. In verse 9, he speaks of it. In verse 10, he says, of which salvation the prophets have inquired and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you. And we see this also in verses 10 through 12, where he says, of which things even the angels desire to look into You see, our plan of redemption is so great that the prophets predicted it and longed to see it fulfilled, and even the angels in heaven are curious about this great salvation and how God can save sinners like us I think perhaps Peter is remembering an episode in his life when he was walking with the Lord as a disciple. In Luke chapter 10, we read about the commissioning of the 70. And Peter and other disciples went out to minister to the Lord, and they came back filled with enthusiasm. And they said, Lord, even the demons are subject unto us. And the Lord said to them, Rejoice not that the spirits are subject unto you, but rather rejoice because your names are written in heaven. You see, the ultimate cause of our rejoicing as Christians is not even that God uses us in ministry. But it's that we are saved through the merits of Jesus Christ. Now it's interesting to note that this is how Peter begins his letter to suffering Christians. Why does he do so? The answer is because when our lives are shaken by tragedy and disaster, we look for something that is foundational. We long for something in our lives that will not change, that will give us a sense of comfort and assurance. And that is what we find. in the gospel. It is the gospel that steadies our hearts in the storms of life. Perhaps you come here this morning filled with sorrow and suffering and difficult in your life. Life indeed can be crushing. That's why Peter acknowledges in verse 6 If need be you are in heaven is through manifold temptations or through a multitude of trials. You know, trials don't seem to come one at a time. You have a whole bunch of them crowding into your life and crushing you at the same time. But God's grace can enable us to triumph over our difficulties. So much of our suffering comes about actually by the way we think of our suffering. But the gospel reminds us of our true identity and destiny I'm going to preach to you this morning on this truth that Christians should praise God for our great salvation. And I want to show you three things. Three great aspects of our salvation that are found in verse 3. The first is this: we should praise God because we have been saved by God's abundant mercy. Notice what it says. Blessed be God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy Now, we often overlook this aspect of our salvation. We so emphasize grace that we forget about the mercy of God. But indeed, apart from God's mercy, we would never be saved. Mercy, of course, is one of the attributes of God. It's a part of who he is as a person. I want you to turn back with me to the second book of the Bible, the book of Exodus. Can you turn with me there, please? Exodus chapter 33. I want to point something out to you, this great revelation of God concerning himself. As you're turning there, let me give you the context. In Exodus chapter 33, Moses is very discouraged. The golden calf incident has just occurred. The people have shown their true colors, how much pagan idolatry still remains in their hearts Moses, as you remember, was up on the mountain receiving the Ten Commandments. He came down to find them engaged in wickedness. And now in the aftermath of that, as they get ready to move on towards the promised land, God tells Moses that he's not going to go with them. He'll send an angel, but he is not going to go. And Moses cries out in prayer and says, Show me thy way. And then later in chapter 33 and verse 18, he said, I beseech thee, show me thy glory. He needed to see the glory of God to continue through the wilderness. And this is exactly what the Lord does in the next chapter. Look with me at chapter 34. And verse 5. Exodus 34, verse 5. And the Lord descended in the cloud and stood with him there and proclaimed the name of the Lord. The Lord passed by before him and proclaimed the Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering. And abundant in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgressions and sin And that will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, upon the children's children unto the third and of the fourth generations. And Moses made haste and bowed his head towards the earth. Now it's interesting to note that the very first attribute that is mentioned in that revelation is the word mercy. This is one of the most important Hebrew words in the Old Testament. It refers to God's loving loyalty to his people. It is God's covenantal love that will not fail. And the New Testament word for mercy has more of the connotation of compassion and pity for those in a miserable condition. It's interesting to note that whenever we have a natural disaster in this country now, there is a great outpouring of love and of money. for the people afflicted with this disaster. Sociologists have studied this and they found that before the age of television, that did not occur. They would read in their papers about maybe some incredible tornado that tore up a town or some hurricane that devastated some city in Texas. But it didn't really register with them. But when the age of television came and people could sit there and they could see the misery of people and they could see them crying and weeping and the way their lives were torn apart. then people would act. You see, there's something about seeing misery that elicits in us a sense of pity and compassion. and mercy. And that is why we read in the scriptures in the New Testament that when the Lord saw the multitudes , he was moved with compassion. This is the most common emotion ascribed to the Lord Jesus Christ. Over and over again we read that he was moved with compassion. Why was Jesus so filled with compassion? The answer is because he was perfectly reflecting his father, who is a God of mercy. One of the most the most merciful act that God ever demonstrated was in the saving of sinners like us. I want to ask you to turn with me now to the New Testament. to the book of Ephesians. Would you turn with me, please, to Ephesians chapter 2 Ephesians chapter 2. I went to read the first five verses of this chapter. And you hath he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins, wherein in time past ye walked according to the course of this world. according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience, among whom also we had our conversation and Times passed in the lust of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. Look at verse 4. But God who is rich in mercy. For his great love, wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. For by grace are you saved. Did you notice in verse 4 we have this declaration that God is rich in mercy? He is overflowing with mercy. And that was demonstrated in our salvation. I want to make two points about this truth. But our salvation was a merciful act of God. First of all, this reveals our utter helplessness to save ourselves I don't know about you, but I don't really like to be pitied by people Do you like to be pitied by people? Have them continually pat you on the back and say, I feel really sorry for you. You just can't do anything for yourself, can you? People don't like that. Nobody likes that. You want to take care of things yourself. Sometimes even people who obviously are helpless will say, I don't need your help. Because there's this pride in us. It's kind of embarrassing to admit that we need help. But the fact is we are all helpless when it comes to saving ourselves. Such a notion, of course, insults our pride. People naturally assume that they can earn God's favor, that they can do their parts. Perhaps this is what you're thinking this morning. A lot of people think that if I do my best, then God will save me. The only problem is your best will never be enough. Because God demands perfection. And the reality is that no one ever does their best. So no matter how you look at it, that is a dead-end street. It's only those who recognize that they can never save themselves. Who come to receive God's mercy. Wachman Ni, the famous Chinese devotional writer, tells the story of once going to the South China Sea with some of his friends. And they decided it was a very pleasant day that they were going to go for a swim. And one of the men as they were swimming there was pulled out by the current and he went out further and further and then he began to call for help. And there was one man in their company who was an expert swimmer. He was a trained lifeguard. And to their dismay, he did not rush out to help this man. He watched him as he struggled, and then finally he went under the waves. When his strength was utterly exhausted, and then that expert swimmer went out there and pulled him to shore. And the other men said to him, Why didn't you go to him when he first cried for help? He said, because he is a very big and strong man, and he would have pulled us both under. I had to wait till he was helpless like a child. It is only then that I could save him. Now God, of course, is not in any way endangered by us. But he only saves those who recognize that they cannot save themselves and cry out, God, be merciful to me a sinner. This attribute of mercy also reveals the willingness of God to forgive sinners. The Bible often links God's mercy and our forgiveness together. Don't turn there, but in Numbers 14 We read of the incident where the spies come back and ten of them have an evil report. They say, you know what, the city has There's walled cities there, and it's well fortified, and there's giants in the land. We cannot go and take the promised land. And God was filled with anger at the unbelief of the people, and he said to Moses, I'm going to wipe the people out, I'm going to start over with you with a new nation. But Moses, the intercessor, prayed on their behalf. And he says in Numbers 14, 19, Pardon, I beseech thee, of the iniquity of this people, according unto the greatness of thy mercy. See that link? Forgive them, pardon them because you're a merciful God. In Psalm 86 and verse 5, we read, For thou, Lord, art good and ready to forgive, and plentious and mercy unto all them that call upon thee. But my favorite passage that links God's mercy and God's forgiveness is found at the conclusion of this little obscure minor prophet named Micah. Micah chapter 7. Listen as I read this for you, verse 18. He concludes the book this way, the prophet does. Who is a God like unto thee that pardoneth iniquity and passeth by the transgression of the remnant of his heritage? He retaineth not his anger forever. because he delighteth in mercy. He will turn again. He will have compassion upon us. He will subdue our iniquities, and thou wilt cast all their sins into the depths of the sea. What a wonderful gospel proclamation. God is a God who delights in mercy. One of the great lies of Satan that he tells the sinners is this, you've gone too far. You've sinned too much. You have soiled your record too much. God will never save you. Salvation is for good people. It's for righteous people. It's not for the likes of you. The scriptures reveal that God delights to save wicked people because he delights to show his mercy. To those who repent and believe the gospel. This wonderful truth should fill our hearts with praise. The second thing that we see In 1 Peter chapter 3 and verse 1 is that we should praise God because we have been saved by the new birth. It says, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us. Now, this participle translated hath begotten us comes from a rare verb that means to be born anew or born again. Theologians call this doctrine regeneration. And the most significant text on that doctrine in the Bible is the text that we read together this morning in John chapter 3. So if you would like, I would encourage you to turn with me. to the passage we read together, John chapter 3, I want to make some quick observations from this passage. This is the passage of Scripture where the popular phrase born again comes from. This passage teaches us That spiritual rebirth is a necessity for salvation. Sometimes we get in our minds that salvation is really not that great of a thing. It's just an exchange of information. It's just simply somebody recognizing that there's a God they have to answer to, that there's this man named Jesus who died on their behalf, and they nod their head to that, and that's all that salvation is. The gospel is simple, but the gospel is also profound, and it is an incredible miracle. It is new birth. It is life coming from death. And we must never forget about the greatness of the gospel. I want to make just a few observations. First of all, everyone is spiritually blind until the Spirit begins to work. Look with me at John chapter 3. And verse 3, Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Many scholars think that verse 4 is an illustration of that phrase, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Look at what it says Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter the second time into his mother's womb and be born? Now let's remember who this man Nicodemus is. In our reading earlier, we discovered that he was a ruler of the Jews. That is, he was a member of their high court, the Sanhedrin. He was a Pharisee, a religious expert. He knew the Old Testament inside and out. In fact, he probably had memorized the Old Testament, if you can imagine that. And so when he says what he says in verse 4, I think we need to use a little discernment. Sometimes I've heard preachers beat up on him and say, you know, Nicodemus was so dense, you know, he really thought Jesus was saying that he had to enter into his mother's womb and be born. No, that's nonsense. That's not what he thought. He was an educated, intelligent man. He is being sarcastic and mocking in his reply because the idea of being born again sounded like foolishness to him. It sounded something strange and abnormal. And that's exactly the response that the Bible predicts from a lost person. Did you know that? I'm going to read for you. If you would like, you can turn here. If not, just listen carefully. I'd rather you listen than be lost in turning your pages. But in 1 Corinthians chapter 2. In verse 14, we read, the natural man, referring to a lost person, receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him. Neither can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. This is the way lost people Who eyes have not been enlightened, this is the way they respond to the gospel. It's nonsense to them. The idea that somebody who lived 2,000 years ago has relevance to my life, that their death on the cross, if it even occurred, that that's going to somehow save me? I say that's ludicrous. And they turn away from it. In the previous chapter in 1 Corinthians chapter 1, we read this for the preaching Verse 18, the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. Literally in Greek, it's them that are perishing. Present tense. Those who are perishing say, you know, that's nonsense. But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. You see, until our eyes are opened, we won't really see the gospel and its beauty. There might be people here this morning under the sound of my voice and you're saying, you know, I I I'm come to church, I'm coming out of respect for maybe a relative or friend or something, or or maybe you've come here for years and And so forth. But you honestly in the depths of your heart think the gospel is a bunch of nonsense. And you get tired of hearing people talk about it all the time. And why are they so excited about it? If you think the gospel is foolishness, it's because you're perishing. And maybe the first thing the Lord will do to open your eyes is for you to see the peril that you're in, the danger that you're in, and that that will disturb you. The Bible predicted exactly that you would have that response. The second thing I want to show you from John chapter 3 is that everyone needs to be born of the Spirit to be saved. In John chapter 3 and verse 5, he says this very famous but controversial verse. Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. What does that mean? Some people interpret the water here to be baptism. I'm not going to give you the reasons why I think that's nonsense. One thing Jesus isn't talking about baptism here But he's not talking about baptism. Others think this is a reference to natural birth. You have to be born of water. reference to like amniotic fluid and of the spirit you have to born physically and then spiritually. The only problem with that viewpoint is we have no writings uh from ancient times where they referred to that as being born of water. And why would he make this emphasis? You know, in Nicodemus, if you want to be saved, first of all you have to be physically born. I think that's a given. I think everybody knows you have to be alive to be saved. No, the best scholarship has always seen that these two ideas are used together to refer to spiritual birth because water is often a symbol of the Spirit and of cleansing and of his work in our hearts. The Lord expects Nicodemus to understand this because he was a master of Israel. He knew his Old Testament. So if you can, I would invite you to turn with me back to the book of Ezekiel. Going back to the major prophets, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel chapter 36, and verse 25. Beautiful passage. Ezekiel 36, 25 says, Then will I sprinkle clean water upon you. And ye shall be clean from all your filthiness, and from all your idols will I cleanse you, a new heart will I give you And a new spirit will I put within you. And I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes, and ye shall keep my judgments to do them. We see here both the spirit and the water mentioned several times in this one passage And so most scholars think that this is what the Lord had in mind, the Old Testament scripture he had in mind when he made that famous statement in John chapter 3. The Lord is saying, Nicodemus, you need to be cleansed by the Spirit of God. You need a new heart, a new birth, a new beginning. It's not just a few more facts. You know the scriptures. But you are blind to the ultimate meaning of the scriptures because you have not been born again. Now sometimes people think that they need to clean up their act before they can get saved. I run into a number of people this way and they think, you know, I've got to get free of my addictions. I've got to stop start uh uh being kind to people and stop being deceptive and lying and and live a moral life and and when I get my act together then I will come and I will trust in Christ But that's not the way it works. You have to come as you are. Yes, the Spirit of God will bring you to the place of repentance. But you can't clean up your act in order to somehow save yourself. Now perhaps you're here this morning and you're thinking to yourself, Well this talk about being born again, it sounds kind of mystical. It sounds kind of ethereal. It's hard to wrap your mind around that. What does it really mean? How would you know if you have new spiritual life. I mean that's not something you can put on a chart. And so in John chapter 3 we find the answer to that as the Lord continues this conversation. With Nicodemus. Look with me at John chapter 3 and verse 14. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness. Even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. Listen to this, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. And then this verse you've heard of before, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world. but that the world through him might be saved. He that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already. Because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. Now, did you see it there? Did you see how you can know if you've been born again? Over and over and over again. At the conclusion of this conversation, we read about Christ. calling him to believe. Whosoever believeth, verse 15. And then again in verse 16. And again we find it in verse 18, twice in that verse. What does it mean to believe? It doesn't mean that you nod your head and say, yeah, I guess there was a Jewish carpenter who died on a cross about 2,000 years ago. No, it means that you put your reliance, your hope of eternal life in what Christ has done for you. You trust in him and him alone. And we have a scripture that tells us exactly This same connection between new birth and faith. And at the beginning of this book in John chapter 1 and verse 12, I love this verse. I can remember learning it as a child. But as many as received him To them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Look at verse 13, which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of the flesh. of God 's. Now what does it mean to receive Christ? Well, a little bit later in verse 12 He says to them that believe on his name. To receive Christ is to believe on his name. But this picture helps us to understand that it's something that we appropriate, something that we take, that we grasp. And those who take it and grasp demonstrate that indeed they have been born of God. Our salvation is a gift of God. Now, I want you to turn back with me, if you can, please, to 1 Peter chapter 1. I know I've had you turn all over the Bible this morning. And maybe your fingers are wore out or maybe you gave up. I was taught, you know, that every time you in a congregation you have people turn the scriptures, you lose one person. So maybe I've lost five or six. I don't know. I hope that's not true. But in 1 Peter chapter 1, you remember me telling you that this word that's rendered begotten Here in verse 3 is a very rare word. In fact, it's not used ever again in the Old or New Testament except in one other place. And it's found in the same chapter. 1 Peter chapter 1. Look at verse 23. Do you know this verse? 1 Peter 1. 23. Being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the word of God which liveth and abideth forever. We just read a whole bunch of verses that say you cannot be saved apart from faith in Christ. Now I've encountered people before who have said to me, I want to believe. But I'm struggling to believe. Now, in many cases, to be honest with you, I think it's a cop-out. I think in many cases they really don't want to believe. But let's say it's true. What would I say to that person? What I say to that person is that you need to immerse your life in the word of God. Why? Because it says here that we are born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God which liveth and abideth The Spirit of God uses the Word of God to impart new life into the heart of the sinner. This is why Romans chapter 10 and verse 17 says, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. This is why our Sunday school classes are based on the Word of God. This is why our youth group and frontline clubs memorize the Word of God. This is why our services consist primarily of the exposition of Scripture. I want you to know that preaching is not a form of entertainment. I've had folks, lost people visit here and they said, you know, I don't know how to tell you this, but I didn't really find it very entertaining And I say I wasn't trying to be entertaining. I mean he just kept talking about the Bible and what the Bible says and having us turn to these passages. Yes, because the word of God is the agent that the Spirit of God uses to bring new life to sinners. And so we would do well to focus on what God has said. You see, the Bible is not like any other book. It is the Word of God that pierces our hearts and brings new life to dead sinners. And for those of us who have come to saving faith, we can rejoice that we have been born again. Our salvation is a gift of God, not of works. lest any man should boast. Now the third reason that we can praise God is that we can praise God because we have been saved, the living hope of eternal life. Notice what he says at the conclusion of verse 3. He has begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Now, what exactly is being communicated here? I believe that he is saying that our salvation should give us a new perspective on life. We face the future not with fear, but with a living hope. Paul has been called the apostle of faith, and John the Apostle of love. And Peter has been called the apostle of hope because this is something that he focuses in on in especially the book of 1 Peter. Now, what is this hope? Often in English, we use the word hope to refer to a sentimental wish that you know will never happen. But this is not how the New Testament uses this term. The New Testament word for hope refers to a confident expectation. Something that you know is going to occur. You're just longing and waiting for it to come. Sometimes I encounter people and I ask them about Whether or not they know the Lord, and what would happen to them if they died. And one of the most common answers I get is: I hope I would go to heaven. I hope I'm saved. That's not what Peter's talking about here. Peter here is talking about a confident assurance. The New Testament word for hope. reveals an aspect of faith. Hope and faith, in fact, often are used somewhat interchangeably. Hope just has more the sense of a forward look. Now notice we have Peter referring to our hope as the culmination of our salvation. And we have this in uh in verse 13. of chapter 1. Wherefore, gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope to the end or to the culmination. For the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Now, Peter here in verse 3 refers to hope as a lively or living hope. It's not a dead hope. It is a living hope. In Ephesians chapter 2, you don't need to turn there, but let me read two verses from there. Paul writes, Wherefore remember that ye being in time past Gentiles in the flesh who are called uncircumcised, but that which is called the circumcision and the flesh made by hands, that at that time ye were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise. having no hope and without God in the world. This verse is telling us that when we are, when a person is without Christ, They are also without hope. Because our hope is found only in Christ. If you're here this morning, And you are unsaved, and you still think of the gospel as foolishness and nonsense. I want you to know the Bible describes you as being without hope. As long as you persist in your unbelief, you are without hope. But if you are in Christ, you possess a living hope Why is it that we have a living hope? It's described that is answered at the end of verse 3. Begotten again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ. from the dead. The resurrection of Jesus Christ is the objective ground of our hope. Our hope is not based on some myth or legend. It is based on the historic reality of the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. The fact is that the resurrection of Christ is one of the best attested events in ancient history. He was seen of many witnesses. We have written accounts. We have multiple lines of evidence. And this event, the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, was an event that changed the author of this book, according to 1 Corinthians Chapter 15 and verse 5, the Lord appeared to Peter individually on that resurrection morning. Now we don't have a record of what transpired at that meeting, but we know the Lord met Peter. He probably assured Peter that he was forgiven for denying his Lord. But Peter never got over the resurrection of Jesus Christ. In all of his days, we see it in his sermons in Acts. Peter never failed to mention the resurrection in his preaching. This was the unshakable foundation of his faith. Peter would face great hardships in the days ahead. As he went out preaching the gospel, taking the gospel, different regions, he experienced persecution, and ultimately, just a few years after the writing of this epistle, he would be executed. But his faith was unshaken. You see, we as Christians must never face the future with fear and dread. Because our future is as bright as the promises of God. We may experience some difficulty in days to come. But ultimately we know the end of the story. And it ends in glory. And so that great hope, that great truth, that foundation should give us strength and fortitude to face whatever difficulties we encounter in this life. Paul says in Romans 5. 5, hope maketh not ashamed. The idea there is that no one is placed who has placed their hope in the risen Lord who is trusting in the crucified Savior will face condemnation on the judgment day. Nobody ultimately will say, you know, if I had it to do all over again, I think I would have gone another route. Or I would have lived more for self, or I would have rejected the Savior. No one in eternity will ever say that, because this hope maketh not ashamed. And whatever suffering a believer has faced in this life will quickly fade from their minds. When the Lord returns and when they are with him in glory, we have a hymn that says, one glimpse of his dear face, all sorrow will erase That is scriptural truth. This is our living hope. This is why the Christian life is a life of praise. We have been saved by his mercy. We have been begotten again. We have been given new life. And we have a joyful hope that will not fail us. Edward Moat was an Englishman who was brought up in a wicked home. His parents ran a bar and left him basically to himself as a child. He ran the streets and got into all kinds of trouble. He was never taught even basic things like the Ten Commandments. In fact he says that until he was a teenager he did not even know that there was a God that anybody believed in gods. But at the age of 16, he was taken to hear a preacher, and he was convicted, and he was saved. And he became a Baptist hymn writer. His most famous hymn is in her hymn book. And I love what it says. We sing it often here. Edward writes, My hope is built on nothing less. than Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean on Jesus' name. But then he goes on to say, when darkness veils his lovely face, I rest on his unchanging grace, and every high and stormy gale my anchor holds within the veil. His oath, his covenant, his blood, support me in the whelming flood when all around my soul gives way, he then is all my hope and stay. This is the hope that we can trust in. The great gospel of grace that not only saves us, but sustains us in the storms of life. so that we can rejoice even in our suffering. Let's close in prayer Our Father, we recognize our helplessness to save ourselves. Or to save others. And so we would ask that you would open the eyes of those who are blind today, that they would see the beauty of the Savior and the ugliness of their heart. And the sufficiency of Christ's sacrifice. We pray, Lord, that you would work in our midst. I pray, Father, that you would encourage the heart of your children here today who are going through suffering and difficulty. And trials in life, I pray that they would not forget what awaits them. That they would not forget these foundational truths of the gospel that are the anchor of their life For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.