Give your Bibles. Would you turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 1? I don't know if you like to fly or not. I think for most people it's not their favorite thing in the world to do. My wife and I flew down to Greenville this week. And of course, anybody who has flown in the last, oh well, since 2001, pretty much knows what you go through. To make sure that you have a pair of socks that don't have any holes in them, because you're going to have to take your belt off and you're going to have to take your shoes off And if you're wearing a jacket, you're going to have to take that off and you're going to have to empty your pockets. And I don't know why it is, but they always pick me out. I don't I don't know if I fit a profile or what, but they're always like, come with us over here. And they want to pat me down. I you know, I'm always very compliant. I always take my shoes off way ahead of time and and I and but for some reason they always want to pat me down and And uh and check me out a little bit to see um what's uh what's going on. And you know they always look very stern. You can't smile at them or just all serious You know, we live in a society that is obsessed with security. Do you realize that? If you travel overseas , that will become readily apparent that most people in the world are not as obsessed with security as we are. We have insurance for just about everything, don't we? We have homeowners insurance and renter's insurance and car insurance and phone insurance and life insurance. And of course, we've had for years a national debate about health insurance. And yet we probably never stop to think that most people in the world don't have any insurance at all of any kind. If you were to go to Aaron's church today and say to someone, hey, do you have insurance? They would probably say, what's insurance? Because nobody that they know has any insurance, what are you going to insure? You turn on the radio or television, you have one commercial after another for home security and identity protection and financial monitoring. I don't know about you, but I get now things in the mail all the time from my like my electric company saying, you know, the The power line that actually goes from the pole there in front of your house to your house, that 20-foot span is not covered. But for $6 a month, we'll cover that in case it ever breaks. Or I get things in the mail about the water main. You know, I I live in a in a city, so we have water there, but they say, you know, there's a ten-foot stretch. where it's really not it's owned by you and it's underground and if that would rupture or break you would be responsible for it. But for just six dollars more a month, we can cover that. You never have to worry about it. It's a huge industry where we can cover everything so we never ever have to worry everything is secure. The fact is that human beings have a need for security. But what's amazing is that most people are oblivious to the most important security that a human being can possess. And that is the security of their salvation. Jesus said, what does it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? You could have everything insured. You could be a very wealthy person and you could insure billions of dollars worth of stuff. But if you die and lose your soul eternally in hell, what does it profit? This morning as we continue our study of 1 Peter We can continue to consider Peter's doxology of praise that opens the body of this letter. Remember in verse 3 he begins, Blessed be God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. What is he blessing God for, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead? to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away reserved in heaven for you, who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation. ready to be revealed at the last time. Now in verse 3, Peter here speaks of a lively or living hope. And in verses 4 and 5, he is going to further define why he calls this a living hope. What is so wonderful about this hope of salvation that we have, which I mentioned to you last week is not a hope-so thing, but it's a confident expectation. And so he's going to elaborate. He describes this living hope as an inheritance. Inheritance is an unearned gift that is given to us because of the simple fact that we are the children of God. Now these words would have been very reassuring to the original readers of this letter. Remember that they were exiles who were being persecuted for their faith in Jesus Christ. Undoubtedly, some who first heard this epistle had lost their inheritance because of their allegiance to Jesus. And some had lost their standing in the community, and others had lost their businesses. And certainly some had their prized possessions forcefully taken from them. So Peter reminds these oppressed believers that the greatest treasure that a human being could ever possess Is a treasure that they will never lose, and that is their salvation. Notice that in verses 4 and 5, I want you to look at this carefully and notice What is the point that Peter is making about their salvation to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled? that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. You don't have to be a preacher to understand what he's saying in those two verses. These are two of the most significant verses in the Bible that teach That those who have truly been born again have been regenerated by the Spirit of God, who are truly the children of God, that they will never, ever lose their salvation. There are two main points that Peter makes in these two verses. One commentator put it this way: not only is our inheritance kept for us, but we are kept for our inheritance. This was a very comforting truth to some who perhaps would face persecution and were afraid that in pain and duress they might deny the Lord. Who had saved their souls. This was, I think, a truth that resonated with the author of these words, Peter. Remember, it was Peter who denied his Lord three times at the moment of crisis, and he went out and wept bitterly. Perhaps on that dark night he assumed that he had lost his salvation, that he was forever doomed. But then he remembered the words of our Lord, that he would pray for him and that his faith would not fail, and though Satan would sift him his wheat. He would be restored and he would be able to strengthen his brethren someday. So Peter learned in a very personal way. That he was kept by the power of God. And so now he passes on that comforting message to the believers that were scattered abroad, who are being persecuted for their faith. I want to demonstrate to you from these two verses that Christians should praise God for the security of our salvation. And the first thing I want you to notice from this passage is that we should praise God for the secure nature of our salvation. described here as an inheritance, that which has been graciously given to us. An inheritance is not something that you earn It is something that is given to you by nature of your relationship. Notice that this inheritance is described With three adjectives. It says here in our text, incorruptible, undefiled, that fadeth not away. These words in the Greek text have the equivalent of our letter A in front of all of them. They're alliterated. Now in Greek, the letter A in front of a word means it's the opposite of that word. Notice that these are all set in the negative. describes what will not happen to our salvation. It will not be corrupted. It will not be defiled. It will not fade away. I want us to look at these terms in a little more detail, and since Peter, under the guidance of the Holy Spirit, has used alliteration, I'm going to use it as well. And I'm going to put this in a positive context. First of all, our salvation is preserved. The word incorruptible refers to something that will not decay, spoil, wear out, or die. It's a term used only for spiritual realities. For instance It is used several times in the New Testament to describe the eternal nature of God. Romans 1. 23 says that God's glory is incorruptible. And in 1 Timothy chapter 1 and verse 17, we read this doxology. Now unto the King eternal immortal, invisible, the only wise God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. And there it is the word translated immortal. But this adjective is also used again in this very same chapter of Scripture in 1 Peter chapter 1. We looked at this verse last week. Look at verse 23. 1 Peter 1:23. Notice what it says, being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God which liveth and abideth forever. You see, one reason why our salvation is preserved is because it comes from God and his word, which are both incorruptible. This word is also used to describe our resurrection bodies In 1 Corinthians chapter 15, let me read this for you. Notice how often this term is used. It says, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye at the last trump. For the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed for this corruption corruptible must put on incorruption and this mortal must put on immortality, so when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption and this mortal shall put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. This is one aspect of our salvation That I find that most modern Christians are absolutely ignorant about. Did you know that the Bible doesn't just teach that your spirit and your soul will be saved? It teaches that your body will be saved too. You see, when God does something, he goes all the way. Alright? He's going to save all of you. Now I know that generates a thousand different questions. You know, about your body, what it's going to look like, and will you recognize one another in heaven? And, you know, what what what age will I be in heaven? I'm not here to answer all your curious questions, and neither is the Bible. But it's true. We will someday have a body that is incorruptible. That will not decay and get old and weak, but will stay vibrant and strong. And let me say to you, the older you get, the greater that will seem to you. And Mahym, Abide with Me, the elderly writer says, change and decay. And all around I see, O thou who changest not, abide with me. So our salvation is incorruptible. It's preserved. And secondly, our salvation is pure. The next adjective is undefiled. The word defiled has the idea of that which has his been stained or contaminated. It is often used in Scripture for the stain of sin. Everything That we do is contaminated with sin. Did you know that? Our worship, our service, are tainted with sinful and selfish motives. Sometimes people unwisely set up other Christians as icons of holiness and virtue. And they will follow that individual and they will think of that person as if they could never ever do anything wrong. They could never make a bad decision. They probably never had a sinful thought in their life. I mean this person is so godly and they respect them so much. I want you to know that if you were to study that person, if you were to put their life, their soul under a microscope, you would be very disappointed. Because the best of men are men at best. We have all been tainted with sin This Greek term that's translated undefiled is used of our Lord Jesus Christ. Good cross-reference for that is Hebrews chapter 7. And verse 26, which says, For such a high priest became us, who was holy, harmless, undefiled, there is the word, separated from sinners and made higher than the heavens. Therefore, we should not be surprised the salvation that He provides for us is also undefiled. This is why no one is partially saved. Did you know that? Sometimes people will talk about someone, you know, he just barely made it into heaven. You know. He got in by the skin of his teeth. It's not true. Every single one of the redeemed has gotten in on the same basis, the perfect righteousness of Jesus Christ. Our salvation is not only preserved and pure, it's permanent. We have that that fadeth not away. This is a translation of one Greek word. It's a rare word that's only used this time in the New Testament. It was originally used by the Greeks to refer to a legendary flower. that supposedly never faded or died. Of course that flower does not exist. But that's where the origin of this word comes from. The fact is that all the treasures of the world will fade in time. Sometimes they decay or die. is indicated by the first term that we consider, but sometimes they just simply lose their magnificence in our eyes. Have you ever noticed that? Children often look forward to when they can open a gift for a birthday or for Christmas, and they think about it, they think about it, they think about it, and finally that gift comes. And they're so filled with excitement and with joy, but by the next Christmas they can't even remember what they got Because the magnificence of that has just faded away. This is not only true for children, this is true for adults. I think of my grandfather. My grandfather was a blue-collar, hard-working man. He only had, I believe, a fourth or sixth grade education. He worked on a farm in his youth as a farmhand. Eventually became a stonemason. He worked two jobs most of his adult life. He would work all day. He would come home and get something to eat and then go out to work at a gas station to earn a little extra money to provide for his family. He lived a modest lifestyle and believed in saving money. And for many years, he set his heart On the fact that when he retired, he was going to treat himself and buy a really nice car. I don't think he'd ever had a new car in his life. It'd always been used and banged up and broken up. But he put his money aside for years, and someday he was going to buy a beautiful, brand new automobile. And that's exactly what he did. He bought himself a 1970 Pontiac Executive. Now the executive was an upgrade of the regular Bonneville. I can remember this car as a child. It was huge It was a boat. And the front of that car was filled with gleaming chrome. And it wasn't plastic made to look like chrome. It was the real thing. It was heavy and bright. And that thing was a powerful, gleaming car. This was before the age of the gas crunch that would come a few years later. And my grandfather was so excited about purchasing. He special ordered it. It was magnificent. But not long after he retired, he started having problems with his eyesight. And one day he backed that car out of the garage and he sideswiped a tree. next to the driveway and just mangled the side of that vehicle. He pulled it back into the garage and he never drove it again. The magnificence of that car that he had saved for for years was gone in an instance. But I want you to know that the wonder of our salvation will last a lot longer than any shiny car. It will never fade away. It will never cease to amaze us in eternity. This truth about the permanence of our salvation should change the way We live our lives. It should not just affect the way we think about ourselves, but the way we think about others. Do you remember what Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount? In Matthew chapter 6, let me read these verses for you. I know you know these verses. Listen carefully. He says, lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth. where moth and rust doth corrupt and where thieves break through and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal. He's very repetitive there. It's very clear what he's saying. Investing in earthly things is a poor investment Because it's going to break down, it's going to be stolen, it's going to rust, and you can't take it with you. So what should we do? We should lay up treasures in heaven That will last for eternity. What would be an example of that treasure? How about the spread of the gospel? That saves souls that will worship the Lord for eternity. What a good investment that would be. What a call this is for us. As 21st century Americans. Who in our culture are so used to just enveloping our lives with stuff and with things and toys and gadgets and things that we That we enjoy for a little while and then we need an upgrade. We need something better to attract our attention. Those things are worthless. We must invest in things that last for eternity. Now I want us to consider the second point of our message, and our message just has two points today. Not only should we praise God because of the secure nature of our salvation, we should praise God because He is the one who is securing our salvation. Look with me at the end of verse 4. We have these amazing words reserved in heaven for you. Not only is the very nature of our salvation an internal inheritance, but God Himself is the one who guards and keeps us as his children. It's interesting that Peter says reserved in heaven for you, because what you would expect, and the way he has been talking in this epistle, is you would expect him to say, reserved in heaven for us. referring to all the believers. But he doesn't say that. He makes it very individual and personal, reserved in heaven for you, he says What an amazing truth this is. Do you like to have things reserved for you? Do you like to go? And you go to a fancy meal and there's a nameplate with your name on it. This place right here is reserved for me. I spoke down at a college this week, and I've never had this experience, but there was a parking space with my name on it It's like, wow, I've got my own place reserved for me. We like having things reserved for us. But these reservations will never be canceled. What a wonderful truth this is. If you are truly a child of God, you have an inheritance that is reserved. for you. The term reserve speaks of a past action that has continuing results today. Just imagine how comforting these words would have been to the persecuted church. where people had lost their homesteads, they'd have to move away from the place where they had been born, where they knew everyone, and now they're exiles out in the world. They had lost their homes, their cultural identity in many cases. They had been disinherited and cast out of the synagogue in some cases. But here was a treasure that they would never ever lose because it was reserved in heaven for them. Now verse 4 does not tell us who's doing the reserving. So Peter makes this explicit in verse 5. Who are kept by the power of God. The word kept is a military term that means to guard or protect or shield. This present participle expresses the fact that we are continually being guarded night and day by the almighty power of God. The psalmist put it this way, Jehovah neither slumbers nor sleeps. We are guarded 24 hours a day, seven days a week, by the power of God. This word guarded, the same verb is used in another famous context in Philippians chapter 4 and verse 7. It says, And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. It's that word keep. Just as God protects our hearts in a crisis, so he guards our souls. for eternity. I want to invite you please to turn with me to the Gospel of John. John chapter 10 If you were to ask me what is the most comforting passage in the Bible for the assurance of our salvation, I would turn to this passage in John chapter 10. We have our Lord's teaching concerning the good shepherd. Look with me at John chapter 10. I want to begin reading and verse 6. This parable spake Jesus unto them, but they understood not what things they were which he spake unto them. Jen said Jesus unto them again, Verily, verily I say unto you, I am the door of the sheep. All that ever came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear me. I am the door. By me, if any man enter in, he shall be saved and shall go in and out and find pasture. Now look with me at verse 11. I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd giveth his life. For the sheep. Look with me at verse 14. I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known of mine. And then notice how it concludes this, verse 25. Jesus answered them, I told you, and ye believe not the works that I do in my Father's name, they bear witness of me. But ye believe not, because ye are not of my sheep. As I said unto you, my sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My father which gave them me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. What security is in that imagery? Those who have truly believed who are the shepherd 's sheep, they are caps. By the power of God, it's pictured here as the Lord Jesus Christ and his hands that created the universe are there keeping us, holding us. And if that wasn't enough, on top of those we have the hands of the Father, as it were. We are guarded by the almighty hand of the Father and the Son. This is why nothing can separate us from the love of Christ. Our salvation is secure because it's guaranteed by the greatest power in the universe. No being can wrest us from his grip of grace. What a comforting passage. I hope that's a comfort to you. But you know what? There are millions of professing Christians who have a problem with this. They would claim that the Bible teaches that a true Christian can lose their salvation. There are millions and millions and millions of people who would say, I'm a Christian. Who would say this? And there are many denominations that teach this. And there are several reasons for this If you're talking to someone who believes this way, you're going to hear one or several of these reasons. Number one, some tend to believe that in some way good works contribute to their salvation. This is why if you speak to someone from, say, a Roman Catholic tradition They will be very angry and adverse to the idea that a person could not lose their salvation because they will say, well, that's very presumptuous and proud for you. How do you know that you've done enough? And because they don't believe that salvation is by grace, but it's actually what you earn through merits and so forth and through various sacraments in the church that the church prescribes. that no one can ever be sure if they're really saved because how could you know if you've really done enough And so they would just say, oh no, no, no. There's no way a person could be sure of their salvation because that's kind of an arrogant thing, because you're saying you know that you worked hard enough. And we would say, no, because it's not by works It has nothing to do with my performance. And then there would be some who perhaps would profess to be evangelical. who would point to the many warning passages in the Bible, such as are famously found in the book of Hebrews. And they would say, see, a Christian can lose their salvation. I mean, look at these warnings. Is the Lord just bluffing? Look at the way this person's described. That certainly sounds like a Christian to me. And if you talk to people about this, many will speak of people they have known who used to be Christians but now reject the gospel. And they will say, see, I know all kinds of individuals who once said they were Christians who now say they're not Christians. So you see My experience shows me that a person can lose their salvation. And they will often see Judas Iscariot as an example of this. But the most common reason that I hear from people who hold this position is this. They say that if you tell a person that they can never lose their salvation, they will feel like they have a license to sin and go out and live like the devil. So you can't tell them that. It's not wise to say that they need to have, as it were, the fear of hell keeping them on the straight and narrow. Now, I cannot in this sermon address all of these various arguments, but I do want you to know that there are good answers to every one of those. And I want you to know that if you were to line up all the scriptures that speak of the believer security and the theological arguments for that and put them on the other side, I don't think it's a very close battle. I'm never adverse to someone just looking at all the arguments and all the biblical evidence for a position. I have nothing to hide. Do all the research you want. I think you will see that the scripture is very clear about this. But let me speak to this last concern. I'm very sympathetic to this Because I want you to know that I have heard many Baptist preachers say some outlandish things and their attempts to exalt the doctrine of eternal security. They will say that a person may accept Christ, but shortly afterwards deny him and go back to living a life of sin, and yet still they're a Christian. Because once upon a time they trusted in Jesus, and the Bible says, when you trust in Jesus, you have eternal life. Therefore, they have eternal life. some famous writers and professors in the evangelical community have written outlandish things, supposedly in support of free grace, and saying that a person can um can make a profession of faith and shortly after that they can abandon that. They can proclaim themselves to be an atheist and for the rest of their lives, decade after decade, They can live like the devil, live living a wicked, immoral, and debauched lifestyle, antagonistic to the gospel, hating every Christian, and yet they will say, and yet that man will still go to heaven Because of God's grace, I want you to know that is nowhere taught in Scripture And one of the reasons why many Christians feel that a person can lose their salvation is because of the nonsense that people use to define it and explain it. This passage that we read in John chapter 10 says that the Lord's sheep hear his voice and follow him. And they follow him in the paths of righteousness. Yes, we are saved by grace and not by works, but those who are saved will demonstrate it through their good works. Yes, it will never be perfect. It will never be all that it should be. It will always be tainted with false motives and wrong ideas and not always done for the glory of God, but there will still be evidence of a life that has been changed This is why Paul warns repeatedly in his epistles, the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God. And he says, be not deceived. Why does he say that? Because many Christians are deceived. And they're told by people that, you know I guess a person can live a wicked lifestyle and still be a Christian. Some people that I have spoken to feel like they have somehow discovered a loophole where they can somehow manipulate and fool God. I can trust in him, I can say a prayer, I can make a profession of faith, and then I can go off and live like the devil, and he promised he would save me, so there's nothing he can do about it because he can't go back on his word, so I can I want you to know. that a real Christian never thinks that way. And if that's the way you think, if you think that somehow you found a loophole where you can have the world And you can have your salvation as well. You can have, as it were, your cake and eat it too. I want you that you are deluded and you have been deceived. Because it is not what the Bible teaches. Notice, would you turn with me if you're not there back to 1 Peter chapter 1? First Peter chapter one, look at verse five. Who are kept by the power of God, notice it continues, through Faith unto salvation. How does God keep or guard his people? It is evidenced by the fact that they continue to believe. They continue to trust. They continue to follow the Lord in some way, shape, and form. And those who continue, however, imperfectly to trust and obey are the ones who are kept by the power of God. Notice that Peter speaks of our salvation as something future. He says, ready to be revealed at the last time. I wonder what you think about that. I wonder if that bothers you that he talks about salvation as future. Now generally when we talk about salvation, we think we speak of it as a past event. I trusted in Christ, right? The Bible teaches that salvation can be viewed in three tenses. There's a past tense when you trusted in Christ, and we call that justification. There's a present aspect of our salvation. which we call sanctification. That is the working out of our salvation with fear and trembling. As we die more and more to sin, as we grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and we bear more and more the fruit of the Spirit as we put off the works of the flesh and we put on the garments of grace. We become more and more like our Lord Jesus Christ. This is where every Christian is right now. If you're here and you're a child of God, you are in the present aspect of your salvation. You are being saved. You have been saved. You are being saved. But it may shock you to notice that if you were to look up every reference in the New Testament to salvation , Most often it speaks about our salvation as something future. Did you know that? Not past, not present, but future. We almost never even talk about that aspect. You never hear a person talking about that I can't believe, I can't wait until my salvation It's culminated and it's complete. No, we always talk about as something in the past. Now, there's a sense, and it's not wrong to speak about it being in the past. It's not wrong to speak about it as something that's going on right now. But we must not leave out the thing the scripture emphasizes, which is the future nature of our salvation. You know, there are many reasons why people are not more excited about their great salvation But you know one of the main reasons for that is? Because you've only had a tiny little taste of what it means to be saved. It's like you've had this little cracker and appetizer before a great feast. And you're saying to yourself, well that c cracker was okay, but it wasn't, you know, like the greatest meal I've ever had. Well you haven't had that yet. But it's coming. It's reserved in heaven for you. But someday. We will have the full feast. We will enjoy the true glory of our salvation We are no longer weighed down with our sinful cares. We are no longer beat about with our guilt that every day we fail God in some way that we fall short of his glory. Someday we will have a resurrected body and we will have a spirit that is holy and we will be like Christ. And that will be the end of our salvation. The culmination of our salvation. And it's this hope, it's this truth, this reality, this destiny. That is to strengthen us and encourage us and help us in our onward journey. So let me ask you, are you looking forward with confidence to the culmination of your salvation? There are many Christians who are not. Because sometimes they're plagued with guilt and feelings of inadequacy. And sometimes people have no assurance because they shouldn't have any assurance because they're living in sin. I used to have a professor that when one of his students would raise his hand in systematic theology class and ask him, so do you believe a person can lose their salvation? He would ask them, why do you ask? Why do you ask? In other words, a man who's going out and getting ready to rob a bank, he does not need to hear about the assurance of his salvation. It's a wrong message for him. And then there are some people who have absolutely no assurance of salvation because they are lost. Because they are not sheep. They have not put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And they are not being kept by the power of God because they have not come to be saved. It is God's desire that His people know who they are And have that blessed assurance. Do you know the words of that hymn? Blessed assurance, Jesus is mine. Oh, what a foretaste of glory divine, air of salvation purchased of God. Born of his spirit, washed in his blood. This is my story, this is my song, praising my savior all the day long. You see, our salvation and the blessed assurance that comes with our salvation is something that is worthy of our praise. It is something that we will praise God for eternity in glory. We will never get over our salvation and God's wondrous work of redemption. If you're here this morning And you don't know if you're a child of God, I would urge you to seek the Lord while he may be found. , While the Spirit of God is convicting you and piercing your heart, turn to Him. Trust in him. Repent of your sin. And you can have salvation that will never fade away. that is kept by the power of God. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for our inheritance We thank you that our standing as your children will never pass away, will never be wrested from us. It will never be taken from us because of our failures. Because our righteousness is found in Christ alone. Father, I think of those who are here today under the sound of my voice, who do not enjoy this blessed assurance I pray, Lord, that they would seek it. They would long for it. They would not rest until they find it. Oh Father, I pray that you would draw sinners to the Savior even today. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.