If you have your Bibles, you can be turning to Matthew chapter 18. Matthew chapter 18 Probably most of you here have heard of the names of John and Charles Wesley. We sang one of Charles Wesley's hymn to begin our service this morning. These brothers turned the world upside down with their preaching and hymn writing and started what would become the Methodist Church. But John and Charles were not the only talented children in the prodigious Wesley household. They had an older sister known to everyone as Petty. She was the brightest and the most beautiful of the seven Wesley daughters. She possessed the rich poetic genius of her famous brother Charles. After being sent away from home several years earlier, at the age of 28, Hetty returned to the Wesley Parsonage at Epworth five months pregnant. She fell at the feet of her father Samuel, who was a pastor, and begged for forgiveness. But he would not look at her. He would not speak to her. He treated her as something untouchable. He sent her away and arranged for her to be quickly married off to a man who would treat her horribly. She would write letter after letter for years to come, imploring and begging her father to forgive her. But she never received a reply. In one of her letters, she says that she would pluck out one of her eyes to know that her father had truly pardoned her. Unfortunately, a refusal to forgive is not a rare event. It happens all the time among people, even Christian people. Today, as we continue our study of the Lord's Prayer, I want to come to the second half of that fifth petition. You remember the fifth petition? Forgive us our debts. As we forgive our debtors. As I was looking over my notes from last week's sermon, I realized that I never really defined for you what forgiveness is. I think you already know instinctively, but the word, the Greek word for forgive means To release or dismiss or to let go. We could put it this way, it means that you give up the right to hurt someone else because they have hurt you. You give up the right to hurt someone else because they have hurt you. Now the question that everyone asks about forgiveness I've discovered is, but what's about the person who never admits that they've hurt you? But they've never done anything wrong to you. I mean, you can't forgive someone unless they repent right. And Christians kind of differ and argue about this. So let me try to explain it as best I can and as concisely as I can. You cannot pronounce someone forgiven in any meaningful way unless they recognize they've done something wrong. Just like suppose someone at work, I've used this illustration before, punches you in the nose, sends you off, you're bleeding all over your shirt, and You decide God called you to forgive, so you go in the next day and you say to them, I just want you to know that I accept your apology for punching me in the nose yesterday. And they say to you, I'm not sorry about it, and they punch you again. You can't accept someone's apology unless they've what? Apologized. Now there's a lot of Christians who love that illustration because they said, That's right, I have the right to harbor this grudge and this bitterness because they've never said they were sorry. That's not what the Bible teaches either. You are never to harbor bitterness and anger and animosity and ill will towards someone else. You must let that go. But what if they haven't asked for forgiveness? Then you leave that with the Lord. You say what Christ said at the cross, Father forgive them, for they know not what they do. And you have a spirit that's eager and willing to pronounce those words, I forgive you, when they repent. Some people think of it this way. We are always obligated to have a forgiving spirit, but there's a difference between forgiveness and reconciliation. For there to be a reconciliation of a relationship, there has to be an acknowledgement of wrongdoing, and there has to be a granting of forgiveness, and then there can be reconciliation. Reconciliation takes two parties, but there's a sense in which having a forgiving spirit only takes one. I hope that's helpful for you. Now this second half of the fifth petition is kind of curious, isn't it? Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. One writer put it this way. It's almost as like we're saying, God, don't really forgive me unless I forgive others. But we wouldn't want to put it that way. Would you? So what does it mean? I want you to know, in fact, I had you turn to Matthew 18. I should have had you turn to Matthew 6 Matthew 6, where we find the Lord's Prayer. But keep a finger in Matthew 18. We're going to go right back there. But you know, the Lord knew that we would find this Fifth petition to be something that would cause us to question, to wonder, what does he mean by that? So you know what he does He provides a word of explanation right after the Lord's Prayer. Notice how it goes? Verse 13, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. Amen. But then verses 14 and 15, it's like we have a footnote. going to the fifth petition. For if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly father will also forgive you. But If you forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your father forgive your trespasses. See, the Lord knew that you would have a question about that fifth petition. And so he puts in a very clear, very concise, and very dogmatic statement, but that doesn't set very well with us still. It still generates many questions. Let me start off by saying what this does not mean. It's not saying that somehow when we forgive others, we earn our forgiveness. We can never earn our forgiveness. So that's not what he's saying. It's not saying that if we fail to forgive someone else, we lose our salvation. I believe that the Bible teaches in numerous places that true believers will never perish. So what does this explanation mean? Well, scholars over the centuries have pinpointed two things primarily. Number one, it means that when we refuse to forgive others If that becomes our lifestyle, that we are a bitter person that does not forgive others, we actually call into question whether or not we have truly been forgiven by God. We call into question our profession as followers of Jesus Christ. One of the finest expositors of the 20th century was a man named Martin Lloyd-Jones. I want you to listen to his comments on this passage. He says, the proof that you and I are forgiven is that we forgive others. If we think that our sins are forgiven by God and we refuse to forgive somebody else, we are making a mistake. We have never been forgiven. The man who knows he has been forgiven only and through the shed blood of Christ is a man who must forgive others. If you are refusing forgiveness to anybody, I suggest that you have never been forgiven. Those are strong words. But I want you to know I think the primary way in context here of what Jesus meant when he says, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, is this. That when we fail to forgive others, we lose our fellowship with the Lord. Remember, the Lord's Prayer was given. to disciples, followers of Jesus Christ. And as I said last week, this prayer for forgiveness, forgiveness or death is not a prayer for salvation. But it's a prayer for daily cleansing. I mentioned you the difference between judicial forgiveness and Parental forgiveness. God forgives us as a judge, the judge of all the earth. The moment we are we are saved and we are justified, we are declared to be not guilty and all the sins that we have ever committed or ever will for commit are forgiven. They were paid for at the cross But there is a secondary aspect of forgiveness, and that has to do with our fellowship with God. And the fact of the matter is when we live in sin and we don't confess our sins as 1 John 1. 9 says that we should. And we walk around in sin that we will not repent of. Our fellowship with God is broken. There's a cloud that comes between us. We don't walk with a sense of his blessing and of his fellowship. That's the way it works. And so we need to, on a regular basis, as we would pray for our daily bread, we are to pray for our daily forgiveness. That God would forgive us that we were we search our hearts, we we confess our sins so that that fellowship can stay strong. We keep short accounts with God's. That's what we preached on last week. So what this passage, I think, is telling us is this, that we cannot walk in close fellowship with the Lord. And have bitterness and an unforgiving spirit in our hearts. You can't have that. We can't really be right with God when we're not right with others. In my time as a pastor, I discovered that this is a huge problem. There are so many people that are in the bondage of bitterness. And there are so many people that have numerous individuals that they will have nothing to do with, that they will have no interaction with, and there's just nothing but a grudge and bitterness and anger and wrath and animosity that wells up inside of them when they think of these individuals. And the fact is that forgiving people is difficult. This is one of the most difficult things that God calls on us to do as Christians. And it's interesting as I interact with people Even Christians who have known the Lord for many years, I find that they know it's wrong. They don't want to feel this way, but they seem utterly trapped. By their own bitterness. So I want to preach to you this morning on how to make forgiveness a way of life. How to make forgiveness a way of life. And there are three truths that I want to bring out of a parable that our Lord told sometime after he gave. The Lord's Prayer. This is known as the parable of the unmerciful servant, and it's found in Matthew 18. We read about it this morning in our Bible reading. If you were to look up a commentary on the Lord's Prayer, and you were to look at the fifth petition, you would find that virtually everyone As you turn to this passage, it's like this parable was told by our Lord to illustrate exactly what he was saying when he said, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. I want to make three points from this. Would you notice with me, first of all, that we will forgive others when we recognize the enormity of our debts to God? We will forgive others when we recognize the enormity of our debt to God. He says in verse 23, therefore is the kingdom of heaven like unto a certain king. which would take account of his servants. And when he began to reckon, one was brought unto him which owed him 10,000 talents. But for as much as he had not to pay, his Lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife and children all that he had in payment to be made. Let me give a word of explanation here. In this parable, there is a king who rules a vast empire. And he has a servant that must give an account to him. This servant is not someone who cuts the grass or works in the kitchen. This would be a royal governor who is the administrator over a large region of the empire, like an entire country or perhaps several countries. We know this is the case because of the numbers that are involved here. Now, this particular man, the servant This administrator somehow owes ten thousand talents Now we're not told how he got into such debts. Could be that there was a horrible famine in the land and that the incomes and the taxes were greatly reduced because of this. It could be that the man completely mismanaged the situation, or perhaps he has stolen the money like an ancient day, Bernie Madoff. We don't know how he got into this debt. But the point of the story is not how he got into the debt, but the enormity of his debts. Now to us today, 10,000 talents doesn't mean anything to us. So I'm going to have to explain. A talent was a weight of measure between 58 and 83 pounds. And the value of a talent was determined, of course, by what is being measured. If that's 83 pounds of gold, that's a lot of money. But if it's 83 pounds of copper, not nearly as much. So it's hard to get a precise figure in our minds. We know that one of the common talents of the day was valued at 6,000 denarii. That means that it would take a normal man all of his wages, if a man worked at a typical job and he saved every single penny that he made, it would take him between 17 and 20 years to accumulate One talent. We're talking here about ten thousand talents. Verse 25 tells us this man had nothing to pay. He didn't have some money laying around. And so after some time, he is sold and his family off into debtor 's prison. We're in tax season right now. I think tomorrow's tax day, isn't it? Let's say that you got a notice from the IRS that you owed a billion dollars. Many modern commentators think this is about the best round number to come up to represent 10,000 talents. You owe a billion dollars. I don't know about you, but that would trouble me Because I would have absolutely no way of paying back a billion dollars Now, in this day and age, they really took an aggressive response to people's debts. They were thrown into prison. These were not nice places. And it's not just this man, but his entire family And it's not that they were there and you know hoping that they would pay it off because there's no way that they could ever pay off 10,000 talents. This was just their punishments. You know, today you might have to put up if you're in debt with harassing phone calls. In the ancient world, it was a whole lot worse. This man had nothing really to say. Verse 26, notice what it says. The servant therefore fell down and worshipped him, and as he bowed down before this king, he was at his feet. Saying, Lord, have patience with me and I will pay thee all. This is what everyone says when they're in great debt, right? Just give me a little more time. Pay you off a little more time, that's all I need. This was an absolute lie. If he had a lucrative job and and saved up for the rest of his life, he couldn't come close to 10,000 talents. This is to intended to portray the situation of us all spiritually. All of us owe an enormous debt that we can never hope to pay off Every unkind thought, every biting and hurtful word Every sinful desire, every wrong disposition, every time we steal, every wicked thought, everything that's contrary to the character of God puts us in debt spiritually. And though you may not be aware of it, the fact of the matter is if you could somehow see the ledger book as it were. Of all the sins that you've committed and the debt incurred, you would see that you're like this man, a billion dollars in debt, and hopeless in your attempts at paying it back. You see, the fact of the matter is all of us have an enormous debt. This is a truth what we must never forget. See, the fact of the matter is if we recognized our great debt to God and what he has forgiven, it would enable us to forgive others. Because we would see that great difference. So let me ask you, have you been hurt by the slander of someone? Well, I want you to think about all the times that you've spoken with any malice in your heart about others, and yet God has forgiven you. Have you ever been hurt by the fact that someone has misjudged you? They have made an assumption about you that was absolutely untrue. They didn't trust you? But they assumed the worst of you, and that was brought out so clearly to you, and it really hurt because you thought they were your friend, and yet they thought this of you How many times have you misjudged others and assumed the worst of others, and yet God forgave you? You ever felt unappreciated? You ever felt lied about? The list could go on and on. Let me remind you that it was your sin and my sin that put Jesus on the cross, and yet God has forgiven us. You see, when we recognize the enormity of our debts and how great our forgiveness is, our salvation is in Christ. We will be people who are freed up and enabled to forgive others. Broken people who are broken over their sin and their failure are able to forgive. Remember the story in Luke chapter 7, verses 36 to 50, it tells about Jesus going to this arrogant Pharisee's house by the name of Simon, and this woman comes in and anoints his feet and wipes it with her hair. And Jesus makes this principle that the one who has forgiven much loves much. If we recognize how much we have been forgiven, we would be people who are quick to forgive others. This brings me naturally to the second point. We will forgive others when we realize the magnitude of God's grace. Look with me at verse 27 of this chapter. Then the Lord of that servant was moved with compassion and losed him and forgave him the debt. But the same servant went out and found one of his fellow servants, which owed him a hundred pence, and he laid hands on him and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest. And his fellow servant fell down at his feet and besought him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. And he would not, but went and cast him into prison till he should pay the debts Don't you notice the king decides to forgive in verse 27 this indebted servant I want you to know several things about this forgiveness. In verse 25, we read that this man had nothing to pay. This man contributed nothing to the payment of this unbelievable debt. He didn't say to the king, I'll meet you halfway or put me on a payment plan. He did nothing to contribute to his forgiveness. A picture of our salvation, of course, we do nothing to earn our forgiveness. The point I'm trying to make. Is that this man has done absolutely nothing to earn his forgiveness? He didn't deserve to be forgiven. You see, this man's forgiveness was not based on what he did, but it was based on the character of the king. Why was he forgiven? Because the king was a forgiving man. Described here in verse 27 as being moved with compassion. I remember when I first studied this many years ago in college. When I was taking Greek and I found out that this expression is used exclusively of Jesus Or it's found in one of the stories that Jesus tells, like the parable of the Good Samaritan, or the parable of the prodigal son, or this parable here of the unmerciful servants. And I think when Jesus, as I picture in my mind's eye, when Jesus talked about this man being moved with compassion, the disciples were saying, there he goes again. He's talking about that compassion thing again. And the number one emotional response that we have recorded in the Gospels about our Savior is this. When he saw the multitude, he was moved with compassion. It speaks of a powerful visceral emotion that overwhelms a person That was the character of this king, and that's the character of our God And notice, I'm going to skip down ahead in the story to verse 33. Notice what he says, shouldest not thou also have had compassion on that fellow servant? Because we serve a compassionate God, we are to be the most compassionate people in the world. Earlier in this gospel, in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus said, Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Do you want to experience the mercy of God, the forgiveness of God? The compassion of God's, then you must be a person who reflects what you have received. Now I want you to notice that this man, and the point I'm trying to make here is this man did not deserve to be forgiven. In fact, in his explanation when he says, I'll pay you all, he was actually lying. He could never pay all. See, a lot of times when I deal with people about deeply ingrained bitterness They will burst out with something like this. Yes, but he doesn't deserve to be forgiven. It's probably true. It's probably true, but you know what? You didn't deserve to be forgiven either. That's the point of this parable Now in verse 28, the story takes an abrupt turn. This man who has just, as it were, received a life reprieve, he's not going to spend the rest of his life in prison with his family. But his debt has miraculously been forgiven. That reminds him that there's somebody who owes him money. Now mentions here that this was a hundred denarii. Not an insignificant amount of money would be what a person would earn over a hundred days. But compared to the amount of money that he was just forgiven, this was pocket change. I think probably the best way we can use it in modern currency would be if someone owes you $10,000. That's a lot of money, but it's nothing compared to a billion dollars. And yet this man is violently trying to collect the money that he has owed. You see, often the people I have found who are actually most indebted to the grace of God are the very ones Who are l least likely to forgive others So let me ask you, are you easily hurt? Are you offended all the time? Are you outraged because someone has done something wrong to you? Do you live your life daily all the time with turmoil in your soul because somebody did this to me? That often speaks of the fact that you don't really grasp the grace of God 's You haven't really wrapped your mind around the truth of the enormity of your debt and the fact that God has actually forgiven you. Because if you really understood that principle. That you didn't deserve it, and yet it was given to you freely in Christ, you would be able to forgive others Let me comment a little bit about the way this man responds. I want you to notice that in their culture of the day, everything that he did was legal It's hard for us to imagine this, but both the Jews and the Romans said that you could go and get your payment back if someone owed you money and you could grab them by the throats. And you couldn't kill them, but you could put the fear of God in them like you were going to kill them. The word here speaks of someone who is like choking someone. Just picture this guy, and he's got his hands around this other man's neck. And you thought the bill collectors were bad today. Now I want you to notice that in the Lord, who is the greatest storyteller the world has ever known Has an exact parallel here so that it triggers something in our minds. Look with me Comparison between verse 26 and verse 29. The servant therefore fell down and worshipped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me and I will pay thee all. Now look at verse 29. And his fellow servant fell down at his feet, besought him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. Sounds similar, doesn't it? This guy who owes him a hundred denarii says the same thing. Just give me a little more time The Lord is trying to show that both of these men were in debt, but the response was different. So this man had a rights. He had a rights to go out legally and demand payments And if the guy said no, he had the right to throw the man in prison, all within his legal rights. But of course, the Lord is not saying, well, this guy was doing the right thing. No. This guy is going to be described later as a wicked servant. What's the point I'm trying to make? If you remain standing on your rights, I have the right to be I have the right for that person to come and grovel at my feet and tell and ask for forgiveness. I have the right to seek revenge. I have the right to cut them off. I have the right to make them pay what they owe me. If that's where you stay, you don't have a spirit of forgiveness. Until your desire to forgive is greater than your desire for revenge, you will never be at peace in your hearts. Now the heart is incredibly wicked. And there's always an element of truth. You know, God made us in his image, and so there's a part of us. that desires justice and what is right. And I have talked to many people who are bitter and they have taken an element of truth and they have distorted it so it's become evil so that they say, it would not be right, it would not be just, it would not be righteous for me to just release that person because There's this huge debt that hasn't been paid. But you know what? Even when that person often comes and says a few words like, yeah, I guess I shouldn't have said that. I'm so sorry. If you don't have a forgiving spirit, it still doesn't seem like enough. I think with a few words that's going to wipe out all the anguish that I've been in for months. See, the sin ultimately isn't taken care of by a few words, it's taken care of at the cross. That's what we have to remember. But I want to move on now to my third point, the third truth that we need to consider if we're going to have a lifestyle of forgiveness. And that is that we will forgive others when we recognize the wickedness of an unforgiving spirit. We need to recognize the enormity of our guilt. And the magnitude of God's grace in forgiving us. And thirdly, we must recognize the wickedness of an unforgiving spirit. Look with me at the conclusion of this parable. Look at verse 33. So when his fellow servants, that is, the peers of this man, saw what was done, they were very sorry and came and told unto their Lord all that was done. Then his Lord, after that, he had called him, said unto him, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that debt because thou desirest me, simply because you requested it Shouldest not thou also have had compassion on thy fellow servant, even as I had pity on thee? And his Lord was wroth, he was angry, and delivered him to the tormentors, till he should pay all that was due unto him. So likewise shall my heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts forgive not every one his brother. their trespasses. This passage reveals to us that having an unforgiving spirit is a wicked thing. The other servants who see what is going on say, this isn't right. This man was just forgiven a billion dollars and now He's thrown this other man who owed him $10,000 into prison, so they go and they tell the king. They give them all the details is the idea of the word there And we have this declaration here. He calls him wicked, O thou wicked servants. The same word that's translated evil in Matthew 6. 23. You see, when you refuse to forgive someone, you are doing what is wicked and evil. And I think we usually do not share the Lord's perspective about this. I think we think that murder and adultery and drunkenness and drug abuse and stealing, these things are really bad sins. But how can me being upset and harboring animosity because someone has truly hurt me, how can that be considered wickedness? We tend to justify our bitterness. So what does God do to those who refuse to forgive? Well, we have a disturbing verse again here. Verse 34, and his Lord was wroth, he was angry and delivered him to the tormentors till he should pay all that was due unto him This word tormentors is a Greek word that's only found once in the Bible. We would use the term torturer today. You see, in the ancient world, kings did not subscribe to the Geneva Convention. And a king who would not torture his captives was considered weak. Now we have to be very careful. Our God is not cruel and unjust. What I believe this parable is teaching us is that God lovingly allows us to experience the consequences of an unforgiving spirit until we repent. I remember a counselor that I knew years ago, and he would tell me about people that would come into his office. And they would come in because they were miserable, because of the misery that some sin was bringing into their life like bitterness. But they weren't willing to repent and forsake that sin. And he would say to them, come back here when you're a little more miserable. When you're a little more miserable, then maybe you will repent. But you're not miserable enough now. There's some horrible consequences that everyone recognizes when we hold on to bitterness. Bitterness I found is like a treasure to some people. It's their most prized position. possession and they will not let go of it for anything. Newsweek magazine reported in 2004 that bitterness has been linked. To high blood pressure, impaired immune function, depression, and a greater risk of heart attacks. And there, of course, are many other emotional problems that come with bitterness, such as anger and a negative and pessimistic spirit and a cynical view of life. The thing about bitterness is that it never stays to one person. A person who is truly bitter has to disperse it to everyone around them. Hebrews 12, which I don't have time to turn to, tells us about a root of bitterness by which many are defiled. It spreads to everyone around them. One of the most torturous consequences of bitterness is seen in the family. How many people I've had in my office who have told me that they grew up in a household where there was animosity and bitterness. And you could cut the tension with a knife. Daily there were harsh words, or there were many days where there would be no words said at all. And you know what so often happens when people are brought up in that kind of an environment? They are wounded, they are hurt, and people who are wounded and hurt lash out at other people and wound them. They wound others with their rebellion and with their hateful words that are never forgotten. And the family becomes like a battlefield where everyone is injured and bitterness is passed around like a deadly infection. I want you to know that God's way is much better. God's way is much better. You say, but forgiveness is costly. It's painful. Yes, it is, but not as painful as holding on to bitterness. So let me ask you as I conclude this morning, who do you refuse to forgive? I've read some anonymous studies recently that say that 80 to 90 percent of Christians, when given anonymity, say that there are people that they refuse to forgive. We know what that means in accordance with the Lord's Prayer, it means they're not really enjoying fellowship with God. You can't go to your Heavenly Father in prayer and enjoy that wonderful relationship when you hate this person over here. It doesn't work that way. What's interesting is although people almost universally struggle with forgiveness and with bitterness at some point in their life. Just about everyone admires those who do forgive. Don't you admire people who forgive? One great scholar of the past said we're never more like God than when we forgive. Some of you have heard of the mission's founder and writer, Richard Warmbrand. He was once held as a religious prisoner in communist Romania. And he was at one time placed into a cell with those who were in very poor health and were dying. And he writes that on his right there was a cot with a pastor Who had been brutally beaten. There was internal bleeding. It was just a matter of time before he passed away. And on his left, believe it or not, there was the guard who had beaten that pastor. That guard had fallen out of favor with the authorities, and so they beat him. and put him in here with the prisoners, expecting that they would certainly dispatch him. But they did not As that dying guard realized that he was going to die, he cried out from his cot for the pastor that he had brutalized the day before. If he would come over and pray for him. And so with some assistance, the pastor was brought over to his bedside. And for some time the guard confessed to him numerous murders and acts of brutality. And he was weeping. And he said, of course, I'm doomed because God could never forgive such atrocities. But the dying pastor told him otherwise. He told him that he had forgiven him and that he in fact loved him. And he told them if he, a fallen creature, could forgive this man for what he had done to him, certainly God would forgive him because God was far more forgiving than he was. The two men prayed together and embraced one another. And before this morning sun came streaming into their prison cell, both of those men had passed into eternity. as forgiven sinners. You see, a lifestyle of forgiveness is the only way to live. Let's have every head bowed and every eye closed. So is there anyone that you refuse to forgive? You might say, but they haven't really come clean with their sin toward me. They haven't really repented of all the wrong that they have done. That's often the case, and they may never. But you can still forgive them in your heart, and you can have a spirit that longs for reconciliation. There's never an excuse for us to hold on to bitterness, to hold on to wrongs of the past. It's never appropriate for us to shun and cut off all interaction with our brothers and sisters in Christ because of some perceived injustice. The Apostle Paul wrote, be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. If you're here this morning and there are people that you need to forgive, I would encourage you to do something about it. Maybe you need to write a note. Maybe you need to write a letter. Maybe you need to make a visit. Maybe you need to make a phone call. But don't spend the rest of your life with bitterness, gripping your heart, and with broken fellowship with your Heavenly Father. That's no way to live. There's always a way to do what is right when we recognize how sinful we are and how great Our forgiveness is. May God help us to do what is right. Father, I pray that you would restore relationships. I pray that you would unburden hearts. I pray that you'd give deliverance to those who are at this moment still in the bonds of iniquity. Break us, Father, over the wickedness. of an unforgiving spirit. Help us, Father, to receive the words of our Lord by faith and not just to be hearers of the word, but doers of the word For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.