We're in 2 Thessalonians. This evening, we're looking at chapter one of 2 Thessalonians. So if you would take your Bibles to 2 Thessalonians. And we're going to go over our memory verse first. So we have here our little logo which tells us our theme. To be established in every good work and word as you wait for the return of Christ. And his missionary team are trying to establish that truth in the lives of the Thessalonian believers who are going through times of intense persecution. And it's in times of intense persecution they need to be reminded to be established, to be firm, to not waver in every good work and word. And the temptation in times of trial is to say I'm this is just getting too hot. This is getting too hard. I can't keep enduring. But he says, no, be established. Continue. Be faithful in every good work and word as you wait for the return of Christ. Christ. So our memory verses is the verses we're actually going to be looking at this evening. Lord willing, next week we will begin a new set of memory verses. But would you join me in standing while we go through these through two times this evening? 2 Thessalonians 1, 11 through 12. To this end we always pray for you that our God may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good and every work of faith by his power, so that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you, and you in him. according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. 2 Thessalonians 1, 11 through 12 To this end we always pray for you that our God may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good and every work of faith by his power. So that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you and you in him according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. This evening we're finishing up the first chapter. If you remember how the layout of Second Thessalonians is, there are three Crises that are being addressed in this little epistle. The central one in chapter two really is probably the main one. There's false teaching, there's forged letters. In relation to the day of the Lord. And so he's addressing that in that main section, chapter two But in the other two chapters, there are also crises that are being being addressed. The first one is persecution is continuing and it is increasing, and endurance and persecution is really where that challenge comes. We face trials, we all face trials, and it is when trials endure that our faith is really tested. And so he's giving them pastoral comfort. He's reminding them of important truths as they face this persecution. And we mentioned at the end of every chapter There is a prayer. And so we're looking at that prayer this evening that the Apostle Paul instructs or he shares with the Thessalonian believers. The third chapter is really in response to the idleness that is happening within the community. There are certain believers or professed believers who are walking about living idly. They are not working, they are not providing for their own. uh family and he confronts them and he rebukes them and he gives that famous teaching that if anyone does not work neither should he eat But each of these chapters are ended with a prayer. And so we're going to be looking at that little prayer, the two verses that we have been memorizing here together. To this end, we always pray for you. That our God may make you worthy of his calling, and may fulfill every resolve for good and every work of faith by his power. May be glorified in you and you in him according to the grace of our God in the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the Main crux of what we'll be looking at. We're going to jump back into verse 10 because we didn't finish that off entirely last week, but we're looking here at the pattern Of apostolic prayer. I think if we were to go around and take just a private survey of what area of our spiritual life we struggle with the most, I would not be surprised if many people would say. Prayer. Maybe you read your Bible faithfully. Maybe church attendance isn't an issue. But consistent, earnest prayer is often a challenge for believers. The disciples ask the Lord, teach us to pray. How do we do this? What does it look like? But in Jays, we're told that the effective, fervent prayer of a righteous man avails much. It accomplishes much. It is very important. We know in Acts chapter 6 when the ch church was exploding in growth and there was so much busy work that needed to be done in caring for the people of the church. The apostles set aside deacons to do that caring so they could dedicate themselves to the ministry of the word and prayer. That prayer is absolutely essential. I've been reading a biography of D. L. Moody recently. And one of the characteristics of D. L. Moody's ministry is powerful preaching. But God dependence in prayer. Earnest prayer for the Spirit of God to work. Skill in preaching is no substitute for prayer and the power of God released in prayer. And we know that. But yet how hard is it for us to do that? So want us to see three things about prayer that we find about the apostles' prayer. in these two little verses that we're looking at this evening. The first thing is that prayer should be focused on Christ's eschatological purpose. what Christ is doing, what God's purpose is for the believers. And we'll we'll catch this just in a moment, but he says, to this end We always pray for you. And we're going to look back and see what this is. But I want us to notice here as well that the constant nature of prayer in the Apostle Paul. To this end, we always pray for you. Paul could easily have slipped into this very normal pattern. Of out of sight, out of mind. Well, I'm in I'm in Corinth right now. I don't know what's going on in the lives of the Thessalonian believers, so that's not my problem. I'm not going to pray for them. I don't know what's going on in Ephesus, so I'm not going to pray for the the Ephesian believers. But Paul did not. It was not out of sight, out of mind. And that's that's not my concern because I just don't have the bandwidth to pray for them. That was not first he didn't know the word bandwidth, but he uh that was not his attitude at all. Although they were separated from them spatially, you can tell that he was no less devoted to them in their prayers. What's amazing to me about this as well is that the Apostle Paul is probably the greatest missionary in the history of the church. Think about the churches he started in the different regions, in different language groups, in different cultures. Probably the most effective missionary in the history of the church. He was a gifted linguist, spoke many languages, he was a bold evangelist, he was an eminently well-trained theologian, he knew the Old Testament forward and backward. On top of that, he had been specially chosen and gifted by Jesus Christ himself. The Lord himself appeared to him. And we read that he was also given a vision of heaven where he heard words that he was not allowed to utter. He heard truths that he was not allowed to share. He said he heard things which could not be told, which man may not utter. Yet, in spite of this, the the tempt the temptation would be like I don't need to pray. I've got all these things going for me. Prayer is not important. I can do it on my own, but that is not the case with the Apostle Paul He is constantly praying, and he is frequently requesting prayer for himself. Because he knows that apart from the power of Christ, he can do nothing. That there is no spiritual work done apart from the power of Christ and apart from prayer. For Paul, it's almost like breathing. He lives through prayer. It's reflexive. It's second nature for him. It's a consistent discipline because he's consistently dependent. And this is where I think in in our American churches, this is where great danger is, we don't sense our dependency. We develop programs and systems and we've got all our needs, our physical needs taken care of, and we have freedom, so we're not dependent. And when we don't Sense our dependency. We don't rely upon the power of God and we don't come to God in prayer. We are every bit as dependent. We're just deceived about our independence. And he says, to this end we always pray for you. May God make us more aware of our dependency so that we will be more disciplined. And dependent on him in prayer. The apostle prays with a constant focus on the end that God is accomplishing. This is this is significant. I think if if one were to come in and maybe just listen to our prayers for a week, if you were to take All the prayers you prayed this past week, and someone who doesn't know the Lord were to come in and listen to those prayers you prayed for this last week. And try to determine the end for which God is focused based upon your prayers What would they discern? What would they discern? What is the primary thing that God is concerned with? Based upon how we pray. This is something that I think is important for us to consider. Is God primarily focused on our comfort? Is God primarily focused on our pleasure? Is God primarily focused on our safety? Is God primarily focused on our health? Our career. James reminds us that you do not have because you do not ask. You ask and do not receive because you ask wrongly to spend it on your passions. God invites us to come and ask that we may receive. He says, Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. Now, this isn't a divine vending machine But it's an open promise, an invitation for God's strengths in order to do the work that God has called us to do. Spurgeon said, if you may have everything by asking and nothing without asking. I beg you to see how absolutely vital prayer is, and I beseech you to abound in it. Do you know, brothers, what great things are to be had for the asking? Have you ever thought of it? Does it not stimulate you to pray fervently? All heaven lies before the grasp of the asking man. All the promises of God are rich and inexhaustible, and their fulfillment is to be had by prayer. But we don't have because we don't ask, and we do not have because we ask wrongly to consume it upon our desires. I think also if we were to listen to our prayers for one another, we might be very confused what we're really asking for. Sometimes our prayers are full of nebulous spiritual platitudes, like Lord bless them. There's nothing wrong with that, but what specifically are we asking for? Or Lord, be with them. What how would we know when that prayer has been answered? Are we praying for anything that we really are we really anticipating God to do something with a prayer like that? Do we really expect that we can measure God's faithfulness to prayer that way? Paul's focus is revealed here in the words, to this end. To this end, we always pray for you. And it refers back to what he's been speaking about in the previous verses, verses 5 through 10. Specifically about the second coming of Christ, when Jesus returns, and there's this great role reversal we talked about last week. Those who are persecutors become persecu Afflicted, they receive the judgment of God, and those who are afflicted actually receive rest. They are that role reversal takes place. And he speaks of in verse 10 where he says When he comes on that day to be glorified in his saints and to be marveled at among all who have believed, because our testimony to you was believed. To this end we always pray for our for you. It's in light of that. When we think about it, he's praying in regards to or in light of eschatology. There's eschatology of focus. When Christ comes again, and he is glorified in you, and this is made a reality in your lives, and he's marveled at among all who have believed. Do we pray with any regard to eschatology? You know, eschatology, the study of things to come. Do we pray with regard to that? Do we think, do we ever pray eschatological prayers? I I I don't know. I'm just thinking this through. In Revelation chapter 5, look at me in Revelation 5 briefly. This is outside of your notes, but it's it's significant here. Revelation chapter 5. Verses 9 and 10, these great missionary verses. This is when Christ had taken the scroll And the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the lamb, each holding a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. This is so beautiful. The incense there is illustrative of the prayers of the saints. And they sang a new song saying, Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals, for you are slain, and by your blood you ransom people for God from every tribe. and language and people and nation, and you have made them a kingdom and priests to our God, and they shall reign on the earth. This is really that a remarkable event that is future still to this day. As we look down the quarter of time, this is an event that is yet future. something that has not yet happened. But there the this prayer is is received. The song is is given. Worthy are you to take the scroll to open its seals, for you were slain and by your blood you ransomed people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation. This is going to happen. It is in the process of happening. There are people from nearly every tribe and nation that have come to know Christ, and yet the work is not finished. But it is going to happen. That's why we send out missionaries. That's why we pray for certain missionaries in our assembly here this evening. That God sends them out to a place that does not have gospel preachers there. To be pray, Lord, do what you have said Draw people to yourself from every tribe and language and people and nation. Send out our children. Send out people from our church. Would you send out my children to do that work? It's it's going to happen. So are we praying to that end? Well why should I pray? It's going to happen. That doesn't make any sense. If it's going to happen, why should I pray? Seems kind of superfluous. Well, God has ordained to work his purposes, his sovereign purposes through prayer. God has an end that he has ordained, and he has means to that end We see that in Romans chapter 9, where God has the end of salvation. He has decreed, he has elected Some to salvation. But Romans 10, we see the responsibility of every person to call upon the name of the Lord. We see the responsibility to send out preachers. There is the end and there is the means. And these are blended together. Jesus says to pray. When he taught his disciples to pray, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth. as it is in heaven. Lord, establish your kingdom on this earth. Well he's going to do it. But do we pray to that end? What were the bowls full of incense? Which are the prayers of the saints? How did this thing come to pass? The prayers of the saints brought about the sovereignly ordained events. God has ordained the end, and He's ordained the means He who began a good work in you will complete it at the day of Jesus Christ. It's going to happen, so we shouldn't pray for each other then. No. God has ordained the end and the means, and we ought to be praying this way. Think about it in Daniel chapter 9 You have that great passage where Daniel is reading the book of Jeremiah, and he realizes that Jeremiah, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, has prophesied that the people of Israel will be in Babylon for 70 years. He's reading Jeremiah 25, 11, where he says that the people of Israel will be in captivity for 70 years and then they will be released. And so what does Daniel do? Yes. I don't need to pray about that. It's done. God's already said it. No. Daniel 9 is his prayer. He pleads with God to do what he said he would do. This this this maybe in our minds like that doesn't seem to make sense God has ordained the end. He is going to release them after seven years. And Daniel says, but he's also called me to pray about it and to repent. and to confess my sins and the sins of the nation. And through the prayer, God accomplished what he said he would do. This is that beautiful balance. Lord, send out laborers into your harvest field. Do we pray that way? Bring in your people from every tribe and tongue and nation. Would you send out people from our church to go do that work? Would you send me out? Would you bring me into contact to do that work? He's praying eschatologically here in Second Thessalonians. He 's saying, to this end we always pray, because these things are what God is doing, and we believe he is doing that Christ is going to come again. And he will be glorified in his saints, and he will be marveled at among all who have believed. And so we are praying to this end. To this end, we pray. There are many things that God has revealed He is going to do. We know the abomination of desolations has to take place in a temple. Jesus spoke about it. Revelation speaks about it. Do we pray for a temple to be built? We should. Because God has said he's going to do it. So are we praying with God's focus as we ought to? This is really a beautiful verse, verse 10. When he comes on that day to be glorified in his saints and to be marveled at among all who have believed. Paul's focus is revealed here in these words. This refers back to what he's been speaking about, that this glorifying in his saints Our ultimate glorification with Christ is something that ought to radically transform how we live here and now, and it ought to be a driver of our prayers for one another. Christ's glory. In our glorification ought to be a driver of our prayers. In 2 Peter we have skipping a few Actually we'll get there. 2 Peter 3 verse 10 says, But the day of the Lord will come like a thief, and then the heavens will pass away with a roar. And the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved, and the earth and the works that are done on it will be exposed, since all these things are thus to be dissolved What sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness, waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God? You see the eschatological focus. These things are going to happen. This earth is going to be consumed. Don't live for this world. Live for that which is eternal. Live lives of holiness and godliness, waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God. But don't live your life for that which is temporary. This world that we live in, this life that we live, it's 80 years or it's 90 years if God gives us strength. But it's not worth investing in because all this world will dissolve. And our lives will quickly be over. But holiness and godliness will last for eternity. In 1 John 3, the Apostle John says, Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared. But we know that when he appears, we shall be like him because we shall see him as he is and everyone who has this hope in him purifies himself as he is pure. Does not it's not clear what we will be like. There is mystery involved, but we know that we will be like him. Do we pray for one another in light of that ultimate reality? Do we believe that God is doing a work in our brother or sister of such a magnitude that if we could see it today, we would be shocked? That God is doing such a work, a transformative work, and when the Christ returns, there's going to be such a transformation that if we could see that, we would be overwhelmed. Do we pray to that end? Do you pray for your wife that God would complete the work that He began in her? So that when Christ comes on that day, He will be glorified in her. Do you pray for your brothers and sisters to that end? We ought to. When Christ comes again, he will be glorified in his saints. We spent last time looking more at the this great role reversal specifically about the judgment that Christ will bring. But we we didn't have all the time to finish verse 10, which speaks about Christ being glorified in his saints. This is just really a beautiful truth. Perhaps when you read that, you assume that this is referring to the saints doing the glorying, that we are going to glorify Christ. when he returns. And there is truth to that. We will do that. But that's not primarily what is being referred to here. The object of glory is Jesus Christ. He is the one who is being glorified. But the means of the glory is the transformation that Jesus Christ is going to do. He's going to work in his saints. Who are assembled with him in glorified bodies and perfected spirits. This transformation is spoken about in numerous places throughout the Bible in the New Testament and the Old Testament. We read about it in Philippians chapter 3. But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior. This is what he talked about yesterday, our Savior or last week, that he's coming from heaven. We wait our Savior who is in heaven, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. This is what is being described here in these verses. That Christ will be exalted in the transformation that He works in us. Romans 8, we have these verses. For I consider that the suffering of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. The idea there is toward us or in us. Suffering doesn't compare to the glory. The Thessalonians are going through suffering. And he says, I'm praying for you to keep your eyes fixed on the glory that is going to be revealed in you. For the whole creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope. That the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption, and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the first fruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. When Christ comes and our bodies are redeemed and we stand in glorified bodies, He is glorified. Because he is the one who has done it by his death and resurrection. When you think of the word glory, it's a word that's very hard to really Wrap our heads around. It's a word which describes God's magnificence and the dazzling magnificence of heaven and the magnificence that we share in. And that we become partakers of. C. S. Lewis described it as a desire which no natural happiness will satisfy. Our desire to be approved. By God. It has this idea of splendor, majesty, light, glory, radiance Even the prophet Daniel spoke about this in Daniel chapter twelve. I don't believe I put this in my in a In our PowerPoint. I'm just going to read you some of these verses verses from Dana chapter 12. When the Old Testament saints and tribulation saints appears will be resurrected. It says, At that time shall arise Michael, the archangel. The great prince who has charge of your people, the nation of Israel, is speaking to their speaking to Daniel. And there shall be a time of trouble such as never has been since there was a nation till that time. But at that time your people shall be delivered, every one whose name shall be found written in the book, and many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt. And those who are wise shall shine like the brightness of the sky above, and those who turn many to righteousness like the stars forever and ever. Now we know the how that is accomplished in the sense we know it's through Christ, through his death and resurrection that that is accomplished. But this is what what God is doing, and Paul is saying, to this end, we always pray for you. In light of this Ultimate reality. Christ will be glorified when this awesome transformation is revealed. And it is seen how Christ has brought many sons to glory. By his death and resurrection. The Lord's glory will be mirrored, or it'll be shared by his people. We will be one with him and we will share in his glory. It also says that Christ will be marveled at or in or among all who have believed The statement's almost probably a parallel to what the first statement is there. Could refer to the awe and wonder that transformed believers will have as they realize the glorious transformation that Christ has performed in them When we stand there on that day and we look at ourselves, we're going, what has happened? What an amazing transformation. And we glorify him. We marvel at what he has done, but we marvel at him and his glory and splendor. Charles Spurgeon expressed the wonder of this reality saying I have a slide for this Those who look upon the saints will feel a sudden wonderment of sacred delight They will be startled with the surprising glory of the Lord's work in them. We thought he would do great things, but this surpasses conception. Every saint will be a wonder to himself. I thought my bliss would be great, but not like this. All his brethren will be a wonder to the perfected believer. He will say, I thought the saints would be perfect. But I never imagined such a transfiguration of excessive glory would be put upon each of them. I could not have imagined my Lord to be so good and gracious And this is what he is going to do. Do we pray to this end? Do we believe that God is doing this awesome work in our children? And do we pray for them even now in light of that awesome reality? Do we believe That God is doing that work in our fellow church member that we struggle to get along with. And we pray for them in light of that. The New Testament teaches we're both to live in the shadow of the cross and in light of the second coming of Christ. Those are both realities, and they're essential truths for Christianity. living and we ought to be praying towards that end. Secondly, prayer should be focused on Christ's sanctifying purpose. This continues on. To this end we always pray for you that our God may make you worthy of his calling. and may fulfill every resolve for good and every work of faith by his power. First of all, praise for God to make them worthy of his calling. Now that that might start you a little bit, say. Well, we can't be worthy of our calling. The idea of being made worthy of the calling is not at all referring to one's ability to earn salvation. We've already seen time and again that none of us can do anything in our own power that in any way makes us acceptable or commendable to God. It is only by grace, only through the work of Jesus Christ, only by faith. But Paul is praying that God would transform the Thessalonian believers so that the experience of their lives would match the reality of their position. They are worthy in Christ. Now I'm praying that you live worthy of this calling. Colossians 1 speaks of this. And so from the day we heard Paul speaking of the Colossians, we have not ceased to pray for you, asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. We heard about what God has done in you. And now we are praying that you will walk worthy of the Lord. Walk worthy of what He has done and He is doing in your life. The idea of calling here refers to God's calling them to salvation. It's sometimes called the effectual call, where God draws sinners effectually to To repentance and faith in Christ. The amazing thing is that God takes wretched sinners like you and me, who are not only worthy of death, but hell. And he makes us worthy of Christ's kingdom. And he does this by imputing the righteousness of Christ to us as we come to him by faith. But that's not all that God does to make us worthy. Paul prays the Thessalonians would be made worthy in practice. You have been made worthy positionally in Christ. Now be made worthy through Holy Spirit-enabled sanctification. We see this even earlier in 1 Thessalonians when we're going through it, where he says, We exhorted each one of you and encouraged you and charged you to walk in a manner worthy of God, who calls you into his own kingdom. And glory. These truths that are discussed in this verses: God has called you into his kingdom. He has called you into his glory. We have been brought into the glory of God. Now walk worthy of that calling. Live in a manner worthy of that. God's call of salvation is not the end. He is molding and shaping us through trials, through through temptations that come, conforming us to the image. of Christ, and making our faith evident and our sanctification real. Ephesians chapter 4. I, therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling. To which you've been called. You've been called to this awesome salvation, this glorification that He is working in you. Now With all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bonds of peace. It is God who does this work. Maybe you ask, well, is it God who does it, or should we? Be the ones who do it. And this again goes back to the idea. If God's going to ordain something, why do we pray? If God's doing this work, what's my responsibility I've heard Christians say, well, you know, God just didn't give me the grace to overcome this temptation. Like nonsense. That's nonsense. That's not true There is no temptation that has taken you except that which is common to man, but God is faithful, who will not let you be tempted beyond what you're able to bear, but will with that temptation make a way of escape. So it's nonsense to say for the Christian, God didn't give me grace for that. That's an excuse. Or I'm waiting for his grace to overcome this sin. No. You've been given the grace. It's your responsibility to walk faithfully. God's sovereignty never negates human responsibility. Paul prayed for sanctification in the lives of the Thessalonian believers, because he knew that sanctification, like justification, comes only through the sovereign grace of God, but not apart from human obedience and human responsibility. Turn it in your Bibles to First Corinthians fifteen. If you're in Thessalonians, go back to First Corinthians fifteen. Paul says this in verses 9 and 10, where he says, I am the least of the apostles, unworthy to be called an apostle. Because I persecuted the church of God. You think of the Apostle Paul, we often think of him as this great Christian hero, which he was, but he was also one who murdered Christians. And so he says, In that light, I am not worthy of being called an apostle, but by the grace of God I am what I am in verse 10. And his grace toward me was not in vain. Okay. So if it's God's grace at work in you, you just sit back and just let it work? Just sit back and let God. No, on the contrary, he says, I worked harder than any of them, though it was not I, but the grace of God that is with me. Huh. So the grace of God made him work harder. There's no dichotomy here. It's God's grace enabled him to work harder. And so there is this requirement, this responsibility to work in tandem in connection with the grace of God. Consider what it says in Philippians chapter 2. Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed. So now not only as in my presence, but much more in my absence, work out, live out. your own salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God who works in you. You must work. God's at work. Both to will, to make you have the will, and to work for his good pleasure. So I just don't have the will. Work it out with fear and trembling. That is not an excuse. That's laziness. He says, work it out. 2 Peter 1:3 says his divine power is granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence. The fact is, for Christians, we've been given the indwelling Holy Spirit who enables us to walk worthy of his calling. And we are called to do that. So Paul prays that they fulfill every resolve or every desire for good and every work of faith by his power. You can see in here two kind of points. One is internal desire and the other is external action. He's saying I want you to to fulfill, to bring to completion all of these things. The internal desire must be more than just a desire. It must be worked out. Have you ever started on a journey to do something good for the glory of Christ, maybe to stop a certain sin pattern in your life? And you started good? And then somewhere along the line you got derailed. He's saying, I am praying for you that you work out, you fulfill every resolve for good, every desire for good. Maybe you were saying, next time I meet with that co-worker, I'm not going to be baited into an argument. I'm going to respond with kindness. Soft answer turns away wrath. And before you know it, you're back at it. Like, oh. Now he says, fulfill every resolve for good and every work of faith by his power. The word good there has the highest expression of something that is willingly and sacrificially done for others. It's moral and spiritual excellence. And this work of faith. The fact is that genuine faith always results in good works. James. teaches this very clearly. It always results in greater obedience to God. If we walk by faith, it will result in obedience to God The person who claims to be a Christian but does not turn away from sin habitually and doesn't care is demonstrating that he is not a child of God. So Paul's saying, I am praying for you that you may fulfill every resolve for good and every work of faith. He's praying towards sanctification. So do we pray for the sanctification of one another? Do we pray for one another together in groups? Lord, would you help them to fulfill every resolve for good? Sin that's in their life. Would you strengthen them to turn from that That sin, to walk in obedience, to love sacrificially, to walk in humility, to be gentle The last point here is prayer should be focused on the priority of Christ's glory. Verse 12 says, so that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you and you in him, according to the grace of our God in the Lord Jesus Christ. The glory of Christ must be the highest aim of all of our prayers and all of our pursuits. But I fear too oftentimes the glory of Christ is not the highest aim of our prayers and our pursuits. To glorify means to enhance the reputation or the praise or the splendor of another. Are we praying, Lord, help My husband to live in such a way that will make you more glorious in the eyes of the world. I want him to glorify you. Help me to glorify you in my actions, in my love for him, my respect for him. Paul is praying that the reputation and praise of Jesus Christ be enhanced and magnified through their obedience and their holy living. Especially in light of their suffering. That's the context here. He's talking about them in the light of suffering. Your endurance in suffering magnifies Christ. It shows his worthiness. It's so important to see that Christ-like behavior is far more important than words or praises sung on Sunday morning If we want to glorify Christ, what is most effective? Obedience or song sung? Obedience. Obedience. Not negating singing songs. But if you're not doing that, that's empty Why should you endure suffering? The glory of Christ. That the name of the Lord Jesus may be glorified in you. Why should you resist temptation? Why should you turn from pornography? The glory of Christ. That the name of the Lord Jesus might be glorified in you. Why should you share the gospel? The glory of Christ? Why should you love your enemies and do good to those who spitefully use you? The glory of Christ. Why should I you give and serve and love when I've given and served and loved so many times and it's been unappreciated? The glory of God This is the ultimate motivation. Christ is worthy. And his worthiness must be the focus of our service, or it's just a noisy gong and a clanging cymbal. And therefore it should be the focus of our prayers. The amazing thing is this little phrase here. In verse 12, that the Lord Jesus may be glorified in you and you in him. I just marvel at that. What wonder that Christ's glory should ever be ours. What wonder that we should ever have any participation in the glory of the resurrected Christ. But that's what the Bible teaches. Romans 8:17, that if we are children, then heirs, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him, in order that we may also be glorified. We may be glorified with him. We share in his glory. John 16, 26, or 12, 26, I mean. If anyone serves me, he must follow me. And where I am, there will my servants be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him. The Father will honor him. Colossians 3. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on the earth. earth, for you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Wow. There's mystery in this. There's no way we can unpack this all and understand it all. Yet we know it is what the Bible teaches. Second Corinthians 4 16 says, So we do not lose heart, though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day. For this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. As we look not to the things which are seen, but to the things which are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient, to the things that are unseen are Why do we lose heart? Because we have our eyes on our problems. We have our eyes on the things that are transient and not on the things that that are eternal? Why do we give up hope? Because what we're hoping in is temporary and not eternal. And all of this grace, all this glory is by the grace of God. He says, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ, we will not get there and say, Look at me. Look at my Savior who did this for me. It is all by grace. He is the one who called us. He is the one who makes us worthy And he is the one who transforms us. It is the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. Do we pray to this end? Do we live in light of these realities? Does it change how we We pray for one another. May God help us to have prayers that are eternally minded. Let's pray. Fathers, this is a glorious passage. We marvel at these truths. They just they almost seem impossible that how you could take people like us And glorify us in order to bring glory to Christ. That you would take wretched sinners, broken, sinful rebels. And you would make us sons of God. Oh Lord, I pray that you would purify in us. And that you would fulfill in us every resolve for good and every work of faith according to your power Would you make us and enable us to live worthy of the calling that we have been called to? Father, I pray you'd help us not to be lazy in this, but diligent, pursuing holiness as you have called us to. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.