If you have your Bibles, you can turn with me to the passage we have been considering in recent days, Matthew chapter 6, the Lord's Prayer. King Louis XIV is one of the most interesting monarchs in history. I had the privilege of visiting the home that he lived in in 1999 while on a missions trip. We went to the Palace of Versailles. And the splendor of that place was indeed breathtaking. He was known as the Sun King. Because everything revolved around him. But he preferred to be called the Great, Louis the Great. When once he was asked about his governance of France and if he was truly doing what was in its best interest, he replied, I am the states. But finally in 1715, Louis XIV died after reigning for 72 years as King of France. Still the longest reign in European history. Lewis gave orders that his funeral be a lavish affair. His body was to lie in state in a golden coffin. He gave instructions that candles were to be placed around that golden coffin so that there would be a beautiful glow and all eyes would be riveted on him. Even in his death, he wanted to be the center of attention. As thousands gathered in the cathedral for this solemn service, the bishop got up And it snuffed out the candles and began his sermon by saying, only God is great. This, of course, is a message that resounds throughout the pages of Scripture. There is no one like the Lord. There is no one holy as our God. I want to ask you a question this morning as we begin, and that is this, what do your prayers reflect about your understanding of God? If someone were to somehow overhear your prayers, would they take from what you have said that you pray to a great God? Several weeks ago we looked at the preface to this prayer in Matthew chapter 6. It begins the section on prayer in verse 5. Let me read these verses. Jesus says, and when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen as men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy father which is in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions as the heathen do, for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. Be not ye therefore like unto them, for your father knoweth what things you have need of before ye ask him. Jesus here condemns both hypocritical prayer and heathen prayer. Both of these prayers are wrong because they reflect a distorted view of God's. God is not impressed. with our prayers when our main audience is the ears of people and not himself. And God is not worn down or impressed when we say the same things again and again in a mindless way, thinking that somehow we can manipulate God to do what we want. That is not, that is a distortion of who God is. This week I came across a statement that really resonated with me. It's written by the famous theologian and writer J. I. Packer. He says this, the vitality of prayer lies largely in the vision of God that prompts it. Drab thoughts of God make prayer dull. The mark of great prayers in the Bible or elsewhere is that they express a great awareness of a great God. And I think he has put in a very small compass, profound truth in that statement. This morning, as we continue our study of the Lord's Prayer, I want us to look at the implications. of one phrase in this opening invocation. The opening words of this prayer are very memorable to us. Our Father which art in heaven. Now we have so far in our study, as we've come to this prayer, looked at the significance of the word Father and the Word R. Perhaps I need to say that we will not be moving at the rate of one word at a time. But there's so much here in this opening phrase, our Father. And today we want to look at the last part of this, which art in heaven. Why did Jesus instruct his disciples to pray this way? They're praying to God. Certainly they know God is in heaven. But why did he say that when we pray, we should think about that? We should consider that our God that we're praying to is in heaven. What difference should that make in our prayer lives? Now the Bible speaks of three heavens. Speaks of the atmospheric heavens. This is the place where birds fly and clouds are formed. It speaks of the celestial heavens. That is what we refer to today as outer space. This is where the sun, moon, and stars move about in their various orbits. And then the Bible speaks of the third heaven or the abode of God. I must hasten to explain that God is not confined to this location. When Solomon dedicated the temple, he said, Behold, the heaven of heavens cannot contain thee. How much less this house that I have built? You should not think for a second that God is up there, far removed from us, and we are down here. That is his place and we are here. The Bible teaches the omnipresence of God. Perhaps the most famous text for this It's found in Psalm 139, where David writes, Whither shall I go from thy spirit, or whither shall I flee from thy presence? If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there. If I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there. If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost part of the sea, even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me. If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, even the night shall be light about me, yea, the darkness hideth not from thee But the night shineth as the day, the darkness and the light are both alike to thee. There is nowhere you can go to get away from God And depending on your relationship with God, that's either a very comforting truth or a very disturbing truth. So if God is everywhere, why are we to pray to God who is in heaven? The answer is because heaven is where his glory and majesty are most clearly manifested. Heaven is where the Lord reigns. from his glorious throne. And this truth is meant to remind us of the great God that we address in prayer. So I'm going to preach to you on this truth that Christians must remember that we are praying to a great God. And there are two main applications that I believe the Scripture gives for this truth. The first one is this. We should pray respectfully because our Father is in heaven. This opening phrase I mentioned a while ago is an invocation that is a call to worship before we rush into the presence of God with our problems. We should pause and worship him. We should remind ourselves the person to whom we are addressing. And we find in this opening phrase that we must keep a balance of two wonderful truths that are both taught in Scripture, but often that we struggle to keep in balance. The Bible teaches, first of all, clearly that God is eminent. That is a theological term. It means that God is not remote or distant. The God revealed in the Bible is not cold and austere. No, he is revealed in the pages of Scripture as a God of loving kindness and tender mercies. Our choir sang about that just a few moments ago. He is a God of love. We could put it this way. He is a good God. This is brought out in the opening phrase with the word Father. We are praying to a loving father who has tender affection for his children. But if that's the only truth that you think is found in Scripture, you can take that far beyond what is intended to convey with that truth. scripture beyond its biblical boundaries so that the person of God becomes distorted And this is what we have tended to really, really emphasize in modern versions of Christianity. If we could somehow be transported back to Puritan times or the times in New England during the days of Jonathan Edwards, and we were to attend a service there. I think we might leave saying, boy, you know, it was kind of cold and austere and kind of formal and and it just didn't give me a warm, fuzzy feeling being there. Our modern worship, our modern emphasis on the identity of God is really focused on the goodness of God, the love of God. And for some people, all of theology can re be reduced to the slogan that God loves you. And that's the extent of it. If that's all you have, you will have a God who is sentimental and indulgent, sort of like a grandfather figure who likes just everyone to have a good time, who doles out gifts to the grandkids. And just kind of winks at all their indiscretions. I was reading a writer this week who I think captured it well. He said, We have turned God into a celestial teddy bear. We've so emphasized the love of God and the goodness of God, and we have forgotten That the God that we address in prayer, the God that we worship, is our Father who art in heaven. He is a God who is also, and this is the second, the twin truths, remember, the first one is the eminence of God, the second one is the transcendence of God. This is to put it in terms that we use in everyday language, God is not only good, God is great. And He is worthy of our reverence. God is the omnipotent, eternal creator of the universe. He's a God of majesty and glory. Therefore, we must pray to him with absolute reverence. Ecclesiastes chapter 5 and verse 2 says, Be not rash with thy mouth, and let not thy heart be hasty to utter anything before God, for God is in heaven and thou upon earth. Therefore let thy words be few. Now this is not a proof text for short prayers. You cannot use that verse to support your practice of praying for 30 seconds a day and no more. No, what is condemned here are not long prayers, but an ad attitude of undue familiarity. I could put it this way, prayer must not be a casual conversation. God is not your buddy. He's not your co-pilot. He is the Almighty Ruler of heaven and earth. Isaiah 57 verse 15 says, For thus saith the high and lofty one that inhabiteth eternity, whose name is holy, I dwell in the high and holy place. Ever thought what would happen if you got a glimpse of the glory of God? First of all, you could never see his full glory because no man can see God and live. But we do have in Scripture the record of various individuals who caught a glimpse of the glory of God. Your member of Moses was very discouraged. The children of Israel had failed miserably at the golden calf incidents. And Moses really lost his heart to lead them into the wilderness, into the promised land. And he says to God, show me your glory. And so God says, listen, come into the cleft of the rock, and I will hide you there, and I will let my glory pass before you. But you can't really see all of it. You can only see like the shadow of his glory. We read of Isaiah and his commission. When he saw the Lord high and lifted up. And he heard those angelic creatures crying, holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. And he said, woe is me, for I am undone. I am a man of unclean lips. We read of Ezekiel catching a vision of the glory of God, and it says that he fell as a dead man to the grounds. We read of John on the Isle of Patmos, who saw the glory of the risen Lords, and he fell at his feet. As one who is dead. We read in the book of Job about how he longed to bring his case before the Lord, but then when he saw the Lord He put his hand upon his mouth and he repented in dust and ashes. My point is this, every single time in Scripture we have a record of someone saying the glory of God. You know what? They were cast down to the ground. They were overwhelmed with a sense of their own unworthiness and sinfulness. They said with Peter in that boat after this great miraculous catch of fist, depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. And so when we go to the Lord in prayer, we need to remember the God that we're praying to. He is a great and mighty God. Now this touches on a truth that I am not going to fully develop, but I want to mention a little bit here. I want to invite you to turn with me to the book of 1 Peter. Towards the very end of your New Testament. First Peter chapter one In this paragraph, Peter is calling on Christians to live a holy life. He has these familiar words, be ye holy, for I am holy. Quoted, of course, from the Old Testament. And then he makes this point, giving a reason why they should be holy. Verse 17. And if you call on the Father, that's what we do in prayer, who without respect of persons judges according to every man's work past the time of your sojourning here in fear. I wonder what you think of that verse Saying here that our pilgrimage on this earth as believers should be a pilgrimage of fear. Now that that doesn't strike us perhaps as being right or being comfortable or being appropriate or healthy. And so I want to talk for just a moment about the fear of the Lord. You'll find this expression, a reference to it many, many different times in the pages of scripture. And it is true that most of those references are found in the Old Testament. But it would be untrue to say that's just an Old Testament teaching. Because we find it numerous times in the New Testament. I'm going to read just very quickly a few of these verses. In Acts chapter 9, verse 31, we have a summary of the church at that time, and then it says this. The churches had rest throughout Judea and Galilee and Samaria and were edified, walking in the fear of the Lord. It is using this expression to summarize the Christian experience. Christians are to be known as people who walk in the fear of the Lord. 2 Corinthians chapter 7 verse 1 says, Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness. in the fear of God. Philippians chapter 2, verses 12 and 13. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Hebrews chapter 12, verses 28 and 29. Wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear, for our God is a consuming fire. And there are many other references like this. I just read a few. So you see, whatever position you take, you can't say that the fear of God is not for believers today, because it clearly is for believers today. Let me clarify that there are two types of fear of God. There is the fear of a slave. This views God's with terror. An avoidance and seeks to hide from God. This is based on the ignorance of God and the mistrust of God Many primitive religions are based on this that you have to appease the gods because the gods are angry. They're against you And so we do everything we can to appease them and to make them happy, but generally they're in a sour disposition towards humanity. This is the way sometimes lost people think. They try to avoid the subject of God, church, or anything religious because it makes them uncomfortable, because they don't like the idea of being in the presence of the Lord. That's a disturbing thought to them. But the fear of God that is being commended here in Scripture is the fear of a son, not of a slave, but of a son. It views God with awe and adoration. And it doesn't try to hide from God, but it seeks the Lord just like a little child seeks out his father. And wants his affection and his love, but has a very healthy respect. To talk about his dad being so tall and so strong and there's there's there's nothing my dad can't do. That's the way a little child thinks. And that's a wonderful picture of the kind of fear or respect That we must have as believers. And the fact of the matter is the spirit of God is essential for our spiritual health. Many of those passages I read to you, we see the fear of God connected with the doctrine of holy living. And our English word holy is related to the word for whole. We talk about someone who is whole as someone who is healthy. And so this, there's a very much a sense in which unless you are holy and seeking holiness, you are not spiritually healthy. So what does it mean? To fear the Lord. Let me mention three things very quickly. It includes, first of all, a reverential respect for God. We have an awe of him, a fear of him, a respect of him. We reverence him. We recognize we're coming to someone. who is so much greater that his thoughts are not our thoughts, his ways are not always the God who has always been, who always will be, the almighty God of the universe. We come to him with profound respect and reverence. It also includes, believe it or not, a healthy fear of the consequences that will come if we disobey him Did you know that you should be afraid to live in sin? You may say, well, I thought that, you know, all judgment and everything was was placed on Christ and I don't have anything to worry about. That is true in regards to your eternal salvation. But Hebrews chapter twelve, as we looked at just a few weeks ago, tells us that if you're truly a child of God And you're living in sin, he will chasten you as a father chastens his child. He will bring punishment, correction into your life. He will get your attention. And it goes on to say that if you're living in sin year after year and that doesn't happen, guess what? You're not a son of God. Because it says there is not a child. That he will not correct or discipline. No exceptions. Some of you here could give testimony That God 's chastening hand can feel very severe. God can get your attention. God can bring correction into your life in a very powerful and a very painful way. But I want to thirdly say this, that should not be our primary motivation as believers. If right now you're saying, you know, the reason why I come to church and I Try to walk the straight and arrows because I don't want God to really bring that judgment into my life, that correction into my life. You don't have a very strong and healthy relationship with the Lord Just like if a husband says, you know, the reason why I am faithful to my wife is because I'm afraid that if I wouldn't be faithful, she might make my life really miserable. I mean, you should see her when she gets angry. If that is the primary motivating factor for you to be faithful, you don't have a very good marriage. No, the third aspect of the fear of the Lord is that we fear damaging that relationship because we genuinely love our Father. We don't want to damage that relationship. We want to be close. We like that sense of communion, of walking in his presence. We don't want to lose that. We don't want to damage that. So we don't go off into sin. Not because we're afraid so much of his correcting hand as we don't want to have that sense of being far away from him and not having his blessing on our lives. So let me bring this all back to this opening point if we should pray to God reverently. What does that practically mean? I would say that we need to pray to Him. In a reverent fashion. And what does that mean? I think that means that we should use biblical language. We should not speak to him as a peer or as a buddy. We need to re remember that we are on earth and he is in heaven. We are not on the same level. We are not peers with him. So we need to be respectful in our prayers. We should use biblical language in our prayers. But I think it also means that we should pray with the spirit of submission. We don't come to God making our demands and saying, now listen, you've got to do this for me. And I know what's best, and I know what you need to do. We come saying, Not my will, but thine be done. You are God. You are the omnipotent creator of the universe. You're the God who has all wisdom. You know what is best for me. Your throne is in the heavens. You choose God. You do what you want to do. We pray with submission to his holy will. And now I'd like to look at the second main application. of this phrase, our Father which art in heaven, and that is that we should pray trustingly because our Father is in heaven. You see, what I think the scriptures are reminding us here when it says our Father, which art in heaven, it is that our Father is a sovereign God. When we come to God in prayer, we need to remember that He is in control. There is nothing too hard for Him. There's no problem that we can put at his feet and he can say and he would say, I can't deal with it. That's just beyond my purview. That's just too much. We never can bring anything so complicated or so difficult that he can't deal with it. Because he's our Father, which art in heaven. Do you know what the Bible teaches about the sovereignty of God? That, of course, is a huge, huge topic And when you speak of the sovereignty of God, in a sense you're being redundant, it's like speaking about the godhood of gods. A sovereign is a king. It's hard for us in some respects, I think, to fully understand the relationship between a member, a subject, and a sovereign because None of us here have ever really lived in a monarchy. It used to be many years ago, of course, that most countries in the world, most people in the world, were under the control of a sovereign, a king. And they understood the authority that one man could wield. There wasn't a democracy. They didn't vote. Kings didn't worry about public approval polls. They did what they wanted to do. I'm not saying that's a great way to rule, although it's very efficient. But our God is a king. An absolute monarch. The scriptures teach many things about this. Let me mention four of them very quickly. God does what he wants to do. Did you know that? That's what the scripture teaches. Psalm 115 verse 3. Our God is in the heavens. He hath done whatsoever he hath pleased. Psalm 135, verse 6, whatsoever the Lord pleased, that did he in heaven and in earth and the seas and all the deep places. Isaiah 46 verse 10 says this, My counsel shall stand and I will do all my pleasure. Now perhaps that's disturbing to you. Perhaps the idea that God can do whatever He wants to do it it sounds dangerous to you because if you knew of a person and you were to ask them, So how do you how do you run things here at this company? I do whatever I want to do. You might say, I don't think I want to work there. Oh boy, that sounds a little sketchy there. But the fact because our experience has been when people can do whatever they want to do, they tend to be very selfish and they tend to do things that are hurtful to many other people. But God is not like us. What he does is always what is best for us. Secondly, God can do anything he wants to do. Job 42 verse 2 says, I know that thou canst do everything. Jeremiah 32, 17 says, Is there anything too hard for me? Luke 1. 37 says, With God nothing shall be impossible. Now I must add this one theological caveat. God never acts contrary to his character. For instance, God cannot lie. Why? Because he's a God of truth. But with this qualification in mind, we need to realize that God is not limited like we are. He can do anything. He does not lack the wisdom or the resources to accomplish his will. The third thing I want to say under this is that God cannot be stopped from doing what he wants to do. Job chapter 9 verse 12 says, Behold, he taketh away, who can hinder him? Who will say unto him, What doest thou? Isaiah 14, verse 27 says, The Lord of hosts hath purposed, and who shall disannul it? And his hand is stretched out, who shall turn it back. God has never been vetoed in decision that he made. He has never been overruled by some other entity. He's never called in his counselors and said, tell me what you think I should do in this situation. The scriptures tell us who hath been his advisor. Rhetorical question. The answer is no one. God doesn't take advice from anyone because he's God. He cannot be stopped from doing what he wants to do. You may say, wait a minute, but but look at the chaos that we see in the world. Look at the growth of Islam, the terrorism of ISIS. Look at the pandemics of various viruses and diseases and so forth. Or the moral collapse in our nation, or the presidential candidates that we have. I want you to know that God is not challenged or hindered by any of these things. The scripture says, He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh. The Lord shall have them in derision. God rules over all. Psalm 103, verse 19 says, The Lord hath prepared his throne in the heavens, and his kingdom rules over all. Psalm 47 verse 7 says, For God is the king of all the earth. Daniel 4, 17 says, the Most High ruleth in the kingdoms of men. Now, do you believe this? Do you believe that God is truly in control? You see, although we may not say it because we know it would be wrong, I think often the way we really think is that God is not in control. I think this is one reason why we don't pray the way we ought. I think one reason is, the main reason is we don't think that our prayers will really make a difference. I think that we believe that God is either number one unwilling to help us, or God is unable to help us. one or the other. But either way, it's not going to make any difference. But the scriptures tell us that is not true. God is not unwilling to help us, and he is not restricted or unable to help us. This opening phrase of the Lord's Prayer destroys both of those false notions. God is our loving Father, and He is more than willing to help us. But He's also the ruler of heaven and earth. And so he is not hindered or restricted. So often people will come to me with requests as a pastor, could you do this? Could you help? And so often I want to say I'm sorry I can't do that. I don't have the resources to that. I can't change people's hearts I can't really help you. I can pray for you and I can spend time with you and give you some counsel and encourage you. But so often I feel hampered because the things that I face, I can't really change. And the fact of the matter is, we all feel that way at times. So what impossible situation are you dealing with in your life? I know there's a lot of you that are facing heavy, difficult, crushing burdens. And you think about them when you go to bed at night? They're your final meditations of the day as you drift off into sleep. And if you wake up in the middle of the night, the first conscious thought that you think of is, oh yeah, I've got that problem. And when you wake up in the morning, the first thing that you think of is, oh yes, I've got this to deal with. I've got this great problem, this insurmountable obstacle that I can't seem to solve. Now there's one of two ways you can respond to that. You can let that burden just weigh down on you. and crush you into the ground and you can worry and fret and scheme and try to figure out some way with your ingenuity and your resources to somehow solve this problem Or you can take another route. You see, most often you can't solve the problem, or else you would have done it long ago. Or you can take that burden to the Lord. You can take it to your Father, which is in heaven. You can take that great burden of a grown child who struggles all of his life with addictions, or that recurring cancer, or that broken marriage that seems absolutely hopeless. Or that unsaved spouse who shows absolutely no sign of softening to the claims of Christ. You can take these huge hurdles, these insurmountable obstacles, and you can lay them before the Lord, your Father. And you can know that he cares for that need because he's your father, just as every good father cares about the burdens that their children face. But unlike earthly fathers, you have a heavenly father that can really do something about it. Because he is your father, which art in heaven. He is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we can ask or think. One of the great hymn writers of the church. Was that converted slave trader, John Newton, most famous, of course, for amazing grace? He also wrote a wonderful hymn on prayer. And a verse in that hymn goes like this: Thou art coming to a king. Large petitions with thee bring, for his grace and power are such. None can ever ask too much. That's what this phrase is talking about. We're coming to a king. We're coming to an omnipotent King who can take our problems that seem so large And easily solve them. And so we should come, we should pray with reverence. We should pray with trust and confidence that God can do something about it. That's the way God wants us to pray. May God help us. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you that because of Christ we can call you Father. We thank you that you hear us and you answer us according to your will. We thank you. That we can bring before you those burdens that weigh heavily on our souls. Those recurring problems that just won't go away. Those problems that vex our spirits and rob us of joy. And cast us down. We thank you that we can bring them to you and we can leave that problem with you. I pray that you would teach us to do this. Remind us when we pray that we are praying to a great and mighty King who is also our loving Heavenly Father. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.