If you have your Bibles, please, you can turn with me to Matthew chapter 6, the passage that we read together a little while ago. If you're visiting with us today, we are embarking on a study of the Lord's Prayer. Sometimes when President Abraham Lincoln was conducting cabinet meetings, a young boy would burst into the Oval Office to ask him a question. His guest would be shocked and dismayed that the President of the United States would allow a child to have access to him. President Lincoln would say to his startled visitors, this is my son Todd, and he has access to my office. He may always come to me directly. This morning we come to the very familiar opening phrase of the Lord's Prayer. It's found in verse 9. It reads, Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. This is the most famous prayer in the world, and these are some of the most familiar words. in human language. These words remind us of the incredible access that believers have to our Heavenly Father. The Lord's Prayer is found in two places in our New Testament. It's found here in Matthew chapter 6 and also in Luke chapter 11. There the Lord gave the prayer in answer to the question of the disciples when they said, Lord, teach us to pray. And on that occasion, Jesus introduced the prayer with these words. He said, when you pray, say, and consequently , Many Christians for centuries have repeated this prayer verbatim as a part of their worship. An early Christian document from the second century known as the Didiche advises Christians to repeat repeat this prayer three times a day. Last week I mentioned to you that there's nothing inherently sinful or wrong with repeating these words. However, we have to be careful Because right before the Lord gave this prayer, he says in verse 7, he gives this warning, when you pray, use not vain repetitions as the heathen do. For they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. We should not repeat this prayer in a mindless way, thinking that by just making these sounds we somehow are actually communicating to God. It's interesting to note that we have no record of the disciples ever repeating this prayer. When we turn to the epistles, the prayer of the apostles are not really the echoing of these words, although these petitions are certainly found there. I think it's careful for us to note that in verse 9, Jesus says in the beginning, after this manner, therefore, pray. The Lord was giving a skeletal outline. or a model of the types of petitions, the types of elements that should be found in a believer's prayers. In other words, he wasn't teaching them what to pray, but how to pray. Now this famous prayer naturally divides into three parts, like many things. You have a Introduction, you have the body, and then you have the conclusion. The introduction is what we're looking at today. Our Father which art in heaven. We sometimes call this an invocation. It's the beginning of a prayer. Then you have the body of the prayer, which comprises six or seven petitions, or we might say request, and it depends on how you number them. And then finally we have a benediction or conclusion of this prayer in the last part of verse 13. Now this morning we are going to look at this opening phrase, our Father, which art in heaven. And this phrase reminds us that our prayers must begin with worship and adoration. I don't mean that if you're in the middle of swerving off the road and you say, Lord, please help me, that that's a wrong prayer. Obviously, you don't have time to prepare your heart and uh to worship the Lord as as you would like in those occasions. But when we normally pray and we set aside time to prayer, we should begin with worship. We should begin by reminding ourselves of who God is before we plunge into giving him our needs and our requests. We need to realize that we are not praying to some impersonal force. No, we are coming to our Heavenly Father. And so we should not rush into His presence with our grocery list of needs. We must pause to worship and adore our God. Now these opening words are very familiar to us. But they would have sounded unusual to the disciples. You see, the Jews did not address God as their father in their prayers. If you're to look through your Old Testament. And we have examples of the prayers of Abraham and the prayer of Moses and prayers of Samuel and David. You won't find any of them addressing God as our Father. In fact, if you were to look at the get a concordance out and look at the 929 chapters of the Old Testament. you would find that God is only referred to as a father 14 times. Not very often at all. And it's never used as an address to God in prayer. It's used indirectly in the conversation of people, usually in reference to the nation of Israel However, when you turn to the New Testament, you find references to God as our Father again and again, over 200 times. And often in the context of prayer. This is due to the example and teaching of Jesus. In fact, every single prayer that we have recorded in our four gospels Where Jesus is praying, he always begins by addressing God as Father, except for one time. And that is when he was on the cross. And he said, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And the reason he didn't do it there is among other reasons because he was quoting Scripture, Psalm 22, verse 1. So this is the way Jesus taught his disciples to pray. Now I want you to notice how much this is emphasized in his instruction on prayer here in Matthew chapter 6. Look with me. Remember he begins this instruction? And verse 5, and it really goes all the way to verse 15. Now notice in verse 5, he and going down to verse 6, you'll find this twice. But when thou prayest, enter into thy closet. And when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy father, which is in secret, and thy father which seeeth in secret shall reward thee openly. Look now at verse eight. Be not ye therefore like unto them, for your Father knoweth what things you have need of before ye ask him. Verse 9 After this manner, therefore, pray ye our Father which art in heaven. Verse 14, for if you forgive men their trespasses, Your Heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. So in his instruction on prayer here in Matthew chapter 6, six times he refers to God as your Father. You see how this is a key idea that Jesus is getting across. to his disciples. Now I suspect that most of us here begin our prayers with some acknowledgement that God as is our Father. And we are doing that because that is how we have been taught to pray, and that goes all the way back to the example and the instruction of our Lord Jesus Christ. But what difference should this make in our prayer life? The fact that God is our Father, what difference should this make? I want us to examine that this morning, and I want us to see that Christians can pray with confidence Because God is our Father. When you know that the God of the universe, the ruler of heaven and earth, is your heavenly Father. It should make all the difference in our prayers. We should be able to pray with boldness and with confidence and assurance. Notice with me, first of all, that we can pray with confidence because we have a personal relationship with our Father. Now I must begin this point with a very important question. It's something we can't dodge, and that is this. Is God the Father of all people. Is God the Father of all people? Now the vast majority of people today would answer this question with a resounding yes. Most political leaders, educators, entertainers would affirm and support this proposition. We live in a pluralistic age in which we are pressured to accept the proposition that all religions are basically the same. This is why you will only hear political leaders usually make very general statements about God, and they'll say things like this We can all claim that God is our Father and that we are his children. No religion or faith tradition is superior to any other. We all worship the same God, we just call him by different names and approach him in differently culturally conditioned ways. However, truth is not determined by popular opinion. The question for every Christian when it comes to an issue is, what does the Bible say? And that's what I want us to examine very briefly here. Let me first of all say there is a sense in which God is the Father of all of us in that He created all of humanity. In Luke chapter 3 and verse 38, we read that Adam was a son of God. And since we are all descendants of Adam and Eve, In a sense, we are all sons and daughters of God. That is that God is the origin of all life. In Acts chapter 17 and verse 28, when Paul was speaking to the philosophers in Athens, He said, we are also his offspring. But I want you to understand this very clearly. The Bible never uses the term father in that sense. You'll never find a verse that says that God is the Father of us all. You can scan your concordance, go through all the pages of Scripture. You will not find that. The Lord Jesus Christ did address this question of paternity directly in John chapter 8, and that's where I'd invite you to turn now. Turn back just a little ways in your Bibles to the Gospel of John and chapter 8. And I want you to look with me. At verse 37, the Lord is involved in a contentious debate with the Pharisees, religious leaders of his day. He says in verse 37, I know that ye are Abraham's seed, but you seek to kill me because my word hath no place in you. I speak that which I have seen with my Father, and you do that which ye have seen with your Father. Notice here, he's talking about the fact that, alluding to the fact that there are two spiritual fathers. Look with me down at verse 39 now. And they answered and said unto him, Abraham was our father. Jesus saith unto them, If ye were Abraham's children , You would do the works of Abraham, that is, you would believe. But now you seek to kill me, a man that hath told you the truth, which I have heard of God, this did not Abraham Verse 41, you do the deeds of your father. They say unto him, we be not born of fornication. We have one father, even God. Jesus said unto them, If God were your father, ye would love me, for I proceed forth and came from God. Neither came I of myself, but he sent me. Why do you not understand my speech? Even because you cannot hear my word. Now look with me at verse 44. This is the key verse. Ye are of your father the devil. And the lust of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own, for he is a liar and the father of it. And because I tell you the truth, ye believe me not. This is very alarming. This is no one's favorite verse Jesus is clearly saying that every human being is either the spiritual offspring of God or the spiritual offspring of the devil. There's no other way to understand these verses. It's very plain in appearance. The question is, how could a person tell whether they are the spiritual progeny of the devil or of the Lords? Well, there was a clue given up in verse 42. Jesus said unto them, If God were your father, ye would love me, for I proceed forth and came from God's So my question to you this morning is this. Do you love the Lord Jesus Christ? Is he your Savior? Is he the one you're trusting in? If your answer to that is no, the plain implication of what Jesus is saying here is that God is not your heavenly father. You are in spiritual darkness Now, earlier in this book, in the very preface of this book, John makes a very similar statement. I want us to turn to John chapter 1 and verse 12. This is what we read in John 1 verse 12. But as many as received him that is Jesus To them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name, which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. The only way that a person can become a child of God is to receive the Lord Jesus Christ. Which is to trust in him. And that is a supernatural birth. In verse 13, it has its origin not in man but in God's. So everyone here, under the sound of my voice, you are either a child of God Or spiritually, you're a child of the devil. We don't like that. We would like there to be a third or fourth or fifth category, or just eliminate the one category altogether. But this is what the Word of God teaches. This is reality. This is facts. My question to you. This morning is this. Are you truly a child of God? Can you really claim God as your father? You see, you cannot really pray this prayer Unless you're a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. You may say that sounds so offensive. It sounds so exclusive. Jesus said this. I am the way, the truth, the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. There's no way you can really go to the Father except through his Son. Jesus Christ is the only Savior, the only avenue, the only way that God has provided for sinful human beings to come to Him. And therefore, this prayer is only for those who know the Lord Jesus Christ and have come to put their trust in Him alone. And if you have not done that today, I would exhort you. This is no minor point. This is no theological detail. This is a matter of your eternal destiny. But if you do know the Lord Jesus Christ as your Father, what wonderful confidence you can pray with. Because the creator of heaven and earth is your Father. You know, little children instinctively, notice I said little children, instinctively want to communicate with their father. You know, children go through different phases in their lives, don't they? I can remember a phase in uh in my life when it used to be that when I would come home after a day's work. I would be greeted like a conquering hero. You remember those days, dads? Kids would come up and one would grab hold of this leg and one would grab hold of the other. And they would literally cheer and they would tell me all about their days and they would ask me to help them with different things. By the way, dads, if you're there right now, enjoy it. It's not going to be like that forever. But little children want to come to their father and they want to tell him all about their lives and their problems. Natural and instinctive. I never sat my kids down and said, now listen, when I come home at the end of the day, this is what I want you to do. Okay? I want you to come up, I want you to grab my leg, I want you No, no dad has to do that. It's instinctive, it's natural. And this is the way it should be for us as Christians. That's why I said earlier in a message in this series that if you never pray to God, it really raises the question whether you're really a child of God, because this is what children of God do. They come to their father. They want to come to their Father. This is why Romans Paul says the spirit bears with our spirit and we cry, Abba Father. terms of affection and endearments. So we can pray with confidence when, first of all, we have a personal relationship. With God, our Heavenly Father. But secondly, we can pray with confidence because our Father cares for us. It's been said that a lot of people, their concept of God is often related to the kind of father they've had as a child. I I I suppose that's valid. I have no way of proving or disproving that. But you know, there's an awful lot of people, unfortunately, that when they come to this passage and they read that word, our Father, which art in heaven. It doesn't necessarily bring the warmest feelings to them or a great sense of confidence. What we need to know is that this is our Heavenly Father. And he is a father who loves us unconditionally with a perfect love. Now the scriptures reveal that he cares for us in so many different ways. Due to the time constraints, I'm going to focus on just two this morning. And the first one is one area of care and concern that sometimes we would rather do without. And that is our loving Heavenly Father corrects us. Did you know that? Our loving Heavenly Father corrects us. Our Father is not an indulgent father. He doesn't let his children do whatever they want, even when it's not good for them. He's not passive. He's not sitting back saying, you know. I'm just trying to survive this. . . I'm just trying to get along. Hope my kids don't mess up too bad. Our Heavenly Father is not like that. He is actively engaged in the lives of his children. He loves us too much to turn a blind eye to our transgressions. This truth is found all throughout the scripture. I'm going to just read a few of these scriptures for you. In Job chapter 5 and verse 17, we read these striking words. Behold, happy is the man whom God corrected. Therefore, despise not thou the chastening of the Almighty. And Proverbs chapter 3 Verses 11 and 12 we read these words, My son, despise not the chastening of the Lord, neither be weary of his correction. for whom the Lord loveth, he correcteth, even as the Father, the Son, in whom he delighteth. If you're here this morning and you say you're a child of God and you say to yourself, you know what? I can't say that I have ever thought God's corrected me. God's ever set me right or brought affliction into my life because I was going astray. If that is your testimony, only one or two things are possible. Either you are really, really out of touch with what is going on in your life. Or number two, you don't know the Lord. Because these scriptures say that every son, every daughter, every child of God will at times feel his chastening hands. No exceptions. Now, if you know your Bible well, you know the key passage on God's correcting his children is found in Hebrews chapter 12. And so I want you to turn with me there now. We have an extended passage that I want us to look at. Hebrews chapter 12 I'm going to begin reading at verse 4, which is kind of a transitional verse. Hebrews chapter 12 verse 4 reads, Ye have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin. And ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children. My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, neither faint when thou art rebuked of him. For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons, for what son is he whom the Father chasteneth not? But if ye be without chastisement, wherefore are all partakers, then are ye bastards and not sons. Furthermore, we have had fathers of our flesh. which corrected us and gave them reverence, shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits and live? For they verily for a few days chastened up after their own pleasure, but he for our prophet that we might be partakers of his holiness. Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous nevertheless afterwards it yieldeth the peaceable fruits of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. Important words for us to consider. Did you notice that in all these passages in Job 5, Proverbs 3, and Hebrews chapter 12? Each time there was an emphasis made on our response to that correction. And each of those passages that says, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord. You know why it says that again and again and again? Because our natural response is to despise the chastening of the Lord. And to say, why has the Lord brought this into my life? I don't deserve this. Why is God, if he loved me, he wouldn't bring this hardship into my life? That's our natural response. So often believers do not respond properly to their father's loving correction. And right here in verse 12 we find some ways that people respond improperly. Notice with me, verse 12, wherefore lift up the hands which hang down and the feeble knees. What's that taught? What's that a picture of? Well, if someone's walking around like this, you know, they're probably down on the dumps. They're probably discouraged. They might be depressed. They haven't responded by saying, God is loving me and He's giving me what I want. They're thinking, God's against me, He's ruining my life, He's crushing me under His heavy hand. It's not fair. And how many Christians are this way? How often I talk with believers and they really did go astray, and God brought correction into their life. But they didn't respond to that. They got angry at God. They got upset. They got discouraged. This kind of quit on the Christian life. And they'll go for years in a spiritual desert, roaming about, going nowhere. Because they simply didn't respond the way they should to their father's correction. They didn't trust him. They questioned his love. There's another way that people respond to God's correction. He says in verse 13, make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is lame be turned out of the way, but let it rather be healed. You see, God, there's an important lesson here. God breaks us in order to heal us. He breaks us in order to heal us. But what happens sometimes when God brings correction into our lives? One response, as I mentioned, is to be discouraged and depressed and just kind of quit Another response is to get angry at God and to redouble your efforts. You know, there's some people Some people out here under the sound of my voice are, can I say this, stubborn. And you know when someone tells you not to do something You're like all the all the more determined to do it. Oh, you say I can't do that? Well then I am going to do it. How do you like that? Some people are like that with God. God brings judgment onto their life, and they get angry at God. They recognize that this is God's correcting hand. They interpret it rightly, but they say, you know what, God? I'm not going to yield to you. You can do your best, but I am not going to yield the knee. I'm not going to bow the knee. I'm not going to yield to your will. It's going to be my will. You can kill me if you want, but I am not going to yield to you. And I've met people like this before. They have a streak of rebellion. And it just stays with them. And they will not go in the right path. And so their life is just filled with correction. The Bible says in Proverbs 13, the way of the transgressor is hard. The way of the transgressor, that one who says, no, I'm not going to stay within these boundaries. I'm going to walk in the path that I want to walk. And God says, your way is going to be hard. It's going to be difficult. We should not respond with rebellion. We should not respond by dejection and depression. There's a third way that people respond improperly. He says in verse 15, looking diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you and thereby many be defiles. Sometimes people If they persist in their anger rebellion, it will eventually morph into bitterness. Bitterness. There's an awful lot of people that are in the grip of bitterness. People who call themselves Christians, people who come to church every Sunday. If you really probe down deep enough in their heart, they may say they're bitter at their spouse, or they're bitter at their father, or they're bitter at their boss. who fired them unfairly, but really at the very root of it, they are bitter at God's. And I think that God has been unfair to them. How many people? When I entered the ministry, I had absolutely no idea that there were so many people eaten up with bitterness The problem with bitterness, as it mentions here in this verse, is that it doesn't just pollute your heart. and ruin your life, but your bitterness spills over out of you and it touches those around you. touches your family, touches your co-workers, touches other people in your church. That bitterness just comes out and it infects them. And this is not what God wants. And all of this is due to the fact that we fail to respond in faith To our heavenly Father's correction. What should our response be? I like what it says in Psalm 119 and verse 71, where the psalmist writes, It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes. That is a response of faith. Does it hurt to be afflicted? Yes, it does. But when you can look back and say, Lord, thank you. Thank you for correcting me and keeping me from going in a wrong path. Oh, that's an expression of faith. The Puritans used to use this expression that we have to come to a place where we kiss the rod The rod that God has used to chastise us. After the tears have been shed, we look back and we kiss the rod and we say, Thank you, Lord, for loving me enough to not letting me go astray. That is an expression of faith. Our Father not only corrects his children, he also, secondly, provides for his children. Scriptures say that he provides all that we need. As Jesus continued his sermon and the Sermon on the Mount, where this teaching on prayer is found in Matthew 6. He brings out some of the implications of the fact that God will provide for us. In Matthew chapter 6 and verse 25, he begins a section here A lengthy section on dealing with worry specifically about our material needs He says, Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life what you shall eat or what you shall drink, nor yet for your body what you shall put on is not the life more than meat and the body than raiments. And he's going to argue with them in several different ways, but one of the things he's going to say here I want to focus in on in verse 31. Therefore, take no thought saying, what shall we eat? Or what shall we drink? Or wherewith shall we be clothed? For after all these things do the Gentiles seek. In other words, that's the way lost people think. They're focused on material needs. That's it. He says, But your heavenly Father knoweth what ye have need of, all these things. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all these things shall be added unto you. You see, your Father knows you have needs. Trust in him. Rest in him. In the very next chapter, he continues his sermon. Turn with me to Matthew 7, verses 7 and 8. This has great application for prayer. He says in Matthew 7 verse 7, Ask and it shall be given you. Seek and ye shall find, knock, and it shall be open unto you, for everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh. It shall be opened. This is the Lord calling on his followers to pray persistently The verbs that are used here express continual action. You could put it this way: keep on asking and keep on seeking and keep on knocking. You must not give up. We often fail to pray like this because we doubt that God really wants to help us. We might assume that he doesn't really care for us or that he's too busy. Or that he doesn't consider our petty concerns to be important to him. But our Heavenly Father is not like that. That's why He provides This little miniature story here in verses 9 and following, or what man is there of you whom if a son asks bread, will he give him a stone? Or if he asks a fish, will he give him a serpent? If you then being evil know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him? The Lord is employing his favorite method of argumentation, that is from lesser to greater. If this is true, then certainly this is true. If wicked, fallen, selfish fathers Provide food for their children. How much more will your heavenly Father who is perfect? That's the argument here. This is not just religious language. We are to remind ourselves of who our Father is. He is our heavenly Father, and He is unlike earthly Fathers in many ways. He loves us much more than any earthly father could ever love us, but he's also unlimited in his power. Sometimes dads can't provide for their children the way they would like to. You ever had maybe your kids uh mention that some of their friends have something, the latest whatever. But it's very expensive. And you have to say to them, I'm sorry, we can't afford that. And sometimes dads feel very poorly about that. Or maybe you've had a child and they're burning up with a fever at night. And you've given them medication, but there's nothing more you can do. You just have to sit and wait. You feel helpless as a father. And that is a very horrible situation to be in, but our Heavenly Father is not like that. He is unlimited in His power. He has strong He is the omnipotent God of the universe. Therefore, we should not hesitate to pray and ask him for help. We should be quick to admit and we encounter a problem that we can't handle. So, Father, I need your help. Sometimes we think that God doesn't care for us But it reminds you of verse that we spent much time meditating on last year in Psalm 103 in verse 13. It says, like as a father pitieth his children. So the Lord pitieth them that fear him, for he knoweth our frame. He remembereth that we are dust. You ever thought about yourself in those ways? We like not to We like to think that we're strong and capable and fearless and invincible. But you know what we all are? We're dust that's been made in the image of God. And therefore we are completely dependent on our Heavenly Father We need his help. So what problem are you facing today? Maybe you have a huge financial problem. Your Heavenly Father knows your need He will provide for his children. That's what you need to know. Perhaps you have lost your job, or perhaps you have an unsaved spouse, or perhaps you have chronic pain and suffering or perhaps you have a test coming up this week and you're very concerned about what the results are going to be. Perhaps you have a family crisis. with your child or even with your spouse. What does the Lord want you to do? Well, have you taken your problem to the Lord? Have you laid your burden at his feet? I've mentioned this story to you before, but I'm going to mention it again. The greatest preacher of the 1800s, in my estimation, was a man named Charles Spurgeon. He was the man who suffered a great deal from gout and other diseases and depression and so forth. And sometimes he would go for weeks where he could not preach the word and he was in excruciating pain. And in one of those situations, he records this prayer in his journal. He said, Thou art my father, and I am thy child, and thou as a father art tender and full of mercy. I could not bear to see my child suffer as thou makest me suffer. And if I saw him tormented as I am now, I would do what I could to help him and put my arms under him to sustain him. Wilt thou hide thy face from me, my father? Wilt thou still lay on a heavy hand and not give me a smile from thy countenance? There's a man pleading with his father, and he records that indeed God gave him grace and God raised him up and God answered that prayer. That's what our Father wants us to do. That's what he wants us to do when we are broken, when we are weak. When we have insurmountable problems that crush our spirits, he wants us to come to him, our Father. And trust him with our burden and lay it at his feet and rest in him. We can pray with confidence when we know that God is our Father and when we really believe. That he cares for us. Let's close in prayer this morning. Our Father. How weak we are, how limited we are. Father, how you remind us of our weakness and our mortality and our limitations through all of the adversities that we face in life. I pray that these would not cause us to become hardened or angry or bitter or depressed. But instead they would cause us to rest in you and bring our petitions before you and trust in you and seek you more earnestly Oh Father, we need your help. Much we need thy tender care. You know the many needs in this assembly. I pray that you would help what we have heard today to cause us. to bring our petitions before you in prayer and to worship you and to rest in you. And Father, if there's anyone here who cannot claim you as their father, I pray that today they would be born again and would put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ alone. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.