Before we open up our scriptures this evening, would you join me in a word of prayer? Father, we come to you through the Lord Jesus tonight. Father, I ask that your Spirit would fill this place. I pray, Father, for your blessing on the Word. I ask, Father, that you would exalt your son, that his person, his work, his fullness Would be magnified in our hearts and that your spirit would apply all that He is, Lord, to us, that we would see in this particular passage the richness, the sufficiency of our Savior's intercession on our behalf. Lord, I pray that as we draw near to the table tonight, you would break your word to us, that we might feed on it. I pray, Father, that we would have a sense of your nearness tonight as we examine the scriptures. And I pray, Father, that your Son would be exalted in our midst, in whose name we pray. Amen. Would you join with me in turning to Hebrews chapter 7, verse 25? Hebrews chapter 7 verse 25 During the English Reformation of the sixteenth century, a man named Thomas Cranmer became a leading voice of Protestant doctrine. under the reign of Kings Henry the Eighth and Edward the Sixth. Cranmer served for twenty years as the Archbishop of Canterbury. He played a vital role in moving England away from Roman Catholicism to Reformed theology. He authored and revised the Book of Common Prayer, which shaped England's theology and worship. Suffice it to say, he was a man greatly used by the Lord for the cause of the gospel in England. However, England's theological winds shifted significantly in 1553 when Queen Mary ascended the throne. A devout Catholic, Mary was ardently committed to reversing England's Reformation and restoring its theological allegiance to Rome. This came at the cost and the shedding of must much Protestant blood. Under Bloody Mary's five-year reign, she saw nearly three hundred Protestant preachers and leaders executed and burned at the stake. Many more were imprisoned. Cranmer was imprisoned for two years Now an aging man, having watched his brethren burn at the stake, isolated and fearing death himself, He was pressured by Catholic authorities to recant his faith in order to save his life. If he would sign a number of documents renouncing the doctrines which he preached and propagated, he might live. The choice was clear. We can't and live or hold fast and die. In a moment of weakness, Thomas recanted his faith in Christ. And he signed documents which began this way. I, Thomas Cranmer, late Archbishop of Canterbury. Do renounce, abhor, and detest all manner of heresies and errors of Luther and Zwingli. I acknowledge the Bishop of Rome to be the supreme head on earth. The account of Cranmer is a sobering reminder that a Christian's faith can falter under pressure. Regardless of how spiritually mature we are What kind of leadership role we have or how useful we may be, we are never far from falling. Apostasy is a real and present danger for every Christian. And it is for this reason we need a great high priest, a great intercessor, the Lord Jesus Christ. We'd like to read our text this evening. Verse 25 here in your passage. Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him. Since he always lives to make intercession for them. This evening will be the third message in a series titled The Intercession of Christ. We are unpacking the implications of this word here to save. In what sense Do God's people need to be saved by the ongoing intercession of Christ? That's the question we're concerned with. In the first message, we saw from 1 John 2 that we need the intercession of Christ for continual cleansing because we still sin. We have an advocate with the Father. In the second message, we saw from Zechariah 3 and other passages that we need the intercession of Christ because Satan is continually accusing us before the throne of God. And tonight we will see our need for the intercession of Christ in order to persevere in the faith. Please turn with me now to our central text, Luke 22, verses 31 through 34. This is that remarkable remarkable account where Jesus foretells Peter's denial. Luke chapter 22 and verse 31. Shortly after Christ's institution of the Lord's Supper, which we will observe this evening, the Lord commands the disciples, or commends the disciples, for staying with Christ in his trials. Then, in striking contrast that is both sobering and instructive, our Lord addresses Peter with these words. Let's begin in verse 31. Look in your Bible with me. Simon, Simon, behold, Satan demands to have you that he might sift you like wheat. But I have prayed for you, that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned again, strengthen your brothers. Peter said to him, Lord, I am ready to go with you both to prison and to death. Jesus said, I tell you, Peter, the rooster will not crow this day. until you deny three times that you know me. The primary point that I want to make from this passage this evening Is that the priestly intercession of Christ is the means by which God preserves the Christian's faith. Read that again. The priestly intercession of Christ is the means by which God preserves the Christian's faith. I want to divide this passage under two headings. Faith sifted. And the second, faith sustained. Faith sifted And faith sustained. What threatens a Christian's faith? How could the disciples who were just commended in verse 28 for their endurance be so susceptible to deserting Christ. Well look with me at verse 31. Our Lord says, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan demands to have you Satan, the great adversary of God and his people, is constantly seeking our destruction. When he appeared before the Lord early in the book of Job, the Lord asked, From where have you come? And Satan replied, From going to and fro on the earth, and from walking up and down it. Peter, who would learn Satan's cunning, describes him as a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. Satan is constantly on the prowl seeking to destroy the faith of the Christian. Our Lord informs Peter that Satan has demanded to have the disciples. In verse 31 here, the you is plural. It's referring not only to Peter but all of the disciples. And here the verb translated demand in the ESV can also be translated to ask or to demand permission. Which captures the idea of appealing to a higher authority. Satan is coming to the Lord and he is requesting that he have the disciples. We should not think of Satan ordering God or making demands upon God that he must fulfill. God alone determines the extent and the degree to which he allows Satan to touch his people. Again, this is illustrated for us in the account of Job. But I want to ask this: how specifically was Satan seeking to destroy the disciples? The text says It was his desire to sift them like wheat. Do you see that? To sift them. In the ancient world, the process of harvesting wheat involved several stages. The first is threshing. After the grain was harvested, it would be threshed. During this process, the grain is separated from the stalks. The second is winnowing. A process in which the wind removes the chaff and separates it from the grain. The third aspect or the third stage is referred to as sifting or sieving. It's what our Lord is referring to here in our passage. In this aspect, this stage of harvesting, the grain is placed into a sieve or a strainer. And then it's violently shaken so as to remove dirt and debris So, what Christ is saying here to Peter is that Satan is going to violently shake you. He's going to sift you like wheat. The nature of this sifting, this violent shaking of their faith, would become apparent in the hours and the days ahead. That very evening, one of the trusted twelve would betray Christ and turn him over to the authorities. Christ would then be suddenly arrested, and the disciples would scatter in fear. Without understanding that Christ would rise three days later, the disciples were caught in a state of immediate panic and desperation. Just place yourselves without your knowledge in their shoes at this particular part and point of their life. But the most pointed testing of faith was directed towards Peter. He followed Christ at a distance to the high priest's courtyard. And there, as we know, Peter, who had just confessed unwavering allegiance to Christ, swore out of fear for his own life, that he never knew the man. The rooster crowed and Christ turned and looked at Peter. What sense of shame, failure, and utter remorse came over the disciple? Peter ran out, as we're told, of the courtyard and wept bitterly. This short recounting of this incident. What do we learn From Peter's faltering faith. What immediate observation can we make? Well, we learn from Peter's faltering faith that the most resolved and determined Christian among us is capable of spiritual failure. Peter was determined. Lord, I am ready to go with you, he said. Peter was informed. Christ told him exactly how he would be tested. Wouldn't you enjoy that prerogative? And yet Peter still fell. How steadfast are you in the faith? Is it possible that you could fall? And forsake the Lord. Will your faith stand when Satan is permitted to shake you violently? When you receive word of cancer? Or when you hear that your job is being terminated, when something tragic happens to your child When your life is shaken violently, are you confident that in that hour your faith will not falter? I think when I raise these hypothetical scenarios like preachers often do, right? These are not unfamiliar scenarios that you've heard raised from this pulpit. It's easy for us to sit and listen and think to ourselves, yeah, you know, I sure that would be difficult, but I'm gonna trust the Lord. I'm gonna I'm gonna be fine. We could echo what Peter said. Lord, I am ready. Was Peter ready? Consider, for instance, the weakness of your own faith in the ordinary living of the Christian life. Let's take out that tragic circumstance that shakes you violently. Let's just talk about last week or the week before How often do you fail to trust the promises of God in even the smallest matters? How often do you cave to the simplest temptation How often are you discouraged and depressed because God's promises are just simply not before you? You just ignore them or you're just complacent about them. How often is your zeal so low, as we sang about this evening In Bunyan 's work, The Intercession of Christ, he recounts the weakness of the Christian and his susceptibility to going astray from the Lord. He says this, the godly feel in themselves many things even after justification. By which they are convinced they are still attended with personal sinful imperfections. For example, they often feel unbelief, fear, mistrust, doubting, despondings, murmurings, blasphemies, pride, lightness. Foolishness, fleshly lusts, heartlessness to do good, wicked desires Low thoughts of Christ, too good thoughts of sin, and at times too great an itching after the worst of immoralities Can you identify with that description? Left to himself, the Christian is weak and susceptible to Satan's schemes. He must rely on the power of Christ to keep him. And so I turn now To our second heading, the Christian's faith sustained by the intercession of Christ. Verse 32. Would you look at verse 32 with me? But I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned again, strengthen your brothers. After informing Peter that Satan desires to sift him, Christ gives the only assurance and safeguard against such a threat. Christ does not tell Peter he must be more determined or he must be more prepared or more earnest in his commitment. Christ does not call his disciple to look to self, but to look to him, to Christ. He says, but I have prayed for you. The I here is in an emphatic position. The statement could be said with this emphasis: Satan has desired to sift you, but I have prayed for you. You hear the emphasis. Christ prayed specifically that Peter's faith would not fail. What does it mean to fail in this sense? Christ is speaking of a final abandonment of the faith. Apostasy, a departing from Christ. The terminology used in the book of Hebrews is falling away from the faith. You're familiar with that. It is the ministry of our great high priest and intercessor to keep and sustain the faith of the believer. Now I want to prove to you. For a moment, that this is truly part of Christ's intercessory prayer for you and for me to keep us in the faith. That is to keep us from falling away. And I want to invite your attention to John 17, if you would. Turn over with me to Christ's high priestly prayer. Hold your finger at Luke 22 because we'll be coming back. But turn with me to John 17, and we'll begin in verse eleven. Jesus prays, and I am no longer in the world, that they are in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them. Speaking of those who belong to Christ, keep them. in your name, which you have given me, that they may be one even as we are one. While I was with them, notice this, I kept them in your name, which you have given me. I have guarded them, and not one of them has been lost, except the Son of Destruction, that the scriptures might be fulfilled. I want you to notice that Christ takes it upon himself to keep us. He says, I kept them in your name. Again, that's an emphatic position. I have guarded them, he says. I ask that you keep them from the evil one. Our continuing in the faith is Christ's doing. He is able to save to the uttermost. Our faith is sustained by Christ. Now that leads me then to this question. Did Peter's faith fail? Did his faith fail? The answer to that is no. Not ultimately. Peter fell greatly, he denied the Lord in the very hour of his suffering. But that wasn't the whole story. Peter repented and went on to suffer and eventually die for Christ's sake. Peter's faith faltered in that moment, but it did not ultimately fail. Christ by his intercession sustained Peter's faith. And not only that, but he secured his repentance and later his usefulness. Now, in just a few moments here we have worked through this scene Between Peter and our Lord. And now for the remainder of our time, I would like to make five inferences and three applications from this text. And this is really where my heart lies in this sermon. And so I hope that you'll listen closely. I want you to see the great doctrinal truth illustrated in this scene that we've just considered. The intercession of Christ is the means by which the Christian is enabled to persevere in the faith. This is so key. How are you going to endure when your faith is shaken? Think of the advantages that Peter had. He knew the Lord in such a way that he spoke with him face to face. He followed him and heard his teaching and preaching ministry for three years. Christ Himself audibly spoke to Peter and told him That he would be sifted and that he would actually deny his Lord before the cock would crow. What advantage Peter had, and yet he still denied the Lord. Are you so sure of yourself? Are you so confident of your own steadfast faith? You need the intercession of Christ to sustain you and to keep you. And these two themes of Scripture go hand in hand: our perseverance and Christ's intercession. And I want to prove that to you from the book of Hebrews. We don't need to look any further than this book. There are two great themes that run parallel like railroad tracks through this book. The first is an admonition to persevere in the faith. And for those of you Who were here a few years ago as Pastor Layman went through Hebrews. You recall that was a dominant, the dominant thing. Persevere in the faith, remain faithful to Christ. We are warned and admonished of the dangers of drifting away from the faith and falling short of salvation because of unbelief. And we are called to hold fast our confession. But the second great theme in that book is Christological. It's all about Christ, the high priestly work and ministry of Jesus Christ. There's no other book. In all of scripture, that so develops and explains and illustrates and applies the ministry of Christ as our great high priest and his work of atonement and intercession on our behalf. There is a connection between those two great themes. They don't just ram randomly appear in the same book The intercession of Christ is the means by which the Christian receives the grace to persevere in his faith. We need Christ. We need him pleading at the right hand of God on our behalf. Just as Peter did. Secondly, I want you to see here in this event the timing of Christ's intercession. Christ prays for us. Even when we are in a state of ignorance. Notice here that Christ said to Peter, Satan has demanded to have you, but I have prayed for you. Let me ask you this. When did Peter did did Christ pray for Peter? Well, let me ask you, according to the tense of this verb, did he pray before or after he informed Peter that he would be tempted? Before. In other words, Christ had already gone to the Father on Peter's behalf before Peter even knew what was coming. He had no knowledge of this. Brothers and sisters, there is so much comfort here for us. I don't want you to not take this with you tonight. We can be assured that in the hour when we are tried and we are shaken suddenly when suffering or fear grips our heart And we are caught, as it were, off guard and unprepared. We can be assured of this, that our Savior not only knows, but he has already been interceding for us. He has secured for us grace and help and strength and faith before we were even aware of the attack Of the trial, of the shaking of our faith Recall this to mind, brethren, in the hour of your suffering, that though you had no knowledge that such events would happen, Christ was already pleading and praying for you. How precious a truth is this. Number three, I want you to see that the effect the effectual power of Christ's intercession God always answers the prayers of his son. Follow me closely on this point. Christ kept Peter's faith from failing. During the weakest point of his earthly life, during his humiliation, his suffering, his death. Christ's intercession proved effective in his weakness. That is Christ's weakness. Now I am reasoning here from the lesser to the greater. If the prayer of Christ Was able to keep Peter when he was in that state of weakness Then how much more is Christ and his prayer and intercession for you today able to keep you? in his state of glory and power and majesty at the right hand of God. Do you follow me? If Christ in his incarnation, in the hour of his suffering His prayer was sufficient for Peter. If Christ in his weakness could sustain one of his disciples. Then how much more today at the right hand of God, enthroned in power and glory, is Christ able to keep you Number four, I want you to see the scope of Christ's intercession. Our Lord's prayer for Peter secured for him the grace needed for a full recovery from his fall. First, Christ's intercession kept Peter's faith from failing, though the extent to which Peter sinned was great Denying the Lord in the hour of his suffering. Yet Christ's prayer kept him from going as far as Judas and his destruction. His faith did not fail. This was due to the grace of God secured by Christ. But the intercession of Christ did not stop there. Second, Christ's intercession secured for Peter the grace needed to repent. Christ told him that he would indeed turn again. It's right there in your text. Repentance is the gift from God. Whenever a Christian repents, whenever you repent of sin, it is the grace of God at work in your heart. And that grace comes to you through the intercession of Christ. It is one of the benefits of your salvation. Peter was able to repent. He had the grace to turn because Christ had interceded Third, Christ's intercession secured for Peter future usefulness. Christ told Peter that after he had repented, he was to strengthen the brethren. How wonderful is that! God is able to take one of his children who has sinned and fallen. And after they have repented, he's able to meek make them useful for him. Oftentimes encouraging another brother in the same Way in which they have fallen and come to know the grace and restoration of the Lord This is all due and secured by the intercession of Christ. God keeps our faith from failing. He grants us repentance and gives us future ministry, all secured by the intercession of Christ. Fifth, my fifth observation. I want you to see in this text the depth of Christ's love for us in his intercession. Peter denied Christ in the hour when, humanly speaking, Christ needed Peter's loyalty the most. How might any of us feel towards a friend who in our deepest trial injures us further by disassociating from us? Yet this is precisely what Peter did to his Savior and friend. Herein is Christ's great love displayed. Christ, having full knowledge of Peter's future desertion, interceded for him still Christ's intercession was unconditional. It was not based on Peter's loyalty, but on Christ's love. He prayed for Peter, knowing fully how Peter would fail him. Praise be to God that our past sins nor our future sins will stop Christ from pleading for us. What an assurance this is that though Christ knows how I am going to fail him this week, he does not stop interceding for me. He keeps me, even though he knows exactly how I'm going to fail him. What love pours from his heart That Christ loved me not only to die on a cross for me and shed his blood and pay for my sin. But even after he has redeemed me and knows how I'm going to fail him still, he ever lives to intercede and keep me Oh, how he loves you. Oh, how he loves me. I want to close with three applications. The first is to the Christian tonight, who is weighed down by guilt and by sin. Is that your spirit tonight? Are you bearing in your heart a guilty conscience? A heart that's weighed down. There is great hope and encouragement for you tonight. Christ's atonement and intercession was sufficient for Peter's restoration, though he had greatly failed the Lord. And if that is so, then surely Christ is sufficient to cleanse and restore you. There's something I know about you tonight You did not deny the Lord in the hour of his suffering. But Peter did. And Christ forgave and restored him. And if he did that for Peter, he'll do it for you. So you should take encouragement tonight to come to this table. Knowing that there's a Savior who's willing to cleanse and forgive, restore, and praise be to God, use you. I don't know what you have done, but I know who the Savior is Number two, to the Christian who does not tonight see his need for the intercession of Christ. And I hope that there's no one among us here that feels this way. But I suspect there may be. And so I speak to this, speak this to you tonight. When our Lord warned Peter of Satan's intentions , His response was very revealing. Peter did not say, By your strength and grace, Lord, I will die with you. Or by your help, I will be faithful. No, he was self-confident and proud. He said, Lord, I am ready. Since I began this series on the intercession of Christ, I wonder how many of you have thought to yourself Well, this is a nice topic, but I don't really feel like I need this. This doesn't really change my life one way or the other. Well, if that is you, I warn you tonight, if you do not humble yourself now and learn to depend on him in this way. Then you will certainly fall just as Peter did, and it will be no surprise. Lastly To the Christian who has fallen in the past, but has come to know the restoration that is in Christ You are given an admonition in this passage. Our Lord instructed Peter, when you have returned, strengthen your brethren. Having known the greatness of his sin and failure, Peter knew all the more the grace and the power of Christ to keep him. And he was in a unique position because of his failure to strengthen his brethren. And so I want to urge you tonight. If you have known Christ's power to keep you and to restore you, then look to those who need that encouragement and point them to the Savior you have come to know. I conclude with this. Thomas Cramner did not Conclude that testimony with the denial of his Lord on March twenty-first, fifteen fifty-six, four hundred and seventy years ago, this week actually. during his final speech at the University of the Church of Oxford. Instead of confessing his allegiance to the Catholic Church, he famously recanted his recantation. He publicly confessed his sin of denying his Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and publicly cried to him for cleansing and forgiveness. He vowed that the hand which betrayed his Lord in signing those documents would be the first member of his body to burn. Secular sources documented that on that very day in which he burned at the stake, as the flame approached his body, he held out His writing hand unflinchingly in the flame. Men sought to silence the Reformation by Cramner's death. Instead his testimony emboldened Christians throughout England. God restored him and used his death to flame the faith of the gospel. Cramner had the same savior as Peter, one who lives to intercede for us, and one who is able to save to the uttermost. I close with this. The intercession of Christ is the means by which we are enabled to persevere in the faith. So no matter where you are tonight You can draw near to this table. If you need cleansing, if you need restoration, it is all secured for you through the one who sits at the right hand of the Father. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. We pray now that you would help us as we draw near and partake of these elements. In Christ's name. Amen.