In Macmillan's book, None of These Diseases, he tells the story of a young woman who wanted to go to college, but her heart sank when she read on the questionnaire, Are you a leader? Being both honest and conscientious, she wrote no and returned the application expecting that she would never hear from them again. To her surprise, she received A letter from college and it said, Dear applicant, a study of the application form reveals that this year our college will have 1,452 new leaders We are accepting you because we feel it's important that we have at least one follower. There are many people we read up in Scripture who didn't feel much like leaders, and Gideon is one of them. Two Sundays ago I preached from his commission. during our morning service and I did not intend at that time to start a series. That wasn't part of my plan. But as I studied that and continue to think about it, I've decided that I'd like to do a brief series on Sunday evening on the life of Gideon. The life of Gideon, of course, is found in the book of Judges. The book of Judges chronicles a dark chapter in the history of Israel that lasted for about 400 years. This is because Israel never drove out the pagan people that lived in that land, and so they continually faced the temptation to idolatry. If you know anything about the book of Judges, you know that you find a depressing cycle in this book. You find the nation of Israel in idolatry. We have the first step of sin, and then God sends a foreign oppressor, and they are in servitude or slavery. And as they suffer under that foreign oppressor, they cry out to God. We might call this phrase this phase supplication. God hears their cry and sends a judge who brings deliverance or salvation, really a picture of salvation. And then for a time they have serenity, usually lasting for a generation, or the life of the judge which was usually around 40 years. And then when the judge would die, the cycle would begin all over again, that they would plunge back into sinful idolatry, and on and on it would go. Now the book of Judges is not very well known by Christians. We often know it simply for a few interesting stories that we learned in our childhood. We do know that there are two judges. that are most familiar to us. Those would be Gideon and Samson, but most of the other judges we could not name. And we often think of this book as just a book that's suitable for children in Sunday school. But the book of Judges is profitable for all believers. And I'd like us to spend a few Sunday evenings looking at Gideon 's life. I find that I have some affinity for Gideon because he was fearful and reluctant and he was serving the Lord in difficult times. And he was brutally honest about his doubts and fears. That's perhaps what makes him so likable The story of Gideon begins during that cycle of servitude. They were being oppressed by the Midianites, neighbors who lived In the desert, they were nomads. It's not like you could easily attack them because they were always on the move. They would come in and raid at harvest time And they would take their crops, their produce that they had been growing all year. Look with me at Judges chapter 6, please, if you're not already there. Judges chapter 6. I'd like to begin by reading the first six verses. The children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord delivered them into the hand of many in seven years. And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel, and because of the Midianites, the children of Israel made them the dens which are in the mountains and caves and strongholds. We see that the people of Israel were living in caves. And so it was when Israel had sown that the Midianites came up and the Amalekites. And the children of the east, even they came up against them, and they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the earth, till thou come unto Gaza, and left no substance for Israel, neither sheep nor ox nor ass. For they came up with their cattle and with their tents, and came as grasshoppers for the multitude, for both they and their camels were without number, and they entered into the land to destroy it. And Israel was greatly impoverished because of the Midianites. And the children of Israel cried unto the Lords. And that usually passes us into the next phase of supplication into salvation. But here the Lord does not send them a deliverer right away. He sends them an unnamed prophet. Verse 7, and it came to pass when the children of Israel cried unto the Lord because of the Midianites, the Lord sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, which said unto them, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, I brought you up. from Egypt and brought you forth out of the house of bondage, and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians and out of the hand of all that oppressed you and drave them out from before you and gave you their land. And I said unto you, I am the Lord your God, fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell, but ye have not obeyed my voice. And that is the preface to the call of Gideon. And verse 11 is where we began two weeks ago. And there came an angel of the Lord and sat under an oak. which was an orfa that pertained unto Joash the Abizarite. And his son Gideon threshed wheat by the wine press to hide it from the Midianites. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him and said unto him, The Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of valor. And Gideon said unto him, O my Lord, if the Lord be with us, then why has all this befallen us? And where be all his miracles which our fathers told us, saying, Did not the Lord bring us up from Egypt? But now the Lord hath forsaken us and delivered us into the hands of the Midianites. And the Lord looked unto him and said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel. from the hand of the Midianites, have not I sent thee? And he said unto him, O my Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel? Behold, my family is poor in Manasseh. And I am the least in my father's house. And the Lord said unto him, Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man. Gideon, as we read here, was a very reluctant judge. The only answer, reassurance that the Lord has for Gideon is this promise. Surely I will be with thee. And he mentions it to him twice here, because that's the only thing that he really needed to hear. The book of Judges highlights the need for spiritual leaders. I know many of you know that this book is summarized twice by this famous experience. expression that actually is found as the very last verse in this book. It says, in those days there was no king in Israel, and every man did that which was right. In his own eyes. There was a void of leadership in Israel. But despite this void, God did call out some leaders like Gideon to deliver his people. And I think we see here in this call the kind of people that God uses, the kind of individuals that God delights to use. So I want to speak to you briefly tonight on the qualifications of spiritual leaders. Of course, the scriptures have much to say about this in many other places. So this is not comprehensive, but it is suggestive that I think helpful for us and all of God's word is profitable. Would you notice with me, first of all, that God delights to use weak people to do his will The Bible is clear that Gideon was a very weak man. He was not naturally courageous. When we first encounter him, he's hiding from the enemy. He's down in the valley. He's not up on a ridge where you normally would thrash. your grain. But he's hiding down by a wine press, trying to avoid the detection of the enemy. And the fact of the matter is that Gideon not only was a weak man, he knew that he was a weak man. We read about him talking about his family's poor status and the fact that he was the least in his father's household. Gideon does not feel qualified or confident or ready for the task that the angel of the Lord has called him to do. He does not enjoy a high social standing. But his weakness extends beyond his circumstances in life. He has problem trusting the Lord. He is a fearful individual. We see him talking about if all if the Lord is with us, then why has all this befallen us? And where are all those miracles that I was taught about as a boy? I don't see any evidence. of God at work. We see him in verses 17 and following the Lord reassuring him of his call He says in verse 17, If now I have found grace in thy sight, then show me a sign that thou talkest with me. If you know anything about the story of Gideon, you know he's famous for requesting signs. If you look with me at the end of this chapter, we read in verses 36 through 40 these words. And Gideon said unto God, If thou shalt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said, behold, I will put a fleece of wool in the floor. And if dew be on the fleece only, and if it be dry upon all the earth besides, then shall I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand as thou hast said. And it was so, for he rose up early on the morrow, and thrust the fleece together, and wringed the dew out of the fleece, a bowl full of water, and Gideon said unto God, Let not thine anger be hot against me, and I will speak but this once. Let me prove, I pray thee, but this once with the fleece. Let now, let it now be dry only upon the fleece. And upon the ground let there be dew. And God did so that night, for it was dry upon the fleece only, and there was dew on all the ground. And if you'll look with me at the next chapter, chapter seven. We see another example of Gideon desperately needing reassurance before a significant battle. Verse five verse nine, excuse me, of chapter seven. It came to pass the same night. The Lord said unto him, Arise, get thee down unto the host, for I have delivered it into thy hand. But if thou fear to go down, go thou with Purah, thy servant, down to the host. and thou shalt hear what they say, and afterwards shall thy hand be strengthened to go down into the host. Then went he with Porah his servant unto the outside of the armed men that were in the host. And the Midianites and the Amalekites and all the children of the east lay along in the valley like grasshoppers for multitude, and their camels were without number as the sand by the seaside for multitude. And when gidding was come up Behold, there was a man that told a dream unto his fellow, and said, Behold, I dreamed a dream, and lo, a cake of barley tumbled into the host of Midian, and came unto the host of Midian, and came into a tent, and smote it, that it fell overturned it. And that day the tent lay along. And his fellow answered and said, This is nothing else save the sword of Gideon, the son of Joash. A man of Israel, for into his hand God hath delivered Midian and all the host So we see the Lord reassuring him that he is at work, that he is with him, that he has prepared the way It's obvious here to anyone who reads these scriptures that Gideon was a very fearful man. He was weak in faith. He was weak in his circumstances, and he was weak in courage. But I want you to know that God delights to use weak people. Let me give you some reasons for this. Number one, and because it's the only people that exist. Did you know that everyone is weak? Everyone is weak. It took me a while to figure this out. When you're a young person, you often assume that other people just are so much uh more confident, much more reassured, and just have so much going for them. But the fact of the matter is they've only learned how to put up a front better than you have. Inside they are fearful and unsure and filled with doubts, but they have learned to cloak that with an air of self-confidence. So there's very much a sense in which God only uses weak people because that's all he has available to him. But there's another sense in which we could use the term weak. And that is that a weak person is a person who understands that they are weak and therefore comes to depend and rely on the Lord. I'm using this in another sense for the term humility. When Moses was called by God, he felt unable for the task. He responded for a sign just like Gideon did. When Isaiah was called, he did not feel up to the challenge. When Jeremiah the prophet was called, he said that he was like a child. He was unfit and unprepared for such a holy task. And this is the way everyone should feel about the call of God to some ministry if they really understand it. You could put it this way, to feel unqualified is one of God's qualifications for service. I came across a poem, a stanza poem this week. It says, How ready is the man to go, whom God hath never sent? How timorous, diffident, and slow God's chosen instruments. And of course the scriptures give us another reason why God delights to use weak people, and that is because he gets all the glory In 1 Corinthians chapter 1, we read a very significant paragraph. About God using the weak things of the world to confound the mighty It says in 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 26, For you see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called, but God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound. The wise, God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty, and the base things of the world, and the things which are despised, hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not, to bring to naught things that are, that no flesh should glory in his presence. But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God has made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. That according as it is written, he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. This passage is referring to our calling to salvation. But the basic principle still applies to our calling to service. God delights to call weak people, flawed people, people who lack Some of the basic components that we think are necessary for being a bold leader. God likes to call those people so that when He does mighty things through them, they know that it's not them. And they give God the glory. And even other people know it's not them. And they give God the glory This is a precious truth to me. And I don't want to be autobiographical here, but I'm a very weak person. I've said this to you before, but some people like the limelight. I'm not one of those people. I am one of those individuals who doesn't really like speaking in public. The classes that I hated the most in high school and college were speech class. And I know there's some other people out there like that as well. Those classes terrified me. And what was really strange, of course, is that I felt as a young man that God had called me to preach, but I always wondered, why would God call me to do something that I feel like I can't do? Something that terrifies me. It's kind of like a bad joke. Why would God call me to do something that seems like the most fearful thing in the world to do? And yet that's what God has called me to do. And every week I stand up here and I preach, and I've done this for years, and I'm still amazed. That God had that I'm actually here doing this and that God has called me to do that And if my ministry is ever a blessing to you or anyone else, please know that God should receive all the glory because it's not me, it's not my natural eloquence or learning or anything else. It's God working through a very weak vessel. God delights to use weak people, but that brings us to our second point. If you're not with me in Judges 6, I'd encourage you to go back there. There's a lot of people that recognize they're weak and they're don't have what it takes, but they never move beyond that. And the second Thing that that we need to see the second qualification here is that God delights to use willing people And that is, you might be very weak and very fearful, but you have to step out by faith and say, Lord, I'm willing to do what you've called me to do, even though it may be uncomfortable and difficult for me. If you never move past that idea that I'm weak, and that's the end of it, you will never really be used of God. We read in this passage that Gideon was willing to serve the Lord, however, he wasn't sure how he could really do that. He wants confirmation, he wants assurance, and so God provides. A sign to strengthen his faith. Look with me at verses 17 through 19 of Judges 6. And he said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight, then show me a sign that thou talkest with me. He's not sure who's talking to him. Is this really the Lord? Is this really the angel of the Lord I've heard about? I would like a sign, I'd like confirmation. He says, Depart not hence, I pray thee, until I come unto thee and bring forth my present and set it before thee. And he said, I will tarry until thou come again. And Gideon went in and made ready a kid and unleavened cakes, and ephol flour, the flesh he put in a basket, and he put the broth in a pot, and he brought it out unto him under the oak, and presented it. Gideon wanted a sign that this was really a messenger from God. And it seems like the angel didn't initially answer his request, and so Gideon asked him to wait while he prepares. A meal for his strange guest. The present that he refers to here is indeed a lavish meal. People in the ancient Near East are famous for their hospitality But I want you to know that Gideon here goes the extra mile. The kid here, of course, refers to a young goat that was carefully selected. For a very special occasion. This is the equivalent of what we read of in the parable of the prodigal son where the fatted calf is killed. This is a special goat that has been fattened up. and is prepared for a very special feast. He goes and he slaughters that goat and he prepares it. And that's not all. He prepares an enormous meal. This epha, a flour, is a large amount. Many, many pounds of flour, 35 pounds or more, the scholars say. He made a lot of baked goods from this And the meat, he the language here is suggestive that he probably cut it up and served it in in the form that we would call a kebab where you would put it on a skewer and Roasted over a fire, and then with part of the meat from that goat, he formed the soup. This was the finest meal that Gideon could have prepared for his guest. This wasn't fast food. This probably took him several hours to prepare. That's why he asked the guy to wait there. You're willing to wait. It's going to be a while. He was at a time and at a place where they moved at a much different pace than we do in our modern worlds. This was a meal fit for a king. He produced a feast in a time of famine. Why is that significance? This was A real indication, a real step of faith on his part. I mean, we see him here hiding, threshing this grain. His resources are meager, but he has just given up a huge quantity of that flower that he's probably just developed. And he's taken out his prize animal, this goat that he served up to this stranger My point is that he has made an incredible sacrifice that is a demonstration of his faith. He's taken a significant step. Often when God calls someone to do a task, they look down the road far ahead and they say, I could never do that. I could never be that person that God wants me to be. But what they need to do is just take the next step. And then God will confirm them and strengthen them and assure them until they take the next step step and the next step and the next step until they finally get to the place where God wants them to be, where they can actually be that man or woman of God that He has called them to be. The problem so often is that we never take that next step. We look down the road and we say, I could never do that. I could never be that person But what God wants us to do is be willing to take the next step. A step of faith that often involves sacrifice, something that may be costly Serving the Lord is costly. It always involves a sacrifice. It will cost you your time and your money and your talents. You can't treasure up your life and your resources for yourself and say, Lord, I want to be the person you want me to be. Here I'll give you those tiny little bits. No, Gideon here has laid it all, as it were, on the altar. Perhaps there are young people here tonight. who are considering giving their lives to the service of the Lord. I want to be perfectly frank with you. Serving the Lord will cost you more than you can imagine. But it is well worth it. Very difficult. It's going to be harder than you think, but it's worth the sacrifice because God is worthy. We see here that a willing heart is ready to sacrifice and is willing to obey in verse 20. It says, and the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes and lay them upon this rock and pour out the broth. And he did so. This must have seemed like a huge waste. Our ladies will understand this more. You've prepared a wonderful meal, a wonderful soup that you've been boiling and simmering and putting spices in and preparing it. And your guest said, why don't you just pour it out on that rock over there? You'd probably feel a little deflated. It's going to be wasted. All of my hard work These instructions may not have made a whole lot of sense to Gideon, but he obeyed Lord. And we see here again that you will never be the person that God wants you to be until you obey in the small tasks. So often people have grandiose ideas of what they want to do in the service of the Lord. But they fail to be faithful in serving the Lord today in the small trivial details. I made mention of you not weeks, many weeks ago, about the fact that God wants us to be faithful in small things. And the reward for being faithful in small tasks that God gives us is what? He gives us larger tasks to do. So we need to be faithful. We need to be willing. God delights to use people who are willing. And finally, I want you to notice that God delights to use worshipful people to do his will. Before we can really effectively serve the Lord, we must worship the Lord. You see this all throughout Scripture. The life of Isaiah and the life of Moses and many other Bible characters. Look with me at verse 21. Then the angel of the Lord put forth the end of his staff that was in his hand and touched the flesh. The unleavened cakes, and there rose up out of the rock, and fire out of the rock, and consumed the flesh, and the unleavened cakes, then the angel of the Lord departed out of his sight. What an amazing scene this is. The angel was dressed like any traveler of the day, and so he had a walking staff. And when that food was set up on that rock, he took his staff and he touched that food, and in an instant it was all burned up and consumed. And as the smoke of that fire went up, the angel disappeared. The significance of that food being burned was that it was an indication that his sacrifice had been accepted by gods. He had found favor with God. God accepted this as an offering from his heart. It was a tangible unmistakable demonstration that indeed the Lord was with them, as the angel had said on two previous occasions. This was exactly the sign that Gideon needed. You might say, well, Gideon should have trusted in the word of the Lord. The Lord told him twice, surely I will be with thee. How often does God have to say something for you to believe it? You're certainly right. But Gideon's like us. He was fearful. And God was very patient with him. And gave him this reassurance. God gave him the evidence that he needed to bolster his weak faith. And when the angel disappeared, Gideon knew instantly that indeed it was the angel of the Lord that he had been speaking to. The Hebrew text reads indeed the angel of the Lord. I believe this is nothing less than a pre-incarnate manifestation of Jesus Christ. It was not like the incarnation where God actually took on human flesh. for a permanent state. This was a temporary appearance for a specific purpose But Gideon fears that he will die because he has seen the Lord. This is, of course, something that we see often in Scripture of those who saw the glory of God. And the Lord answers him by telling him that he will not die. Look with me at verse 24. Then Gideon built an altar there unto the Lord and called it Jehovah Shalom unto this day. It is yet an Orpha of the Abizarites. the original readers would have known the location of this altar We see here often in Scripture that when God calls someone, that he gives them a glimpse of his glory before they get to the work. This is something that sustains a person's spiritual life to know that they have seen the Lord, they have seen a glimpse of his glory, of his power, and of his majesty. The building of this altar signified a spiritual milestone for Gideon. We read of Abraham building altars. At significant periods and milestones in this life. We read of Jacob after being far from God building an altar to the Lord. We read of Moses building an altar to the Lord in Exodus chapter 17. These were not just places of worship. They were memorials to what God had done in the lives of these individuals. And here at Gideon 's call, he builds an altar to the Lord. This was the place where he consecrated himself to the service of the Lord. It was a place of worship, but it was also a memorial. It was a reminder that he had met with God and he had been called of God It was a tangible reminder of God's presence with him and of God's call upon him I suspect strongly that at times he went back and he looked at that burn mark on the rock where that sacrifice was consumed, and he looked at that altar where he first consecrated himself to the Lord. And notice what this altar is called, the Jehovah Shalom, which all of us know means the Lord, our peace. And why did Gideon select this name for this altar? Because Gideon, this fearful man, found peace in the undeniable fact that God was with him. If you've ever been to an ordination council, you know that it usually begins with the candidate being asked about his call to the ministry And those on the council want to be certain that this individual really is clear and is convinced that God has called them. Because the men on that council know that if the individual is not certain about that, they will not remain in the ministry. They won't be there for long. They have to be convinced that God, in fact, has called them to do this work. But I think this principle extends beyond just those who are called to preach. I think this applies to all believers. We see here in the life of Gidding, the life of many other saints, that there are milestones in our spiritual developments. You see, we don't progress In our walk with the Lord at one consistent race. They're often milestone steps that we take where there is radical and rapid growth that takes place in a short amount of time. They are like stepping stones in our spiritual developments. Often where we face a grave crisis, a real difficulty, and God showed himself faithful to us. And delivered us and gave us the direction and the guidance and the answers that we need, and we step forward. And then as we go on in our Christian walk, we will come to another problem, another crisis, another crossroads. where we scratch our head and say, Lord, what should I do? And the Lord will again show himself to be faithful. This is a very, very important principle in our Christian life. We see an illustration of this in the life of David. Remember when he went to King Saul, and everyone was saying, This shepherd boy is going to defeat Goliath? And what does David said? I remember. I remember when the Lord delivered me out of from the lion, the mountain lion, and from the bear. as I was protecting my father's flock, and the same God that delivered me from these wild beasts will deliver me and give me victory over this giant. What is David doing? He's looking back at those times in his life when God showed himself faithful. And he's using those events. The memory of those to bolster his faith. This is a very important spiritual exercise. This is why so often in Scripture we are called upon to remember what the Lord has done for us. We are, as it were, when we face a crossroads, when we face a wall, when we face a crisis, We are to turn around and look back and remember. I have been in situations similar to this before where it's seems like there was no hope, where it seems like I had been abandoned, where I didn't have any idea what to do, where I felt completely inadequate for the task ahead of me. And God showed himself faithful to me. Therefore, that gives me confidence to know that he will do the same again. This is a very important part Of our Christian walk. And this is something the Lord has done in my life again and again. And I think often for many of us The Lord has has done this with his word. A precious promise of Scripture. The Scriptures call this the doctrine of illumination. And that means that God's word, as it were, is highlighted on the page. It stands out. It has meaning to us. and significance to us that it's never ever had before. It's like we've never seen that verse in the Word of God before. And that verse ministers to us and becomes, gives us a foothold. And it's like a rock. We set our feet upon a rock. It establishes our goings. It gives us spiritual stability to continue on. Do you have experiences like that? Do you have verses like that that you can think of? I hope you do. Sometimes I think maybe I'm strange in this regard. I don't know. I can remember a time. When uh and he's not here so I won't embarrass him, but I can remember very clearly a time when I was in A room down outside of a hospital in Baltimore, and we didn't know if our son Andrew was going to live or die that night And the doctor called us and told us the situation was very grave and so forth and told me to call my priest and I said, well, I actually am a priest because all believers are priests. But I can remember the Lord giving me a verse that I was reading that night, and I just latched hold of that verse. And God showed himself faithful. And that verse ministered to me. I meditated on it, I thought about it, I memorized it, it went with me. Became the living words. And I can think of many times here when I came as pastor. And I don't say these things to make you feel sorry for me or anything else. I'm delighted to be a pastor. I wouldn't want to do anything else. It's very difficult, but it's also very rewarding. But I can remember at times when I first came here thinking to myself, what in the world have I gotten myself into? And it's not because you guys are a troublesome bunch of people. But I can remember the first two months that I came here, in November and December of the year 2000, we didn't have a single visitor. About 45, 50 people out there, and everyone was um just staring at me and wondering what this young kid was doing, and I was preaching my heart out, and I I had about 10 sermons in my little stock of sermons, and I use them up really fast when you're preaching three or four times a week. It goes fast And I was thinking, what in the world am I going to do? We haven't had a single visitor in two months. Is this the way it's going to be? And of course, uh Dave Scheif was chairman of the deacons and he was the one who was really the contact with me and uh encouraged me very much to come here and uh you know I was thinking maybe I should Call Dave Scheipe up and say, Dave, it's been a huge mistake. You know, I'm sorry about this, but I have no business being here. And I can remember coming in a Monday morning and being very, very low and overwhelmed. with problems that I was facing within the body and people who were discontent and other people who just had many personal issues they were dealing with And I cried out to the Lord to show me his will. And that day in my Bible reading, I came to this obscure passage in 2 Chronicles chapter 15 and verse 7. It says, be strong therefore, and let not your hands be weak, for your work shall be rewarded. And I knew that that was the word of the Lord for me. That verse just came right off the page, and I took out a piece of paper and I wrote down that verse. And I still have it under my blotter there to this day. Because that was a stepping stone. That was me grasping to the Word of God for help and for truth. And for stability and courage. And and and and of course I had to move forward by faith. This is how the Lord works in their life. He wants you to come to the end of yourself where you say, I can't do this. I can't tell you how often people come into my office and they say, I can't do this. And I say, that's great. That's where God wants you to come, where you say, I can't do this. Then you're ready to rely on Him. God delights to use people who recognize that they're weak and yet they are yielded to the Lord and they are willing to obey and move forward by faith. And they've come to worship the Lord and to remember him and trust in him and rest in him. This is the kind of person that God delights to use. And I know that this circumstance was not unique. In the life of Gideon, it's not unique. In my life, it is the way God works in individuals. I encourage you to be that person, whatever it is that God has called you to be, a person who worships the Lord and follows his will. Let's close in prayer