We'll be in Psalm 116 this evening. So if you would turn your Bibles to Psalm 116. And there were so much so many parallels within the text of that song to the psalm that we are looking at this evening. It seemed very appropriate. We didn't plan that, at least I didn't plan that. But uh that was that was beautiful. I remember being uh in Tanzania probably about five or maybe six years ago, driving to visit some missionary friends that lived about an hour away from where we lived. And I remember as we had almost arrived, in in Tanzania you drive on the left side of the road and in the right side of the vehicle. And I was coming into the town where our missionary friends lived and turning right to go up the mountain that they lived on. They lived on the slopes of a an eleven thousand-foot mountain. We were going to visit them. And I had my right turn signal on. As I'd come into town, we were going in the 50-kilometer speed limit zone. But behind me was a bus that was racing another bus to a town several hours away, and they didn't want to slow down for a vehicle that was turning. And I remember I didn't see the bus behind me, but I had my turn signal on and I began to turn right across the lane and they decided to pass on the right-hand side. And at the last second I kind of looked in my mirror and I saw a green blur coming fast from behind me. And so I cut the wheel as sharply as I could to the left just in time for them to take the front light off of my vehicle and the bull bar off the front of the van that we were driving. And I remember my feeling at that moment. I was angry. I was really angry. And I wanted to give that bus driver a piece of my mind. Which I wasn't able to do because they were trying to make it seem as as if it was my fault. But I do remember arriving there where we finally were planning to go to and being shaken. Really kind of realizing that I was that close to have gone into eternity. And that evening when I lay in my bed The thoughts of anxiety had gone down. And now it turned to praise. Thank you, Lord. Thank you for protecting my life and the lives of my family in what could have been a life-ending accident. Could have been a disastrous accident. In Psalm 116, we're not talking about a car accident. We're not exactly told what it is. We're just going to read the first nine verses together. But I think you'll see an experience that in the psalmist life was one of life shattering nature. He said, I love the Lord because he has heard my voice and my pleas for mercy Because he inclined his ear to me, therefore I will call on him as long as I live. The snares of death encompassed me, the pangs of Sheol laid hold on me. I suffered distress and anguish. Then I called on the name of the Lord. O Lord, I pray, deliver my soul. Gracious is the Lord and righteous. Our God is merciful. The Lord preserves the simple. When I was brought low, he saved me. Return, O my soul, to your rest, for the Lord has dealt bountifully with you. For you have delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears, my feet from stumbling. I will walk before the Lord in the land of the living. In the book of Psalms, there are groups of Psalms that are arranged together based upon themes or sometimes based upon their use during specific occasions, different feasts and whatnot. There are three groups of Psalms that are known as the Hallel Psalms. The end Psalm, the final Hallels, is Psalm 146 through Psalm 150, and they're called the final Hallels because they conclude the book of Psalms. And each one of those Psalms begins and ends with the words, hallelujah. Praise to Yahweh, which is what the word halel means, to praise, and it's the root of our word hallelujah, to praise Yahweh. There's another group of halel psalms. that are known as the great Hallel. They're Psalm 120 through Psalm 136. And these are sometimes called the songs of ascent. They would be sung by the worshippers as they were entering into Jerusalem, climbing up the mountain into Jerusalem. And the pilgrims would sing these songs as they came for the three annual feasts that all Jewish men were required to be a part of. But the first of the halel psalms is known as the Egyptian Halel, and that's Psalm 113 through Psalm 118. And they're called the Egyptian Halel, not because they were written in Egypt, but rather because they were sung during the Passover feast, which celebrated the the uh exodus from Egypt. to the promised land. And they were sung at each of the Passover feasts celebrating that event. And they're very significant because these are the songs That our Lord sang the night that he was betrayed as he observed the Passover and he instituted the Lord's Supper that we will be partaking of tonight. They're rich in meaning because our Lord sang these psalms, Psalm 113 through Psalm 118, with his disciples as he instituted the Lord's Supper And Christ ultimately is the ultimate Passover lamb. He is the fulfillment of everything that Passover was to picture. And the deliverance from Egyptian bondage was merely a shadow of a greater deliverance that Christ would purchase for us with his own body and his own blood on the cross. So for the few months, last few months, we've been examining these Egyptian halel in light of our Lord's death and the institution of the Lord's Supper on that night he was betrayed. As was the custom for Passover feasts, these psalms were sung during the feast. And Psalm 116, the one we just read the first half of tonight. would have been sung after Jesus and his disciples had finished the Passover meal, after they had eaten the lamb of the Passover meal. Just before they went out to the garden, to the Mount of Olives, where then very shortly thereafter Christ was betrayed Matthew 26, 30 recounts that event by simply saying, and when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. So those hymns that were sung that night, one of which would have been Psalm 116, were songs that were annual traditions that went around the Passover feast. They were sung by Jesus and his disciples just before they went out to the Mount of Olives. And so you can imagine our Lord with his twelve disciples in the upper room singing Psalm 116. And the words that we just read, the poignancy of what we just read would have been evident. Our Lord would have sung this. knowing that what was about to transpire and the deliverance that God was going to give him through his resurrection. It's significant here. When we read verse 3, he says, the snares of death encompassed me. That phrase, the snares of death, is actually quoted in the New Testament by Peter. On the day of Pentecost in Acts chapter 2 and verse 24, and it is done in reference to the resurrection of Jesus Christ. In Acts 2. 24. Peter is preaching to the multitude that had assembled, and he says of Christ, God raised him up, loosing the pangs of death. That's the same words we have here, the snare. Of death, the snares of death in the Septuagint, that's the exact words that were used. Loosing the pangs of death, because it was not possible for him to be held by it. So we have Peter saying, remember what happened in Psalm 116? Well Christ is the ultimate fulfillment of that. And that when he was resurrected, the pangs of death, the snares of death, were not just temporarily loosed, they were permanently loosed. Similarly, Paul in 2 Corinthians chapter 4, he quotes Psalm 116, verse 10, which we didn't read yet, but he says, it says, I believed even when I spoke. I am greatly afflicted. So Paul quotes this in Psalm or in 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verses 13 and 14, and he says Since we have the same spirit of faith, according to what has been written, meaning what has been written in Psalm 116, verse 10, he says, I believed, and so I spoke. We also believe, and so we also speak, knowing that he who raised the Lord Jesus will raise us up also with Jesus and bring us with you into his presence. So we have two times when this psalm is quoted in the New Testament, and both of those times it is quoted is quoted in reference to the resurrection of Jesus Christ. The events of this psalm are picturing the resurrection of Jesus Christ and the believer's union with Christ in his resurrection. Andrew Bonar was a well-known Scottish pastor. He was the friend and biographer of Robert Murray McShane. And he said about Psalm 116 that this psalm was Christ's resurrection song sung by his own lips in the upper room at the Passover. In anticipation of the darkness of Gethsemane and Calvary passing away into glory. Christ, as he sang this that night with his twelve disciples. was thinking of not only his death, but also of the victory of his resurrection, that he would accomplish, that he would accomplish for all who know Christ as their Savior. This beautiful psalm, Psalm 116, is a beloved psalm. Many of you probably have this as your one of your favorite psalms. Maybe you come to it in times of difficulty, and it's good to do so. It has two main divisions. The first nine verses which we read just now, and then the last section, which is verses 10 through 19. The first nine verses, the psalmist expresses love because of what God has done for him. And then in the last half, the psalmist tells what he will do because of what God has done for him. And as you read this, if you were to read this whole thing through together, you'd say, boy, there's a significant difference between the first half and the second half. And it's interesting that in the Septuagint, which is the Greek translation of the Hebrew Old Testament, this is actually divided into two Psalms. And in fact, in the Vulgate, the Latin Bible, it's divided into two Psalms. And even in some Hebrew, ancient Hebrew manuscripts, this is divided into two psalms. It is, I think, best to understand it as one psalm that has two distinct aspects to it. It has two divisions to it, though they are intricately connected. So sometimes they'd be separated just because of the the the emphasis was different. We're going to be looking at the first half this evening, and Lord willing next month we'll look at the second half. But this psalm, this first half teaches us about a believer's love-filled response to God's deliverance from danger in light of our deliverance in Christ. A believer's love-filled response from our deliverance from danger in light of our deliverance in Christ. The first thing I want us to see this evening is that a Christian loves the Lord because in Christ. God hears my cry. Now there is not only clearly this is there is aspects of this that that picture Christ But this also had a historical setting. The psalmist was a literal man who wrote this in a literal sense. So we're going to look at this, the psalmist perspective, first of all. We don't know who the human author of Psalm 116 is, but it has some similarities with Psalm 18, which were the words of David. But no one can say for certain. But what is certain, and I think it was pretty evident as we were reading through just the first nine verses already this evening, is that the psalmist had faced a life-threatening situation. Most people see this as a reference to being sick to the point of death. That he had gotten some sickness. And he was near to death. Though it could have been any number of circumstances. He could have been in danger due to war, or he could have been in been betrayed, and his life was in danger. But we're not told. But we do know from verse 3 he says, the snares of death encompassed me, the pangs of Sheol laid hold on me. And the word there snares literally means ropes or cords. The cords of death. The ropes of death had bound around him. They had encompassed him. You can picture like an old movie where someone is bound in ropes and they're set on the railroad track. And the train is coming down the track. The cords of death have gathered around them. Or you can picture someone maybe who's been lasso 'd and now being taken to an execution. The picture is of a person who has been trapped by death, and the ropes are being pulled, and they're pulling them down into the grave. And in his desperation, he calls on the name of the Lord, and God hears his prayer and answers him. It's in light of this deliverance that the psalmist says these beautiful words that begin the psalm, I love the Lord. Do you ever just tell the Lord I love you? I love you for all you have done for me. That's not mercenary. He has loved us. And we ought to love him because he has shown his love to us in such an amazing way. The verse literally reads, I love. Because he has heard my voice. The direct object isn't actually found in the Hebrew. It's evident by the rest of the conversation that he has. But it's this idea that the love is just so overwhelming, it is so overflowing, he just says, I love because he has heard my cry. He has heard my prayer. The right response to God's gracious love is to love him in return. The fact is that the Old Testament commands us to love God, but it's really only in light of the love of God, in the mirror of God's love to us, that we can ever truly love God. That's why John says in 1 John 49, 4. 19, we love him because he first loved us. We can't love God. We aren't able to love God apart from His love to us, and it's only in His love to us that we ever learn to love Him. The psalmist continues to describe the tender mercies of the Lord. And he says, he inclined his ear to me. In the song that Lara played, that was one of the lines that came across from Psalm 130. He inclined his ear to me. What a beautiful tree reality. He says in verse 2, because he inclined his ear to me, therefore I will call on him as long as I live. That expression, it it depicts God leaning towards the prayer. Cupping his ear to hear what is being said. That God is attentive. And God cares What you and I are praying, the needs of our heart. Picture yourself around the bed of a dying person who has only strength to faintly whisper a few words. And so you lean in closer in order to hear what he or she is saying. That's the tender compassion that's being described when God says that he inclines his ear to us. That God tenderly cares for our soul 's needs. He hears our prayers even when they're merely faint whispers. What a compassionate God we serve that hears us even when all we can mutter to him are a few faint words of help me. The psalmist 's desperation led him to repeatedly call upon the Lord. In verse 4, it says, Then I called on the name of the Lord. That can be translated, then I kept on calling on the name of the Lord, or I repeatedly called on the name of the Lord. And it indicates the urgency of his request. Have you ever been in a position where you have nowhere to look? And all you can do is, Lord, help me. Lord, Lord, help me. And you repeatedly call out to God because the situation is so desperate. And the only hope that you have is that God will intervene. That is the message of the psalmist here. I kept on calling on the Lord because he alone could help me. And the Lord's faithfulness taught him that he could continually call on the Lord The beautiful example we are given is to call on the name of the Lord in any and all distresses of life. He says in verse 2, remember, because he inclined his ear to me, therefore I will call on him as long as I live. What is he saying? God heard me. He answered my prayer when I was in distress. Therefore, I will continue to call on the name of the Lord. He learned that God is near to all those who call on him. Psalm 46 says, God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. And so that should teach us that we can run to God when we have our needs, when we have our fears and our burdens. I don't know about you, but many times when you receive a favor from another man. . Another person? Probably feel reticent to ask again. How can I go to them again? They've already helped me so much. That'd be embarrassing to go to them and ask another favor from them. But not so with our God. He says, see how I answered your prayer in the past? See how I inclined my ear to you? Come again. Come to me again for every trial that you face. God delights in our asking and encourages us to ask for more by his answers to our prayer. He is a father who delights to hear us in our prayers. But the beautiful part of Psalm 116 is not only is this the personal demonstration of the psalmist, but this is actually the fullness of these words are embodied in In our Savior. the world. And they're embodied in our Savior's prayer in the garden. I picture the Lord singing this psalm with the ragtag band of disciples around him in the upper room. And they're still jockeying for position, and they're kind of shocked at things that have happened that evening. He alone is aware of the full meaning of these words that he will embody in the next 24 hours. He alone of that group understood what awaited him. And these words perfectly describe the reality then of Christ in the Garden of Gethsemane. Praying in what we can only say as an incomprehensible earnestness, knowing that he was about to bear the wrath of God for our sins, for all mankind. In the Gospel of Luke in Luke chapter 22, in verses 41 and following, Luke says about Jesus, and he withdrew from them about a stone's throw, and he knelt down and prayed, saying, Father, if you are willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours be done. And there appeared to him an angel from heaven strengthening him. And being in agony, he prayed more earnestly, and his sweat became like great drops of blood falling down to the ground. Matthew tells us that Jesus told the disciples, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even unto death. When Jesus prayed in the Garden of Gethsemane, the snares of death had encompassed him. The pangs of Sheol had laid hold on him. He was suffering distress and anguish, and he called on the name of the Lord. O Lord, I pray, deliver my soul I remember when we studied Psalm 22, which is a picture of our Lord on the cross, from the first words we see, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Would you turn with me to Psalm 22? It's just back a little ways in our Bible. In Psalm 22, we have these words beginning in verse 19. As the situation has reached its climax. He says in verse 19, But you, O Lord, do not be far off. O you, my help, come quickly to my aid. Deliver my soul from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dog. Save me from the mouth of the lion. Those words here, deliver my soul from the sword. Remind me of the words of Christ to the disciples, my soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death Then we come to Psalm 116. He says, Then I called on the name of the Lord. O Lord, I pray, deliver my soul. Christ, when he prayed and sang this song at the Lord's Supper, he knew the fullness of the meaning of those words that he would embody in the Garden of Gethsemane as he cried out to God to deliver his soul. And our Lord found that his Father was gracious and righteous, a God who is merciful. He says in verse 5, Gracious is the Lord and righteous. Our God is merciful. The Lord preserves the simple. When I was brought low, he saved me. The word here simple, it can mean someone who is naive or ignorant, but within the context, it actually means one who is helpless. were needy, were powerless to do anything about their situation. Our Lord became helpless and he became needy for us. But he entrusted himself to the Father, and the Father heard his prayer. Hebrews chapter 5 tells us. In verse 7, in the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears to him who was able to save him from death, and he was heard. Because of his reverence. So we have this read retelling in further detail about what took place in the garden that in the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers with loud cries and tears. To him who was able to save him. And we are told that he was heard. Christian, are you weak? Do you feel needy? Do you feel powerless? Do you feel times when you say, I have nowhere to turn? I feel the cords of death are pulling down around me. I would encourage you to look to the example of our Savior who cried out to the Father in his moment of weakness as he faced a cruel death. And the wrath of God and the reality of being made sin for us. And he called on the name of the Lord in his distress, and the Lord heard his prayer. And his sacrifice was accepted by the Father. And he was resurrected. So our prayers in Christ will also be heard. That's why Jesus could say in John 16, whatever you ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you. Because he was accepted by the Father. A Christian loves the Lord because God has heard his prayers. Secondly, a Christian loves the Lord because in Christ God has loosed the pangs of death. We know this psalmist had a near-death experience. And again, we're not told exactly what that experience was. And probably that is done so that we can all see ourselves in the words of this psalm. If he had said that it was a danger at sea Or if it was some sort of danger in war, or some particular disease, or some particular ailment that he was suffering with, we would say, my situation is distinct. My situation is different. Therefore, it doesn't apply. But here the details are left undescribed for us, so that we can all find ourselves in these words. Whenever it feels like the snares of death have encompassed you, and the pangs of Sheol have laid hold on you. The example is given to cry out to God. Have you ever had a heart-rending diagnosis? Where you say, how am I going to live through this? What is going to happen to me? Maybe you've escaped from some existential danger. a violent car accident or some sort of violence that has happened to you. Maybe you've experienced a heart attack. Then maybe you can relate to the words of this psalm. But verse 6 describes this deliverance of the psalmist as, when I was brought low, he saved me. When I was brought low, I was brought to the end of myself. I had nothing, no strength, no hope in myself. And then in verse 8, he beautifully says, For you have delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears, my feet from stumbling. Once the snares of death had circled around him, the ropes were tight, the pangs of Sheol laid hold on him, but now he's come out the other side and he sees that God Has been faithful to him. God has helped him through this. And he's filled with love and gratitude for God's deliverance through this near-death experience. The beauty is that our Lord again embodies the fullness of these words. When the psalmist uttered these words, he did so in light of having a temporary relief. A temporary reprieve. He was rescued from death for the time being. Maybe you have lived through a heart attack. Maybe you have lived through a cancer Diagnosis. Maybe you have lived through death -defying experiences, but these are temporary reprieves that you have been given The biblical maxim that is, it is appointed to men once to die, still holds true to this psalmist. This psalm is often described as being very similar to the psalm that Hezekiah, the king, sang after the Lord had delivered him from his terminal illness. And Isaiah 37, he had a terminal illness and a terminal diagnosis, and then he prayed to God and God heared him and God gave him an additional fifteen years of life. I'm not sure I would personally enjoy knowing how many years of life I have left. The Lord gave him fifteen years to live. And Hezekiah sings a psalm that is very similar to this. But even Hezekiah was only able to postpone his appointment with death But our Lord sang these words with the full realization of his resurrection and victory over death. This is how Peter used the words. We already looked at them in Acts chapter 2 and verse 24 when he was preaching on the day of Pentecost and he said of Jesus God raised him up, loosing the pangs of death, because it was not possible for him to be held by it. Isn't that wonderful? It was not possible for our Savior to be held in the grave. That's the truth that's also referred in Hebrews 5, verse 7 that we read. Where he said, In the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and supplication with loud cries and tears to him who was able to save him from death. And he was heard because of his reverence. Maybe you ask, what does it mean that Jesus' prayers were heard? In what way was he saved? What way was he delivered from death? His prayer for deliverance from death were answered, and that he was resurrected from the grave. He was delivered from the state of the dead and from the power of death and from the power of the grave. His prayer was answered that death no longer has any hold on him, no power over him. Christ conquered the grave. And that's the beautiful truth that Paul brings out in Romans chapter 6, in verse 9, when he says, we know that Christ being raised from the dead will never die again. Death no longer has dominion over him. But the beautiful thing is the verse prior to Romans 6. 9, Romans 6. 8. says, now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. Death no longer has power over the believer. We have been joined with Christ, not only in his death, but also in his resurrection. We have been joined with him, and the power of death has been broken. That's why our Lord could say, I am the resurrection, the life. He that believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. Death has no power over the believer. Hebrews chapter 2 and verse 9, it tells us that we see him, Jesus, who for a little while was made lower than the angels. And he says, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor. Because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone The beautiful truth is that when Christ sang Psalm 116 in the upper room, he knew he was going to the cross. He was going to the grave, but that he would be victorious, that God would hear his prayer, and he would taste death for every man, so that death would no longer have power over us. Our Lord took upon himself the death that our sins deserved, so that we could say with the psalmist these words of verse 8. Actually, you can start in verse 7. Return, O my soul, to your rest, for the Lord has dealt bountifully with you. For you have delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears, my feet from stumbling. We can say that because Christ took the power of death and was victorious over it. Return, O my soul, to your rest, for the Lord has dealt bountifully with you He has delivered our soul from death. He has taken removed the tears from our eyes and our feet from stumbling. And the psalmist here then, he admonishes his own soul in light of these things. And he calls in response to his soul, he says, Return, O my soul, to your rest. And he's teaching us by example the importance of preaching to your soul. Have you ever been to that place where you're filled with anxiety about an impending diagnosis about a situation that's come into your life and the psalmist preaches to himself return O my soul to your rest And this isn't merely the power of positive self-talk. It was grounded in the reality of God's redeeming love in Jesus Christ. It is in light of Jesus' victory over death that he could so confidently say, Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. The truth is, our Lord has dealt bountifully with you and me. What did our sins deserve? They deserve the death that our Savior took. They deserved eternal damnation. But what were we given in Christ? Forgiveness, eternal life, sonship, peace with God. The Lord has dealt bountifully with us What we deserve is entirely different than what we have been given and what we will be given. So Paul could say in Ephesians chapter 1. We have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight. God in Christ has given us the riches of his grace. He has lavished them upon us. So we can say, Return, O my soul, to your rest, for the Lord has dealt bountifully with you. But the psalmist turns from admonishing his soul. To then speaking to the Lord. Notice what he says in verse 8. He says, For you. He's no longer speaking to his soul, he's speaking to the Lord. For you have delivered my soul from death. My eyes from tears, my feet from stumbling. He's praising the Lord for delivering him. From the trials that he had experienced, the times when his soul was in great peril, when his eyes were filled with tears because he did not know the end of his days, and his feet almost stumbled. into the grave. But remember, these words are foremost the words of our Savior who was heard and that he was delivered from death's grip. Because his soul was delivered from death, we who are in Christ have been delivered too. Hebrews 5. 7 says that Christ prayed with loud cries and tears, but he was heard. He was heard. And in the fact that he was heard, his tears were wiped away by his father Revelation 21, 4 tells us that He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain any more, for the former things have passed away. It's in Christ that our tears are wiped away. It's in Christ that our feet are kept from stumbling Just as Christ was kept from stumbling and on the cross could say victoriously, it is finished. I have accomplished the work that the Father has given me. So we who are in Christ are kept from stumbling by the grace of God. In Jude verse 24 it says, Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling. and to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy, to the only God our Saviour Through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority before all time and now and forever. Amen. In the midst of our suffering, we can rejoice and give thanks to God because He has delivered our souls from death. We have been united in Christ. He is wiping away our tears. And our feet are kept from stumbling. We are promised that all of these things in Christ will be removed. So, Christian, what what heartache or fear are you facing today? Is it the real fear of death? Maybe you've received some bad news this week. And I want to encourage you to learn from the psalmist who called on the name of the Lord. Learn from our Savior. who called on the name of the Lord. And like the psalmist here, he repeatedly called on the name of the Lord, even in the Garden of Gethsemane, going back again and again and calling on the name of the Lord. Remember in Christ, though, your soul has been delivered from death. The power of death has been broken. The grave no longer has its victory. Because Christ was victorious over the grave. Preach to yourself. Return, O my soul, to your rest, for the Lord has dealt bountifully with you. Remember the kindness and the mercy and the grace of God to you, and that He has given you forgiveness from your sins. And the last thing I want us to see briefly this evening is that a Christian demonstrates his love for the Lord by walking before the Lord in the land of the living. Verse 9, he concludes this first half of the Psalm by saying, I will walk before the Lord in the land of the living. He had the words of the psalmist. He's got this new lease on life. He was sure that he was going to die. The cords of death were pulling him down into the grave. But now he's been delivered from what looked like an impending death. That deliverance from death that the psalmist experience transformed the ways he looked at the remaining days of his life. One of the blessings of being spared life. I remember sitting there or laying there in bed after that near fatal car accident thinking, wow. At any moment my life can be taken away. I want to serve him faithfully while I have my days If this had been my last day , would I have been pleased with how I had served him? I want to be faithful to the Lord with the days I have left. No longer was he going to live his days for himself. His life had been redeemed, and now in a new way it belonged to the Lord, and he determined to do things. As a result, he mentions two things. He was going to live each moment before the Lord. He was going to walk before the Lord. The idea of walking before the Lord is a conscious purpose. A conscious awareness of the presence of God. Walking before the Lord has the idea of the all-seeing eye of God is upon me, that I know my God sees me, my God knows me, my God is watching. And understands me. And it strengthens him to pray in times of trial. But it also strengthens him to stand in times of temptation. You can think of Joseph. When he's tempted by Potiphar. Far away from family, far away from all other believers who might encourage him in the faith, and the wife of Potiphar is tempting him. And what does he say? How can I do this great evil and sin against God? He's aware of the presence of God with him even there in the land of Egypt. And he says, I will walk before the Lord in the land of the living. So the second reality is that in the land of the living, conscious of his influence on others, conscious of his Of the fact that he has a purpose of proclaiming the goodness of God to others. When I think of this, I think of Hezekiah Hezekiah who is delivered from his sickness and given fifteen more years to live. And in Isaiah chapter 38, he says, the dead cannot praise you. Then he says, the living, the living, he thanks you, meaning, Lord, I thank you. I am alive. I couldn't praise you in the grave, but I can praise you among men because I am alive. And he says, as I do this day, the Father makes known to the children your faithfulness. God, you have delivered me, and I will make known your faithfulness to the children. When I think of this, I think of, again, the embodiment of these words is our Savior Jesus Christ. That our Savior Jesus Christ, when he sang this psalm the night he was betrayed He was leading his people in praise. Turn with me again very quickly back to Psalm 22 as we close up here this evening. In Psalm 22, verse 22. We have these beautiful words. We read about delivering my soul from the sword and my precious life from the life the power of the dog and from the mouth of the lion. Then he says, You have rescued me from the horns of the wild oxen. And in verse 22 of Psalm 22, these are the words of our Lord, he says, I will tell of your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation, I will praise you. And those words are quoted in the book of Hebrews in chapter 2, directly referencing Christ our Savior. Because he was delivered from death by the power of God. He leads us In praise to God. He says, I will tell of your name to my brothers. And Hebrews makes the point that he is not ashamed to call us brothers. He's not ashamed to call us brothers, and in the midst of the congregation, I will praise you, God. Our Savior leads us in praise to the Father for the deliverance that He provided through His resurrection. Maybe you're here this morning and you've not or this evening you've not been delivered from some existential threat. You've never received a diagnosis of a terminal illness. You've never been through a near-fatal car accident. But if you know Christ, you've been delivered from a greater and more existential threat than any of those things could ever be. Your soul has been delivered from the power of death. The power of your sins. If you know Christ, you are in Christ, in his death, and in his resurrection. And he is calling us to praise the Lord, to love the Lord, as this Psalm says, I love the Lord, because he has heard my cry. He has heard my prayer. Let us follow the example of our Savior who leads us in worship to God and in praise and thankfulness as we come to the Lord's table To remember that his death was for us. His blood was shed for us. His body was broken for us. He drank to the dregs the cup of God's wrath. He bore the death that we deserved so that we do not have to bear it in our own bodies His prayer was heard by our gracious Father, so that you and I can call on the name of the Lord in our distress. Whether it's temporal or eternal, we can call on the name of the Lord and he hears our prayer. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the deliverance that was accomplished in Christ Jesus We thank you that we can say, return to your rest, O my soul. You indeed, Lord, have been Good to us. You have dealt bountifully with us in Christ Jesus. Lord, we give you praise and thanksgiving. Lord, we love you. Help us, Father, to walk before you in the land of the living with a consciousness of your presence. and an awareness that our lives are to be a living testimony of your goodness. Lord, fill our lips with praise this day. In Jesus name, Amen