If you have your Bibles, would you turn with me to 2 Thessalonians? 2 Thessalonians or in chapter 1. Okay, 2 Thessalonians chapter 1. We're going to go over our memory verse that we looked at last week for the first time and began. To try to put into memory from 2 Thessalonians chapter 1. And I believe that It will be one of those verses that uh is a little less familiar, so it might take a little more time to put it into our memory bank as it were. So 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, verses 11 and 12. Would you join me in standing as we quote these two or read these two together? We'll say the reference and the verse and go through through two times. Second Thessalonians 1, 11 through 12. To this end we always pray for you. That our God may make you worthy of His calling, and may fulfill every resolve for good and every work of faith by His power. So that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you, and you in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. 2 Thessalonians 1, 11 through 12. To this end we always pray for you That our God may make you worthy of his calling, and may fulfill every resolve for good, and every work of faith by his power. So that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you and you in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. By way of reminder, the breakdown of the book of 2 Thessalonians is fairly simple. It's based on the three crises that are found within the book. And we talked about this being uh crisis literature that The Apostle Paul is writing in response to three major issues that are are taking place, and he's responding to them in this letter. The first in chapter one deals with persecution, and so there's pastoral comfort in the face of persecution. The second and really the primary issue that the Apostle Paul is dealing with is a forged letter. About the day of the Lord. So there's prophetic correction in light of false prophecy. And then in chapter three, the third and final issue is idleness, laziness within the church. And it's some practical commands in response to this idleness. So those are the three chapters, the three main issues that are being dealt with. And each of those chapters ends. with a prayer by the Apostle Paul. So the theme, as you can see here, is be established in every good work and word as you wait for the return of God. You see again, like you did in 1 Thessalonians, the significant emphasis on the return of Christ. Christ is coming again, and that reality is to be in the forefront of our mind. strengthening us in our response to persecution and affliction and trials, and also in response to uh how we live out our lives, every good work and word. Is to be nourished because of the fact that we are waiting for the return of Christ. We saw last week that it was written by Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy, the missionary team that started the church in Thessalonica. And then we're going to look here beginning in verse three, he says, We ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers, as is right Because your faith is growing abundantly, and the love of every one of you for one another is increasing. Therefore, we ourselves boast about you. in the churches of God for your steadfastness and faith in all your persecutions and in the afflictions that you are enduring. This is evidence of the righteous judgment of God, that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of God for which you are also suffering. Since indeed God considers it just to repay with affliction those who afflict you, and to grant relief to you who are afflicted, as well as to us, when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven. with his mighty angels in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. We'll just stop there. We're not going to make it that far this evening by any stretch of the imagination. But to give a little bit of context, hopefully that'll help us see where we're going. In verses 3 and 4, the Apostle Paul is filled with thanksgiving, and he's showing really by this the responsibility of Thankfulness, that we ought to be a thankful people. We ought to be living in thankfulness. It seems only appropriate if you remember the ending of 2 Thessalonians, the command, in everything, give thanks. That's the Apostle Paul's command, not just in Thessalonians, but in many other places. He commands this and he lives it out. And it's this thankfulness is built upon the knowledge of the fact that we have a sovereign good. and wise God. So it allows us to give thanks in every situation. So in a church that's facing intense persecution, they can be thankful, and the Apostle Paul can be thankful. And he's demonstrating this thankfulness right from the very beginning. He says, we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers, as is right. And it's this encouragement of thankfulness. There's something powerful when you know that someone is thankful. for you and they they share that thankfulness. They thank God for you. They share about the fact that they are thankful to God for you. And Paul is Recognizing that this church is facing severe persecution. And sometimes in the face of severe persecution, all you can think about is the trial you are facing. But to know that someone from outside says, I thank God. For you, for your faithfulness in this trial. It has been an encouragement to me. There is there's something powerful about that encouragement. When you hear things like that, probably many of you have been in the midst of a trial and another Christian comes up to you and says, you know, I thank God for your example. You're like My example? I didn't know anybody noticed me. And here you have the Apostle Paul saying, I thank God for you. On a regular basis. And he's trying to build up the Thessalonian believers in their face, as they endure, in the face of increasing persecution. And I think we learn from this the importance and the power of thankfulness. Like Paul says in Ephesians chapter 4, let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths, but only such as is good for building up. Paul is doing that in these words. He is building them up with declarations of his thankfulness. And he's thankful to God. The thankfulness that he has is He's thankful about them, but he's thankful to God because God is the one who is enabling them to respond with such faith. And this thankfulness is is a common theme in the life of the Apostle Paul. If you read the epistles of Paul, over and over and over again, he declares his thankfulness. I'm just going to give you a little bit of a sample. Romans 1. 8. First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you, because your faith is proclaimed in all the world. So here, Paul has never been to Rome, and he's thanking God for them. And he says, I do this, I thank God. Because of all you. 1 Corinthians 1. We know the Corinthian church, and we know the problems that the Corinthian church had. You would think that this might be the one epistle where he would say, let's skip the thankfulness part. Because you guys have so many issues. But he says, I give thanks to my God always for you because of the grace of God that was given you in Christ Jesus. Jesus. Even in the midst of all of their problems, he is regularly giving thanks to God. He says, always. Ephesians 1, I do not cease to give thanks for you, remembering you in my prayer. Philippians 1, 3 and 4. I thank my God in all my remembrance of you always in every prayer of mine for you all, making my prayer with joy. Wow, what an attitude. I hope that's that's instructive for us of how we ought to pray for one another. It's not just, Lord, this person's a problem. But I thank God for what you have done in their life. And I thank God for the redemption you have brought about, the transformation, making them a new creature in Christ Jesus. And God, they do have challenges. But I'm so thankful for what you have done, and uniting us together in Christ Jesus, and that fullness of joy. We could continue on multiplying these examples. Colossians, 1 and 2 Thessalonians, Philemon. Paul lives out when he says, in everything give thanks. He is thankful. And I think that's an instructive example for us. We should learn from the example of the importance of thankfulness. If we are cynical, if we are critical towards others, it actually reveals a serious spiritual defect in our own heart. A critical spirit indicates that we are not right with God. Just think of this quote from John Piper. When our mouths are empty of praise for others, it is probably because our hearts are full of love for self. When our mouths are empty of praise for others, it's probably because our hearts are full of love for self. That's a bit of a dagger. Are our mouths full of praise? Are we filled with thankfulness? Are our prayers only about problem people? Lord, change them. Or Lord, I thank God for them. I thank you that you have saved them, that you have redeemed them, that you are doing a mighty work in them. Help us to dwell together in peace because you have united us in Christ. But is there thankfulness in our lips? If not, then there is something seriously wrong if your marriage or relationship with a child has gone through some difficult times. You need to be determined and intentional about expressing thankfulness to them And about them. If you're going through a rough patch with a relationship with a child of yours, thankfulness needs to be on your lips. There's enough Criticism in its proper place, that thankfulness and praise needs to be on your lips on a regular basis. Not only does prayer change people, but so does praise. Prayer changes people and praise changes people. And Paul is a perfect example of that. We all know Proverbs 15:1. A soft answer turns away wrath, but harsh words stir up anger. But just a few verses later, in Proverbs 15:4. I was reading that this week and it just jumped out at me for some reason. It says, a soothing tongue is a tree of life, but perversion in it crushes the spirit. Are we known for a soothing tongue? A tongue that praises and is filled with thanksgiving, that builds up, that seeks to encourage. Or are we known for a crushing, perverting tongue? Are we filled with gentleness and praise and thankfulness? Notice what he says here as well. He says, we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers. Now that word ought is a kind of a funny word, and maybe as you read that you're like, hmm. What does that mean? It actually is has the idea of indebtedness. We are indebted to give thanks for you. And essentially, Paul is saying that thankfulness is something that he owes to God. on their behalf. Now I don't know if you read when you read that how that strikes you, does it sound sound like there's like a reluctance on Paul's part to give thanks? You know, I I ought to give thanks. For you to God. It may be like a husband who brings his wife flowers and say, here I paid my debt. And she's like, um I'd take those back. So you really don't do anything for me now. You know, I ought to give you these because it just seems right. That's not going to go very far. And maybe that's how that that phrase initially strikes you. There have been several commentators that look at this and say, There seems to be a a lessening of Paul's affection for the Thessalonians. And I'm like What are you talking about? That's not at all the case in in in Paul's mind here. There's no lack of warmth. The last clause of this sentence actually clarifies his intention when he says, as is right. And the idea there is that it is worthy or it is deserving. He's saying, we have an indebtedness to God because of the what is right, what is worthy, what is good that we have seen in you. This is what is deserving Meaning that the thankfulness is not just some nebulous, I'm just filled with thankfulness, but there is worthiness of thankfulness. God is worthy of receiving this thanks because there have been many great things done by God in your lives. And unless you think that he really is lessened in his affections for them, the very next verse goes on to say, I boast about you to everybody. So there's no slacking in his affections for them. But he's saying, this is right, because I have seen such a transformation in your lives. What does it teach us that we have a debt of thankfulness? When God produces spiritual growth and maturity and perseverance in his people We ought to give thanks to God for it. There's a sense in which we are indebted to God to give thanks. When he does these works in the lives of our family members, our church members, our neighbors, the people we see that God doing this work, because what does Philippians 2 say? It is God who works in you. both to will and to do of his good pleasure. So if you see a transformation taking place in the life of another believer, you ought to give it is right. We are indebted to God to give thanks to him because God has done that work of transformation. And it is worthy, it is deserving to give thanks. If you see growth in your children, don't just chalk it up too well, they've gotten a little bit older and wiser. But give thanks. There is a debt of gratitude that we owe to God. If you see transformation in your spouse or someone you're discipling, give thanks to God and share that with them. Like Paul does. I give thanks to God for you because of what He's done in your lives. There are issues to deal with in this letter. He's dealing with forgery. He's dealing with persecution. He's dealing with lazy believers. But he doesn't miss an opportunity to encourage the believers. Maybe you're thinking, well, you know, there are some things to be thankful for, but there are so many things wrong. Well, there are so many things wrong in Corinth, too. But he's thankful. And we have that obligation. You know, one of the characteristics of an unregenerate heart is ingratitude. In Romans chapter 1, he says, For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were Darkened. Ingratitude is an indication of an unregenerate heart. So we ought to be of all people most And he describes what he's thankful for with them as well. He commends them for their growing faith. He describes it as a faith that is growing abundantly. The reality is they're in the midst of trials and their faith is growing abundantly. There's a sense in which trials are like fertilizer in our lives. Trials actually force us to mature in our faith. And he doesn't miss the opportunity to encourage them in the midst of that. The sad fact is that our faith rarely grows in good times. When things are good, it's not when our faith really grows strong. But it's when there are trials, when we are forced to cling to the promises of God. That our faith really develops muscles. Warren Wearsby said this. Oh, I skipped that verse. There we go. An easy life can lead to a shallow faith. The great men and women of faith in Hebrews 11 all suffered in one way or another, or faced tremendous obstacles so that their faith could grow. Paul had prayed for the believers in Thessalonica that their faith might be perfected. And he did that in 1 Thessalonians chapter 3. And now he thanked God for answered prayer. That's a good reality. An easy life can lead to a shallow faith. And so when you say, Lord, increase my faith. Do you know what you're asking for? Increase my faith. You're essentially asking God to bring trials into your life that God can use to grow your faith through. But it is only in trials that our faith will really grow. And he was thankful as well because of their brotherly love. This love was an increasing love for them. He says. And the love of every one of you for one another is increasing. There's just this amazing brotherly love. And the beauty of this is really, I think, made evident in how it parallels with the new commandment that Jesus gave in John. John 14, the night before he was betrayed, where he says, A new commandment I give to you that you love one another just as I have loved you. You are also to love one another. By this all people will know that you are my disciples. if you have love for one another. Paul prays for them to increase in this love in 1 Thessalonians 3, 12, if they would increase in this love for one another. And now he praises them for this increase in love. This past, this was two weeks ago, I was talking to Daniel, the pastor of the church in Tanzania that we started while we were over there and just ask him how things were going. And they've been going through a they've had a hard time in recent days, physically speaking. One of the church members had their property plundered. Daniel had faced a very severe bout bout about vertigo where he could not stand up, couldn't even go. to the restroom on his own. Another several other church members had severe sickness. It was a very difficult period of time. And as we were talking about it, he was talking about how the church has rallied around each other and the one lady whose house was plundered, they've been giving of their own things, and although they live in just abject poverty. They make about a dollar thirty a day. And they just they they're giving of themselves to this church member. And I was talking with him and I said It occurs to me that just as faith grows fastest and best in trials, that so too, love is most often expressed in trials And that when I I told him I said, I pray for you every day that your love may be evident, that the that the world, the Muslims and the pagans who live around you may know the love of Christ in you. I said, I never really thought about that reality that I'm also praying for trials to come so that your love can be made evident. And I'm thankful that in the midst of that, their love has been growing and become evident. And the community sees believers do love one another. But it Comes through trials. And so sometimes we say, why does God allow so many trials in our lives? Well, it's in trials that our faith is strengthened. And it's in trials that our love is expressed. And it becomes evident to the world that we have a living faith and we have a true supernatural love. And apart from those things, we don't have the opportunity to see that. Or to grow in those ways. So Paul praises them and he gives thanks to God for them. He also describes his boasting. We see here the rightness of boasting. He says, Therefore we ourselves Boast about you in the churches of God for your steadfastness and faith in all your persecutions and in the afflictions that you are enduring. This may sound a little bit funny, but there is a there is a proper kind of boasting. And when we often, you know No one likes a braggart, let's just put it that way. No one likes someone who boasts. How many times do we as parents tell our children, let another man praise you and not your own lips. Because that's one of the things you have to drive out of children at an early age. And then you find it also creeping into your own heart very quickly. No, let another man praise you and not your own lips. Usually, however, when someone boasts, it's directly or indirectly an attempt to self-praise and self-promotion. But Paul isn't filled with self-promotion and self-praise when he boasts about the Thessalonians to other believers. It's not some form of veiled praise, but genuine joy. in their spiritual progress. And this joy flows from his mouth to the believers that he comes in contact and the other churches that he goes to. And it has a dual purpose. First of all It's intended to encourage the Thessalonian believers to know that the Apostle Paul boasts about them. The Apostle Paul is so proud of them. For their spiritual growth and maturity, when they hear that he is sharing the reports of them to the surrounding churches, they're also reminded they're not alone. But they have other believers that are encouraged by their example. What a great encouragement to know other people are being built up by your example. But the boasting is also intended to encourage the believers of various churches. When he goes and says, Let me tell you about the Thessalonians. I'm telling you, they are facing stiff persecution. But their faith is growing and they're caring for one another and they're loving one another. And he's boasting about them. It does a couple things to those believers who hear this. It encourages them that there are believers who are faithful in the face of persecution. And they too can be faithful in the face of persecution. But it also, I think, is an enticement to faithfulness so that they too will be boasted about. I want to hear that. I want others to say, look at that example. I want to hear the well done of the Apostle Paul. And so they're encouraged to greater faithfulness by the boasting of the Apostle Paul. Apostle Paul. And he describes here the topic of their boasting. He doesn't boast in the size of the congregation or the political influence that they have in the community or the programs, the seminars, and the conferences that they're putting on. He boasts in their steadfastness, and he boasts in their faith. Heroic endurance under trial. And the idea of faith here is really that they have maintained the faith. They have not left the faith. They have held firm to the faith. Even in the midst of severe persecution. Just thinking of what John says in 3 John, I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in truth. And that's exactly what Paul is saying. The reality is that persecution can expose false faith. Or it can reveal true faith. Think of the parable of the four soils, the different soils where the seed is planted. Do I have this? I do. Look at that. Matthew 13 he says, As for what was sown on rocky ground, this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy. So he has a false faith. Yet he has no root in himself, but endures for a while, and when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately he falls away. And he's saying, that's not you guys, because when persecution and tribulation has come, you have been faithful. It is revealed genuine faith And he rejoices in that. So there's the rightness of his boasting. And then his last point here: the righteousness of judgment. Verse 5 is one of those verses that you it's a little bit tricky. Sometimes you come to some writings of Paul and you're like, say that again? What do you mean here? And and you have to go back and you have to really study down. And sometimes you read the commentaries and you walk away and you're like, I am further confused They are no help whatsoever. And that's kind of how I felt this time when I was reading some of many of the commentaries. I'm like, I think you are all confused. But actually, as you start to study a little bit more, you're like, okay, it's not as confusing as it might seem at first glance. He says, this is evidence of the righteous judgment of God. That you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of God, for which you are also suffering. This verse Begins to transition away from this opening greeting where he's praising them and giving them this normal greeting. And now he's talking about the return of Christ. how they are to respond to tribulation, to persecution in light of the return of Christ. And perhaps the Thessalonians, in the face of this intense persecution, are beginning to have questions about the righteous judgment of God. Why is this continuing? Why is God allowing us his his children to endure such serious persecution. Does God let the righteous suffer without punishing their persecutors? This doesn't seem right. Perhaps that's that's in their mind. Maybe it's not even fully formed and expressed yet. But the Apostle Paul is beginning to deal with that question. Is there unrighteousness in God for allowing his children to suffer? But he says something about the Thessalonians was a plain indication that God does indeed judge righteously. Notice what he says here. This is evidence of the righteous judgment of God. Now this sentence. is actually a little even more complex because the words this is aren't there in the Greek. So he just jumps from verse 4 where he's talking about the persecutions and the afflictions that you are enduring and then he says, evidence of the righteous judgment of God. And the translators have inserted the words this is to kind of clarify it for us in English. But the question is, what is the evidence? What is the evidence of God's righteous judgment? What is Paul saying is evidence of God's righteous judgment? I think there's essentially two options here. One The affliction, the suffering, the persecution that you're facing is evidence of God's righteous judgment. And there are some who take that approach. To me, it actually seems a little bit counterintuitive to say it that way. It seems like that would be actually expressing the opposite reality. Why would God allow his faithful children to suffer persecution? while the wicked are not, and then to say that is the evidence of God's righteous judgment. The other option, and I think the one that makes the most sense is as you're reading it in this in the flow of thought, is that This is evidence, is referring to all the totality of what he said in verse 4. Their perseverance. Their steadfastness, their faith in the midst of persecution and affliction is evidence of God's righteous judgment. The evidence of God's righteous judgment was not the trials themselves, but their response to the trials. Their perseverance provided solid proof that their faith was genuine and that God was at work within them, enabling them to behave and to live in ways that are opposite of Of our normal human desires. And this brings up another question. So the first question is: what is the evidence? What is he talking about here? But why is it called judgment then? Why is this the evidence of God's righteous judgment? When you think of judgment, we usually think of the negative side of judgment. But judgment has a positive and a negative side. So, like a judge may acquit or convict. Or he may declare one party guilty, the negative side, but he also may declare a party innocent, that's the positive side And so a righteous judgment may declare one party guilty, but also another party innocent. It may vindicate one and condemn another. And that's essentially what he's going to describe here, is that God's righteous judgment will vindicate them and condemn their oppressors. And he says here, this is evidence of the righteous judgment of God, that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of God, for which you also are suffering. God judges them worthy of the kingdom. The accusation is: what makes these Thessalonians worthy of the kingdom? What makes them worthy? Why are they worthy to receive the kingdom? Why are you and I worthy to receive the kingdom? Well, the gospel makes us worthy. It is the gospel that makes us worthy, and we receive the gospel by faith. Faith is the means in which God's grace is acquired and by which we are made worthy of the kingdom. But how can it be proved that a person has faith? We just, Matthew 13. There's some people that say they have faith. But then when trials and tribulations come, it reveals they really don't have faith. Oh, but when trials and tribulations come and they hold fast and they persevere and they're steadfast, it reveals that they do indeed have faith. They have indeed believed the gospel, and the grace of God has rightly been given to them, and God has rightly vindicated, counted them worthy of the gospel. God's righteous judgments are vindicated by the evident outworking of their faith. Kind of like in a similar way that love is proved in adversity. Their face is made evident in adversity. It's very similar to what we read in James chapter 2. Do I have that? No, I don't. James chapter two, verses fourteen through seventeen. We've been going through this actually in our Sunday school class, and it's one of those passages of scriptures that again it it people read and go Is James upset at Paul? What's going on in James chapter 2? It seems like they're arguing with each other. Where he says, What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him? If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled, without giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that? So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. Now, we're good Protestants, and we know that we are saved by grace through faith. Justification by faith alone. Pastor preached on a Sunday. This is what we believe. So what is James talking about that faith without works is dead? The reality is that faith that doesn't produce works is not a real faith, is not a living faith. So we read about Abraham being justified in Genesis 15 when he believed the promises of God. And then James says, But he was justified in Genesis 22 when he offered Isaac on the altar. You're like, no, no, no, no, no, no. Thirty years earlier he was justified. Well, in James' case, he's using the word justified in a second meaning, which has the idea of vindicated. His faith was vindicated. When he offered Isaac on the altar. It became evident to everybody that Abraham had true and living faith when he offered that sacrifice. And God's judgment God's acquittal, God's declaration of him as being righteous because of faith was vindicated. When Abraham offered Isaac on the altar. James is arguing against a heretical belief known as antinomianism. That teaches, since we are saved by grace through faith, and it doesn't matter how we live, we can live however we want. He says that we are saved by faith alone, but it is a faith that reveals itself in life-transforming goodwill. works. And Paul, or Paul here is essentially saying, your steadfastness in persecution is evidence of the righteous judgment of God. That you may be counted worthy of the kingdom of God. In that great day, when that final decision is made evident, he says, These are my children, these are the ones who have had faith. Their perseverance in the midst of affliction and persecution is the evidence of their living faith. And so he says: this is evidence of the righteous judgment of God. of God that you have been acquitted. You have been declared righteous by grace through faith. And so your perseverance vindicates God 's judgment. Negatively, God judges the wicked as unworthy of the kingdom. And worthy of damnation. And he talks about that in verse 6, since indeed God considers it just to repay with affliction those who afflicted you. And to grant relief to you who are afflicted as well as to us. So we're not going to look at that. We don't have time to look at that this evening. There's a lot that can be said there, and we'll, God willing, next week we'll get into it. But we see here that God has a purifying purpose and a faith-revealing purpose in our trials. Suffering is not the basis of the Thessalonians' salvation, but it is the evidence of it. It is the evidence of it in their lives. But that's not the only purpose that God has in our suffering. He is purging and he's purifying through our suffering and he's preparing us, he's making us worthy for the kingdom. One great encouragement in the midst of our trials is that God is at work. And He's working through them for our eternal glory. Good. He is weaning us from the things of this world and using suffering to increase our faith and to mature our faith. That's why James can say in James chapter 1, verses 2 and following, Count at all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds. For you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And let steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. Rejoice, because God has a purifying, faith-strengthening purpose in the midst of your trial. I like how Leon Morris describes this reality. I'm just going to read it to you. Do I have this as a quote? No, I don't. Okay. Suffering is not thought of as something which may possibly be avoided by the Christian. And that's an important point. It's not something that we I I might be able to avoid this. For him, it is inevitable. He is ordained to it. He must live out his life and develop his Christian character in a world which is dominated by non-Christian ideas. His faith is not some fragile thing to be kept in a kind of spiritual cotton wool. Insulated from all shocks. We might say today, in some sort of styrofoam package or bubble wrap, our faces in something that can't endure the shocks of this world. It is robust. It is to be manifested in the fires of trouble and in the furnace of affliction. And not only is it to be manifested there, but in part, at any rate, it is to be fashioned in such places. The very troubles and afflictions which the world heaps on the believer become, under God, the means of making him what he ought to be. Suffering, when we have come to regard it in this light, is not to be thought of as an evidence that God has forsaken us, but as evidence that God is with us. It's very different than how the world looks at suffering. It's very different than how you might say the modern church looks at suffering. Your best life now. Health and wealth is what God wants you to have right now. No, God knows you'll be weak. Rarely does faith grow in good times. But it grows in hardship and in trials and in tribulations. And God has a good purpose in that. And the beautiful thing is that we are kept by the power of God through faith. Unto salvation, ready to be revealed at the last days. God is keeping us in the faith. And so that is an encouragement when we face these afflictions. We don't have to keep our face in some bubble wrap. Because God, the nature of God, we talked about this last week, that we have made partakers of the divine nature. Holy Spirit of God lives in the side of believers. There is a robustness because God's power is at work in our lives, causing us to cling ever tighter to Him in the midst of trials. And say, I need him, and I cannot leave him. Paul spoke of this reality to the young believers in Lystra when he encouraged them to continue in the faith and saying that through many tribulations we must enter. He didn't say you need to have an easy life so that you can enter into the kingdom of God and your faith doesn't get rocked. No. Through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God and your faith will be strengthened in that. Here just finishing up For tonight. We're not going to go any further than verse 5. But he says, this is evidence of the righteous judgment of God that you may consider you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of God for which you are also suffering. The question comes up is what is the kingdom? It can be easy to gloss over the word like kingdom in a verse like this without asking questions. What does Paul mean by kingdom here? There is a sense in which we are already in the kingdom. Jesus is the king. We are his subjects. We are in the kingdom. But Jesus also teaches us to pray, what? Your kingdom come. So we've talked about this many times, that there is an already not yet aspect to the kingdom. He says, Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth, as it is in heaven. So there's an aspect that we don't see We see this already not yet aspect of the kingdom, even in here, in this verse. Already they are suffering what? For the kingdom. So they're not suffering for something that doesn't exist. They're suffering for an existent kingdom. Christ is the king. But they await the day when the verdict is given that they are counted worthy of entrance into the kingdom. They're suffering for a kingdom. And they're in it, but they haven't entered it yet. What? This is the already not yet aspect of the kingdom The kingdom is now, but it is also coming. And this aspect is a time when God will vindicate his people and they will rule and reign with him. Over all creation. We read of verses like 2 Timothy 2. This saying is trustworthy, for if we have died with him, we will also live with him. If we endure, we will also reign with him. If we deny him, he will also deny us. If we are faithless, he remains faithful, for he cannot deny himself. We will reign with Christ in a kingdom, with him as the king. Luke 22, he tells the disciples, You are those who have stayed with me in my trials, and I assigned to you, as my father assigned to me, a kingdom, that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. That's rather interesting. They're going to sit in judgment over the nation of Israel. Huh. That's interesting. That's my last verse, but I have one more I'm going to read to you. Just before Jesus ascended into heaven, the disciples asked Jesus about this kingdom, saying, Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? He said to them, It is not for you to know the times or seasons that the Father is fixed by his own authority. He didn't say, No, guys, no, you understand. The kingdom is an invisible thing, it's a spiritual thing. You're totally off. He says, No, it's not for you to know the times or the seasons that the Father has fixed by his own authority. So the kingdom that's being described here is an eschatological kingdom that we are already in, but we're not in. We are already members of by faith. And God has made us worthy of that. And it will be revealed ultimately in that final day when we are entered into it in a physical and ultimate reality. But he says, this is the evidence of the righteous judgment of God. This evidence is their endurance in faith that reveals the truth, the veracity. So I want to encourage you this evening. God brings trials into the lives of believers. Through many tribulations, we must enter the kingdom. It's not because he doesn't love us. It's not because he has turned his back on us. There may be a chastening aspect to some of the trials. I think it's probably fair to say in all of our trials there's a chastening aspect. But it's actually an evidence of God's righteousness. judgment and an opportunity for us to demonstrate true and living faith as we walk by faith In the midst of trials, and we cling to him, resting in his promises, believing his warnings, trusting in him It's a beautiful opportunity to demonstrate love. Apart from trials, there's very little opportunity to demonstrate the depth of love. And apart from trials, our faith will not grow. So we can give thanks in everything. Because God has a good purpose when the winds of affliction blow. And we can rejoice in them because of what he is accomplishing through them. So may God help us to look at this With the eyes of faith and see troubles and trials and afflictions and persecutions in light of God's eternal purposes for us. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. Thank you for the power of it, the ability. to instruct us and to change us. I pray that you would transform our thinking about the trials that you have allowed into our lives. That we would see them as designed by a good and loving and sovereign God for our good, temporally and eternally And for your glory. Help us to respond to them in faith. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.