John chapter 13. A woman named Ruth Calkin wrote a reflection on this incident we find in Luke 13 of the washing. of the disciples' feet. She writes, you know, Lord, how I serve you with great emotional fervor in the limelight You know how eagerly I speak for you at a women's club. You know how I get excited when I promote a fellowship group. You know my genuine enthusiasm at a Bible study. But how would I react, I wonder, if you pointed to a basin of water and asked me to wash the calloused feet of a bent and wrinkled old woman? Day after day, month after month, in a room where nobody saw and nobody knew This morning I want to continue where we left off last week in the upper room. If you're visiting with us, we are studying our Lord's interactions with Peter. And specifically how the Lord discipled him, we have more recorded in the Gospels of their conversation than with any of the other disciples. And there are some very memorable events that took place in the life of Peter in connection with the Lord's ministry as well. Last week we noted that the washing of the disciples' feet reveals to us the marks of a Christ-like servant. A Christ-like servant, we said, must be motivated by love and must act in humility and serve in purity. This was the final object lesson that Jesus gave to his disciples. Unfortunately, they were very slow to learn the importance of humility and humbly serving one another. Peter especially struggled to learn that in Christ's kingdom the great Are not served by others, but in fact serve others. On this night before Jesus' crucifixion, Peter and the other disciples failed miserably. They argued about who was greatest in the kingdom. This argument probably came about as they were jockeying for position. and the upper room as they prepared to celebrate the Passover. And then of course there's the fact that no one volunteered to wash the other's feet. It was unthinkable that these Jewish men would eat the sacred Passover with dirty feet, but no one wanted to act like a Gentile slave and wash one another's feet. And so sometime during the meal, the Lord gets up, wraps himself in a towel, and begins to wash their feet. There was an awkward silence that fell over the room. The embarrassment was overwhelming. You see, the Jews considered the feet to be unclean. It was one of their cultural convictions. You really cannot understand some passages in the New Testament unless you realize that. This is why John the Baptist said that he was not worthy to loosen the straps of the sandal on Jesus' feet. We listen to that and it doesn't seem any big deal, but that was an unclean, unpleasant task. That was something that only a slave would do to a very great man. And then of course we read about Mary of Bethany anointing Jesus' feet with expensive ointments. And so this was considered something that was quite distasteful because you didn't touch somebody else's feet unless you were a slave. So when Jesus stooped down to wash the disciples' feet, it was more shocking, I think, than we imagine. The silence was finally broken by Peter's objection. He says, thou shalt never wash my feet. Peter must have felt most responsible for this debacle since he was the leader of the twelve. He did not make arrangements. For a servant to wash their feet, and he's embarrassed. He feels the weight of responsibility. And perhaps others would blame him for this very awkward incident. The Lord continues to wash Peter's feet and says, If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me. And verse 9, Peter says, Thou shalt, if thou wash thee not, thou hast no part with me, then Peter says unto him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. You've got to admire Peter. He is always committed to something. And he quickly swings from, you're never going to wash my feet to Lord. Wash all of me if that's the case. He misunderstood, but he was certainly sincere. He truly loved the Lord He's saying to Peter, you don't need to be saved every time you sin, but you do need that daily washing of confession and the word so that your fellowship with the Lord is restored. The object lesson is finally over, but the master teacher wants to make sure that they really understand the lesson. So we come to verse 12 and it says, so after he had washed their feet and had taken his g Taken his garments and was set down again, he said unto them, Know ye what I have done to you. When a rabbi sat down before his students, it was an indication that he was ready to teach Master teachers have always employed the use of questions to stimulate thought in their pupils, commonly known as the Socratic method, and here Jesus employs a rhetorical question. to cause them to think. He says, and that essentially, do you know the significance of what I've done? Do you really grasp what I'm trying to teach you through the washing of your feet? And then the Lord provides his own explanation lest they miss the points. The Lord's explanation is essentially a challenge for them to humbly serve one another. And within this explanation, the Lord provides two reasons why believers should serve one another. You see, this is part of the Lord's calling on our lives. as disciples, that we would serve one another. So let me ask you, are you one who serves other believers? Do you have the reputation as a servant of the Lord, as someone who is always willing to do what needs to be done to meet the needs of others? I want us this morning to look at compelling reasons to serve one another. And there are two main reasons given here. The first one is this Christian disciples should follow Christ's example of serving one another. This is very prominently brought out in our Lord's explanation. It's interesting to note that although the disciples have failed the Lord miserably, he does not scold them. Instead, he gently explains the example that he has set for them. He uses the argument of comparison. He argues from greater to lesser. The idea is if this is true, then this must be true. Look at verse 13. He says, you call me master and lord, and you say, well, for so I am. If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet, ye also ought to wash one another's feet. Now the word master here. is a word that refers to a teacher. It's a Didaskalos, we get our English word didactic from it, which speaks of teaching. This was a term used for the rabbis. He says, you guys have been following me around and listening to my teaching now for three years. And now he's going to say that they need to really learn this lesson and follow his example. You see, a rabbi did not just lecture his students. The idea Of the Jews was that a disciple, a follower, went and lived with the rabbi and followed the rabbi around. When he went to the marketplace, they went to the marketplace. When he went to teach, they came to hear him teach. When he was with his family, they were with his family. They were observing him and learning not just what he said, but what he did. This is why I've often said to you that a disciple, the idea of the word there is someone who is both a follower and a learner. This is the two sides, you might say, of following the Lord. There is, first of all, the learning, learning those truths, learning his word. storing up that knowledge, but then there is putting into practice, doing what he says for us to do. And we always need both of those. The Lord says here, you call me Lord, you call me teacher, you call me master, and you have rightly said, for so I am. These titles, he says, are appropriate. I am your king, I am your lord, I am your teacher. And if I, your teacher, your king, your God, perform such menial tasks. Should you fail to do them? Notice he says in verse 14, ye also ought To wash one another's feet. Now the language here of ought speaks of obligation. You see, serving one another is not going the extra mile. As we might think, it's simply doing what God has commanded us to do. And in the Greek text, this is in the present tense. The idea is that we continue on serving one another. This should be a way of life for us as Christians. That we naturally and instinctively have an attitude that says, how can I help? That we're always looking around for need and ways that we can minister to one another. This is what God has called us to. But so often it's not. So often we are like those disciples in the upper room. We're waiting and wondering why someone's not washing our feet. You know, I think if the Lord had said in the upper room, would one of you men wash my feet? I think they would have been fighting over who got that opportunity. And I think we as believers in Christ feel the same way. We would be delighted to wash the Lord's feet, to humbly serve him this way. But what he's called us to do is not to wash his feet, but to wash one another's feet. You see, as followers of Christ, we have obligations to one another, and if we love Him, we must love our brother and sister in Christ. The New Testament is filled. with one another commands of obligations that every believer has to other believers If you ever read our church constitution, we have very prominently displayed in the beginning of our church constitution. Some of these obligations are these, respect one another, edify one another, accept one another, care for one another, serve one another, be patient with one another, be forgiving of one another. Pray for one another, rebuke one another, fellowship with one another, and that's not even half of them. And all of them put together Can be summarized in this one command: love one another. We have these obligations to one another And the Lord modeled all of these. As followers of Christ, we are obligated to serve one another. He says in verse 15, for I have given you an example, or we might say a model. that ye should do as I have done to you. I can't really preach on this text without making mention of a little bit of a theological and practical disagreement. The fact is there are millions of Christians. who take these words in the most literal sense. There are many denominational groups that practice footwashing as an ordinance on a regular basis. Some of you may have come from that background or have good friends, Mennonites, Pentecostals, Holiness, Free Will Baptists, Moravians, Church of the Brethren, just to name a few. And they base their practice, of course, on this text here, especially verse 15. I admire their desire to follow the Lord's words closely. And let me just say there's certainly nothing wrong with washing one another's feet. It's a very humbling act. It's humbling both to have your feet washed and to wash somebody's feet. However, I do not think that Jesus was instituting a religious ritual when he said these words in the upper room. I don't believe this is like on par with baptism or the Lord's Supper. I've had over the years people come and ask me, why is it that your church does not practice footwashing? And this is the explanation that I would give. Number one, it was a practical need in that culture. It was part of hospitality. I mentioned to you last week that uh they had dusty roads, they had an arid climate, they had open cold sandals. open-toed sandals so that when you went to someone's home by the time you arrived there your feet were dirty and dusty. That's the way their culture was. And so it was customary for the host to provide a basin that you could wash your feet. or provide a servant who would do that task. But we have cars and paved roads, and it's not a part of our normal hospitality. I have never gone over to any of your homes. And had you wash my feet. I'm very glad for that. But it's never happened because that's not part of our culture. That's not how we extend hospitality. It's not needed. And the fact of the matter is the early church, secondly, did not practice this as a religious ritual or ordinance. We have no record that the disciples who were gathered around that table that night ever used that as an ordinance. We have no record of that in the epistles. There's no indication in Scripture that this is an ordinance. Footwashing is only mentioned one other time in the New Testament. That's 1 Timothy 5 and verse 10. There it's found as one of the qualifications. for a widow who is going to be supported by the church. It says, if she has lodged strangers, if she has washed the saints' feet And in context there, it's very clear that it's simply saying that she has a testimony as being hospitable. She is a truly committed believer. She has people in her home. She provides meals for them, a bed for them to stay. And when they come in after a long journey, she washes their feet. It's not talking about something that was done at church as part of an ordinance. It's saying that she was a very hospitable person, a servant to believers. And there's not a hint anywhere in the epistles that this is an important spiritual exercise. And the fact of the matter is, if you examine the words very carefully in verse 15, It's not calling us to do what Jesus did, but as Jesus did. I have given you an example that you should do as I have done to you. It's speaking of an attitude, speaking of a mindset, not of a specific task. So I don't think this is providing for us the basis of an ordinance or a religious ritual. However It is calling us to serve one another. And I want to make five observations. We've talked about what it doesn't mean, but what does it mean? These words mean something. And it really provides some very good guidelines for us in our service of one another. Number one, I want you to notice that serving the Lord should be voluntary. The Bible teaches that we should not give the Lord with a complaining spirit, and we should not serve him with a complaining spirit. Jesus did not have to get up and wash their feet, but that's what he chose to do. He did that voluntarily. He could have obviously taken the excuse that he was their leader He was their rabbi, as it were. He was the Son of God. He certainly did not need to wash their feet. They should have been fighting over washing his feet and washing one another's feet. But he did it And I think that Peter never really forgot that lesson. In his first epistle He says in chapter 5, referring to the pastoral ministry, he says, feed the flock of God which is among you, taking the oversight thereof, not by constraints. but willingly, not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind. He's saying in our service of the Lord, whether it's as a pastor, or whether it's washing someone's feet. We do not do so because someone's forcing us to do us and we hate doing it. I don't know why people have asked me to do this, but we do so willingly. We do so joyfully. So serving the Lord should be something that's voluntary, not something we do out of a sense of guilt and we're miserable the whole time we're doing it. Secondly, serving the Lord should be done graciously. And what I mean by this is that the disciples did not deserve what the Lord did for them. They were wicked and flawed. They were arguing moments before about who was the greatest. One would betray him this very night. One would deny him. They would all abandon him in his hour of need. And yet he washed their feet. You see, we can't say, you know, I'm only going to minister to people who really deserve it. I'm only going to minister to people who minister to me. I'm only going to minister to people that I really like, that I really connect with. The Lord has called us to minister to people who have failed us miserably, who have disappointed us, who have sinned against us. We should serve the Lord graciously. Thirdly, serving the Lord should meet a practical need. It truly met a need. Sometimes, you know, people want to help. And it's not really that much of a help. We all know what this is like with parents when you have little children and they want to help you with something. And you don't want to silence that desire, that commendable desire to be a help, but actually the task took you twice as long because they were helping you. And sometimes people come and they're so determined to do something. And they will not be dissuaded otherwise that they do something that really doesn't need to be done and may actually make things more complicated in people's lives when they say, this is what I'm going to do. And that's not, of course, what the Lord did. They really had dirty feet, and they really needed someone to wash their feet. So what we need to do is we need to look for where there's actually a need. And that brings me to my next point, and that is that serving the Lord does not require a special gift. Now, God has gifted us. We have so many gifted individuals in this church. And God wants us to use our spiritual gifts and our natural talents to minister to the body of Christ. Do not misunderstand me. But did you know that most of the service of the Lord that we do, perhaps, is not something that we're using incredible gifts to do. Did you know that? Did you know it did not take a special skill or incredible talent to wash someone's feet? It's a menial task. No one could say to our Lord's admonition that night, you know, Lord, I just really don't have that talent for washing feet. It's not my gift. Anybody can do that. You know, the Lord did many impressive things in his earthly ministry. He turned water into wine. He fed the multitude with a boy's lunch. He even raised the dead. But this event may have had more impact on his disciples than any of those spectacular miracles. You see, God wants us to use our common things. No one looked at the Lord when he was doing that and commented on how competent and how talented he was in washing their feet. That's nonsense. And so often the service that the Lord has called us to do, the task that He has called us daily to be involved in in the lives of people. Do not take incredible talent and skill. They're not going to be impressive to people. People are not going to say, I can't believe the talent that you have in doing that. They're just something that needs to be done. Now I want you to notice how the Lord drives this point home in verse 16. He says, Verily, verily I say unto you, the servant is not greater than his Lord, neither he that is sent greater than he that sent him. The Lord summarizes what he's been saying in a very powerful and succinct way here. He begins by saying, verily, verily. This of course is unique to John's gospel. And uh it literally reads, truly, truly, but When the Lord said these things in the Gospel of John, and they begin with truly, truly, or verily, verily, the Lord is trying to gain his hearers' attention. And he's essentially saying, mark my words, listen to me very carefully what I'm about to say, because this is very important for you to grasp. And I want you to notice that the Lord actually said essentially the same thing that he says in verse 16 on at least four different occasions. In Matthew 10, 24, he says, the disciple is not above his master, nor the servant above his Lord. In Luke chapter 6 and verse 40, he says, the disciple is not above his master. In Luke chapter 22 and verse 27 he says, For whether is greater he that sitteth at meat or he that serveth, is it not he that sitteth at meat? But I am among you as he that serveth. And a little bit later this very night in Matthew chapter 15 and verse 20, he said, Remember the word that I said unto you, the servant is not greater than his Lord's. This was a truth that the Lord repeated again and again and again and again. And I suspect he said it many more times than we have recorded in the Gospels. So why did the Lord repeat himself so often this principle, that the servant is not greater than his master? He said this repeatedly because first of all it's very important for us to implement The fact is that this idea of following our Lord and humbly serving one another is really an essential part of being a disciple of Christ. This is not an extra. This is not a bonus. This is essential. This is part of what it means to be a follower of Christ. And I think he also said it repeatedly because we are so reluctant to follow Christ's example in this matter. We so naturally want others to serve us rather than serving others. But he says here that this is something that we have been sent to do. This is part of our mission. This is part of what it means to be a Christian. That we look for opportunities to humbly serve one another. This is not something that's occasional. This is, in fact, a way of life. So the first extended argument in this passage for serving one another is that we are obligated as disciples to follow Christ's example. But secondly, I want you to notice that Christian disciples should consider Christ's incentive for serving one another. And we find this in verse 17. He summarizes this discussion this way. If you know these things, happy are ye if you do them. This argument is brief but powerful. Now the key word in this verse is the word that's translated happy. It's the word that's often translated blessed. The Lord concludes this lesson, this awkward night, with a beatitude. This is the same word that you find in the Beatitudes in Matthew chapter 5. This concept goes back to the Old Testament. It's most frequently found in the book of Psalms. You remember how the book of Psalms opens, chapter 1, verse 1. Blessed is the man, it says. And that word is a descriptive term that refers to an individual that other people tend to envy Because it seems that in their life, God is blessing them, and they have a reservoir of joy. and stability that others envy. It doesn't necessarily mean that they're wealthy, doesn't mean they don't have any health problems, but it means that they have Some reservoir of strength welling up within them that enables them to overcome and remain joyful despite the obstacles they face. That's the blessed man. That's what it means to be a blessed woman. Now they translate it here happy appropriately because those people tend to be individuals who have a spirit of rejoicing Now I'm sure your own experience bears this out. What type of people tend to be more happily happy? Those who are always going around and complaining that people do not serve them, or those who very eagerly go and serve other people. If you have any life experience at all, you know what the truth is. People who go around expecting and demanding that people meet their needs and serve them tend to be very unhappy person. But those who minister to others tend to be pleasant. They tend to be joyful. They tend to have a positive outlook on life. One of the suggestions that I give to people who are struggling with depression They're despondent. Life seems very dark to them. When people are in emotional pain They tend to retreat inside of them and become oblivious to everyone that surrounds them. And one of the things that I suggest to them is that they look for opportunities to minister to other people. It really often makes a difference when you instead of thinking about your problems and your needs and your difficulties and why is it that no one's meeting my need , Instead, you turn the focus and say, how can I meet someone else's need? How can I be a blessing to someone today? And in some little way, you minister to them. I've seen that be a great help to so many people I want you to notice what this verse says specifically in verse 17. Jesus says, if you know these things. What things? The things that he has just mentioned in verses 14 and 15. The idea here is that God's blessings come to those who know what they need to do. The implication of our Lord's statement is the disciples did know. They grasped his lesson. They understood what he was saying. They had been with our Lord now for some three years. And he's saying to them that this is not an advanced concept. This is foundational. This is Ministry 101 But the problem they had is the same problem that we have. We so often know things without putting them into practice. It's so easy to come to church, and well you should, and to Sunday school, and a prayer meeting, and to soak in so much And that's a wonderful blessing. But what are we doing with what we have learned? Are we putting it into practice? He doesn't say here, blessed are ye or happy are you if you know it. No, he says, happy are ye if you do them. Now, this is part of what I talked about earlier, the two parts. of following the Lord. There's knowing and doing. You can't really do unless you know But if you know and you do not do, then you won't really receive the blessing and the benefit from it. You see, God did not give us his truth. So that we would debate it and discuss it and dissect it. He gave us truth so that we would do it. The Bible is a very practical book. A lot of times people think it's just filled with All kinds of things that are impractical and are really not helpful at all, but that's not true. The Word of God is a very practical book. And we see in the greatest sermon ever preached, the Lord concludes the sermon on the mount. With these words in Matthew chapter 7, verse 24, he says, Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man which built his house upon a rock. And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell not, for it was founded upon a rock. And every one that heareth these things of mine, and doeth them not shall be likened unto a foolish man which built his house upon the sand, and the rains descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell. and great was the fall of it. Now what's the difference between those two individuals with radically different ends? One did what God said and the other did not. It didn't say the difference was that one knew the truth and the other didn't. Of course, that goes without saying. But it's do you put into practice? This is found again and again in our Lord's teaching. In Mark 3. 35, he says, For whosoever shall do the will of God, the same as my brother and my sister and my mother. And Luke chapter 6 and verse 46 he says, Why do you call me Lord and do not the things that I say? And perhaps the closest parallel to this is found in the book of James, where he says, but be ye doers of the word and not hearers, only deceiving your own selves. He's saying there that there are a lot of people who think that because they attend church, because they learn certain basics, they think that they're okay with God, that they know God, that they're really Christians, they're really followers of Christ. But he goes on to say in verse 25, it's the man who does it who is blessed in his deeds. It's putting into practice God's truth. That is the blessing. See, the Lord didn't say these things so that people would say, you know, that was a wonderful, wonderful picture there of him washing the disciples' feet. He wanted this to translate into a different attitude and different action in the lives of this people. The Bible is not saying that we should do the will of God so that He will bless us. No, it's saying those who humbly do God's will will be blessed. So let me ask you, do you believe this truth? You could listen to the sermon today and hopefully you have been paying attention. You can say, that's right. Do you need to humbly serve one another But if nothing changes in your life, it will accomplish nothing Because God wants us to change. So let me ask you, are you getting your towel dirty? Are you involved in the hard work of serving others? God 's blessings come to those who serve others and not self. Now, one of the reasons why we don't do this is because we live in a world that teaches us the exact opposite of what Jesus taught here in this passage. The world is constantly bombarding us with a message that is the opposite, the reverse of this. And sometimes it affects our thinking. The world says, happy is the man who has other people serving him. This is the way it's always been. A very important person in ancient society and in modern society. has other people do all of their menial tasks. They have people who do their shopping, their cleaning, their driving, everything. They don't do many menial tasks for themselves, let alone for others. The united voice of the world has always been let others serve you. You deserve to have others meet your needs. You deserve to have people reach out to you and fulfill your expectations. But the Lord said, it's more blessed to give than to receive. It's more blessed to serve than to be served. So let me ask you, do you believe this? Do you know this? Is this a way of life for you? That you have a reputation for being a servant of the Lord, that you're working behind the scenes, meeting people's needs, doing menial tasks. In the 1980s, there was a bumper sticker that came out that I'm sure you've probably seen before. It says, he who dies with the most toys wins. That has been attributed to billionaire Malcolm Forbes. who died in 1990. He did indeed have many toys. He possessed an incredible yacht. He actually lived in a castle. And he was an art collector and collected some of the great masterpieces of the world. He was a symbol of American narcissism. He lived for money, for pleasure, for the here and the now and for self. But he died. And he left it all behind. I heard someone many years ago Give a take on that famous motto of his and make it a Christian motto. Instead of saying, he who dies with the most toy wins , It would be more appropriate for us as disciples of Christ to say, he who dies with the dirtiest towel wins. So how dirty is your towel? Are you following the master and ministering humbly to others? My God help us to do so. Let's close in prayer. Father , this passage is convicting to all of us It reminds us of how far short we have come. Reminds us of our deficiencies, of our pride, our selfishness. Oh Father, help us to follow in the way of our Master. Help us to be those who do not seek attention, who do not demand to be served. But seek to serve others as you provide opportunity. Help us, Father, truly come to know that this is the blessed way This is the path of happiness. This is the way of the Master. Help us, Father. Not just to hear these words, but to do what you have told us to do. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.