Give your Bibles. You can turn with me please to Colossians chapter 1. Colossians chapter 1 On September 8, 1860, a ship named the Lady Elgin went aground on the shores of Lake Michigan near Eveston A ministerial student at a nearby college named Edward Spencer saw the peril that these individuals were in in the frigid waters, and so he swam out. To save as many as he could. He went out again and again into the frigid waters and ended up saving 17 passengers. But in the process, his health was permanently damaged. He was unable to really resume his college studies And some years later, at his funeral, it was noted that not one of the people he rescued ever thanked him. Being thankful is not natural. This is why you have to train your children to be polite. And to be thankful and to say thank you to those who have given them something. But we as Christian people should be the most thankful people in the world because we have been given the great gift of salvation. I hope that you had an opportunity this week to contemplate all the things that you have to be thankful for. Even if you feel yourself to be the most unfortunate person here this morning, I want you to know that you have a great deal to be thankful for. Let me mention some things. Many of you have a Christian heritage. Who can put a price on that to have a mother and father who know the Lord and have brought you up in the way of righteousness? Some of you have this heritage for several generations. What a blessing. What a legacy that is. Most of us here have a good education. You can read and write. Many have college degrees. Many people in the history of the world have not been able to read and write. Have not known some basic facts that we all take for granted. It's a great blessing to have a good education. Most of you have jobs and many of you have good jobs, well-paying jobs. Most of you have families that bring you great joy, either a family that you came from or a family that God has given you now. And I think everyone here came by car. I didn't see anybody walk here this morning Did you know that most people in the world do not own a car? They could only dream of owning a car. And yet, if I drive by your house, I see a driveway filled with vehicles. And you know, we have so much to be thankful for in regards to our medical advances. We have wonderful children here. Did you know that if you lived a hundred years ago or any time previous to that Half of your children most likely would not be here. Because the infant mortality rate throughout Most of world history has been that one out of every two children die before their first birthday. That's the way it is in many places in the world, and that's the way it has normally been up until modern advances of medicine, even simple things like bringing down a fever. So many people in centuries past had no ability to do that, and they watched child after child die. But when our kids get a fever, we're not that worried about it. We can remedy that situation very quickly. We have so much to be thankful for. And you know, you eat better food than the monarchs of the ancient world. The pharaohs, the Xerxes, the Louis XIV, the Henry VIII. They didn't have the kind of food varieties that you have. They didn't have refrigeration as we do or transportation to bring our food in from afar from all over the world. We go to a grocery store and we have endless varieties. One of the things that people from third world countries are just amazed at is when you come They come to this country and they go into a grocery store. They can't imagine all the food that is there. They've never seen anything like that We have a new category of people today called foodies. People who have great interest in high-quality food and they'll travel far and they'll pay a premium for a certain taste And of course, we are obsessed with finding nutritious food and flavorful food. But in many places in the world and throughout most of history The number one fear that people had was that they were going to starve to death. And there's not one person in here that came here this morning, not the poorest person that said, I hope I don't starve to death this week. Because we've got food in our pantries and in a refrigerator, and if we run out, we can always get more And you live in the most prosperous nation in the history of the world. We enjoy freedoms and rights that most people can only dream of. And I think most Americans don't realize how privileged they really are. If you were to live for some time in a third world country or in a nation in the world where there is very little freedom and there is much oppression. You would be so thankful that in the providence of God you were born in this land and you live in this land. That's an incredible blessing that we never seem to think about. The level of comfort that we expect, that we view as human rights, is something that the vast majority of human beings have never enjoyed. And we have the ability to communicate with people all over the world I enjoy talking to our missionaries or Skyping our missionaries and not only hearing them but seeing their faces. What a blessing. And we have access to so much information. Most people carry around in their pockets a device that enables them to access more information than the scholars who labored in the greatest libraries in the ancient world had access to. And we can do it instantly If somehow you could measure your quality of life, your advantages, with all human beings who have ever lived on this earth , We would all be easily in the top 1%. And everyone would look at us and say, you have it made. You have a life of comfort and ease. They would say that of the poorest of us That we have so much to be thankful for. But I want you to know that none of those things that I've mentioned matters at all in comparison to the thankfulness, the advantage that we should enjoy and think of as we consider our salvation and our identity as the children of God. That is the supreme reason that we should be thankful. This morning I want us to look at the conclusion of Paul's opening prayer. to the church at Colossae. He begins in verse 9, for this cause we also, since the day We heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and to desire that ye might be filled with the knowledge of his will and all wisdom and spiritual understanding. And these are the things he's praying for. Verse 10, that ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. strengthened with all might according to his glorious power, and unto all patience and long-suffering with joyfulness And he's praying that they will give thanks unto the Father. And then he is going to give some reasons that they have for being thankful. He's anticipating the reader saying, Well, what do I really have to be thankful for? Paul, you don't know my situation. You don't know my family circumstances right now. Or the hardships that I'm facing. And so Paul here is going to give some spiritual reasons. He's going to use at least four different expressions that point to various aspects of our salvation. And he is going to remind them of the great blessing of being a child of God. This is why I say that Christians should be the most thankful people in the world. So why should we be so thankful? I want you to notice these four reasons. First of all, in verse 12. Because we have been qualified to share an incredible inheritance. It says in verse 12, giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in lights. God the Father has given us an incredible blessing. He has made us meet. Now this word is used this one other time in the New Testament in 2 Corinthians 3. 6, where it's translated, who has made us able ministers of the New Testament or qualified ministers of the New Testament. It's the word that's translated able. It is God who makes poor, unworthy preachers qualified to minister the Word of God. And the idea here is it's not because we deserve to be children of light. Or to be saints of God. It's not that somehow we have earned this or merited this, but God has brought this to pass by his grace that we have a share in this inheritance. The tense of the verb here indicates that we were qualified by a definite act in the past. When you trusted in Christ. You were given a share in the inheritance of salvation. This is something that Paul's Jewish readers would have instantly understood because in Israel's history when they entered the promised land each tribe was given a share, an inheritance of the promised land. We as New Testament believers have an inheritance as well, one that's far greater than even what they were given. And we read of this, in fact, we covered this not that long ago. in the opening chapter of 1 Peter. In 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse 4, it says, to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled, that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. This is our inheritance that we have as the people of God. It's an inheritance that we enjoy now, but that we will enjoy more fully in the future. I mentioned to you when I was preaching Through that passage in 1 Peter chapter 4, that if you think your salvation is great now, and it is, just wait and see. When you really see the full ramifications of it, the full blessing of it in heaven someday. It's an inheritance that is never going to rust away. It's never going to be stolen. It will never be lost because it is kept by the power of God. We need to always remember in our trials, in our tribulations the great salvation that we have. And if somehow we could really grasp with the mind and with the exercise of faith the greatness of our salvation. Our other problems would seem small in comparison. Do you ever rejoice over the fact that you are a child of God, that you have by his grace this identity? The wondrous thing about this is that this will never change. But you know what? It's important to remember that you're not the only name on that list. Now, we in the United States of America have a tradition of individualism. We like to keep to ourselves. And sometimes people have the mistaken notion that in heaven someday, you know, I'm going to have a mansion up on a hilltop and You know, I'll go to town maybe once a week. But other than that, I want to be up there kind of by myself, and that's the way I like it. I want you to know that all of you who are loners here today, that when you go to heaven, God's going to change your nature. He will. Because God made human beings to be social creatures. It's one of the great joys of life. It's one of the reasons that we gather here today and worship. It's why staying at home and watching the service is not really an adequate Exercise. Now maybe you have to because you're ill or you're traveling or something. I understand that. But it's never a substitute for being with the people of God because God didn't make us as lone creatures. To take the verse out of context, it's not good that the man should be alone. We need to be together. And part of the great joy of heaven is that we will be with the people of God. That is why coming together at church is kind of like a faint foretaste of that. Or yesterday when we were at the wedding, many of you were there. And we spent hours together talking and fellowshipping and catching up. That's a wonderful thing. It's an enjoyable experience. It's just a tiny little foretaste. Of what heaven is going to be like. In heaven, we will dwell forever with the most significant people the world has ever known. The saints of God. Hebrews tells us it's people whom the world is not worthy We will dwell with people like Abraham and Moses and David, apostles like Peter, John, and Paul. We will share our heavenly inheritance. With great heroes like Hudson Taylor and William Carey and Jonathan Edwards, we will fellowship with Charles Spurgeon and Dwight L. Moody and a host of others. And we will dwell with them in light. in contrast with the darkness of this world, because we will be with Christ, who is our light and who illuminates the city of God. That is our prospect. That is a wonderful reason to be thankful. We will be with the people of God, enjoying our heavenly inheritance. But a second reason is given in verse 13, the first phrase, who hath delivered us from the power of darkness? We can be thankful because we have been delivered from the power of darkness. Now what exactly does this expression mean? What have we been delivered from? It mentions here the power of darkness or the authority or dominion of darkness. What is meant here by darkness? Well, the scripture uses this imagery often In Luke chapter 22 and verse 53, on the night our Lord was arrested and tried, he said This is your hour and the power of darkness. The power of darkness was evident in the wicked arrest of Jesus Christ. Those religious leaders were actually animated by Satan himself. And we read the same sort of thing in scriptures. In Acts chapter 26, Paul speaks of his conversion and commission. He says in verses 16 through 18 that he was called, rise and stand upon thy feet, for I have appeared unto thee for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness both of these things which thou hast seen and of those things in which it will appear unto thee, delivering thee from the people and from the Gentiles unto whom I now send thee. To open their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith. that is in me. And in Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 10 we read about spiritual warfare Paul writes, finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against rulers of the darkness of this world. against spiritual wickedness in high places. This is a frightful reality. When we were lost, we were under the tyranny of Satan. You may not have realized that. You may have thought you were just living life on your own terms, but the fact of the matter is, you were living in darkness, and you were being manipulated by a master deceiver. What does a person under the dominion of darkness live like? Let me show you. Several scriptures that use the same imagery of living in darkness. I want you to note some of these common themes. Turn with me to Ephesians chapter 4. Ephesians chapter 4. And verse seventeen. Paul writes, This I say, therefore And testify in the Lord that ye henceforth walk not, as other Gentiles walk in the vanity of their minds, having the understanding darkened. being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them because of the blindness of their heart, who being past feeling have given themselves over unto lasciviousness to work all uncleanness with greediness, but ye have not so learned Christ. Notice what's mentioned here. It mentions their ignorance or their blindness. They simply cannot grasp the truth. They don't recognize how they're living and who they really are. And then he talks about uncleanness and greediness, referring to sexual sins and to living a lifestyle of covetousness and materialism. Now turn with me ahead to the very next chapter in Ephesians, Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 2. Paul writes, And walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us, and hath given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling savor. But fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not be once named among you as becometh saints. Neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which are not convenient, but rather giving of thanks. And this ye know that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man who is an idolater hath any inheritance. in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Let no man deceive you with vain words, for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience. Be not ye therefore partakers with them. For ye were sometime darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. We see again that a lifestyle of darkness is a lifestyle of sensuality and materialism. A lifestyle that is in the dark and blinded to spiritual realities But let me give you another example of darkness. Turn with me to 1 John chapter 2, if you would. 1 John chapter 2 Notice how John uses and applies this even to believers. 1 John 2 and verse 8 says again, A new commandment, write I unto you, which thing is true in him and in you, because the darkness is past, and the true light now shineth. He that saith, He is in the lights And hateth his brother is in darkness even until now. He that loveth his brother abideth in the light. And there is none occasion of stumbling in him. But he that hateth his brother is in darkness. and walketh in darkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth, because that darkness hath blinded his eyes. Those are strong words. I don't have time to expound them and explain them fully. But obviously they are strong words. It is a very serious matter. To be at odds with your brother or sister in Christ. So often we excuse ourselves by saying, well, I I you know I don't hate him. I just really strongly dislike him. There's a word for that. It's called hate. This is no place for the people of God to have people They want nothing to do with that. They, in essence, wish were not part of the people of God. So they did not have to encounter them. John uses very strong language, essentially saying That you're contradicting your very status as a child of light when you live in darkness. You see, when I speak of immorality and things, sometimes we think, well, I'm I'm living you know a moral life, so You know, I don't have to worry about this, but when we come to these relational things, I think sometimes it hits a little closer to home. People under the dark dominion of Satan are often unaware of their wickedness. But those who have been brought out of the lights really see the lights. If you dwell in a place of darkness for a very long time and then you come out into the sunlight it seems so incredibly bright And so it is that some who God has rescued from addiction or from life-dominating sins as an adult, and he's brought them to themselves. I have often noted that they have a greater appreciation for their salvation than those who have been saved as a child in a Christian home. Because they recognize how great a blessing it is to be a child of God and to be saved. Notice as we look and continue in Colossians , uses this word delivered Verse 13, who hath delivered us from the power of darkness. The idea of this word is that they have been rescued. The implication is that we were all, as lost people, we were helpless. We were like a person stuck in quicksand. We could do nothing to free ourselves. In fact, the more that a person in that situation tries to extract themselves, the deeper they sink. And so it is with us in our lost estate. But God graciously pulled us out of the miry clay, and he has set our feet upon a rock. What a wonderful thing this is to consider. I, like many of you, was saved as a child. But where would we be, those in that state, if but for the grace of God we had not been saved at an early age and we continued on? Or what if somehow in the providence of God we were not born into a wonderful Christian home? But into a home of darkness where there was no spiritual lights. How thankful we should be for the salvation that God has provided. Thirdly, I want you to notice we should be thankful because we have been transferred into the kingdom of Christ. Look with me at the end of verse 13, and have translated us into the kingdom of his dear son. This term translated is a very interesting term. It was used in the ancient world to describe a common practice by monarchs. when they wanted to demoralize the people and break their nationalistic spirit They would wholesale remove a people from their homelands. They would come in with military forces. Tell the people you have a day or two to get your things together and then say goodbye because you're never coming back here again. And they would gather up their belongings. Just imagine that if for generations and generations you had lived off the land and and this is the only place in the world that you never knew, and now you're coming, you're forcibly removed, and you're taken to a place. where they speak a strange language, where there's a strange climate, everything is different, nothing is familiar. You talk about culture shock. That's why the Babylonians took the residence of Judah in 586 BC. They resettled them in Babylon, where they had the 70 years of captivity. That was a way to break their spirits, taking them from their homeland. And we have Psalms. That expressed the heart of the people as they mourned for their homeland. They express things like, I will never forget Jerusalem. They were so oppressed by this. Now, we, spiritually speaking, have been translated or transferred from the land of darkness, the land of light, but this is not an oppressive act This does not break our spirits. This is not something to be sorrowful about. This is a wondrous blessing. We have been rescued and taken to a much better place. We were taken out from under the dominion of the devil and placed into the kingdom of God 's dear Son. What a blessed place to be. Satan is described in the Bible as a liar and a murderer. But our new master Our new king is not like that. He is the one who said, Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart. And ye shall find rest for your souls. We have been placed by the grace of God into the kingdom. of his dear son. Now the word that is translated dear here in verse 13 is the famous Greek word agape. It literally reads, we have been translated into the kingdom of the Son of his love. And most likely Paul here is reflecting on what was said at our Lord's baptism. Do you remember what was said audibly from the heavens? This is my beloved son, and whom I am well pleased. And Paul here is thinking of that as he incorporates this into this language. Let me show you the parallel verse of this in the book of Ephesians. Turn with me just a few pages back to Ephesians. Many of you know that the book of Ephesians is the twin epistle of Colossians. It was written at the same time, and much of the material is similar in nature. Ephesians chapter 1. Verse 6. This is part of that great expression of praise that opens this book Verse six says, To the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved. And it's the same expression here, referring to, of course, the Lord Jesus Christ. Now the truth here is so amazing that I think we often find it hard to believe. But it means that we have been so accepted into the kingdom of God that we are as accepted as the Lord Jesus Christ. If you are in Christ, you are loved as the Son is loved. Now, I don't think that most Christians really believe this or grasp this. So many Christians I encounter struggle to believe that God really has forgiven them or accepted them. Or that in any way, shape, or form he is pleased with them. And I know why they think this way. It's because they mess up all the time. Just like I do. Just like you do. They don't pray as much as they should. They're not as faithful in their Bible reading as they should. They don't witness rats at all. And we have been called to be his witnesses. They sometimes lose their temper They sometimes look at things they shouldn't look at, and it just begins to pile up, and they say, I'm a failure as a Christian. God must really be angry with me. He must be keeping me at arm's length. He must have nothing to do with me. There's no point in me trying to go back to the Lord because I know how I would feel if I were in his situation. I would want nothing to do with me. And so they just kind of live on the periphery, burdened with a sense of guilt. And a sense that God has not really received them or accepted them. But I think we have to think More biblically, and more according to the gospel. Our acceptance, our love from our Father is not based on our performance. He's not giving us a grade each day and saying, all right, I'm going to double out a little bit of affection to them His love for us is based on his love for his son. And since his son died in our place and we have received his imputed righteousness Our Father loves us and accepts us the way he loves and accepts his beloved Son. And you can't get more acceptance than that. Now, does the Bible also teach that a fellowship can be broken because of unconfessed sin? Does the Bible teach that we can be chastened for sin? Yes, it does. But that acceptance and that love does not go away. And so we must remember that sometimes people mistakenly think Christians think that the key to like trying to live a holy life is just to always be miserable and to kind of beat yourself up about all of your failures. But I want you to know it doesn't work that way. Now we must never think of this acceptance and this unconditional love as a license for us to continue in sin that grace may abound. But when you really stop and grasp the truth that God's love for me will not end. And that his love is rooted in his love for his beloved son, and that I have that acceptance, and he will never cast me away He will never keep me at arm's length. He will never desert me in my hour of need. When we really believe those things, it will cause us to want to walk closely with him. And to love him more. Now the scripture also teaches that we have been redeemed from the bondage of sin. In Colossians chapter 1 and verse 14, it says, in whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of his sin. The Greek word for redemption, this particular one, is used some ten times in the New Testament. It has the idea of buying something or someone back from the slave market of sin By payments. Sometimes this payment we think of as a ransom. The ransom for our redemption was the precious blood of Christ. Ephesians 1. 7 says, In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins according to the riches of his grace. But what does this practically mean that we have been redeemed? Well, there are many things that it means. Among them are that we belong to Christ. He has bought us, he has purchased us with his own blood. But often in Scripture. This idea of redemption is connected with this wonderful, reassuring word, forgiveness even the forgiveness of sin. We are released from the burden of sin. Now some people today think of this release, this forgiveness. is a very personal and individual thing, a man-centered thing, that it just means that we no longer have to be weighed down with a sense of guilt and shame And that is a wonderful truth and a wonderful consequence of the redemption by the blood of Christ. But let's not forget that the greatest aspect of our forgiveness is that we have been forgiven for our sins and we will not face the judgment of God. That is far greater than any little subjective sense that we have. So do you know that your sins are forgiven? There are so many Christians that struggle with this. Any Christian that does any counseling knows This is a major hang-up with many of the Lord's people. They might have a very sensitive conscience, a very troubled conscience, and they are haunted. by things that they have done and that they have said in the past. And no matter how many years pass , No matter how many sermons they hear, no matter how many verses they read about God's forgiveness, they still are troubled about their sins. They still somehow think I've got to do something to make up for this. I've got to be a really good person so that somehow my merits, my good behavior can balance out. horrible deficit that I created by those sins of the past. But my friends, that is completely wrong thinking. Your tears, your works, your righteousness can never avail, can never balance the scale It's only the blood of Christ that provides forgiveness. Now God knew that we would struggle with this. This is why, as I've told you on many occasions, The scriptures are filled with word pictures to help us think about this and meditate on this. For instance, in Psalm 103, we read, As far as the east is from the west, so far hath He removed our transgressions from us. In Isaiah 1, we read that though our sins be as scarlet, they shall be white as snow. In Isaiah 38, we read that he has cast all of our sins behind his back. In Jeremiah 31, we read that he will remember our sins no more. And Micah chapter 7, we read that he has cast all of our sins into the depths of the sea. And in several other places we read that he has blotted out our transgressions. And in Colossians chapter 2 we read that he has taken our debt and he has nailed it to the cross. We have all of these rich pictures to think about to convince us that our sins have truly been put away through the death of Christ. And if we could really grasp that, that we are forgiven, we would not see it as a license to sin. We would see it as a great motivating factor to drive us to live more for Christ. And we would be a thankful people. So how can a person know if their sins have been forgiven? The scriptures give the answer to this again and again. Read from Acts chapter 10. You don't need to turn here, verse 43. It says, to him gave all the prophets witness that through his name whosoever believeth in him shall receive remission of sin. In Acts chapter 13 and verse 38, Paul is preaching. And he says this, be it known unto you, therefore, men and brethren, that through this man is preached unto you the forgiveness of sins, and by him all that believe are justified from all things. And Paul giving his testimony as I read earlier in Acts chapter 26, he says in verse 18 that he was called to open their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light and from the power of Satan unto God that they may receive forgiveness of sins. and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me, that is in Christ. So how can you know that your sins are forgiven when you have put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ? When you are relying on his work on the cross. His atonements and not in your own merit, not in your own good deeds, but in him alone. When you have not just intellectually agreed that there was a man who died long ago for your sins, but when you have come to see by the grace of God that he is the Son of God and you have put your trust in him and in him alone. It is only then that you could say with the hymn writer, Horatius Spafford My sin, oh the bliss of this glorious thought, my sin, not in part but the whole, is nailed to the cross, and I bear it no more. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, O my soul. I hope that that is the expression of your heart, that that is what you believe, that that is what you can say from the depths of your being. I hope that your heart is truly filled with thanks to God, not because of all the gifts that He has given to you in this life. But most of all for the gift of salvation that you can enjoy in this life and in the life to come. And if you do not have the assurance that you have been forgiven. I would exhort you to seek the Lord today. Seek him while he may be found. God's word says, those that draw nigh to him, he will draw nigh to them. I exhort you. to seek the Lord today. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for our great salvation. We thank you for what our Savior has done for us. We thank you that we have been given a great inheritance with the saints of light, that we have been translated into the kingdom of his dear son, that we have been redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. We thank you, Father, for all of these blessings that we have in Christ. Help us, Father, to be thankful and to be filled with praise. For you have been so good to us. And Father, for those here this morning who do not know if indeed they have a part in that inheritance, I pray. that they would repent of their sins and believe the gospel today and be saved. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.