Turn with me to Luke chapter 22. This past Friday morning as I was coming into work. I listened to a radio program that was called Story Core. And this program is about the recording of life experiences of individuals in their own words And then saving it digitally for generations to come. Some of the stories are funny, some are inspirational, some are tragic. This week they recorded the story of a 94-year-old man who was coming to the final days of his life. And he had a secret that he wanted to share that he had not ever shared with anyone. He'd been keeping this secret for 86 years. When he was eight years old, he was playing at recess at his elementary school. And he was running around, oblivious to what was going on, like children often do, and inadvertently he hit The glasses on the face of a little boy and broke his glasses. The little boy began to cry. And said that his glasses cost his parents two dollars. Now this was during the Depression, and that was a lot of money. And this little boy further said that he was going to have his parents talk to the boy who inadvertently broke his glasses parents and they would have to pay for it. And that thought struck terror into his heart because he knew that his parents would be furious with him. costing them that much money and breaking a little boy's glasses. And so he began to think of where he could somehow come up with two dollars. And then he remembered that they had an African-American woman named Pearl that came to their home each week and cleaned their house. And that his mom would leave $2 out on the table for her to take when she was finished. And so he knew that this was the day that she was paid. And so when he went home, he took those two dollars off of the table. The next day he took them to school. And he gave them the money to his teacher, and she gave it to the little boy's parents, and everything was settled and solved, and he breathed a great sigh of relief. But when Pearl went to find her money and she couldn't find it, she very gently approached his mom and said that the two dollars were not there on the table. And the mom said, well, I know I put them there. And she accused Pearl of trying to get more money yet, and so she dismissed her from her service. And Pearl was a single mother with some small children and greatly in need of those $2 a week. And what added insult to injury is then the rumor went around the community that Pearl was a thief and nobody would hire her to clean their house again. This little boy didn't know what to do. He was the only one in the world who knew the truth. But he kept that secret with him. And it bothered him all of his days. He often wondered what happened to Pearl. He didn't know her last name. He went on to become a successful doctor and quite wealthy, and he often wanted to somehow repay her, but he didn't know how to do that. And finally, at the end of his life, he wanted to let the world know and confess his guilt. Guilt is indeed a powerful emotion. One man who felt the power of guilt was Peter. This morning, as we continue our study of the life of Peter, we come to his darkest hour, his denial of Christ. I think that perhaps we tend to minimize this event in our minds. I think we think, well, you know, a lot of times people say things they shouldn't say, things they may not mean in the heat of the moment. I mean, how many times have we failed to speak up for Christ or said things among our peers that we would be embarrassed to say around our Christian friends? But I want you to know that this was no slip of the tongue. This was just one evidence of a real crisis of faith. That Peter and the apostles were facing at the crucifixion of Christ. And the scriptures record that this was a very big event. They highlight this. Certainly in the passion narratives, the most important thing is is the death of Christ, but there are two other uh backstories, if you will, that are given prominent attention. One is the betrayal of Judas Iscariots, and the other is the denial by Peter. In the Gospel of Matthew, we read that earlier Jesus gave the disciples a very strong warning about denying him. In Matthew 10, 32 and 33, he said, Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men, him will I confess before my Father which is in heaven. But whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father which is in heaven. I've often wondered if those words haunted Peter the hour after he denied Christ. I wonder if for a moment at least he thought he was a doomed man. I suspect that Peter was at the very least disgusted by his denial of Christ. There were many mitigating factors that made it all the more astounding and embarrassing. After all, he was the leader of the twelve. If anyone should have stood up for his master, it was Peter. And then of course Peter had bragged repeatedly that this would not happen. That he would die first. And of course, Peter was naturally a courageous, outspoken individual. We see that as he even drew a sword in the garden when they came to arrest the Lord. He was a courageous man. That's why he was a leader of the twelve. And so when he denied his Lord on those three occasions, how disgusted he was with his sin. He wilted under the questioning of a servant maid. The fact is that all the disciples failed miserably On that night. Luke has structured his gospel in such a way that in this 22nd chapter, he is going to record one failure of the disciples after another. Culminating with Peter's denial of Christ. Now these are not in chronological order. We know from studying the other gospels, Matthew and Mark especially, that they they're not exactly in this order, but Luke has put them in this logical order so that the reader is just astounded and overwhelmed. with the repeated failures of the disciples on this very night. We have, first of all, in verse 21 of chapter 22, The Lord says, Behold, the hand of him that betrayeth me is with me on the table. That prophecy shook up the disciples. They are in the upper room. Then we read in verse 24 of the strife among the disciples about who was the greatest, and then we have a prediction. Of their testing and Peter's failure in verses 31 and 32, and then in verse 33, Peter's vain boast that he would not deny the Lord. And then we have in verses 40 through 45 the failure of the three leading disciples to pray for the Lord when he pleaded with them to pray for him. And then we have the betrayal of one of the twelve, Judas, in verse 47. And then in verses 49 through 51, you have the foolish response of the disciples to his arrest. And finally, the culmination of apostolic disaster is in the paragraph that we read together this morning, verses 54 to 62. Eight consecutive incidents. of spiritual failure on the part of the twelve. Now this threefold denial is recorded in all four Gospels. We see that Peter's failure is not casually recorded. It's highlighted. The Holy Spirit wanted the reader of the New Testament to be struck. with the warnings that Christ gave with him, to his rejection of those warnings, to his denial. And so it goes into great detail to describe this for the reader. The Holy Spirit intends that every Christian disciple consider Peter's blunder and to learn from his failure. The fact is that all Christians fail the Lord to some degree. We have all denied him at some time. But some Christians never seem to fully recover from their fall. And so what is the most instructive chapter in the life of Peter For the Christian disciple is how he fell and how the Lord restored him after his fall. So I'm going to preach to you this morning on how to recover from your spiritual failure. I have two broad points this morning and then subpoints underneath of them. And the first thing that I would say is this, if you're going to recover from your spiritual failure, you must recognize the cause of your spiritual failure. If you fall, a good question to ask yourself is, how did I get here? How did I come to this place? And as we study the scriptures, we see several factors that led to Peter's fall. The first one I want you to show to show you is satanic assault. If you look at Luke 22, I want you to look at verse 3. It says, Then entered Satan into the heart. Of Judah's surname Iscariot, being of the number of the twelve. Now skip ahead to verse thirty-one. And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you that he may sift you as And then verse 53, the Lord says, When I was daily with you in the temple, you stretched forth no hands against me, but this is your hour and the power of darkness. In this chapter, we see very clearly that Satan was working overtime this night. He was energizing Judas to betray his Lord, and he attacked and was sifting Peter to deny his master. We must never forget our unseen foe. We are exhorted in Scripture not to be ignorant of his devices We are reminded by the Apostle Paul in Ephesians chapter 6 that we wrestle not against flesh and blood. Our primary opponents are not human beings. So how does Satan attack us in a variety of ways? I want to just mention one, perhaps his primary method. The Bible reveals that he is the Father of all lies. And so the primary way that he attacks us is to get us to believe a lie. And one of the things, by the way, he tries to convince us of is he doesn't exist. He's worked over time to get the world to accept that there's no such thing as the devil and to laugh at it and to make it a matter of humor. But what Satan will often do with a Christian when they fall is convince them that God would never take them back. That they can never be useful in the service of the Lord again. And yet, if they're truly a child of God, that individual can never really be at peace and enjoy the pleasures of sin. They can never go off into the world and live there comfortably like a lost individual because they don't really belong. And yet Sometimes they feel like they don't really belong in the church or with the people of God because they have this shameful failure in their past. And so they're kind of in no man's land. Satan loves to deceive people and convince them that God's done with them, that they could never be forgiven or restored. But we must combat the deceiver. We must take up the shield of faith. We must take up the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. We must replace his lies with God's truth. Peter learned from that attack. That's why he writes at the conclusion of his first epistle Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. Peter knew that by experience. Another factor that led to his failure, of course, was prideful self-confidence. Why did Peter turn a deaf ear to all the warnings that night? Why did the Lord's words that Satan would attack him and sift him as wheat not wake him up and startle him? Because he was proud and confident that he could handle any temptation that came his way. He said in John 13 to the Lord, I will lay down my life for thy sake. Matthew and Mark record him saying, Though all men forsake thee, yet will not I He was saying, Lord, these other disciples, I can't vouch for them. They may run from you, they may forsake you and never follow you, but I want you to know that's not going to happen to me. He thought he was better than the other apostles, and in verse 33 he says, Lord, I am ready to go with thee both into prison and to death. Peter was so full of himself. Proverbs 16, 18 says that pride goeth before destruction And a halty spirit before the fall. In 1 Corinthians 10, 12 we read, Wherefore let him that taketh, let him that thinketh he stand, take heed lest he fall. Do you ever hear of the sins of others' people, the failures of other people? Maybe people in the church, maybe people that are missionaries, maybe people that are spiritual leaders elsewhere. And it almost elicits a certain pride in you and superiority because you're not like them, and you can't imagine that someone could fall into sin like that. That could never happen to you. The scripture says, take heed, take heed lest you fall. Do you heed the warnings that the Lord sends your way? Do you respond to the sermons that prick your conscience? How to react when a brother or sister tells you that you're about to make a big mistake? Do you become offensive? Do you attack them? Do you ignore them? Or do you possess a teachable spirit? I think we see a reflection of Peter's experience again in 1 Peter chapter 5 when he says, be clothed with humility, for God resisteth the proud. and giveth grace unto the humble. Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time. He says, Be clothed with humility Peter would learn the value of listening to warnings. He says, in some of the final words that he ever wrote in 2 Peter chapter 3, beware Lest ye being led away with the air of the wicked fall from your own steadfastness. Satanic assaults. Prideful self-confidence. And we also find, of course, in his life a lack of prayer. In verse 40 of this chapter. We read of the Lord Jesus taking Peter, James, and John apart to pray for him and with him. And he says to them in verse 40, pray that ye enter not into temptation. And then of course he goes apart himself and pours out his heart to God, and he comes back and he finds them asleep, and he says, why sleep ye? Verse 46. Rise and pray, lest you enter into temptation. When the disciples should have been praying, they were sleeping. They were not spiritually alert or prepared for the onslaught that was about to come. Perhaps if Peter had spent the night in prayer, he would have resisted the attacks of the wicked one. In 1 Peter chapter 4 and verse 7, he says, be therefore sober and watch unto prayer I have never spoken to anyone who has had a major spiritual catastrophe in their life without hearing from them. That for some time they had failed to spend time in prayer. That part of their spiritual discipline had simply faded away And they didn't spend daily time bringing their requests before the Lord, bringing the needs of others, and bringing their own needs before the Lord. That had completely dropped out of their life. It's very important that we set aside time to pray each day because we face a very serious adversary. It's no coincidence that the Bible's key passage on spiritual warfare ends with a call to prayer in Ephesians chapter six. And verse 18 it says, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints. You will fall as a spiritual soldier of the cross unless you spend time in prayer fortifying yourself for the world in which you live. And that brings us to this fourth factor, which was the influence of the world. And this is what is prominently brought out in our text. The text that we read together this morning. It was a cool spring night. Peter went out to the fire to warm himself. And there he found himself surrounded by our Lord's captors. And it was in this environment where Peter's denials took place. There are three denials recorded by all four gospel writers. The location is given here as the high priest's house. This was a large house just outside of Jerusalem with an inner courtyard. And the first denial comes at the accusation of a maid. According to John's gospel, this maid was the gatekeeper. There was a little door there, and there was a servant whose job it was to admit people or keep people out. And this was the woman who first recognized Peter. As the fire illuminated Peter's face, the servant girl began to stare at him. It says in her text that she beheld him, like you look at someone saying, I've seen that person before. I can't quite place them. Where did I see this person? And finally, she says with some hesitancy, this man was also with him. Undoubtedly the people around the fire were talking about the night's events and The arrest of Jesus and the skirmish that was there and the betrayal of Judas. These are the kind of things that people like to talk about. And as they're talking about this, she's saying, that's where I saw him. This is the man that I saw with Jesus. Perhaps she even saw him brandish his sword and cut off the ear of Malchus. And Peter's response was, I know him not. Simply says, no, you're mistaken. That wasn't me. Peter undoubtedly hoped that this was the end of it, but it was only the beginning of a long night for him. It says in verse 58, and after a little while another saw him and said, Thou art also of them. And Peter said, Man, I am not. The second denial took place just perhaps a few minutes after the first denial John records that it's they that made this accusation. That is, that many people around the fire said similar things. Sometimes if you if you were to compare all four gospel records of this, it's sometimes confusing. Because it'll talk about this person making denial making an accusation, another person making an accusation, another gospel. And yet they're talking about the same period of denial. So how do we square that around? Well, very simply. As Peter was there around the fire and someone said, No, you were the guy. Another person chimed in, then another person chimed in And Peter must have felt trapped. And so he plainly and dogmatically asserts that he is not a follower of Jesus Christ. This bold leader of the twelve, who has only moments earlier taken out a sword and is ready to die for his master, now denies any connection to Christ. This man that Jesus renamed the rock has just crumbled like sand Now Luke records that an hour elapses before the next accusation. Another accuser comes forward and provides further evidence for Peter's identity. What gave him away was the unmistakable way in which he talked. You know, people in the city speak differently than people in the country. People in Jerusalem were more sophisticated, more educated, more wealthy. But Peter was from Galilee. He was a fisherman. And he spoke with a country accents. And as he was talking, and we know that Peter liked to talk, as he was talking around that fire, everyone knew this guy is not from around here. He is not from Jerusalem. And someone there recognizes that that is the unmistakable accent of a Galilean. And that was further confirmation because everyone knew that Jesus Was from Galilee. He was Jesus of Nazareth. His base of operations was in Capernaum. So this was further evidence that Peter indeed was one of his disciples. And Peter says, man, I do not know what you're talking about. And the other gospel writers record that he took an oath and cursed So why did the Peter deny the Lord repeatedly? This is an interesting study in psychology, is it not? hours earlier. He brandishes a sword. He's ready to die. He's ready to take on the opponent, even though there are probably hundreds of soldiers there. He's going to take them all on But now, a few hours later, surrounding in a fire in a much more casual environment with people who are just making small talk. He repeatedly denies his knowledge of the Lord. One writer I consulted mentioned that if Peter had been brought in to where Jesus was being tried, And he was asked some very hard questions by the Sanhedrin if he were a follower of Christ and if he was willing to die for his master. This writer said, I suspect that Peter would give a good account of himself. But there, by the fire, in a more casual atmosphere. He denies again and again. So why did the Lord why did Peter deny the Lord repeated me? Because the opinion of those people in the world, those people around that fire, was more important to him. than his allegiance to Christ. Have you ever blushed to claim that you were Christian? Are you embarrassed for your neighbors to see you walk out of your house with a Bible in your hand? Are you uncomfortable praying in public? Would you do almost anything before you would ever knock on a door and invite someone to church? Do you remain silent in the break room when someone begins to attack Christian values? Heard of a man once that was a new believer. He was getting ready to go away on a hunting trip with a bunch of his buddies. They were all unsaved. And so he asked his pastor to pray for him. That he would be able to retain his testimony and endure their ridicule on this hunting trip. When he returned the next week, The pastors met him at the door and said, sir, I just want you to know that I was praying for you this week, that you would be able to endure their ridicule. And the man says, oh, our trip went fine. He said, they never ever suspected that I was a Christian. Why do Christians fall spiritually? There are many factors. Satanic assault, pride, lack of prayer, and the pervasive influence of the world. This brings me to my second point. If you're going to recover from your spiritual failure, you must seek God's cure for your spiritual fall. It's only by God's grace that Peter is spared the path of Judas. In the providence of God, the rooster crowed and Christ came back. And looked at Peter. What factors brought Peter to spiritual recovery? Our immediate text here mentions several. I want you to look at the first one is I would say if you're going to recover, you must look to Christ. Says in our text, and the Lord turned and looked upon Peter. Only Luke records the significant detail. Now it's Jesus that took the initiative in this encounter. But I want you to think about this fact that one preacher brought out many years ago in his sermon. And that as yes, the Lord looked at Peter, but for Peter to benefit from it, he had to be looking towards the Lord. Imagine what it was like there. Peter denies the Lord. He's out in the courtyard. Christ is being led away. And right as he finishes his final denial with an oath With strong language, with a raised volume, and the cock is crowing in the background because if you look at the gospel record, this all took place simultaneously. With that sound The Lord and Peter's eyes meet. Now what do you think was communicated in that look? You know, looks can communicate a lot, right? Someone looking you in the eyes can be much more powerful than any words that they would say. Was it a look of anger? Was it a look of disappointment? Was it a frown of displeasure? Was it, see, I told you so, look. The Bible doesn't describe what was in that gaze. But we do have a clue. We do have a clue When we started our study of the life of Peter, we began in John chapter 1. And as far as we know, this was the very first time that the Lord ever met Simon Peter. And in John chapter one and verse forty two it says, and he brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus beheld him He said, Thou art Simon, son of Jonah. Thou shalt be called Cephas, which is by interpretation a stone. It says, when Jesus beheld him, Before he said anything, he looked at Peter. He looked into his eyes. I want to suggest to you That it was a look of love that he gave to him that night. I think it conveyed forgiveness. I think it reminded Peter that his master was not done with him. The great preacher of the past, Clarence McCartney, said, in that look was the length, breadth, and height of the love of God. So what do we do when we have miserably failed spiritually? What do we do when we've fallen flat on our face? We have to look to the Lord's. In some sense, the last thing in the world we want to do is turn to the Lord because we're so embarrassed and because we failed him so horribly. It's kind of counterintuitive. I don't want to go to the Lord. I just want to get as far away from Him as I can. But what we must do, the only way back is to look to the Lord and to seek His forgiveness. And secondly, we must reflect on God's truth in verse 61. It says, and Peter remembered the word of the Lord. Just an hour earlier, Christ told Peter that he was headed for a fall. In fact, the Lord predicted repeatedly that Peter would deny his Lord. And now we have the look of Jesus, the simultaneous sound of the rooster reminded him of that prophecy. Church tradition tells us that after this event, Peter would weep every time he heard a rooster crow. So what do you have to do in order to recover spiritually? Well You have to remember the first things. And Revelation chapter 2, it talks about the road to recovery for a church body. And they're instructed there to remember the first things, get back to the basics, come back to the Word of God, to God's truth You must ground yourself in these gospel truths that are the foundation of the believer's life. You must feed your soul with the word of God. Your fall reveals that you have not been living by faith but by sight, that you have been more influenced by the world than by the word of God's. Peter would write of the importance of the word of God in the life of a believer. I want to read to you more than just a verse or two from 1 Peter chapter 1. In verse 23, he says, being born again not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the word of God which liveth. and abideth forever, for all flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man is the flower of grass. The grass withereth and the flower thereof falleth away. But the word of the Lord endureth forever. And this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you. Wherefore, laying aside all malice and all guile, all hypocrisies and envyings and all evil speakings, as newborn babe, desire the sincere milk of the word that you may grow thereby, if so be that ye have tasted. that the Lord is gracious. What do you need if you have fallen into sin and you're seeking to find your spiritual footing and get back where you need to be? You need to be in the Word. You need massive doses of the Word of God. You need to read it and study it and memorize it and meditate on it and hear the preaching of the Words. You need the Word of God to permeate your thinking and to correct and to wash out of your mind the false notions that you have come to accept. And finally, we see in our text here, you must repent of your sin. This passage, this paragraph concludes in verse 62, and Peter went out and wept bitterly. This is Peter's repentance. Peter's repentance. Notice that Peter didn't seek to excuse his sin. He didn't say, you know, I really wasn't properly trained to be prepared for something like this. He didn't blame his fellow disciples. He didn't get a hold of them afterwards and say, where were you guys? I was there all by myself in that courtyard. I could have used a little support. No, when you repent, you take full responsibility for your sin. The word repentance in the New Testament means literally a change of mind Not that this is just an intellectual exercise. When you have truly changed your mind, it will affect the way you think and the way you feel and the way you act. Weeping is often an evidence of repentance. It's possible for a person to weep and not truly repent. A lot of times people cry about the consequences of their sin. Not about the fact that they have sinned against the Lord. So weeping is not a foolproof evidence that you have truly repented. And it is possible. For a person to truly repent of their sin and turn from their sin without weeping, don't misunderstand me. There's nothing efficacious in and of itself of weeping. But it is often an evidence of repentance. And we see here that a great fall requires great contrition. The word wept in Mark's account expresses continual action. Peter was sobbing uncontrollably. Peter probably assumed that this was the last time that he would ever see his master. Where do you think Peter went that night? Scripture doesn't say. But I think he probably went back to the Garden of Gethsemane. Where only hours earlier his master was weeping as he contemplated facing the Father's wrath. And there, under the full moon, Peter now prayed like he had never prayed before. 2 Corinthians 7. 10 says that godly sorrow worketh repentance Jesus said, Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. James would write, draw an eye to God, and he will draw an eye to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. Purify your hearts, you double-minded, be afflicted and mourn and weep. The precious little weeping in the Church of Christ today. Our sins are trivial to us. There was a time when many churches had up front in their church something called the mourner's bench. They may have overdone it in some cases. Sometimes people put on extravagant displays of emotionalism, but there was no real change of conduct But perhaps we have gone to the other extreme where any show of emotion, contrition is considered inappropriate and unsightly And so we never really express and reveal the horribleness of our sin. There's a contrast made in the Passion narratives between Peter and Judas. I don't want to take a lot of time with this, but in Matthew 27, it says that Judas repented of his sin. If you are a thinking reader, you might wonder yourself, well, then why did Peter go to the place of perdition, of destruction? It says he repented. The Greek word that's used there is not the word, the normal word for repentance. It's a word that means regret or remorse. See, I think that Judas did have some care and concern for Jesus. He followed him for three years. And when he really saw what was happening, he regretted his course of action. If he had to do over again, he would have done something differently. He did feel a profound sense of guilt and grief for that. So what's the difference between Judas and Peter? Judas never turned to God. He hated his sin, but he didn't love the Lord. He didn't come to the Lord and seek forgiveness. He didn't turn from the path of destruction, but he continued on, and he believed the lies of Satan, and he never turned back. There's a silver lining in this tragic story of Peter. And that is, I think, is very possible that Peter saw more spiritual growth. in this night of weeping than he did in the three years that he followed the master. Peter was broken over his sin. Peter grieved over his spiritual failure, and the Lord would take Peter's broken hearts. And he would recommission him, as we will see in days ahead. And he on Pentecost would fill him with the Holy Spirit. And as I mentioned to you before, it is only a broken Peter. A Peter who has died to self and to pride, who was able to preach with power at Pentecost and see 3,000 people saved. God takes our spiritual failures, and by his grace, he uses them to humble us. And to remake us and strengthen us so that we are vessels meet for the Master's use. May God do the same in your life as well. Let's close in prayer. Father, help us not to believe the lies of Satan. Help us, Father. To look to the Savior, to seek the Word, to repent of our sin. Help us, Father, to find the way back. That we might yet serve you and do your work. Father, use these words for your purposes in our midst, for it's in Jesus' name we pray Hiban