Would you turn with me to the book of 1 Peter? 1 Peter chapter 2. We have been making our way verse by verse through this wonderful first epistle of Peter I'm told that in the last six years, $107 billion have been stolen from the American consumer by identity thieves. Last year, over 15 million Americans had their identity stolen. This personal theft often creates feelings of frustration, anxiety, and depression in the victims. And despite the booming industry of credit monitoring and digital security, identity theft continues to be a growing problem. One of the problems that Christians face and have always faced in the world is the problem of losing our identity, of forgetting who we are in Christ. Of allowing the message of the world to imprint itself upon us and to think of ourselves in terms and in ways that are not biblical. We tend to look and find our identity in many different places. And not all of these are wrong. They should not be our primary identity. Men tend to find their identity in their career. Women tend to find their identity in their family. That's why when there's a group of men gathered around someplace casually talking, they're talking about things different than what the women are talking about. If you were to listen into their conversation, most of the women are talking about family matters, and most of the men are talking about their work or their hobbies or something like that. And some people find their identity and various hobbies, as I mentioned. I do most of my traveling on Highway 27. And on Saturdays, when it is a sunny day, that road is filled with motorcycles. And they don't usually travel alone. They travel in packs. And most of the people who ride, this is no criticism, but it's more than just that they've bought a motorcycle. They have purchased an identity. They have a motorcycle, and they have a nice leather jacket, and they have a custom-made helmet, and they have special gloves And when they pass other motorcycle riders on the road, they have a secret wave that they give. And uh and and they look tough. You know, I I look at them carefully out of my minivan. And uh I look at this guy and And I say to my wife, you know, he probably is an accountant who works in some little cubicle during the week. And everyone tells him what to do. But on the weekend, he's a force to be reckoned with We look to different things to find our identity, and we find other people who have similar identities, and we feel like we're a part of a group. That's just the way God made us. By the way, I'm not belittling people who ride motorcycles. I don't want a gang to show up at my door. It's wonderful. It's fine. Our primary identity, however, should come from the fact that we are followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, that by his grace we have been saved. And our identity is defined by the word of God. And as Paul says again and again in his writings, we are those who are in Christ. That is our primary identity. And this is not something that we put on on Sundays. It should be who you are every moment of every day. It is a part of the very fabric of your being. This morning we come to 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse 4, and it's the beginning of a new paragraph that runs through verse 10 And in this paragraph, Peter is reminding his readers of their identity in Christ, of who they are. I want you to notice this is not something that I'm Placing on the text, it's what the text is teaching. Look with me at verse 4, to whom coming as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of men. But chosen of God and precious, ye also as lively stones are built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. Wherefore also it is contained in the scripture, Behold, I lay in Zion a cheap cornerstone, elect, precious, and he that believeth on him shall not be confounded. Unto you therefore which believe he is precious, but unto them which be disobedient the stone which the builders disallowed, the same as made the head of the corner And a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient whereunto they were appointed. But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priest, a holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Which in time past were not a people, but now the people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. Peter is saying here, don't forget who you are. Don't forget where you have come from. Don't forget who you belong to. Don't forget where you are going. It is only when we remember these foundational truths that we can effectively live the Christian life. This morning, as we begin this new paragraph, we're just going to be looking at verses four and five. And these two verses are linked together by common imagery. It's very fascinating. In verse 4, Jesus is described as a living stone. And then in verse five, we as believers are described as lively or living stones. What we find in these two verses are two relationships that define our Christian identity. We are those who have come to trust in Christ, that is our personal identity, but we are also those who are part of the body of Christ, the church, that is our corporate identity. And it is these two relationships that should define our identity in the world. So I'm going to speak to this morning that Christians must remember their identity to worship and serve the Lord effectively. I have two points this morning, one for each of these verses. The first one in verse 4 is this. We are those who have a vital relationship with Christ. This is what it means to be a Christian. We are those who have a living relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. Now let's remember the context. In verse 3, Peter quotes from Psalm 34 and verse 8. And he says here that believers are those who have tasted that the Lord is good or gracious. And now in verse 4, Peter says that this is the Lord Jesus we have come to trust in and worship. This is one of many places in the New Testament where the writers take a passage that refers to Jehovah or Yahweh Lord and apply that to the Lord Jesus Christ. We see here the full deity of our Savior. And that is found, of course, throughout the pages of our New Testaments. Now it's interesting to note that Jesus here is compared to a stone. God is often compared to a stone or a rock. in the Old Testament. Jacob at the end of his life and surveying his life in Genesis 49, he refers to the Lord as the stone of Israel. Moses in the final speech that he gives to Israel says of Jehovah that he is the rock, Deuteronomy 32 and verse 4. And in David's last words to the people, he describes the Lord as the rock of Israel. 2 Samuel 23 and verse 3. The point of the imagery is obvious. A rock speaks of strength, a place of refuge, and it's seemingly timeless. These men of God could testify at the end of their lives that God had been like a rock and fortress to them, though everything and their experience may have changed. and been different than when they were young. God had not changed. He was still a rock to them. And now we see that the Lord Jesus Christ is compared in the same imagery as the living rock. Peter may be contrasting the Lord here with the many stone idols that were prevalent in his day, but he is saying here that he is not Like a dead inert stone. He is a living stone, a reference to his resurrection from the dead. And this is a very important distinction. He is saying here that Christians do not worship an ideal or a concept or a historical figure. We worship the living God who is right now at the right hand of the Father. Many people think of Christianity as just a ethic or the example of a very wonderful human being. But it's not that. It's not a list of what we believe, certain doctrines. Yes, there are core faiths that every believer must subscribe to. And yes, of course, what we believe affects the way we live. We have been called out of darkness into his marvelous lights. But the essence of Christianity is our personal relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ and whom we have come to trust in This is something that we must never forget. There are a lot of people in our nation, in fact the majority of people who claim To be Christians. Polster asks them, are you a Christian? Yeah, I'm a Christian. What do they mean by that? Well, they mean that they're not a Muslim and they're not a Hindu, and perhaps they're not an atheist, and so by default, being in the United States of America, they are a Christian. And they might every once in a while listen to some gospel music, and they have somewhere in their house an old dusty family Bible. And perhaps when they were an infant, they were baptized somewhere in some church. And so they believe that they indeed are a Christian. But they're nominal Christians. They're Christians in name only. They have never been born again. They do not have a personal relationship with Christ They do not begin their day saying, how can I live for the glory of my Savior today? Those thoughts never enter their minds. They do not have a personal relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. Maybe what I've just described is a description of you this morning. I would encourage you to listen closely because what it means to be a Christian is not those things that I mentioned. It is something that is vital, that is living. It is a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, Peter here is likely alluding to a passage in the Psalms in using this imagery. And Peter is going to reveal in verse 4 here a contrast between the way the world thinks of Jesus And the way God the Father regards this beloved Son. You might be here this morning and you might say, well, how could I really know? How could I really know if I'm one of those nominal Christians you spoke of? Or whether I'm one of those Christians who has truly been born again, who truly has a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ and knows that their sins have been forgiven. There are many biblical answers to that, one of which is found in our text this morning, and that is that we have a different viewpoint of the Lord Jesus Christ than does the world. We have followed God's viewpoint of his beloved Son. I'm going to read to you this passage in Psalm 118. You don't need to turn there, but most scholars think this is what Peter is referring to. He says it says in Psalm 118 verse 22, the stone which the builders refused is become the headstone of the corner. This is the Lord's doing. And it is marvelous in our eyes. Now this verse is probably referring to an incident that happened in the building of the temple. I cannot present this to you as gospel truth, but it is an ancient tale that may provide the background of this. When they were building the original temple on Mount Zion, of course, there was a chief architect who was in charge of carving out these massive stones and having them delivered to the Temple Mount. And as they were delivering there, they all came and they were assembled and put in place. And there was one day a stone that came that was very oddly shaped. And the man there at the site thought, this is a worthless stone, and so he cast it aside over on the side, and there it remained for many years, and the weeds would grow up around it. And as they continued to build and erect that magnificent temple, they came to a place where two walls were joined together. And they needed a very oddly shaped stone to tie those two walls together, and they couldn't find anyone there. And then someone remembered the stone that they had rejected years ago that had weeds growing up around it, and they went there, they recovered it, and it fit there perfectly. Because the man at the quarry, the architect, knew exactly what he was doing, and he chose the right stone. And that imagery may be the background behind that Psalm 118 and what Peter is saying here. The world looked at the Lord Jesus Christ and said, This can't be the Messiah. He came into his own and his own received him not. They rejected his message. He wasn't what they were expecting. But it was exactly the one that God had chosen to come and be the savior of the world. In the same way that Jesus was rejected by men, but chosen of God and precious. Now in 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse 4. We see this very unusual contrast here. And one of the ways that we can determine whether or not we truly are the children of God is What is our view of the Lord Jesus Christ? Are we those who have come to love him and regard him as indeed precious as he's described here? This is a very interesting word. It's found several times in just the span of a few verses. You'll notice with me it's found at the end of verse 4. Describes Jesus as chosen of God as precious. We find it again in verse 6. Wherefore also it is contained in the scripture, behold I lay in sign a chief cornerstone, elect precious And he that believeth in him shall not be confounded. And then verse 7, unto you therefore which believe, he is precious. This word means honorable or valuable. But I do like the translation precious because it speaks of an emotional attachment An affection that we have as believers. The world looks at the Lord Jesus Christ and they view it as if really rightly understood as being worthless to them, as having no relevance to their life, as having no instruction for them. But Christians are those who have come to find that He indeed is precious. He is the one in whom we love and in whom we have come to trust. And so we see here That our verse 4, notice it begins, I want to back up a little bit. Notice it says, to whom coming? This speaks of the Lord Jesus Christ. There are two aspects of coming to Christ. Says that we are those who have come to Christ. This is a specific Greek word, not the normal Greek word that's used for coming here The same word is used in Hebrews 7. 25. It says, wherefore he is able to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him. The same term is used in Hebrews 11, 6. He that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is the rewarder of them that diligently seek him. And there are two aspects of coming to Christ. There's a coming to Christ for salvation that those two verses speak of. Although the same word is not used here, I think of this invitation of our Lord Jesus Christ, one of the most beautiful in Scripture. Come unto me, all ye that are weak and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. So how could you know if you truly are a child of God that you're more than just a Christian in name only? Well, have you come to Christ by faith? Has there been a time in your life when your eyes were open and you saw the enormity of your sin and the dire situation that you were in and your need of the Savior? Has there been something like that that occurred in your life? Christians are those who have come to Christ. Notice they didn't come to a religion. They didn't come to turn over a new leaf They didn't come to clean up their act. No, they came to a person. They came to Christ because our hope is found only in him. But the term here that is used is set grammatically as a continual coming. Yes, there was a time that we came to Christ to begin with, but as Christians, that's not the end. We continue to come. And so we have verses like Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 16 using the same term. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace. that we might find grace to help in time of need. Christians are those who bring their petitions, their burdens, their difficulties to God in prayer. The same term is used in Hebrews 10. 22, where it says, Let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed. with pure water. And why is it that Christians keep coming back to the Savior The answer is because he is precious to us. We have a living, vital relationship with him. So let me ask you this morning, is Jesus truly precious to you? When we sing hymns like we sang this morning of our great Savior Hymns that exalt the Lord Jesus Christ, does that ever touch your hearts? Do you ever say, yes, that's exactly how I feel about him? Yes, I really understand what the writer was saying when he wrote these words because that's my experience as well. Or do you look at that and say, wow, this is really kind of over-the-top religious language Does it bother you when people take the name of Jesus in vain? Is there something inside of you that just shrivels up? Maybe some anger, blood pressure goes up a little bit. Or does that just pass through your ears and It's just sound. It doesn't make any impact on you at all because you hear it so often that it doesn't disturb you in the least. Are you embarrassed to ever identify yourself as a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ? So much easier just to say that you attend a certain church somewhere Have you ever told anyone, I'm a Christian. I'm a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. I have come to trust in him. Or do you really want to keep that secretive and hidden from people because you're a little embarrassed about that association? Can you sing from your heart the words to the hymn, I'd rather have Jesus than silver or gold? Or is that not the way you feel at all? You see, really, the way our heart 's reaction and response to our Savior feels speaks volumes about our identity and the reality of our relationship with Him This is our identity as Christians. We are those who find Jesus to be precious. But I'm going to move on to verse 5 now. Christians are those who have a vital part in the church of Jesus Christ. Just as our Savior is described as a living stone in verse 4, now we are described as living stones in verse 5. And the focus in this passage is not on us as individuals, but on us as a community of believers. We are part of a mystical, organic entity, like cells in a living organism, like the body analogy that we read of in 1 Corinthians chapter 12. We may be small and unseen, but this imagery reminds us, like Paul's imagery of the body, that we all have an important function in the body of Christ. So many Christians think of their relationship with the Lord as a very private thing, that it's just them and the Lord. And so they may not attend church very often. They may not have many Christian friends It's just in their minds being a Christian is simply a vertical relationship. But that's not why the way the Bible defines and describes a Christian. We are part of a body of believers. Christianity can only function in a healthy way within the church, the body of Christ. It is there that we can truly practice our faith and minister to one another and encourage one another. We are described here as stones that make up a grand temple. This means that we are part of something much bigger than ourselves. We are not like individual stones that are scattered randomly throughout the world. You might feel that way at work sometime. But that's not really the reality. You're a part of a temple. You're a part of a body. And this is the way we must think of ourselves. It also does not describe us as a huge pile of stones that have been thrown together in a haphazard manner. No, we are part of the temple of God, and God has carefully built the structure that He wants. And every Christian has a significant role to play in the household of God. He has a place and a purpose for each one of us. What is the cement that holds these living stones together? It is our love for the Lord Jesus Christ. That is the common bond. When our focus goes away from the Savior and what he has done for us and for our brothers and sisters, and we begin to focus on them and the differences that we might have and the offenses that may have occurred, then that bond becomes separated and there's not the unity that needs to be, but when we keep our focus on Christ, it keeps us together one to another. And the more precious we find our Savior, the more we will love one another as God has commanded us to do. Now it's interesting here to notice how Peter sort of mixes his metaphors. Because we are not only stones in the temple, but we are priests who worship and serve God in the temple. We are called here a holy priesthood. And Peter's going to come back to this in verse 8, where he calls us a royal priesthood. And notice again, he's not talking about us as individuals so much as a group, the priesthood. This is one of the great privileges we have as Christians. In the Old Testament, if you weren't a Levite, you could not be a priest. Sorry. This job is open only for Levites. They were the only ones who got to minister in that way. But all Christians can go to God directly through the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the only mediator between God and man. This is why our text in verse 5 speaks about offering sacrifice to God by Jesus Christ. The purpose of this priesthood here is to offer up spiritual sacrifices to God, and the only way we can offer up pleasing sacrifices to God is through the merits of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's important for me to say here that these the reference here to these spiritual sacrifices are not in any way saying that we are contributing to our salvation or our righteous standing before God. Or that we just, you know, this is how we earn our way into his good graces and into heaven. Absolutely not. Of course, this is what most people think. This is the way lost people invariably think. They think that we earn our standing before God. They think that their debt, their sinful debt, is not that great. And therefore, just a little bit of effort on their part will be enough to impress God and earn his favor so that he will look kindly on them and let them into heaven. That's the way lost people naturally think. And perhaps that's the way you are thinking here this morning. I've said things like this before, and I've had people tell me afterwards, you know, you were describing this first to things like that. That's exactly the way I think Well, that's very telling because that's the way lost people think. One time one of the things I often ask people when they mention that they think that by doing good deeds they can earn their ma their way. They can pay their own way as it were and earn their way to heaven. I will ask them a series of questions. And one question I ask them is, how good do you have to be Alright, you say you can get to heaven by being good, by doing good things. How good do you have to be? And they never know the answer to that. And my answer to them is, you know, if I really thought that I had to earn my way By good works, I'd really want to know the answer to that question. I'd like to know exactly where that line is. Because I'd hate to come to the end and find out that I just came a little bit short If I just volunteered one more time in that soup kitchen, I would be in. But see, you could volunteer the soup kitchen every day of your life. It's not going to be enough, not nearly enough. You have to have a perfect righteousness. And of course, if you can earn your own way, if you can pay your own freight, then why in the world did Jesus come and die on a cross? It was unnecessary. No, these spiritual sacrifices in no way contribute to our righteous standing. That is all entirely in Jesus Christ. But because we are priests before God, this imagery pictures us Throughout our lives, offering up spiritual sacrifices, that is, offerings that are pleasing to God in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now you might be wondering what exactly you're talking about. Well, there are at least seven spiritual sacrifices that are mentioned in your New Testament. You might want to make a list of these. Thus, first of all, the sacrifice of praise. Hebrews chapter 13, verse 15. By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually. That is the fruit of our lips giving thanks to his name. Praising God is not this thing that we do as a preliminary in the service. It is a vital part of our worship. That's why we like everyone to participate. You may only be able to make a joyful noise the Lord You may not may not have a trained voice like some people here do. But you can sing praises to God from your heart. And you can sing that, you can sing praises to God at home. And maybe you don't have much of a voice, you can still whisper praises to him from a hymn book. You can have a heart that's filled with gratitude that when you consider how God has saved you, what the Lord has done for you, that welling up within your heart is this desire to praise the Lord. That's part of what it means to be a Christian. We are those who live a life of praise. And that is why a grumpy and bitter Christian is a horrible testimony. Praising God is part of our worship. That's why we emphasize having an atmosphere of worship and why we sing out heartily here. Maybe you were visiting here today and say, wow these people really sing loud. You know, sometimes I get to attend other churches, and sometimes I'm in churches and I feel like I'm the only one singing. That's not a good thing. Look around and everyone's just kind of mumbling with their head down. Nothing's coming out of their mouth. No Church should sing with vibrancy from our hearts. Praise the gods Secondly, the sacrifice of ministering to others. The very next verse, Hebrews 13, 16 says, But to do good and to communicate or to give generously, forget not, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased. Have you learned the joy that it is to give to others to meet their needs? There's a lot of people in this church that do, I know. Now of course there's times when The church as a body, as a group, we help individuals. But I also know that there are many occasions that do not necessarily come to my attention where there's a need, and then someone in the church just meets that need. They don't bring it to me. They don't call meeting. They just meet the need themselves and they may not get any recognition. uh any uh credit for it. They may do it anonymously. The person doesn't even know where that came from, but the Lord knows. And they were not doing it for the eyes of men. That kind of sacrifice is well pleasing to God. There's thirdly the sacrifice of giving to the spread of the gospel. Philippians chapter 4 and verse 18, Paul says that the gift that the Philippian believers gave him describes it as an odor of a sweet smell a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. The church there was very careful and mindful to support the Apostle Paul. When we give from our hearts for the spread of the gospel to the servants of the Lord, it is a sacrifice that is well pleasing to God. Fourthly, there's the sacrifice of prayer. In Revelation chapter 5 and also in chapter 8, We read that the prayers of the saints ascend before God like heavenly incense. It's a wonderful thing to intercede for our brothers and sisters in Christ. Do you ever intercede for others? It's so easy in our prayer life to do what? To just pray about our own concerns, our own needs, and perhaps those of our immediate family members. But God wants us to pray more broadly than that. This is why we have a Wednesday night prayer meeting and we have a prayer sheet that we put out and we send out electronically. It's not just so that you know who's in the hospital or what's going on. It's so you would pray for them, that you would lift up their name, that you would ask God to work in their situation. This is why we have men's prayer breakfast once a month, and we have a ladies' missionary fellowship that gathers and prays specifically for our missionaries because these our sweet sacrifices to God, and God takes our prayers and uses them to accomplish his purposes. Fifthly, there is the sacrifice of seeing new converts come to Christ in Romans 15 verse 16 Paul speaks of presenting the Gentile converts before God as an acceptable sacrifice. What a blessing it is. Do you know the blessing that it is to have a part in sharing the good news with someone and then seeing them saved and grow in grace over the years? That is such a blessing. If you have never seen that, if you've never been the person that God has used to get the gospel to someone, you're missing something. You really are And sixthly, there's the sacrifice of a life of service. In Philippians chapter 2, in verse 17, Paul speaks of his life of serving the Lord as a drink offering that is poured out as a sacrifice to gods. Your time is the most valuable commodity that you have. It's a portion of your life. How much of it we throw away. But when we take that precious commodity of time, which is a segment of our life, and we devote that to serving the Lord, to meeting the needs of others. to accomplish to have a part in accomplishing God's purposes, it is a sacrifice that's pleasing to the Lord. And then seventh and finally we have the sacrifice of our bodies or our lives. We have this famous verse, Romans 12, 1, I beseech you therefore, brethren. by the mercies of God that you present your bodies a living sacrifice holy acceptable unto God which is your reasonable service And all these sacrifices are to be done together as the people of God. It's not like I'm keeping track and saying, wow, you know, I offered up three different sacrifices this week. It's not like that. We're not counting, but we're serving the Lord together with other believers. You know, we all influence one another. You know what happens when someone really gets a vision of this and you see them in our assembly and they're serving the Lord faithfully and they're reaching out to people left and right, you know what it does? It inspires other people to do the same thing I say that 's great. I want to do that too. I want to get involved. Can I go with you? Can be a catalyst for spiritual growth to one another. Now we use this term sacrifice in reference, of course, going back to the Old Testament sacrifices, but we need to be careful that we don't think of this as something that's so costly and laborious and as something that's very unpleasant. But this is what we've got to do for the Lords. Because there's a sense in which we don't really make any sacrifices because we're never the one who is losing when we give to God. We always get back more in return, no matter what we give. In this regard, I always think of the pioneer missionary David Livingston. He, of course, opened up the interior of Africa, was a great explorer as well. He endured great hardship. He was once mauled by lion so that his one arm was really not functional anymore when he came back to England and Scotland to Preach and report to churches they saw that this man had endured great hardship, and everyone would talk about his incredible sacrifice for the Lord. And he said this, people talk of the sacrifice I have made in spending so much of my life in Africa. Can that be called a sacrifice which is simply acknowledging a great debt we owe to our God, which we can never repay? Is that a sacrifice which brings its own reward? In healthful activity, the consciousness of doing good, peace of mind, and a bright hope of a glorious destiny, it is emphatically no sacrifice. Rather, it is a privilege Anxiety, sickness, suffering, danger, foregoring the common conveniences of this life. These may make us pause and cause the Spirit to waver. And a soul to sink, but let this only be for a moment. All these are nothing compared with the glory which shall later be revealed in and through us. He says, I never made a sacrifice. And I want you to know that if we give our lives in service to the Lord , We will never be the loser for it. We will never in eternity consider it a poor investment or a sacrifice that we wish we had not made. No, it will be worth it all. Let's close in prayer this morning, Father. We thank you so much for your word. We thank you for the reminder of who we are. That we as Christians are those Who are in a vital living relationship with our Lord and Savior. And we are those who are part of the Church of Jesus Christ, that we have a place and a purpose That even through our lives, we can offer up spiritual sacrifices that are well pleasing to you in the name of Jesus and that bring you glory. We thank you for this significance and for this great work that you've called us to do. Help us to be a people Who are glad to offer up our lives, our time, our money, and service to you. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.