If you have your Bibles, please would you turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 3? If you're visiting with us this morning, we have been making our way through This book of 1 Peter, I did want to mention one thing that I failed to mention earlier, and that is that we have these first memory cards connected with our Sunday school program And uh we have a new one out today going through September the fifth, uh, and this is the beginning of the passage one the Ten Commandments in Exodus chapter 20, so they should be familiar to you. We have them at our different exits and also under Sunday school classes. I would invite you to join us as we memorize those verses the next few weeks. 1 Peter chapter 3. In 17th century Britain, there were two names That for a time dominated the religious scene. One was the Archbishop James Usher, and the other was Samuel Rutherford of Scotland. Usher was an Anglican. Rutherford was a Presbyterian. They differed on several things, but they were united in the gospel. They had written each other at times, but they had never met one another. Archbishop Usher decided that one day he wanted to visit this famous man, Samuel Rutherford. And so he showed up at his home on a Saturday as a lodger without giving his name. He was shown in and stayed with the family for dinner that night. And uh that evening, Mrs. Rutherford catechized the servants and any strangers that were there for dinner. And she asked her unknown guest. How many commandments are there? And he said, eleven. And she remarked later to her husband, this man was obviously ignorant of the scriptures. The next morning, uh James Usher was praying in his room, and Samuel Rutherford overheard him and recognized That indeed this was not just some random stranger, but he must be a man of God. And so he came in and asked him his identity and he introduced himself. And Samuel Rutherford was very delighted, and he asked his Anglican brother to preach for him that Sunday morning. And his text that Sunday morning was from John chapter 13, verses 34 and 35 on the new commandment have I given unto you. That you love one another. And that's why he said the night before that there were 11 commandments. One of the Lord's desires is that his people would exhibit a unity to the world, that this would be irrefutable evidence of the transforming power of the gospel. Unfortunately, Christians have fallen short of presenting a picture of unity to the world. This is true on a global scale as well as on the local church level. This is not, however, a modern problem. We see it in our New Testaments. There was, of course, a problem in the church at Corinth. They were divided over personalities. We know this was a problem in the churches in Galatia because Paul rebukes them and tells them not to devour one another. It was also a struggle in the church at Philippi, and it was also a challenge to the churches that Peter ministered to. This is why the apostles throughout their writings call on believers to love one another. John, of course, is known as the apostle of love. And he in his first epistle he says that this is the primary evidence that someone has been born again, that they love one another. The Apostle Paul wrote the greatest description. of love ever in history, and that is found in 1 Corinthians chapter 13. And Peter also emphasizes the importance of Christian love. You may recall a few months ago we were in chapter 1 and verse 22, and there Peter writes, seeing ye have purified your souls. and obeying the truth through the Spirit unto unfeigned love of the brethren, see that you love one another with a pure heart. fervently. And in chapter 2 and verse 17, he calls on them to love the brotherhood. And in chapter 4 and verse 8 he says, above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves For charity or love shall cover a multitude of sins. Now in 1 Peter chapter 3 and verse 8 We come to another text that fleshes this out. He says, finally, be all of one mind, having compassion one of another, love as brethren, be pitiful, be courteous. I want us to pick up the train of thought here. This unit of thought really begins all the way back in chapter 2 and verse 11. where Peter addresses them as dearly beloved and now he is going to give them some instructions for living in the fallen world He says, first of all, in verses 13 through 17 that they are to submit to the governing authorities. And then he turns his attention to the typical first century household. And so he instructs household servants to be subject to their masters in chapter 2 and verse 18 instructs Wives to yield to the leadership of their husbands in chapter 3 and verse 1, and for husbands to lovingly lead their wives in chapter 3 and verse 7. And now he is going to broaden it and speak about our obligations to others more generally. And he begins with those who are Christian brothers and sisters. the community of faith, the church. And then in verse 9, he's going to talk about our relationship with those in the world, especially those who persecute us. But this morning we're going to look at just one verse, verse 8. And what we have in this verse, this very brief verse that's easy to overlook, is we have five adjectives that are being used with the force of a command. These are not suggestions or goals, but God-given obligations that we have for one another within the Church of Christ. And so we will be focusing on these five commands this morning. Let me ask you this morning. Are you known as a gracious and loving person? Would anyone turn to you for consolation or support or help in time of need? Is the Holy Spirit changing you so that you are more loving today than you were five years ago? These are challenging questions that are intended to turn our attention to these important instructions. I'm going to preach to you this morning on this truth that Christians are called to live with one another in love. These are our relational obligations. Would you notice with me, first of all, that we're called to live in harmony? Within the church of Christ. Look with me at this first phrase. It says, finally be all of one mind. So what does it mean to be of one mind? Let me first of all mention what it does not mean. It does not mean that all Christians should think exactly alike about every single issue. That is a characteristic of cults. That is uniformity. The only way you can achieve that is through coercion. Because if you haven't noticed it, people have different ideas about things. And we know from the New Testament that God does not require us to believe exactly the same thing about every single detail. Now we should believe what the Bible teaches. Certainly, we should all be on that page and we should be unified in the doctrines that are found in Scripture. But when it comes to the application of God's truth and how exactly that plays out, Christians have always differed, and we find this in our New Testaments. Do you remember the differences we found in the church at Corinth and at Rome? We know that early Christians differed about what a Christian should eat and when a Christian should fast and what they should drink and there were differences about the observance of days. And the solution was not for them to be constrained to believe a certain application of truth and say this is exactly what you must do in every detail. No, what Paul called on believers in the early church to do was to accept one another and to love one another and to disagree about these applications in a loving way. So what does it mean then to be of one mind? It means that Christians are to live at harmony and at peace with one another. We are not to assist on our own rights. at the expense of others. I want to mention an implication of this command. First of all, this instruction presupposes that Christians will be part of a body of believers. It is becoming more and more common for Christians to avoid attending or being part of a local church. Many people think That all that matters is my personal relationship with God. I don't want to be a part of anything else. I don't want to be a part of a church. I don't want to go to a place and have to interact and every church has its politics and every church has its problems and every church has its factions and I don't want to deal with all of that mess, so I will just stay at home and read my Bible, maybe listen to some sermon or watch some sermon, but all that I need, I can find myself, I don't need to be in a church. But everything in the New Testament argues against that. The fact is God made us Interdependent. We need one another. I know we as Americans love our independence. It's a part of our national mindset. I can take care of things myself. I don't need anyone. But the reality is you do need others. You do need the prayers of your brothers and sisters. You do need their spiritual gifts being ministered to you, and you need the opportunity for you to exercise your spiritual gifts in their life You need the accountability that they provide. You need the emotional support that they provide. You need the service opportunities. Because there are some ways that you can only serve the Lord together. And so we do need the church. And the Bible instructs us about the church. And everywhere the Bible addresses believers, it addresses them with the assumption that they will be part of a body of believers. Not a lone ranger out there living life on your own terms. Now I very much understand why people want to avoid being in churches and being part of groups of believers because relationships are messy. And many Christians have had really bad experiences in churches. where they have been mistreated, where they have been misjudged, where things have occurred that should not have occurred occurred and they're hurt and they're wounded by those experiences and so it's very easy for them to say, you know what? I'm just done with church. I'm going to walk away. I can walk with the Lord myself without all of that drama and that tension I can do without that. I've heard that so many times from people, and I understand, but part of what God wants to accomplish in our lives is for us to learn to love one another and to interact with one another. And that does come with challenges It does come with difficult lessons for us to learn, but this is part of how we grow in grace. The fact of the matter is the New Testament writers put a great emphasis. on spiritual unity. This is one of the things that Jesus prayed for in his great high priestly prayer. And John chapter 17, he says that they might be one. We read about the Apostle Paul praying for the church at Rome, and in Romans 15, verse 5, he says, Now the God of patience and consolation grants you to be like-minded one toward another. He's prayed the same thing for the church at Corinth. And Paul concludes 2 Corinthians with these words, be of one mind, live in peace, and the God of peace and love. shall be with you. What a challenge that is. What a wonderful vision that is. How do we accomplish that? There's many things that could be said in answer to that, but perhaps the main thing is that our focus has to be on what unites us. Our focus has to be on Christ. Not on ourselves, not on our differences, not on our grievances, not on our rights or our agendas, but on Christ. When we keep our focus on Christ, the church. will be united. And this is part of what it means to love one another is that we endeavor to live at peace with one another. Secondly, I would like you to notice in our text that we are called to live in sympathy within the church of Christ. We're called to live in unity. Now would you notice we're called to live in sympathy. Now the term that's translated as having compassion is actually the origin of our English word sympathy. We are called to be sympathetic to our brother and sister in Christ. Now I think you know what the word sympathy means. It's made up of two parts, and it means to feel with someone And perhaps the verse that brings this out the best is Romans chapter 12 and verse 15, which says, rejoice with them that do rejoice, and weep with them that weep. You've probably heard this said before. It's uncertain exactly who started it. But it is true. Friendship multiplies our joys. and divides our grief. Sympathy is a powerful element that unites our hearts together And to be sympathetic towards others is to be like our Savior. Did you know that? In Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 15, we read that we have a sympathetic high priest. He is touched with the feeling of our infirmities. What a comfort that is to us as believers to know that our Lord and Savior can sympathize with us. and with our weaknesses and our struggles and our fights with temptation. For he is the God-man. And he knows what it is to be sorrowful and to be weak and to face great difficulties. And we are to be sympathetic to others. The more we grow in grace and become like Christ, the more sympathetic we will become to others. Now, this call to sympathy implies or presupposes three things. First of all, it assumes that we genuinely care for one another. You see, if we don't really care for one another, we're not going to be sympathetic to one another. This is not a suggestion that we artificially express something that we don't truly feel. It's so easy just to know our manners and to say people, I'm so sorry. Of this difficulty you're facing and move on. And to say that a heart is really touched when the fact is, if the truth was known, a heart is not touched at all with their difficulty. When you read of someone in the church that's facing a great difficulty, perhaps they've just been diagnosed with cancer And it's a very serious situation. Do you have any sympathy for them? Can you enter into their feelings at all? Do you ever let your mind and your heart go there? Can you identify with the anxiety and the unrest that they must be feeling? the difficulties that they are having going to sleep at night. And when they wake up in the morning, the very first thought that comes to their mind is that they have this disease. Or does it just never enter into your mind? Do you just say, oh wow, that's something. So-and-so has cancer. What do you know? Or does it really touch our hearts? This command implies, secondly, that we're connected with other believers It's impossible for you to be sympathetic to others if you don't know anything about them, if you don't have a relationship with them, if you don't know their situation. One of the things that I try to do as a pastor, and it is a great challenge, is I'm constantly trying to get people connected. Because our natural tendency, and this happens as a church grows and becomes larger, is I just want to stay about five feet outside of the boundary over here. And I'm kind of got one foot in, but not really. I don't want to get too connected. I don't want to get involved. I don't want to know what's going on and the struggles that people are facing or the problems. I just want to be out on the periphery And I find myself constantly trying to draw people in. Come in here. Be an active part of the body. Get involved. Invest your life in other people. Don't just stay out there where it's safe. Get in here where the action is really occurring. and get involved in the lives of other people. I know it's a real tempting option to be isolated. It's like this with all human relationships, right? You know, when you love someone and you get married and then you have children, you know what happens? Your life gets really complicated. Isn't that true? Do relationships complicate our lives? Yes, they do. But how much do they enrich our lives as well? Some people in life say, you know what, I'm just never going to get married. I'm never going to be in a relationship. I'm never going to have any children. I'm just going to live life on my own terms, and I won't have all the drama and tension and difficulty that comes with human relationships. Yes, but how much are you missing if you live that way? It's the same with the church, the body of Christ. Are you going to have more complications as you get close to people, as you get involved in their lives, as you minister to them? Yes, you will. But your life will also be so much more enriched as you minister one to another. But why is it that so many people seem to lack this ability to be sympathetic towards others? And I think the answer reminds us of this point, and that is because we tend to be too self-focused. Too often our focus is when are people going to minister to me When are people going to reach out to me? When are people going to ask me how I'm doing? When are people going to inquire about my family, about my difficulties, about my health? How many people come to church with a huge burden on their shoulders And they want to have some consolation. They want to be able to share their burden with someone. And sometimes, depending on the personality, they may not share it with anyone, and they go home disappointed. And that is a shame. But how much better would it be if our focus was, who can I minister to today? Who's sitting next to me has a great burden that may be unknown to me, but yet is there? And that person is craving to be ministered to and to be prayed with. You know, I'm a pastor and I try to know people's needs and I try to understand the burdens they're facing, and I probably know more than anybody else here does. But you know what? Even what I know is I know just the tip of the iceberg, that there's a whole bunch more, so many more problems and burdens and difficulties and struggles. But I'm nothing about that people bring with them every Sunday in here for a church service. God 's plan is that we would minister to one another, that it wouldn't be one-way ministry, but it would be going back and forth and around and And there might be a period of time in your life when you desperately need the support of the brothers and sisters, but another time they may need your support. Now you're strong and they're weak. Now you're lifted up and they're cast down, and we minister one to another in different ways and in different periods of our life. This is what God has called us to do. God has called us to put aside our natural self-focus. And minister to those around us. Would you notice with me thirdly that we are called to live as a family within the church of Christ? The third. element that we find in verse 8 is this phrase, love as brethren. Now I want to take a moment to talk about the structure in this verse. This is something I don't want to get technical, but this is, all the commentators bring this out, this is a chiastic structure. That means that the focal point, the real heart of it is what's at the very center, and that is this third element, love as brethren. There's a sense in which everything else on both sides of that Explain what it means to love us, brethren. So the first two, the first and the last item in the list of five deal with how we think. And then the second and the fourth deal with how we feel we have compassion and pity there. The one in the center is the most general, which is love the brethren. And this is a Greek word that everybody here knows. It's the word Philadelphia. Philadelphia. Now there's all kinds of jokes about brotherly love in Philadelphia. I won't go into that. But that is the Greek word here. And what this is talking about is family love. The Bible pictures the church as the family of God. This is like an extended family. I hope you think that way about your church. Now perhaps you would say, I don't feel that way at all. In fact, I don't even know most of those people there. That's a shame. You should try to remedy that situation and try to get to know the members of your family. Maybe sometimes you go to a family reunion and you're saying to yourself, I don't know half of the people here, their family, but I don't know who they are. Well, I would hope that you would try to get caught up with everyone. That's the way it should be here on the Lord's Day as we fellowship and we worship together. The fact is that we are part of the family of God and we have the most important and significant bonds between us in any human relationships. We have the same father We have the same Savior. We have the same purpose. And we're headed to the same home. This concept of loving his brethren is something that Peter has already mentioned and something that obviously was very important to him. Remember in chapter 1 and verse 22? He calls on them for unfeigned, or we would say, sincere love of the brethren. Not just something that you say, I love you, brother, but something that you really mean, something that you truly demonstrate with one another. And in chapter 2 and verse 17, when he gives that list of brief commands, he says that they are to love the brotherhood. What exactly does this mean? One writer says it's a God-engendered affection for and service to those in the household of faith. So, what are the implications of this God-revealed truth that all true believers are part of the family of God? Number one We should seek to develop warm, affectionate relationships within the body of Christ. Are you doing that? Are you trying to develop relationships? Again, I know what the temptation is. The temptation is to keep your distance, to not engage, don't talk to anyone unless they talk to you. And then keep it very general and very brief and move on. That's the way many people operate. I understand that. I know that there's some people that you're wired in such a way that you're social animals and you just love to talk and be around people. And I've confessed to you many times, I'm not one of those individuals. I'm the kind of person, I've said this before, but if I was not the pastor of this church, I was just a guy who came here. I would probably be back in the corner and half of you would have no idea who I was. But God put me in this position, and God has shown me from his word that it's really important. That I connect with other people and that I engage with them and that I talk to them and that I find out what's going on in their lives We need to develop these relationships. This is why we provide opportunities for fellowship in our church like next Sunday when we have the Fifth Sunday fellowship We have wonderful food for you, and all she have to do is go downstairs and you'll sit at a table and there'll be someone across from you and someone next to you. And you may or may not know them, but it's a chance for you to get to know people and to fellowship with them and enjoy some good food. This makes our church stronger. It's a lot of work. But it makes our church stronger because we are forging relationships with one another Paul writes in 1 Thessalonians 4. 9, but as touching brotherly love, ye need not that I write unto you, for ye yourselves are taught of God. to love one another. He's saying that this brotherly and sisterly love is to be instinctive It should be natural. And some of you perhaps have had situations where you've had to move around a good bit and you know what it is to go to a place and to walk into a church of life precious faith where you have never been there before, but yet you feel that these are part of my family And you can talk to people within a short time you have things in common, interests in common, and you can bond quickly with people because they are part. of the family of God. This is part of what it means to be a child of God that we have those relationships. But secondly, the implication I think here is that we should love even the difficult members of the family of God. I know I've brought this up to you before. But in every family, I'm not just talking about your little immediate family, but in your extended family, you have different kinds of relatives, don't you? Do you have any family members of your extended family that annoy you or irritate you? I'm sure you do. This is why you have so many people who do not look forward to Thanksgiving, unfortunately. I say it's the least favorite holiday because families get together and they have to be with people sometimes they find very difficult to be with. It shouldn't be that way. And I hope that you do enjoy being with your family and you're able to endure those annoying traits in your family members. This is part of what has to occur within the family of God as well. The Bible calls us in several places in the New Testament to forbear one another. And that literally means put up with them. You just have to put up with some people And their behavior that just grates against your nerves. That's what you do in a family, and that's what you do in the family of God as well. It's one of the ways that we demonstrate love to one another. The fourth thing I want you to see in our passage is that we are called to live with Pity, or we could say compassion within the church of Christ. Now, the Greek term that's translated pity is most often translated in our New Testament as compassion. I want to first of all distinguish between sympathy and compassion. They are similar. Sympathy speaks of feeling what others are feeling. Compassion refers to being moved by the misery of another and then doing what you can to help solve that problem. The New Testament term for compassion always moves from feeling to action. And the other thing I want you to know about this word compassion is that it's used almost exclusively in the life and ministry of Christ. This is the emotion most commonly ascribed to our Lord Jesus Christ. Often you will read in the gospel record of Jesus being moved with compassion. He was moved with compassion by the needs of one person. As well as with the multitude. And when Jesus was moved with compassion, in every case He did something about it. In other words, he didn't just say, oh, this is awful. This poor person, they've got such difficulty. I really feel bad for them. No, he did something. to solve that problem. For example, in Matthew 15, 32, we read Jesus saying, I have compassion on the multitude because they continue with me now three days and have nothing to eat. So what did Jesus do? He miraculously fed the 4,000. You may say, I thought it was 5,000. He fed a group of 4,000 at one time and 5,000 another time. In Matthew chapter 9 and verse 36, we read that when he saw the multitude, he was moved with compassion on them because they fainted and were scattered abroad as sheep having no shepherd. They had no true spiritual guide in their life. So what did he do? He called the disciples to pray to the Lord of the harvest that he would send forth laborers into his harvest. And the next thing that we read is that the Lord sent them out to minister to the people. You see, we are never more like our Lord and Savior. than when we minister with compassion to others. That's what Jesus wants us to do. He wants, first of all, our heart to be truly touched by the needs of others. And then we do what we can to meet the need. Perhaps the most famous example of compassion is found in our Lord's parable of the Good Samaritan. You know the story? This man is beaten up and robbed by a highway bandit. He's left there in the road and two religious leaders come by and they pass him by with their pious excuses. And then a Samaritan comes along and he takes care of the man. He binds up his wounds. He pours in the ointment. He puts him on his feast. He takes him to an end. He pays for his care so that this man will recover. Even though very likely the man who was injured hated Samaritans. Although it's not stated in the parable that is understood by the audience. He takes care of this. He not only shows compassion the text reads, but he does something about it. You see, compassion involves more than feeling sorry for a person's difficulties. It involves sacrificially meeting their need. The Apostle John brings this out. We all know John 3. 16. Well, in 1 John 3. 16 we read this. Hereby perceive we the love of God. because he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. But whoso hath this world's goods and seeeth his brother have need, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him , How dwelleth the love of God in him? Do you give of your time and your money? To meet the needs of your brother and sister in Christ. One of the most encouraging things that I see in this church is that there are many people who do I get kind of a bird's eye view of this that perhaps most people don't see. And I know there are many things that I don't see that occur. where one person is ministering to another person, maybe giving their time, maybe giving them instruction, maybe mentoring them, discipling them, maybe giving them financial support. Maybe helping them out when they need a car. I see that happening almost every week. Where the body is ministering to other people in their body, and they're not making a show of it. Nobody knows about it. Nobody's patting them on the back. Nobody sees it. In many cases, they may do this in an anonymous way. That even the recipient doesn't know where this blessing, the support is coming from. But you know what? The Lord knows The Lord knows. And this is part of what the church is to be like. This is one reason why we have a deacon's fund here and why we use it on a regular basis to minister to people's needs. I know there are many churches that don't do that today, and I know it can be complicated, and it can be messy, and there can be people who try to take advantage of that. But what a tangible way to demonstrate the love of Christ with believers meeting the needs of other believers. This is what God has called us to do. And fifthly, I want you to notice that we have been called to live in humility within the Church of Christ. The final phrase here says, be courteous. Being courteous is certainly needed in our interactions with others. The basic idea of the term that's used here is that of humility of mind. A few months ago I preached, uh actually last year I guess it was, I preached a series of messages on humility. Humility is an essential Christian virtue. In fact, it is a Christ-like virtue. Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ described himself as meek and lowly in heart. Now, humble people don't go around talking down about themselves and saying, you know, I can't do anything, I'm not good at anything. Please feel sorry for me. That's not what humility is. Humility is thinking accurately and seeing yourself as you truly are in the presence of God. The humble are those who recognize that anything they possess or whatever they may have achieved, it is only due to the grace of God. Let me ask you a difficult question. Would anyone consider you to be a humble person? Let me give you some questions to ask yourself. That come right out of Scripture. First of all, do you live at peace with others? In Philippians chapter 2. Paul addresses the church there that was having some dissension and difficulties. He said there, let nothing be done through strife or vainglory But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem other better than themselves A lot of the dissension that people experience in life is because of pride. There's the clashing of wills Is your life full of drama because you're always upset and waging war with someone? I know what the problem is. The book of Proverbs, the book of wisdom, that says, only by strife cometh, only by pride cometh contention. Humble people live at peace. They are quick to forgive and slow to anger. Second question I have for you is do you tend to be self-focused or other focused? Philippians chapter 2 and verse 4 is a famous verse that says Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others It's talking about the word look is the Greek word that we get our English word scope from. You have a microscope or a telescope that focuses in on something. We are to focus not on ourselves and our rights and our needs and our accomplishments, but we are to look to those around us and their needs. That is what the Christian life is all about. Thirdly, do you often feel that you deserve better circumstances than you have? Paul says in Philippians chapter 4 and verse 12, he says, I know both how to be abase And I know how to abound everywhere in all things I am instructed, both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through Christ, which strengthens me. Humble people don't go around saying, you know, I deserve to be treated better than this. I deserve to have a better house than this. I deserve to have a better car than this. Why Isn't God giving me what I deserve and what I've earned? No, humble people are at peace and contentments and are thankful for what God has given them. Fourthly , Do you make people feel comfortable around you, or do you intimidate or ignore them? In Romans chapter 12, another passage that speaks of humility, we read this in verse 16. Be of the same mind one towards another, mind not high things. But condescend to men of low estate. Be not wise in your own conceits. Humble people are not condescending towards others. They make others feel comfortable. And accept it. And number five, are you able to submit to God's authority in your life? Peter is going to come back to this a little bit later in this epistle. And in fact, in 1 Peter chapter 5, And verse 5, he says, this, likewise ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all of you be subject one to another and be clothed with humility, for God resisteth the proud and giveth grace to the humble. I love that imagery. Be clothed with humility. What comes natural to us and to our flesh is to be proud, to be independent, to fight for our own selves, to draw attention to ourselves. But God calls us to be clothed, to be wrapped up in humility. This is the path to receive the grace of God and his blessings upon us. These are the five elements of our God-given obligations to one another. This is what God expects us to do. These are the rules that should restrict and inform how we relate to one another. We are to be humble. We are to be compassionate. We are to be loving. We are to be united. We are to be sympathetic to one another. Now I want to be clear this morning. It would be easier for you to walk away and think that what Peter is essentially saying is that we are to play nice with each other. There are a lot of sermons that people will attend in churches today where the essence of the message was be nice to one another. I would hate for you to leave here today and think that's what the sermon is all about. Because that is sentimental moralism. And that is not what I am preaching today. The things that we are called to do to one another are things that can only be worked out in our lives as we are filled by the Spirit of God, as we depend on the grace of God, as we walk. in newness of life. It is only because of the gospel of Jesus Christ and the fact that we have been rescued and saved that we can live this way, that we can interact with one another, that we can sacrificially love one another, because that doesn't come natural to our fallen estates. And it is only by the grace of God that you can accomplish any of the things that we are exhorted to do here in this passage this morning. This is why it's such a struggle for a local church to fulfill these commands. This is why our flesh gets in the way. This is why it seems like an idealistic dream that's presented here because it's so hard and so difficult in fact it's impossible to do in our own strengths. without the grace of God. Now that may seem very discouraging. In fact, this whole message may be somewhat discouraging to you because you say I've never been in a church that really fulfilled those things. I've never been in an assembly that really cared for people like that. But you know what? We are all a work in progress. That's true of us as individuals. That's true also of every local church. But someday, someday, you will see the church as it's intended to be. And there will be fervent love one for another. You all know the name of Jonathan Edwards The greatest, one of the greatest preachers this country's ever produced. We all know about his sermon, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God, but he actually preached more often about heaven. And he once preached a sermon entitled, Heaven, a World of Love. And in that beautiful sermon, he describes how believers will interact with one another in heaven someday. He says this, all the members of the glorious society of heaven are sincerely united. There is not a single secret or open enemy among them all. Not a heart is there that is not full of love, and not a solitary inhabitant. that is not beloved by all the others. And as all are lovely, so all see each other's loveliness with full complacence and delight. Every soul goes out in love to every other. And among all the blessed inhabitants, love is mutual and full and eternal. That's our home. You may be discouraged with the church. People often are. It's common for people today to say to you, I love the Lord, but I want nothing to do with his church. But someday you will be in his presence and you will see the church as it truly is. You will see the church that Christ died for. You will see the beauty of the people of God. And today in this fallen world with our fallen flesh, Within us, we fight to become what we are becoming, what we will be someday in heaven, where we will love one another as God has called us to. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the high calling that we have been given. I pray that you would help us To remember to love one another and to develop relationships that will last for eternity. Relationships that are mutually beneficial and edifying and that bring glory to your name. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen