To go ahead and turn in the Bible, please, to 1 Corinthians chapter 11. 1 Corinthians chapter 11. I'd like to begin reading of verse 23. Paul writes, for I've received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you. The Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. When he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take, eat. This is my body which is broken for you. This is due in remembrance of me. After the same manner also he took the cup when he had supped, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do ye as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, you do show the Lord's death till he come. Wherefore whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily. shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep. For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. But when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord, that we should not be condemned with the world. Wherefore, my brethren, when ye come together to eat, tarry one for another. And if any man hunger, let him eat at home, that ye come not together unto condemnation. The rest will I set in order. This is the passage of Scripture that provides the instruction concerning the Lord's table. And first and foremost in this instruction is that we are to remember the Lord. Reflection and remembrance is a very important of the believer's life. In the fourth commandment, it says that to remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. The Israelites were told repeatedly that they were to remember their exodus from Egypt. And when they came into the promised land, God told them to heap twelve stones to remember their entrance into Canaan. In Ecclesiastes, we are told to remember now the Creator in the days of thy youth. All throughout the scriptures, Old and New Testaments, we are told to remember. Very briefly this evening I want us to consider what we are to remember when we come to the Lord's table. There's one thing that is explicitly mentioned, and then there are three things that I think that can be implied from the text. The first thing that we are to remember is the death of Christ. We are told here that we are to do this in remembrance, Jesus says, of me And the context makes it clear that we are to remember the death of Christ. It's not talking about a general remembrance of his person or of his life. but we are to remember his death. The broken bread represents the broken body of our Lord, and the cup represents the blood that we shed. And usually, when a loved one dies , we find it very painful to remember them And so we we might want to keep that in our memories. We might have some kind of little memorial. We might go to the gravesite. We don't want to forget them. Uh but yet it is certainly not something that is uh that we want to do on perhaps a regular basis. And this reluctance to remember is only intensified when a person has died by a violent and criminal action. And that, of course, is true of Lord Jesus Christ. So why does God command us to remember Christ's death? The answer is there's several things given in Scripture. One is that we are the beneficiaries of his death. In verse 24, it says that This is done for you. In verse 25 it says, after the same manner also took the cup when he had supped, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do ye as often as ye drink it. in remembrance of me. And in Luke chapter 22 and verse 20, where it records the first communion service, he says that this blood is shed for you. So what do we realize when we focus on this truth? One of the things we realize is our debt that we owe to Christ. He died for us and redeemed us, and this is something that we can never do for ourselves. This is a debt that we can never repay, and we are not meant to repay it. But it should stir up love and affection for our Savior when we consider this. We are to recognize the love of Christ for us. In John chapter 15 it says, Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. And Christ laid down his life. For sinners. And therefore, this is a demonstration in a very amazing way of the love of Christ. And every time we come together, we are to reflect on that and to remember that. And the reason why we are commanded and the reason why this ordinance has been set in Scripture is because we are so quick to forget. Just imagine if we never observed the Lord's table, if we never reminded ourselves in a very intentional way of what Christ has done for us, how little could we uh would would we perhaps think of the cross? The cross should be something that we just think about not just whenever we observe communion, it should be something ideally that we think about every day. Because we are those who have been redeemed by the cross, and we are to live in light of the gospel But because of the distractions of the world and our own fallen nature, we are so quick to forget the reality that we have been bought with a price This is why it's important for the Lord's people to gather on communion. One of the things that I talk about with other pastors is the distressful situation that fewer and fewer Christians gather around the Lord's table. They see it as just a uh something that's not really that important is something that uh uh is um uh has no real relevance on their own spiritual lives. That is not the way the New Testament presents it It is true that it does not save us. It does not cleanse us of our sins. It does not earn us merit with God. But it is something that Jesus Christ commanded his followers to do I don't know how to put it any more cleanly than that when believers just intentionally decide, I'm not going to have any part of that. I don't know how else to look at it than to say that is just disobedience. Because he said, do this in remembrance of me. And if you think about it It's all the more poignant because he said this the night before his crucifixion. This is one of his dying requests. So when when believers just decide, you know, I'm not going to celebrate Lord's Table when it works too much house, so I don't want to do it uh they are doing something that um is serious and and something that I think uh the Lord is not pleased with We are also, I think, when we come here to recognize the high cost of our redemption. The fact is that it required the death of the Son of God, there is no higher price that could be paid in the universe for our redemption. All the millions and thousands of lambs and goats and animals that were sacrificed in the Old Testament era before the coming of Christ, their value was infinitesimally small compared to the sacrifice of Christ This is something that we need to remember, the high cost of our redemption. And we find often in the epistles application and exhortation made on this basis. Paul in 1 Corinthians chapter 6 calls on us to live holy lives, pure lives, because he says, what? Know ye not that you are bought with a price? Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. You belong to Him because He bought you. He purchased you out of the slave market of sin. And so when we come together and observe this table, we are remembering who we are. We are remembering what Christ has done for us, what his sacrifice accomplished. And so it is significant and important. The second thing that is implied that we are to remember is that we must remember Christ's coming. Look at verse 26. For as often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, you do show or announce the Lord's death. Till he come. The word show is one of the New Testament words for preaching. And we find here that this New Testament, this ordinance, is to be practiced on a regular basis until the Lord comes again. And so it is implicitly to remind us that just as he came a first time, his first advent should remind us that he is indeed coming again. How does the first and second advents connect, and how does this remind us of that? Well, first of all, it reminds us of the certainty of his coming. As certain as Jesus came in fulfillment of those Old Testament prophecies, all of those prophecies and all those different prophetic writings, as clear as it was that He was going to come, and He did come. It's just as certain that he will come again. We should not think of it as something that's fuzzy and something that's possible and something that perhaps could come. But, you know, we don't really think it's going to happen. We should recognize that it will happen just as surely as the first advent occurred. It also reminds us of the contrast of his coming. In the first Advent, Christ came lowly and meek. He came as the suffering servant of the Lord. But in the second coming, he will come with power and great glory. He will come with majesty and authority And this is something that we must remember and we must anticipate with joy. It also reminds us, I think, that we are called to holiness. In 1 John, we have a very interesting application of this in 1 John chapter 3. Let me read this for you. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God. And it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, that is Christ, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself even as he is pure. Everyone who truly has the hope of eternal life, who is looking for the Lord's return, is anticipating his coming, will have this trait, and that is that they will desire to be pure. I don't know about you, but every time we come to this table, it's a bittersweet experience. It's a wonderful thing to think of our redemption, that our sins have been forgiven, that we are secure in Christ. These are wonderful things to reflect upon. But when we are also called to examine ourselves, and we are always reminded when we come here that we have come short. That we have things to confess. That we have not followed the Lord as wholly as we ought. But you know what? It is also a reminder to us, because our Lord is coming again, the time will come. When that is no longer true, we will no longer think about how we have come short because we will be holy even as he is holy. We will be perfectly poor. Now that's almost hard for us to imagine because your entire life you have had this sense Of guilt and of sin and of falling short of the glory of God. But someday that will not be the case You will be holy even as he is holy. Thirdly, we are also to remember our sin. In verses 27 and following we had this exhortation to examination. Paul is not saying that we are to examine to see if we are worthy to partake of these elements. Because the fact is that none of us are worthy. Notice it's the word unworthily in verses 27 and 29, which is an adverb. It speaks of the manner in which we partake. And that raises the question, what would be an unworthy manner in which to partake of this? That would really should keep us from participating in this. Well, according to context here. It would be selfishness in the body of Christ. Look with me at verse 20 of the same chapter. When you come together, therefore, into one place, this is not to eat the Lord's Supper. For in eating every one taketh before others his own supper, and one is hungry, and another is drunken. What? Have ye not houses to eat and drink in, or despise ye the church of God? And shame them that have not, what shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I praise you not It's a reference to the fact that there were some people that were coming, they would have a meal, and some would come with a great bounty, and others would come who were poor, who had next to nothing. And some were eating before others had even come, and there was no consideration given to others. And so he tells them that they are not to do this. In a way that is selfish and self-focused. And secondly, the context here makes it clear that it would be partaking of this table without proper self-examination. This text suggests that it's both foolish and dangerous to participate in this observance in a manner that is flippant and irreverent, just going through the motions without any thought. Without any reflection, without any confession, without any consideration of what Jesus has done for us. This is one of the great dangers always of worship. And that is that we rely on the forms and the actions and the motions and forget about what it all is supposed to represent and how it is supposed to be supposed to change how how we are inside and so we don't think about these things. We just go through the motions This is one of the dangers sometimes of liturgy in churches that have a lot more liturgy and everything is that there is always this inherent danger because if human nature is what it is, that you just go through and you go boom, boom, boom, boom, you go down this, all these things but you haven't given a thought about the meaning of it. And this is always the danger with participating in this. We are to really think. We are to really pray. We are to really consider. We are to truly confess. Because these things are real. This is not something that we're doing. This is not just a ritual that we go through. It's something that has thought and meaning and significance. And finally, I want to suggest to you that we are to remember when we gather together our church family In context here, it's very clear that this is a local church ordinance. This is not something that God instructed individual Christians to do. Like reading your Bible or praying. This is instruction that he gave to the local church. Because one of the purposes of it is to draw the body together and to remind you that you're part of the people of God Now in our individualistic culture and society, we often want to downplay that emphasis of Scripture and focus on just this relationship. It's just me and the Lord. But the scriptures constantly remind us it's not just you and the Lord. Because if you have a right relationship with Him, it will remind you of your relationship with all these people around here. Remember, we call this ordinance, among other things, communion. And it's not just communion with our Lord. It's communion with the body of Christ. In 1 Corinthians chapter 10, just the previous chapter in verse 17. He says, For we being many are one bread and one body, for we are all partakers of that one bread, a reference to Christ. Just as the loaf of bread represents the body of Christ, so the New Testament tells us the church is the body of Christ. And as we draw near to Christ and remember what He has done for us, as we confess our sins to God, it should result in us drawing closer to one another. That is what God desires. It's to be a unifying ordinance. Because what binds us together is the most important thing in the world. In the world, and the way human beings are designed by God, our friendships are often based on things that we have in common. It may be a hobby. It may be a football team. It may be the interaction of our children. It may be where we live. But there's something that we have in common, and it's that that has brought us together, and that common interest, that common viewpoint Helps to serve as kind of a foundation of our friendship and our relationship, and hopefully it can grow from there. Well, in the body of Christ, we have the most important thing in common, and that is that we have been redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. We belong to Christ. And because that is true, that should take precedent over anything else that we would have in common with others. And so as we come near to the cross, as we remember what our Savior has done for us, it should remember, remind us of our brothers and sisters in Christ. Now, it used to be a very common practice among Baptist churches to read through their church covenants when they celebrated the Lord's table. And if you're familiar with our church covenant, you know that in the front it has a whole bunch of one -another statements. And I want to read just that section of it tonight to remind us of the incredible high ideal that God has called us to as a body of believers. It says, having been saved by the grace of God through the blood of our Savior Jesus Christ, we desire to worship together with other like-minded believers. Believing that God and His providence has led us to this local assembly to join with these saints, we will strive by the grace of God to faithfully love one another. We will seek to practically obey this command by remembering the following specific biblical instructions. to live peaceably with one another, to respect one another, to maintain a spirit of unity with one another, to edify one another, to accept one another, to admonish one another. To greet affectionately one another, to be considerate of one another, to care for one another, to serve one another, to bear one another's burdens, to be patient with one another. To be kind and compassionate to one another, to be forgiving of one another, to submit to one another, to sing with one another, to comfort one another. To confess our faults one to another, to pray for one another, to demonstrate hospitality to one another, to use our gifts to minister to one another, and to fellowship with one another. And then we will, by the grace of God, refrain from the following, be judgmental of one another, attacking one another, envying one another, lying to one another, speaking evil of one another. And complaining to one another. That's what God has instructed the body of Christ to do. Now, every local church that has ever existed has fallen far short. of what is laid out there in Scripture. And if you've ever been a part of any church, this one included, you know that is the case. In fact, if you examine your own heart and you measure yourself up by these commands, you find that you fall woefully short. But this is what God desires of his body. And you know what? Someday, someday, the body of Christ will perfectly fulfill all of these commands. Jonathan Edwards has this famous sermon called Heaven, a World of Love. And in that heaven, he explains that the greatest thing about heaven Is that everyone will perfectly demonstrate, besides Christ, is that every believer will perfectly demonstrate the love of Christ to every other person there. And they will fulfill all of these commands, except of course for the ones like asking for forgiveness and so forth, because there will be no sin there. What a wonderful place it will be It will be exactly what Christ intended the church to be. Church that is pure and spotless and holy and unified. Let us remember as we come to this table tonight our brothers and sisters in Christ who may be so different from us, who may have different viewpoints, who have different backgrounds and different skills and different interests. But if we have the common bond of Christ, then all those differences are superficial. And what we have in Christ means everything. Let's close in prayer, and then we'll continue with the observance of the Lord's table. Our Father, we thank you for your word. And how it instructs us, how it guides us, how it challenges us. We thank you for our Savior. And what he has done for us. And we thank you that in your perfect wisdom you have ordained that the church continue to practice this ordinance that we might reflect and remember our Savior and the implications of his death and his coming again. Help us now, Father, not to go through the motions, but to truly think and truly consider and truly examine our hearts, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.