First Corinthians chapter 11. I want to look at this passage that we know well because it's read when we celebrate the Lord's table. This is not going to be a sermon, but a brief meditation. Paul writes, for I've received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you. That the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. And when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take, eat. This is my body which is broken for you. This do in remembrance of me. After the same manner also he took the cup when he had supped, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do ye as often as ye drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death till he come. Wherefore whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily , shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread and drinketh of that cup, for he that eateth and drinketh unworthily eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep. For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. But when we judged, we are chastened of the Lord, that we should not be condemned with the world. Wherefore, my brethren, when you come together to eat, teary one for another. And if any man hunger, let him eat at home, that ye come not together unto condemnation, and the rest will I set in order when I come. One of the aberrations of modern Christianity, I'm afraid, is the neglect of the Lord's table. In the early church, a person who did not gather with the people of God to celebrate communion was considered an unbeliever. Today there are millions of professing Christians who have never taken communion, not once in their life. Many of them have been brought up in churches like ours that preach the gospel , but perhaps uh either directly or indirectly give the impression that communion is kind of an antiquated ritual. that has no relevance for them and in our attempts to not confuse people and recognize that it is not a re-sacrifice of Christ, that it's not something that magically makes us more spiritual. We perhaps inadvertently have downgraded this ordinance to the point where people say, well. I guess it's like extra credit or something that's not really important or only for the Super Saints. And so they do not partake of it. But within this passage, there are some very good reasons to come to the Lord's table. First of all, because we need to remember Christ's death for us. This is the primary reason we gather. to celebrate this ordinance. Twice in this passage, our Lord says, this do in remembrance of me. And the context makes it clear that what we are to remember is not the entire life of our Lord, although that would certainly not be sinful, but it is to remember the death of Christ. The broken bread represents the broken body of our Lord. The cup represents the blood that was shed for us. And this, of course, is unusual if you think about it. Perhaps you've never thought about it this way or before, but Generally, when a loved one dies, the last thing you want to remember about them is their death. The memories are too painful. And this is only compounded if their death has been violent or brought about through a criminal act. And both of these, of course, are the case with the Lord Jesus Christ. He was murdered in the most disgraceful and inhumane way imaginable. So why does God command us to remember Christ's death? It of course is because we are the beneficiaries. Of his death. In verse 24, it says, this is my body which is broken for you. And verse 25, this cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do ye as often as ye drink it in remembrance of me. In the Gospel of Luke, at the Last Supper, the Lord says, this is my blood which is shed for you. What exactly are we to recognize when we come to the table about our Lord? Many things. Let me mention too. We are to recognize our debt to Christ. He did what we could not do for ourselves. He saved us because we could never save ourselves. We would be hopeless and doomed apart from him. Now, usually when you have a debt to someone, you feel a little uneasy about that debt, at least you should. You want to pay it off as soon as possible. You don't want to be indebted to an individual. But there's no way for us to pay off this debt. It is a gift of grace that we must receive and recognize that we are not our own, but that we have been bought with the price. We also ought to recognize the high cost of our redemption. Our salvation costs the death of the Son of God. There is no higher price that could be paid in all the universe. Undoubtedly, you've heard someone say that children or young people value something much more if they have to work for it. For instance, if you give them a car, or if they have to work for a car, which one will they probably take better care of? Well, experience shows probably the individual who has to work and work to save up and earn that car will take better care of it than a person who is just given to them as a gift. But of course, there is no way we can earn our way to heaven. Sometimes I think we devalue our salvation because it cost us nothing. That the debt that we owe, the obligation that we have, doesn't seem real because it's free to us. But we must never forget that the highest and most valuable thing in the universe was paid for our redemption. And therefore we are to be overwhelmed. And it should call us to present our bodies a living sacrifice. For we were redeemed not with perishable things like silver and gold. Peter says, but with the precious blood of Christ as of a lamb without blemish and without spots. Another reason that we are to celebrate this according to the text is because we need to remember that Christ is coming again in verse 26. He says, For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you do show the Lord's death till he come. The word show here is one of the New Testament words for preaching. It's a reminder to us that this ordinance is to be practiced regularly by the local church until the Lord comes again I'm sure that when the disciples first heard these words, they assumed that the Lord would return very quickly in their own lifetimes. But now some 2,000 years after this ordinance was introduced, we continue to celebrate this. But how is this ordinance connected with the coming of Christ? Well, first of all, it reminds us of the certainty of his coming, just as he came in the fulfillment of those Old Testament prophecies and promises, so he will come again as he has promised that he would. It also reminds us of the contrast of his coming. In the first advent, Christ came meek and lowly, he came as the suffering servant of the Lord. But in the second coming, the Bible says he will come in power and great glory. He will come with majesty and authority. It also reminds us in an inspirational way of our ultimate purity In 1 Peter, excuse me, 1 John chapter 3, it says, Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us. that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not because it knew him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when he shall appear we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. And every man that hath his hope in him purifieth himself even as he is pure. When we gather here and we remember his death for us as sinful individuals and we examine our hearts and we see that we have failed him yet again There is a ray of hope because it reminds us that there will be a time when we will no longer need to examine our hearts. Because we will be holy like Christ. We will be pure. We will be sinless. Our practice will finally measure our position We also need to gather here to examine our hearts before God. This passage has this very stern warning given to it. I often say to you that this passage is not telling us to examine our hearts to see if we are worthy to partake of these elements, if we are worthy of Christ's death for us. Because none of us are worthy. The word in verses 27 and 29, not to give you a grammar lesson, is an adverb, unworthily. It refers to the manner in which we partake. So, what would be an unworthy manner that should disqualify a person from participating in the Lord's table? The context suggests two things. That as those who are living in a selfish and sensual way should not celebrate this ordinance. In verses 20 through 22 that immediately precedes this passage, it says, When you come together therefore into one place, this is not to eat the Lord's Supper. For in eating every one takes before his other his own supper, and one is hungry and another is drunken. What? Have ye not houses to eat and to drink in? Or despise ye the church of God and shame them that have not? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I praise you not. And then he goes right into the passage we're familiar with. He's talking about the fact that they had made this. Scholars think there was probably something called an agape feast that they celebrated. It was an elaborate feast, and it highlighted their disunity because the wealthy people had all kinds of food. The poor people didn't hardly have anything to eat. And they didn't always start on time, and so people would start eating before everyone was even there. And rather than it being symbolic of their unity in Christ, it was symbolic of their disunity in Christ. Because they were more concerned about their needs than the needs of others. They were being selfish. They were being controlled by their senses rather than by spiritual matters. But a second way that we can partake of this unworthily is without proper self-examination. This text suggests that it's foolish and a dangerous thing to participate in this supper in a flippant and irreverent fashion without any thoughts. without any examination, without any reflection on the meaning of this, just going through the motions without your thoughts having any focus on the cross of Christ. J. C. Rile says, to carry unrepentant sin up to the communion rail, knowing in our own hearts that we and wickedness are yet friends. is one of the worst things a man can do and one of those most hardening to the conscience. You see, it's not necessarily saying that the instant you partake of that, God's judgment is going to fall upon you. But it's saying that if you come and you're living in unrepentant sin, that is not sin that you struggle with, but sin that you're not struggling against because you want to continue in that. You've yielded yourself to this sin. And you have no intention of ever turning away from it, and you come to communion and you partake of it, and you continue to do that on a regular basis, you're hardening your conscience And setting yourself up for the judgment, the correcting judgment of God. And a fourth reason we partake of this is to fellowship with one another. He says in verse 33, Wherefore, my brethren, when you come together to eat, tarry one for another. He's calling on them to be considerates. Someone's running a few minutes late, wait for them. This is one of those one-another commands. We call this remembrance, among other names, communion. It's a time for us to commune with Christ, but also with one another. In the previous chapter, he touches on this as well. In 1 Corinthians 10, 17, he says, For we being many are one bread and one body, for we are all partakers of that one bread. Just as the loaf of bread represents the body of Christ, so the New Testament tells us the church is the body of Christ. And that's why some scholars think that in First Corinthians eleven twenty-nine, when it says, For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily eateth and drinketh damnation, or that word means judgment to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. When it says not discerning the Lord's body, many scholars think that's a reference to the body of Christ, the church. So communion should draw us closer together And as we draw near to Christ, we should be drawn nearer to one another. As we confess our sins to God, it should result in the restoration of relationships. The New Testament, of course, teaches us clearly that God wants his church to be unified. And in the ancient world, meals were not just a time to refuel. They were a time for social fellowship and interaction. They did not live by the clock the way we do. And so when they gathered together with the family, an extended family, for a meal, it went on for a long time. It was a social occasion. It was a time for the bonding of people together. It symbolized acceptance, fellowship, and unity. And so when we gather at this table , And we look around at our brothers and sisters in Christ. It should bind us together and remind us of the sacred bond that we have in Christ. We're going to conclude with that now. I have a word of prayer, and we're not we're going to dispense with the next 10, but I'm just going to ask our um our men to come forward after the prayer. Father. We thank you. Thank you for your word. We thank you for the direction and guidance and admonitions that it gives to us. I pray that you would help us to be a people. who partake of these elements in a way that would be pleasing to you, that would be in keeping with the purposes for which you have given this ordinance. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.