If you have your Bibles, you can turn with me, please, to Romans chapter 12. Romans chapter 12 The very familiar opening verses of Romans 12 say, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. That you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will Of God. The most complex object in the universe is the human brain. It's an amazing part of God's creation. It weighs about three pounds. It has about a hundred thousand miles of blood vessels within it. and about 100 billion neurons or nerve cells. It uses about 20% of your body's energy When you're awake, your brain is using enough energy to light up a light bulb. And of course the brain can do amazing things. We all know people that we have known who have incredible brains that can reason and calculate. And think in ways that astound us. Some have incredible brains for music like Mozart or individuals like Leonardo da Vinci, who was the Renaissance man who could seemingly do just about everything very well. There's a man, an Englishman named Daniel Tammett, who has an incredible mind, not just in one area. But in several different areas. He has a mathematical mind. He can do equations very, very quickly. He was asked by researchers to divide 13 by 97. And he had the answer, they had the answer before them to the 32nd decimal place But he gave the answer to over a hundred instantly without thinking about it. In March of 2004, he recited the number pi to 22,500 decimal places without making one error. He was on a game show, not too many years ago, where he was challenged to learn the language of Iceland within a week. Icelandic is considered by linguists to be the most difficult language in the world to learn. And by the end of the week, he was able to speak the language so fluently that no native speaker could be distinguished from him. The brain is an amazing thing The way we use our minds determines the kind of person that we become. Proverbs 23 tells us, as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. Your thinking not only defines who you are, but it reveals who you are becoming. In Romans chapter 12, this great call to consecration, And sanctification has within it this arresting phrase that says that we can be transformed by the renewing of your mind. This passage, Romans 12, 1 and 2, is one of the most important passages on the Christian life in the New Testament. That is why many of you have memorized it. The great preacher Martin Lloyd-Jones described this text as the most remarkable summary that is found anywhere in the New Testament of the Christian teaching concerning sanctification. It is the beginning. of the second half of the book of Romans. And Paul begins by pleading with his Christian readers to present their bodies as a sacrifice He explains that Christianity is not about rules or rituals, but it's about a relationship of worship where we yield ourselves to God. But the question arises in our minds, how do we attain this lofty description of the Christian life? And the answer to that is found in verse 2. It's very condensed. It begins with the negative. We must not be conformed to this world. I mentioned to you on previous occasions that the verb here is passive. It could be could be rendered, stop allowing the world to shape and mold your thinking. The idea is that unless you take definite measures, this indeed will occur. Instead, rather than letting the world shape our thinking, we must be transformed by the renewing of our mind. You see, our growth and grace cannot be just about not doing certain things or doing certain things. Those certainly have their place. And a person who is truly growing in grace will seek to avoid certain things and also seek to practice certain things. But it's about much more than that. It's about the transformation of our thinking so that we think more and more in ways that are consistent with the Lord Jesus Christ. And real change cannot occur without our minds being renewed. Let me quote again from Lloyd Jones. He says, the whole secret of understanding the biblical doctrine of sanctification is found in these words, be transformed by the renewing of your mind. So tonight I want us to look at just this phrase, renewing the mind, and I want us to see that it's the only path to spiritual transformation. And I want to bring out several truths from this passage. The first is this, that spiritual transformation is God's plan for every Christian. Paul begins by saying, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. This is for every Christian. This is not for the elites, this is not just for preachers, this is not just for deacons, this is for every Christian Every Christian is to yield up their life as a living sacrifice. That's the way they are to view it. And every believer should be progressing in his or her spiritual development. Notice I want to bring out four things about the spiritual transformation briefly under this heading. The first is that this is a commanded transformation. Be ye transformed, he says. In the Greek text, this is an imperative. This is not a suggestion. This is a command. Every Christian is to be transformed, changed by the grace of God. The second thing I want to say about this is that it's a radical transformation. I mentioned this to you before, but this word transformed. in our text here is the basis of our English word metamorphosis. You may rec recall back in science class that this was a term used for the remarkable change that takes place, such as when a caterpillar is transformed into a butterfly. Caterpillar doesn't look anything like a butterfly. It's a remarkable change. But I want you to know that Paul didn't have that change in mind when he penned these words. I have a feeling that he had something else in mind. particular word metamorphosis is used four times in the New Testament. It's used here in Romans 12. It's used in 2 Corinthians 3. 18, a passage I'm going to look at a little bit later. And the other two times it's used. are found in the gospel record describing the transfiguration of Jesus Christ. This is when Jesus took Peter and James and John up on the mountain. And Jesus began to shine like the noonday sun. His garments were brighter than any launderer could ever accomplish. And his glory was radiant like the sun. This was not a superficial change. This was a radical declaration and demonstration of glory. And so Paul is not calling on Christians to try harder. or to add a few rituals to their worship when he calls us to transform our minds. No, he's demanding that Christians simply change He's not demanding that Christians just simply change their behavior or change the way they dress or clean up their language. Those things are moralism. Those things In and of themselves do not speak of an internal change. Cults do that. No, he's saying that we are to be changed from the inside out. This begins when we are saved and we are born again, but it continues throughout our Christian lives. Thirdly, this is a continual transformation. The verb here is in the present tense. Now there's two present tense commands here. The first, be not conformed, and then be ye transformed. Now I want you to know that you should not think that first of all you know you make a decision not to be conform with this world and then maybe like six months or a year later then you make a decision to be transformed by the renewing of your minds. That's not the idea here. Some people have mistakenly understood this to describe different stages of the Christian life. You know, we get saved and then someday later we decide that we're going to consecrate a life to Christ and someday later we just We make a decision to not be conformed to this world, we make a decision to be transformed. That's not what Paul is trying to convey here. He's saying that every day of our Christian lives are to be filled with spiritual offense and defense. We have to have both. The defense is that we are not to be conformed to this world We are to be aware that we are different, that we belong to Christ, and that the values of this world are not to be adopted by us, and this can happen very subtly. That's the defensive part of it. And every day we have to be on the defense because we live in the world and the people around us, the lost people around us, the media around us, the entertainment world around us is constantly bombarding us with a message which is anti-God and is the opposite of what God is wanting to accomplish in our lives. Some Christians have been taught that the Christian life can be reduced to a few simple instructions. Such as read your Bible, pray, go to church, be a witness, give your tithe. And that if a person does these things, they have spiritually arrived. That's as mature as you can get. I want you to know that is not at all what the Bible teaches. The Bible teaches that we are disciples And I've mentioned to you before that a disciple is a lifetime learner. A disciple has two ideas in it. There is, first of all, a follower. We follow Christ. And secondly, we learn from Christ just as the original disciples followed the Lord around wherever he went Wherever he was performing miracles and ministering, and they assisted him and they listened, and they also were learning from him. They also were there hearing his teaching and asking him questions after a miracle. And so being a disciple of Jesus Christ means that we both follow him for our entire life and we learn from him for our entire life. It includes both of those things. And fourthly, this is a gracious transformation. The verb here is passive. That is, we do not change ourselves. You can't, by force of will , make yourself holy You can't just say, you know, what I'm going to do is I'm just going to put in some some real stringent structures into my life so that I'm never tempted to sin again and that'll be that and I will be holy and everything else. You try that, and you will find that your flesh will fight you tooth and nail and you will fail. You cannot do that. The Bible is not calling on us to turn over a new leaf or to reform our behavior. Again, that is moralism. The Bible is calling on us for a transformation of character. And we don't do that by sheer force of will. It does involve our will. But it's not just our will. This is passive. We are to allow God's grace. To enable us and empower us to do this. This is what it means in Philippians 2. 13 when it says, For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. This is why Paul said, by the grace of God, I am what I am. Paul knew that he was far from perfect. But he says, whatever good you see in me, it comes about by the grace of God Spiritual transformation occurs only as we yield to God's work in our lives. And this is God's plan for every believer. Christian people are often content with their spiritual status, with where they are, as long as their sin is not causing them a great deal of distress. And poverty or like bondage to some addiction. They're not that upset with it. But God has called us To be transformed. And so there's a sense in which we should always be discontent with where we are spiritually. We want to go further. We see how far we are from what God has called us to be. And so we continually confess our sin, we repent of our sin, we turn and we beg for God's grace and we seek to go further. That is the Christian life. There are some people, and I don't want to get into theories of sanctification, that's another lesson, another sermon. I plan to do something on that this uh summer on Wednesday night in my study on the Holy Spirit, certainly But the Christian life, I believe, will always involve some struggle, some failure, some disappointment, some discouragement. You may say, well, that's very discouraging truth. That, I believe, is the struggle that this that the scriptures reveal to us. There are some who say that you get to a place where you don't struggle anymore, where it's clear sailing, and you know you just Rely on the Spirit and there's no more spiritual falls. And some have even taught, of course, that you can basically be sinless. That's not what the Scripture teaches. If we were sinless, how prideful we would be, which of course is a horrible sin in the eyes of God. So God has called every believer to spiritual transformation. The second major truth I want you to see from this passage is that spiritual transformation will only occur through the renewing of your mind. This passage is very condensed and so it's very valuable to us. It's rich in theological significance. Of all the ways that Paul could mention that we could be transformed, the one thing he points here as being led by the Spirit of God to write is this, the renewing of your minds. Now, how do we do that? Let me mention several things. Number one, you must recognize that you need your mind to be renewed. This, I think, is a major issue because I think most Christians don't think they need their minds to be renewed. One of the effects of the fall is that our perceptions have been dulled and distorted. Even though you have been born again, the fact is you need to be reprogrammed, as it were, by the Word of God. I think we tend to put a lot of confidence in our perceptions of ourselves and the world. We all tend to live as if we have no blind spots, no weaknesses. that we see things accurately. But we're very quick to see other blind spots in other people. We see things that are inconsistent in their lives. But we tend not to see it in our own lives. One of the evidences of spiritual maturity is that you are less certain of your judgments about things. I'm not talking about things that the Bible clearly declares and lays out and are doctrinal truths. I'm not talking about that. But I'm talking about other areas that are judgment calls, areas that Christians differ over, different applications of God's truths. Sometimes people think by being incredibly dogmatic on every one of these issues, they are exhibiting spiritual maturity. Actually, it's the opposite. Spiritually mature people are not dogmatically certain about their own judgments. And so they depend on God's grace and they look to others for guidance and for inputs Sanctification is all about taking the blinders off. The Bible teaches that your heart is naturally deceptive. Jeremiah 17, 9. This is why the popular mantra that you should follow your hearts is unbiblical. Don't follow your hearts. Ephesians 4. 22 says that speaks of deceitful lust or deceitful desires. That is, the desires that people have naturally will often deceive them. They think if I just am able to fulfill this desire, then I will be happy. My life will be great. And so they perhaps go outside the bounds of God's truth and they fulfill that desire. And you know what? It didn't offer what it promised. They were deceived by their own desires. Our own hearts can trick us so quickly and so easily. We still have remnants of wrong thinking in our minds. This is because we still have our fallen flesh and because we still live in enemy territory. The message of the world is anti-God. It may be subtle. It may not be screaming at you that it is wrong. But let me give you some examples of this. I'm going to use these big words, but they have simple meanings. We have uh we live in a world of secularism. What does that simply mean? Well, it means simply this, that most people in the world live as if there is no God. They may not proclaim that they're an atheist, but they live as if there is no God. They don't speak about God at work. They don't think about God. He doesn't enter into any of their decision making. except rats when they're facing a light or death crisis. But but their their life is not lived with the perception that there is a God that they must answer to, a God who has created them, a God who will someday send them to heaven or hell, a God that they are to fear and that they are to worship. These are all alien and foreign notions to lost people. They don't think about that. Their focus is not on that. Then there's materialism, living as if only our things matter The fact is that Christians can easily become incredibly materialistic. They can become obsessed with their homes and their cars and their clothes and their financial security just like any lost person. But God has called us to something much more than materialism. And then there's humanism, the idea that man is the measure of all things. I hear this all the time, even from Christian people. I can do anything I set my mind to do. Really? Try it sometime. You can't do anything you set your mind to do. You are a finite creature who in a few years is going to be dead. You're not the master of your universe. Humanism is nonsense. There's a sense in which the world has a dual Flaw in its view of mankind. And one sense, in the sense of humanism, it has far too high a view of man because man is not God. He is not in control. But on the other hand, it has such a poor view of man in that it views him as just an animal, as just the end result of the evolutionary process. Whereas Scripture reveals that man is made in the image of God. He has an inherent dignity because he still has that stamp, though it is the face of the Creator, his Father. And so Christianity corrects the world's view in two ways. Man is made in the image of God, he's not an animal. But number two, man is also not the master of the universe. He does not control his own fate. He does not control his own life. He is a finite creature. Humanism is wrong on so many counts. And then there's hedonism. Hedonism. Which comes from the Greek word for pleasure, finding our purpose, our significance in life in pleasure. Now, how does that reveal itself in our world today? Primarily through all the different avenues of entertainments. This is a very subtle thing. Who wants to be bored, right? Who doesn't enjoy entertainment? Have you ever thought about How our ancestors, you know, I was thinking the other day, and I can't remember if I read this somewhere or not, but you know, I think that probably We experience more entertainments in our lives in a week than our ancestors did in a year When you think about it, you know, they didn't have radios, they didn't have televisions, they didn't have the internet, they rarely heard live music. And uh they they worked all the time. They didn't have free time. You worked, you came home, you ate your meal, you went to bed, and the next day you repeat it. That's the way most people throughout the history of the world have lived. And then on Sunday, you went to church and you heard the word of God. And when you think about how different that is from our world, you know, they live maybe a little agrarian culture. You didn't go far from where you were born. You lived in a small, close-knit community, and about the only input you had in your life was on the Lord's day. The only time that you really thought about things or read things in many cases, and yet think about us today. bombarded from the moment we wake up to the moment we go to bed with so many false messages from the world enticing us to live for self, to live for pleasure, to live for things And then we have today something called relativism. The idea that right and wrong are not absolutes but are determined by the situation. The idea of pluralism that there is no absolute truth That everyone just has their own perspective on truth. And so you can kind of make up your own reality as you go along in life. You can design your own life, your own rules, your own philosophies, your own goals, and no one can sit in judgment on those because it's none of their business. This is why we desperately need our minds to be renewed each day. So we must recognize that we need our minds to be renewed and that we must recognize That as our thinking changes, our behavior will change. This is where many Christians make a crucial mistake. They focus on some bad habit they wish to conquer. Maybe it's smoking or an explosive temper or lying or pornography. And they think, I've just got to figure out a way to stop this sinful behavior. And they focus on that behavior. But the fact is that unless your perspective has really changed, the underlying issue will only manifest itself in a different way. We have a number of individuals in our church who are working at the detention center. I'm so glad that they are I hope we continue to do this. I've talked to a number of people, counselors and and so forth, and people who work with individuals who are addicted, and they tell me all the time That if a person just follows a secular model of reformation in regards to alcoholism or drug abuse or whatever it is, What tends to happen is they simply substitute their addiction in one area with another addiction in an area that's not quite as destructive or socially unacceptable. But they're still a slave to sin. They've just exchanged the manifestation of that slavery because their heart has not been changed This is why behind every sin problem there is a flaw in your thinking. And unless you go to the source and you adopt your thinking in lines with God's truth. Just fighting the behavior itself will not make a huge change. It will simply rechannel itself to something else. When the scripture in these verses tells us to change our thinking, it is not suggesting that we psychologically trick ourselves into improving our behavior. The Bible is calling us to change the way we think and feel so that how we interpret and respond to a given situation is according to God's will for us. In other words, lasting spiritual change starts on the inside and works its way out. It doesn't start on the outside and work its way in. Renewing the mind is the only path to spiritual transformation. And then thirdly, I want you to see that spiritual transformation will only occur through our spiritual interaction with the Word of God. Now the most important cross-reference for this phrase, the renewing of your mind, is 2 Corinthians chapter 3. And verse 18, I invite you all to turn with me there, please. 2 Corinthians 3. 18, the last verse in this chapter. It says, but we all, with open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. There is a natural link between these two verses, because the word here that is translated change in the middle of verse 18 is the same word that's translated transformed in Romans 12, 2, and it's that word metamorphosis. Now this verse begins with a contrast. He is saying that we but we all he's saying here that every believer in this dispensation can behold the glory of God The term open face could be rendered unveiled. We have open access to the glory of God. But how do we see the glory of God? Well, this term beholding is only used this once in the New Testament. It expresses the act of looking carefully in a mirror. What is this mirror? Well, the same imagery is used in James chapter 1 of the Word of God. It is by looking carefully and consistently at the Word of God. How exactly does the Word of God transform us? We have this children's chorus. Read your Bible. Pray every day. And you'll grow, grow, grow. It's a fine children's chorus. But I want you to know that this change does not happen automatically. It doesn't mean that if you allow your eyes to pass over the words of this page, that something magical and mystical will happen in your hearts. What often will happen as we're learning God's truth is that God will use difficulties and circumstances that we encounter in our lives to drive us to the Word so that we seek the Lord desperately. And it's only by looking into this mirror that we will be transformed. Well, what is it that we should be looking for in God's Word when we read it? Well, it's described here as the glory of the Lord. This means, among other things, that we are to be God-centered in our reading Let me explain this for a little bit. It's very common for a person to read the Bible and to look just for something that will connect with them on that given day. Maybe you are fearful on a particular day, so you're looking for a word of assurance. Or maybe you're having some family trouble. And so in that day, you're very sensitive to any statement that might apply to your dilemma. It's so easy to cherry-pick the Bible for principles and promises that we personalize And we find comfort in that. Now this is not a wicked thing to do. It's not wrong for you to look for specific promises that you need to put into practice. However, it's important to remember that the Bible is not a self-help book. It's not primarily about you. It's not written to give you five quick answers to the problems you're facing. You know, God could have written the Word of God that way. He could have written it so there was an index, you know, I'm having a problem with uh with this area, and you look up, oh yeah, there's a whole passage in the scripture just were ready-made for that with some very concise instructions. God could have written a book that way. He would never write it that way because that is a man-centered approach. The Bible is not primarily about man, it's about gods. This is a God-centered approach, and so when we come to the Word of God We have to be careful that we don't approach it as a self-help book that's here to get me through another day with three promises that I can claim. No, we are to look for who God is and what he has done. It was the glory of God that transformed the face of Moses. That's the context in which this verse is found in 2 Corinthians 3. 18. And it's the glory of God in his word that will transform us. So when you have your devotions, when you go through your Bible reading, the thing you should look for more than anything else is God's, who He is. And what he has done. We can even get more specific. Look with me down at the next chapter, 2 Corinthians 4. And verse 6. For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of of Jesus Christ. Now back up in 2 Corinthians 3. 18, we we we read about the the glory of the Lord. Scholars are clear that the word Lord there is referring to the Lord Jesus Christ. What I'm saying is that we should look for Christ when we read. This whole book is about Jesus. In Luke 24, 27 We read when Jesus met with the two on the road to Emmaus, it says, in the beginning of Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them the things concerning himself. This book is about Christ. And the more we look at Christ, the more we will be renewed in the spirit of our minds, the more we will have the mind of Christ. the more we will think about things more accurately and more clearly, the more we will be able to dispel the lies of the world that constantly bombard us that come from within our flesh and from without in the world. The more we fill our minds with thoughts of Christ, of who he is, and what he has done. the more we will become like Christ. That is what sanctification is all about. This passage in 2 Corinthians 3. 18 calls us to look carefully as in a glass the glory of the Lord. The great Baptist scholar A. T. Robertson makes the point that all of the Christian life is essentially looking at Christ We are saved by looking at the Savior in faith. We are sanctified by looking at Christ in his word. And we are glorified when we will see Christ in his glory, and we will become like him. This is the essence of the Christian life. Looking At Christ. And this is what it means to renew our minds. May God help us to do so. Let's close in prayer this evening. Father, we thank you for your word. How desperately we need to renew our minds. How the best of us here, the most mature believer Has a mind that is cluttered with false notions, with worldly ideas, with distortions of your truth. And so we desperately need your Spirit to take your word and to open our eyes to the truth and show us the glory of our Savior. Help us, O Lord, to be a people who are not conformed to this world, but who are transformed by the renewing of our minds. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Bien east.