Well, I'm delighted to be with you tonight to bring you the word of God. Let's go ahead and start our night with a word of prayer. Father, we thank you for your great mercy to bring us here tonight, Lord, to celebrate baptism. Pray that you'd be working in this heart and in the heart of the people in this room, Lord, helping us to discern your word, understand its weight. and the glory of the God that we serve. And so I ask this in your son 's name. Amen. Well, one of the most famous sports advertising campaigns of all time starts like this. Phil Sims, you've won the Super Bowl. What are you going to do next? Where the endorsed athlete replies , I'm going to Disney World. If you don't know that you're probably just too young. It's called the what's n yeah, that's right. It's called the What's Next campaign by Disney and it began in 1987 and has continued for nearly 40 years, spanning major sporting events, featuring some of the most celebrated athletes of our time. See the concept is simple. After you've achieved the pinnacle of success, this championship winning victory, the winning athlete. proclaims with all this joyous championship energy that the only thing that could possibly be better is a trip to Disney. Millions have flocked to Disney, drawn in part by this kind of deceptive emotional assurance offered in this advertisement. Expecting to experience this kind of emotional peak championship level joy, instead they encounter something different. The heat and humidity of Florida, the exhausting lines for rides, and costly food and souvenirs. In many ways, I fear that baptism has become the Christians what's next campaign. See, for millions there exists this collective assumption that baptism is crowning, this crowning achievement of their salvation. The assurance that heaven awaits because they've been baptized. But here's the sobering truth. Many have entered the waters of baptism without experiencing the victory won in Christ in faith. And what truly awaits them is something hotter, something more exhausting, and far more costly than they imagined, which is separation from God and hell. Tonight I want to turn us our attention to the book of Acts that talks about this very real victory of faith and the proper place of baptism. More directly, I want to put baptism into its proper biblical perspective as being both a command of the Lord to be followed in obedience, but it's not what saves you from your sin. I'm going to present, by the Lord's grace tonight, three points from our text tonight. Conviction provokes repentance. Repentance precedes salvation, and salvation is portrayed in baptism. If you haven't already, please turn with me in your Bible to Acts 2, verse 37. If you don't have a Bible, you can simply Google it. Acts 237 as we begin to look into our text tonight. So the first point I want to address. Conviction provokes repentance. You can read with me beginning in verse 37. Now, when they heard this, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brothers, what shall we do? So we're jumping right into the middle of this story. The question is kind of, well, what just happened? Why are these guys cut to the heart? Why are they asking this question? Well, starting the beginning of chapter 2 of the book of Acts, the disciples have just been in the upper room at Pentecost, where the Holy Spirit was given to the disciples. Peter and the others now live with the Spirit, come out of the room and come down and start speaking to people in their own languages. Many languages spoke in that time as the Jews were gathered for Pentecost. And this was actually startling the Jews that were there. This was the work of God as he began the spread of the good news of the gospel to the nations. Starting all the way back in verse 14, he started to address the crowds who actually were calling these men speaking in these different languages drunk. So Peter gives the first sermon after receiving the Holy Spirit. He addresses the crowd. He incites three Old Testament prophecies from two different Old Testament figures. Speaking about Christ, who he was, what he did, and what took place at the resurrection. And he ends on this declarative statement in verse 36. You can look one line up. Let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ. This Jesus whom you crucified. This is why they were cut to the heart. This is what we call the conviction of the Holy Spirit. They heard the gospel message and they were convicted. This word that's translated, cut to the heart, is also used in some other literature to depict the hard pounding of horses' hooves as they stomp through an area. It's that stomping on our heart, this deep effectual pounding of the truth in their heart that cut them to this time of conviction. It's that inner turmoil we know is the conviction of the Spirit, those of us in Christ. And we know this is the Spirit's work because in John 16 he says, when he comes, meaning the Spirit, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. So here they are, cut to the heart. And the pain is so great, and with the open humility that comes from the Holy Spirit, they ask, what shall we do? Brothers and sisters, do you remember that feeling when you first felt the cutting of your heart about sin? The soul's desperation of those who are confronted with the spiritual reality that their sin has a consequence. And that the whole way they've been living is a lie, and they realize now they know nothing of how to fix their lies before God, because every cistern of self has just dried up in the beating heat of the light of the gospel. This is the conviction necessary to provoke someone to repentance. Without conviction of sin, without the heartfelt recognition of the truth of the gospel, there is no repentance. Those who claim to be Christians yet have no conviction, well see, they speak of God as if God is someone is maybe distant, maybe he created the world yet he surely isn't just and righteous and has a moral standing, this God is either a completely disconnected or it's some kind of figment of their imagination. But no, the God of the Bible is present and real. Theologian Francis Schaefer pins this person correctly when he says this. You see, the modern man cannot talk about the object of his faith, or only about faith itself. So he can discuss the existence of his faith, saying, like, I've got faith in the size of it, but it exists against reason. That's all Modern man's faith is just something they've cooked up internally. Yet in Christianity, the value of our faith depends on the object toward which that faith is directed. So it looks outward. It looks to the God who is there in space and time, the Christ in history. who died upon the cross once and for all, the finished work of the atonement, and on the third day rose again in space and time, this makes the Christian faith open to verification and discussion. You see, your imaginary God can't convict you of sin. You must, like these Jews, realize the great chasm between a holy, true, and real God who is there. and the complete depravity of your soul and the inability to be reconciled, and like those Jews, cry out to be saved from that fate. You see, this is why we can say conviction provokes repentance. It's the precursor. It's the first work. It's the provoker. But Peter, like the merciful God he serves, does not leave them there in their distress. He offers them the grace of God and the plan of salvation, which leads to our second point tonight. Point two, repentance precedes salvation. So now let's look at verse 38. I'm going to walk through this verse in about as clear a way as I can to explain what's happening here. Now, as you read this verse, on the surface, you might come away thinking something maybe not quite right, or that what Peter is saying might be contradicting what you've heard about Scripture You see, this verse has been misunderstood and used by false teachers to give false hope to millions of people. So we should be careful and sober with this text. I first want to walk through the text and then bring the whole biblical teaching to bear on what we see. So let's read it together. Verse 38. And Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the Holy Spirit. Repent is the core command of this verse. He sees with his eyes, he hears, these men are cut to the heart, they're grieved by their sin. They're languishing in the desire to know what's going on, what to do with this truth. It's now pounded their heart like those horses' feet. And what does he tell them to do? But the weight of that conviction, repent. Repent. The verb is an active second person plural, meaning you all, y'all, must repent. This will be an important note as we move forward. But this is the first action of a truly regenerate person. Is the change of heart and life that turns away from the old life and self and turns to Christ In Christ's own words, repent and believe the gospel. He's calling them to repent about what they previously believed about Jesus That he is indeed Lord and Christ, the one who is able to save. They are to have a change of heart, to turn from their hardness, and accept Christ as their Savior. You see, repentance is really the only possible outcome to a true belief in God in the scriptures. Like a dominoes that would fall to truly believe in God in the Bible means you believe in a holy creator. You believe in his mandate to rule across the world. Man's sinful state, his nature, his inability to save himself, down the line until you realize you're a sinner and you're outside of God's will and you need to be saved. This is what you might call the breaking point of repentance. It's why God has to take some people to rock bottom in their rebellion before they can be saved. He designs them to feel the weight of their sin in all possible ways on this earth, which we know only pales in comparison to the hell in eternity. And you would think this repentance is a given, but it's not. There are thousands of people that know they are sinners and they don't repent. They mock God. They chide the idea of hell and judgment. They love their sin. They might even at one point dealt conviction. But they didn't repent and they turned to some other sin, bearing it, burying it deeper and deeper. If you're here tonight and you don't know the Lord as your Savior, have you ever been cut to the heart by your sin? If you have not, I pray that you would seek the Lord, that he would open your eyes to your sin, that he might work this kind of repentance in you. Because frankly, repentance is commonplace in the life of the believer. There is this repentance that leads to salvation, which Peter is talking about. But we are humbly repenting of sin throughout the Christian life as God sanctifies us. He is merciful to show us our sin, to graciously give the Spirit that He might change our ways. It's just to say that without repentance, there is no salvation. There is no sanctification. And if you're here tonight and you don't know the Lord, you might be saying, well that sounds kind of like a guilt trip. Like God's guilt tripping you. It is Because we're guilty. That's the point. Look at the book. Guilt is the right feeling when you are truly guilty. And all of mankind is guilty before a holy and just God. Your only way out is to turn to God and say, I'm a sinner, Lord. I need to be saved from my sin. I trust in the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ for my salvation. And this is the act of repentance. Acknowledging that you're a sinner and on the basis of God's word and turning from your life in sin to acknowledge Christ as your Lord and Savior, the man who dwelt among us, and on the basis of what he did We put our faith in his promises and believe in him, and we are saved. Romans 10 9 says, Because if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, Meaning not just the title, but that's the position he has in your life. He is your Lord. And believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified, meaning that guilt is written off, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved. This is the repentance that precedes salvation. But let's look what he says after repent. He says, and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. So Got to step back. I've just been preaching about repentance that leads to salvation. So how are we supposed to take the rest of this verse? If repentance precedes salvation, what does this mean? Well, this is one of about three verses that is typically used to support the idea of what's called baptismal regeneration. It's a view that states that true regeneration or that true spiritual birth, the imparting of God's forgiveness on you, happens at baptism. Spoiler, we don't believe that. We're going to continue on. So we must ask ourselves, is this what Peter is really saying here? When we look at the text, we read it, it's like, it kind of seems like he's saying that But as someone who believes in the clarity of Scripture and the sufficiency of Scripture, this verse does give us a bit of a challenge. So I have five brief points to address this issue of why I believe this is not what he's saying. First, let's put on the table that baptism and belief go together. They're linked in Scripture. There is no doubt about it. So the question really comes down to how are they linked? What's the linking between baptism and salvation? Through Scripture, we understand that baptism is part of the command of the Lord. And this starts all the way back in Matthew 28. When he says, Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, of the Son, and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you, and behold, I am with you always. to the end of the age. There's a clear implication that believing and baptism are linked. And I believe here the Lord gives a clear implication of Almost a progression here that there's making of disciples, there's baptism in the name of the Lord, and there's sanctification going on We also know there's some linking here because Jesus, previously in Acts, verse in chapter 1, says, For John baptized you with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. Jesus clearly is stating that there's something beyond the baptism of the water that's the true mark of a believer. And it's that gift of the Holy Spirit. And by invocation, it's not given by water. It's given spiritually. But yes, wherever we find belief, we find baptism, we find the commitment of baptism, but not every time in the scripture But we always find repentance and we always find the gifting of the Holy Spirit when we talk about conversion and regeneration. But baptism and belief are not synonymous. Only one is needed, and that's belief. Second point. The Greek grammar in this verse makes some distinctions. Now, I'm not a fan of having to go into the Greek to make a passage clear, but when we're dealing with a translation and translations that have uh multiple translations, which we have in the room tonight, we need to kind of talk through this a little bit. The NASB, the KJV all render this differently than ESV in some ways. We've already talked about this idea of Greek for repent. It's a second person plural again, y'all repent, is what he's saying. But then he says to be baptized. It's a passive verb, meaning it's something that someone does to you. You don't do yourself. And it's in the third person because someone else needs to baptize you. It's meaning this is something you can't do yourself. It's something that someone has to do to you. So the AND here is not linking two consecutive commands, like go to the store and buy milk. It's not saying that. There are commands that can't be linked by the AND Many translations, like the KJV, if you've got that, or the NASB, put a comma right after repent to show this break in the logic. If you don't have it in your Bible and you're not opposed to marking in your Bible, maybe you want to put a little comment there after repent. It might help you think through this as we go through it. See, repenting is what happens in your heart. It's what happens inside the person. It happens through the conviction of the Spirit. And like we've seen in the previous verses, baptism is something that someone does to you in a sense that you submit to it in regard to that previous command. Again, they don't fit together. There's another issue below the surface in the grammar. That second person plural, that yawl command. It belongs to repent. It belongs to your sins. That's a plural there. And receive. But the baptism part is different. So the section breaks for this from the second person floor to the third person for this. Be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ. And why that's significant, because if Peter was just commanding it as a command, he wouldn't have handled it that way grammatically. He wouldn't need to. There's no reason to change the grammar. He could have just rolled right through it. But he changed it there for some specific reason So this grammar links repent to the forgiveness of sins and to the reception of the Holy Spirit, but this baptism part kind of hangs on the end almost, the way the Greeks constructed. And lastly, this is probably the most important aspect as we kind of dig into the text, the for. The for in the forgiveness of sins can be rendered because of. It's a translation of the Greek word is which ties into a causal nature. Repentance causes the need to submit to baptism in the name of Jesus It's this motion of repenting and then to be baptized in the name of Christ because of the forgiveness of your sins. That's why you would do it. The baptism is a future obligation because of the forgiveness, not the other way around. See, as an illustration. It would be very normal and easy for us to go to someone and say, hey, we fly flags for Memorial Day. Well, it's because of Memorial Day we fly flags. It's not Memorial Day because we flew a flag that day Right? The four isn't showing that way. So we are baptized because of the forgiveness of sins, not baptized to be forgiven of sins. One precedes the other. So if we were going to just kind of render this in this way, we'd say, you all repent of your sins and be baptized, each one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, because of the forgiveness of your sins as a future obligation. And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit based on your repentance. Third. In Peter's very next sermon in the next chapter in 319, Peter doesn't include baptism. So if you thought that Peter would believe that baptism was required or necessary, why did he include it in his very next sermon? Also, Paul in 1 Corinthians says, Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel. Well, if Paul didn't think it was necessary, surely we're talking about something clear. This is called the analogy of faith. It means it's a hermeneutical principle that means that scripture interprets itself, that scriptures are consistent with one another. If God meant something, it would be consistent, it would not contradict itself, and we look at the teachings of Scripture on a topic, they should all agree. In this case, there are no scriptures that explicitly teach that baptism saves you. Yes, even 1 Peter 3. 21. There is a linking, but if we take the whole teaching of Scripture on baptism, we find that saving faith precedes baptism, not the cause of it. Fourthly, the whole book of Acts doesn't support this either. No other passage of Acts even gets close to presenting baptism as bringing out the forgiveness of sins. We do find repentance, baptism in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, forgiveness of sins, receipt of the Spirit. These are four essentials for that conversion experience But it's not about baptism and the forgiveness of sins. In Acts 8, it says, when they believed Philip, as he preached the good news about the kingdom and the name of Jesus Christ, and they believed, they were baptized. In Acts 10, it says, They received the Holy Spirit after believing the teachings of Peter. And then Peter makes the statement, can anyone withhold water for baptizing these people who've received the Spirit just as we have? That's Acts 10, 44. Acts 16, when it talks about Lydia, the Lord opened her heart. That's why he's saying that she believed, to pay attention to what Paul has said, and after, after she was baptized. Acts 18, they believed and baptized. This is the pattern of Acts. So why would we expect anything different from our verse tonight? And lastly, it just simply doesn't accord to reality. See, the Christian faith is not one of rituals or some kind of mysticism, but one of an intense critical lens on this world that our God has created. We live in this world, and this is something that the Lord even used me to draw me to him. That what he spoke was true, and I could see it in this world. Of course, there are things that I've never seen that are mentioned in the Bible. I've never seen an angel, to my knowledge. Angelic creatures, things of other realms. Of course, I was not there when the animals got on the ark by themselves, but I have experienced the life-changing reality of salvation and belief in Jesus Christ. That is real. It was not based on being baptized or even being baptized correctly. It was the gift of God and salvation and faith. When God opened my eyes, gave me a heart of flesh instead of a heart of stone. And this is the testimony of millions of Christians. But that's not to say that everyone who kind of holds this view of baptism and has been baptized is a believer, because we can't know the heart. But if they were baptized in unbelief, it would be of their own deception. Rather, what is more sinister is for a church to propagate the doctrine that baptism saves without any true change of heart, any true repentance, and send people to hell with false hope. They're playing games with sentimental sacramentalism, and it's deadly and evil. So from these five points, what are we supposed to make of this? Now baptism is a part of our conversion experience. But it's not required for saving faith. Nor does it invoke any saving faith over your life if you have been baptized without declaring the Lordship of Christ in your life. Even Pato -Baptists affirm that baptism does not automatically convey remission of sins apart from faith. Repentance precedes salvation. Baptism has its own place. We want to talk about that in the next point. But before we leave this verse, let's look at Peter's last part, the reception of the Holy Spirit. And he says, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. This clause, the receiving, connects with the repent verb earlier Considering all the examples we've already covered, it is true belief and the conviction of the Holy Spirit that at the moment of salvation, the moment of repentance, that we receive the Holy Spirit. There are six actions of the Spirit when person is regenerated, when we, in a sense, receive him, like Peter says here. We are baptized with the Spirit, 1 Corinthians 12. We are sealed with the Spirit. Ephesians 1. He indwells the believer. 1 Corinthians 3. He fills the believer, controls the believer, Ephesians 5. Produces spiritual fruit fruit, Galatians 5, and gives gifts for the church, 1 Corinthians 12. I also don't have a length of time to dive into all there is about the Spirit's work and a believer at regeneration. But this act of repentance and reception of the Holy Spirit marks the conversion experienced throughout the New Testament. But as Peter continues, he wants to just solidify this point a little bit more. In verse 39, he says this, for the promise is for you and for your children. For all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord God calls to Himself. This is a promise given that all who repent and believe will be saved. Repent and believe the gospel. There's a promise that extends even today. This promise is still open to you. The Lord is calling you even now. Listen to that word. See when he says here that it's open for you and your children, he's not categorizing people. What he's saying here is that this promise is enduring and expansive. The nature of the promise in God's salvation is available now, it's available in the future to the children, it's available to those who are far off, in his context, the Gentiles, because he's remembered speaking to a Jewish audience. But it's God's sovereign plan that whomever He calls will be saved, and there's no limit on time or limitation to who will be called. He calls the far-off. He calls the Arab. He calls the Muslim. He calls the atheist. He calls the Russian. He calls the Republican. He calls the Dem Democrat, the young, the old, the Silicon Valley elite, the homeless in the hills The addict, the goth, the jock, the rich, the poor, any letter of the gender confusion alphabet, no matter how far off, none are out of the range of our God in calling them to salvation. They need the conviction to repent. And we should not think of that any differently ourselves. In verse 40, and with many other words he bore witness and continued to exhort them, saying, Save yourself from this crooked generation. Peter continued to speak, because not everyone was convicted. He continued to bear witness in the effort to preach the gospel and plea with them to turn from their sin and turn to Christ. He didn't exhort them to get baptized. He exhorted them to realize the nature of God, his sent Messiah, and the judgment that awaits them. He was preaching repentance by bearing witness to Jesus. Repentance precedes salvation. So we have seen in Peter's preaching so far, he started with the conviction of the Spirit that led to repentance, the penance that delivers the saving faith and the precedes salvation. But our last point we have to address, what are we supposed to do with baptism then? If all this is true, what do we do with baptism? Point three, salvation is portrayed in baptism. As we've already seen in verse 38 and demonstrated by some of the verses we've already talked about, baptism is God's command. For those who have the forgiveness of sins. As he gave the command, so we follow. Baptize them in the name of the Father, the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. This is what we've come here tonight to do. Seven individuals who profess their faith in Christ now following the command of our Lord in baptism. Even though baptism is not saved, it's also not an empty act. Follow richly. The ordinance of baptism symbolizes the unity of the believer with Christ, their Savior. In Romans 6, 4 he says, We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in the newness of the of Lord. life. This is an act of these people identifying with their Savior in a death like his, to be raised to a new life like his, just as he was raised from the dead. It symbolizes what happens when we trust in Christ. The spiritual reality does not happen here. It happened when they put their faith in Christ. Submitting to the Lord's command in baptism shows that you're committed to him with your whole life. The old life is dead, the new life in Christ has begun. There is great rejoicing. But we rejoice for what the Lord has done in saving them. So let's look at this last verse, verse 41. So those who received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about three thousand souls. Peter just caps this and makes it real simple. Those who received his word, meaning they believed, were baptized. They were added to the church, the visible body of Christ through the visible proclamation, the portrayal of that believer's unity in the death and burial and resurrection of Christ. That's what we call baptism. It's a truly beautiful moment to see someone baptized. To know that Christ is building his church, working repentance to salvation in the hearts that were once far off from him. Those who would have maybe publicly scoffed at the Lord now submit to his will. And they are being publicly identified with their Savior. Some of you tonight that are here might not know the Lord, might find this act of baptism well a little humiliating actually. That's our Savior, humble and meek. To die for your sins when he was perfectly righteous, that he who knew no sin became sin, that we might become the righteousness of God. Or you might find it strangely superstitious or mystical. Yes, we are talking about the life, death, and resurrection of the Son of God, Jesus Christ. It is supernatural. It's beyond what your basic human mind, even though you may think well of it, it is limited in the great realities of this world. It's beyond what science can explain or experience with your senses. God himself came and died and rose again that we might be saved from our sins. That is supernatural. Or you might find it kind of cultish or something. Like we're following some kind of weird ritual. Yeah, we're following a ritual, but not given by a man, but the very words of God. It is the heart of the sinful man that is in rebellion of God and declares himself his own God. But baptism shows that submission to the will of God and the rule and reign of God in their life. You might even contend that this view of baptism as a portrayal or a picture takes away from its value. But that's far from the truth. When we think about the one to whom you've been united with, the faith in him, the God who is there, the implications are enormous. This is not some kind of yard sign that's easily put up and down. No, it's an indelible, irreversible mark on our whole lives taken by those who have declared Jesus Christ Lord and Savior of their life. It's an outward sign of an inner reality that has happened in their souls. Because salvation is portrayed in this baptism. It's an unity in Christ and what he has done. But it also is the uniting of the church. Look at that last part again. And there were added that day about 3,000 souls. See, the church is made up of believers through time and through history, those who are kept in Christ. Baptism is the mark of joining that league of faithful, joining the body of Christ, the church that we are united with and we serve. Ephesians 4 says, there is one body and one spirit, just as you were called to the one hope that belongs to your call, one Lord, one faith, one baptism. one God and Father of all, who is over all, through all, and in all. We do this with joy Today is to be celebrated as we have these individuals join the church universal. I have two daughters being baptized tonight. I rejoice. But I rejoiced weeks ago when they put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And now we are a family in the body of Christ that will be together for eternity These are the three points that I wanted to cover tonight. And we don't put our hope in baptism, we put our hope in saving faith in Christ. And I want to include with just two , sorry, conclude with just two applications. First, let the faithful tonight take heart on the day of baptism. You know, it is super easy to come in here just like it's another Sunday night. But look, Christ is building his church. Day by day, soul by soul, the gates of hell will not prevail. He is there, he is working. Take heart, Christian. It's a great day for the church and believers, but how is this ministering to you tonight? Does this strengthen your faith? In those times when you feel like if the Lord is maybe not working in the way you think he should, or you don't feel like it's the way he should be working, behold, he is at work. His word is living and active. And in this world, that's this everything, all the time, my way, right away kind of world we live in, we confess that we grow impatient with God. But he is working. Take heart, be encouraged. He's working mightily, saving souls from eternal death. What you witness tonight is his handiwork on display. Let it give you heart for evangelism as you leave here tonight. As you enter the workplace tomorrow morning, that he is working. He is doing his work. And we get to see it working tonight. Give heart when you're parenting your children. The Lord is working. And give heart for preserving and holiness that we are serving a God who is there, who is working, and is Mighty. But second, if you are here tonight and you do not know the Lord, I've shared many important things tonight. I've shared them with you about the reality of the world we live in and the life you are living. No man is guaranteed tomorrow. If you have felt the conviction of your sin, repent and turn to trust Christ. My friend, you have nothing to lose and everything to gain The scripture says, Seek the Lord while he may be found. Do not turn your heart from the conviction the Lord provides. Seek him in repentance before your time is done. You see, we say the gift of salvation is a free gift, but it is a limited time offer. Today may be your last day. I pray that you would think deeply on these words as you see these seven individuals following an act of baptism of the Lord that they believe and follow and serve, that you too would repent and believe in the gospel. Thank you. Let's close in prayer. Father, you are mighty God, worthy to save and to be worshipped. Father, we thank you for all that you've done through the lives of these believers, Father, and the Church of Calvary Baptist, and what you will do in the church and your body throughout this world Stir us to hearts of evangelism and strength, Lord, to persevere against this wicked world. We thank you for these souls that you add to the body tonight, Lord. Let us rejoice. And let us take that joy into the streets, into the workplaces, into our lives, that our God is there, He is working, and He is mighty to save. And I ask all of this in your Son's precious name. Amen.