It's a joy to have you with us this morning. If you have your Bibles, you can be turning to the last book of the Bible, the book of Revelation, and the first chapter. Nineteen forty-four, a Japanese soldier by the name of Suiki Yokoi. Was stationed along with nine other men on the island of Wam. They were to do surveillance of the Allied forces and report back And there they lived in the jungle for some time. In time, seven of the men were taken to another location, and so there were three of them left. Well, one day two of the men died in a flood, leaving just one solitary soldier there. After some time of living there, he received pamphlets that had been dropped by Allied forces informing any Japanese soldiers that might be there that the war was over. But he thought it was a trap, and so he disregarded it. They weren't going to capture him. They weren't going to trick him so quickly. He learned how to survive in the jungle by himself, living off of various plants and hunting at night for his food. A very stark existence. In nineteen fifty-two, some seven years after the war was over, he did come to the realization through different interactions with people, that indeed the war was over. But he still would not surrender Because he had been taught that it was a disgrace to be captured by the enemy, that it was better to die. And so he decided that he was going to remain at his post in the jungle. Finally, in nineteen seventy-two, some hunters who were on the island finally convinced him to give up and they brought him back to civilization, a man who lived for 28 years in the jungle. And what kept him captive there in that little patch was fear, the fear of disgrace, the fear of disgracing his nation and his family. You see, fear is a very powerful emotion. It's been given by God to us as a useful tool. It keeps us from doing foolish things. It sometimes keeps us from doing things that would be very dangerous and hazardous to our health. God did not make a mistake when he gave us this emotion of fear But because we are fallen creatures, even God's good design has become distorted. And so many people live with a paralyzing sense of fear. Sometimes we call these different types of fear phobias. Let me mention what I'm told are perhaps the ten most common. You don't need to raise your hand if I mention yours. But I suspect that the vast majority of you will say, yeah, that's me, under one of these. There's of course fear of heights. And fear of snakes, and fear of dogs , and fear of spiders , and fear of enclosed spaces. And fear of social situations. And fear of germs. And fear of flying. And fear of public speaking, which is what I'm doing right now. And fear of death. There are many, many, many more phobias than these. Fear is indeed a paralyzing emotion. Everyone has experienced this emotion in a powerful way at some time or another. Perhaps this is why in God's word we find on at least 117 occasions it says, fear not or be not afraid. It's actually the most common command given in Scripture. Now, what does Easter have to do with fear? Actually, a great deal. On the morning that Jesus rose from his dead, the disciples were gripped by fear. They were hiding behind locked doors. They were terrified of the future. They had no idea what their future prospects would be. Should they go back to their old professions? They were afraid of being arrested by the authorities. Their entire lives had been turned upside down. The man they had followed for three years was dead. The man they thought was the soon to be king of Israel had been executed by Israel. And now they were fugitives. This is why when we read the resurrection stories in the Gospels, you know what we find the Lord saying to his disciples when he came to them? Fear not, and peace be unto you. The resurrection of Christ from the dead was a day in which some of the greatest fears of mankind were defeated. And this triumph is clearly brought out in our text this morning, which I invite you to turn to Revelation chapter 1. And I want to begin by reading verses 17 and 18. This is the Apostle John writing. He says, And when I saw him, that is the risen Lord, I fell at his feet as dead. And he laid his right hand upon me, saying unto me, Fear not, I am the first and the last. I am he that liveth and was dead, and behold, I am alive for evermore. Amen. And have the keys of hell and death. John, the last living disciple, has been marooned on the Isle of Patmos. a rocky island in the Mediterranean Sea for some time. It was here that he received incredible visions from God. And one of those visions was of the risen Lord, what he really appears like. And of course this is symbolic, but it it expresses the majesty and the splendor of Christ. Look with me at verse 12. of this same chapter. And I turned to see the voice that spake with me. And being turned, I saw seven golden candlesticks. And in the midst Of the seven candlesticks, one like unto the Son of God, clothed with the garment down to the foot, and gird about the paps with a golden girdle, His head and his hairs were white like wool, as white as snow, and his eyes were as a flame of fire, and his feet like undefined brass, as if they burned in a furnace, and his voice as the sound of many waters And he had in his right hand seven stars, and out of his mouth went a sharp, two-edged sword, and his countenance was as the sun shineth in his strength. And what was John's response to that? And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. Most folks think they know what Jesus looks like. I remember years ago when my kids were were little and we would sit on the couch after dinner and I would read Bible stories to them and I remember one time sharing with my kids, and they were just like toddlers at the time, and I said to them, you know, we really don't know what Jesus looks like. And they all looked at me and they said, that's not true, Dad. We have all kinds of pictures of him. And in all the books, he looks exactly the same. Isn't it great when your kids correct you? Their vast experience and wisdom We don't know what Jesus looked like, but we do have this description of the risen Lord, and he is a A man of glory and of majesty and of power. And that is why John, when he sees him, falls at his feet. May I say to you today , That Jesus is not as often portrayed a kind of effeminate long-haired carpenter with a broad smile. If you and I could see him today as he is, we would have the same response as John. We would fall to the floor Overwhelmed by his majesty. This has always been man's response to the glory of God. Isaiah, when he saw the Lord high and lifted up, said, Woe is me, for I am undone. Ezekiel, who saw that magnificent vision of the wheels, said I fell upon my face. And in Daniel chapter 8, Daniel says, when he saw the glory of God, I was afraid. and fell on my face. And John here has a similar response. In fact, there are other responses like this in Scripture. Every time someone really sees the majesty of God, this is their response. And this was not the first time that John had seen something of Christ's glory. Do you remember the time when he went up on the Mount of Transfiguration? It says there that when he saw the radiance of Christ emanating from himself, not shining upon him, but coming out of him, it says that The disciples, those three disciples there on the mount, fell on their faces and were sore afraid. But notice how the risen Lord deals. With Jesus, it says that he laid his right hand upon me and said, Fear not. Jesus reassures John with his words and with his touch. Now perhaps you find yourself here this morning in fearful circumstances. The causes are nearly endless. Could be a health crisis, broken marriage, perhaps you're struggling to move ahead after the death of a loved one, or looming financial disaster. And there are many more that could be mentioned. So often, if we are honest, the future seems bleak and fearful. There's so many unknowns. There's so much potential for disaster to come into our lives. That when we come to a festive occasion even like this, it reminds us of where we've been in previous years, and we begin to wonder what will the future years hold when we celebrate the resurrection of Christ. I want you to know that the most reassuring message of hope the world has ever known comes from the resurrection of Jesus Christ. The risen Lord has a message of comfort and hope for us. The central fact of history should provide peace and courage for all who know the Lord. I want to speak to you briefly this morning on this truth. The revelation of the risen Lord removes our greatest fears. I want you to notice in our text That when Jesus comes and reassures John, he is going to give him several reasons why he does not need to be afraid. And these are all rooted in his person and his character We do not need to be afraid because our risen Lord, would you notice with me, is sovereign over all of time. He says, fear not, I am the first and the last. This is a self-designation that Jesus uses for himself. It's basically the same thing that he said earlier in this chapter in verse 8. Would you look with me at verse 8 of chapter 1? He says, I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. Alpha and Omega, of course, you probably know this, but they're the first and the last letters of the Greek alphabet. And by the way, it doesn't just mean that he's the first and the last, he's also everything in between. That's what's expressed there. It's interesting to note that that expression, the Alpha and Omega, is found in the first chapter of Revelation and the last chapter of Revelation. And it's also found something similar to it in Isaiah on three occasions. Isaiah 41, 4 says, I am the Lord, the first and the last. Isaiah 44, 6, I'm the first, I'm the last, and besides me there is no God. And Isaiah 48, 12, I am the first, I am also the last. This is a title of deity. It expresses the truth That God is an eternal being. Eternity is something that we cannot fully grasp. We can't get our minds completely around it. We cannot think of something that is open-ended on both ends. That there is no beginning. You can go back as far as you want, God is there. And you can go as far as you want in the future, God is there. We are finite creatures. We are used to things having a beginning, a middle, and an end. Our lives are like that. Everything in history is like that. But God's not like that. He is the Alpha and Omega. He not only is in control of time, but he's providentially in control of all. In a sense, All of history is his story. God is in control of all the great world leaders and all the kingdoms which have come and have gone And if God is in control on a macroscopic level, he's also in control on a microscopic level. That means the details of your life. He is sovereign over all. God is not only in control of the past, but he's in control of the future as well. He's the Alpha, all that is past, and He's the Omega, all that is future. One of the great causes of fear and anxiety is the unknown future, right? What will happen in the remainder of 2016? There are a lot of people who make their living trying to forecast and predict those things. The answer is we don't know for sure. I think one of the ways that it's helpful for us to understand this is to realize that God is not bound by time like we are. He doesn't get older as the years pass on. It's like time is here, but he is back here. I think one of the best illustrations I've ever had to help grasp this is this. It's the illustration of a parade. We are like in New York City, picture yourself this, we are on the sidewalk watching a parade, and every float that comes by We have this massive float right in front of us. That's the present. We can see it. We see it very clearly. But we can't really see what's down on the next block, the next float that's coming. And we've already lost view of the float that was before that, which is already gone. But God is like up in the skyscraper on the hundredth floor, and he can see the entire parade, the first float. and the last and everything in between in one gaze. He's the Alpha and Omega. He sees the beginning and the end We only see the here and now. He sees it all. God is in control of the future. It's a trite expression. But it expresses a profound truth. We don't know what the future holds, but we know who holds the future. And that should bring comfort and stability and stamina to our Christian lives as we face the uncertainties and the unknowns. This is a wonderful truth for those who truly know the Lord. And let me just say, the more that you know the Lord, the more that you have a relationship with him and you've seen how he's worked in your life and the lives of others and you've come to the place where you you know you can really trust even your future in his hands the more you have that kind of relationship the more you will find comfort in this truth, that He is the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. He is sovereign over all of time. There's a second reason that's given that we should not fear in this text, and that is that we do not need to be afraid because our risen Lord is sovereign over all of life. Notice what it says in verse 18. He says, I am he that liveth. I am he that liveth. This is expressing the fact that he is the living one. There's perhaps an intentional play on words here because John fell down as one dead. And Jesus says to him, the risen Lord, I am the ever-living one. And the contrast in Scripture, where you find this title of deity, the living one. Is usually found in contrast with idolatry, with idols that were made of wood and of stone and of metal. You can read in the prophets, such as in the prophet Isaiah, where the prophet there mocks the idolatry of others because it talks about a man who cuts down a tree. And he cuts it up and he uses part of the wood to build a fire, and the other part he carves out a god and he bows down and worships it. And the prophet there is not trying to be respectful. He's trying to show how ludicrous that is. But we don't worship a God of stone, a God of wood. We worship the ever -living one. Now many of you know that the same man who penned this book of Revelation, John, also wrote a gospel. The Gospel of John, and one of the things he emphasizes in that book Is that Jesus Christ is the source of life. Consider these words. In John chapter 1 and verse 4, he says, In him was life. And the life was the light of men. In John chapter 3 and verse 15, he says, Whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. In John chapter 6 and verse 35, he says, I am the bread of life. In John chapter 10 and verse 10, he says, I am come that they might have life. and that they might have it more abundantly. And in John 11, 25, appropriate for today, he said, At the tomb of Lazarus, I am the resurrection and the life. And in John chapter 14, verse 6, in the upper room, the night before his crucifixion, he said to his disciples, I am the way, the truth, and the life. You see, the only way that we can really experience eternal life, abundant life, is through the living one, the Lord Jesus Christ. And ironically, it's only through his death. that we can have life. We have a hymn in our hymn book that has these words, My faith has found a resting place, not in device nor creed. I trust the ever -living one. His wounds for me shall plead. I need no other argument. I need no other plea. It is enough that Jesus died and that he died for me. Now the next two phrases in verse 18 reflect the two foundational truths of the Christian faith. Look with me. It says, I'm he that liveth and then this, and was dead. And behold, I am alive forevermore. That's why I've chosen this text, because that's a reference to the death by crucifixion and his resurrection from the grave. Now the Greek text of this first expression indicates that Jesus died voluntarily. Did you know that he was not the victim of some horrible conspiracy? Yes, the religious leaders did conspire, and Judas entered into that, but it was all under the control of God, and unknowingly they were fulfilling his divine plan of redemption. But he was not a victim. He says in John chapter 10 and verse 18, No man taketh it, that is his life, from me, but I lay it down of myself. He laid down his life voluntarily as a sacrifice for sinners. It's not something that the Father made him do, and that he was unwilling to do so, it was something that he entered into freely Why did Jesus die? In that same chapter, John chapter 10, we read this in verse 11. I am the Good Shepherd. The good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. He gives his life for the sheep. I want to invite you to turn with me, if you can, easily to John chapter 10. So many wonderful verses in this chapter, but I want you to see them with your own eyes. So the good shepherd gives his life for the sheep, but that raises the question, how could someone know if they are a sheep or not? That's a very, very important question. I want to show you the answer to that. Look with me at John chapter 10, verse 24. John 10, 24. Then came the Jews round about him and said unto him, How long dost thou make us to doubt? If thou be the Christ, tell us plainly. Jesus answered them, I told you and you believed not the works that I do in my Father's name. They bear witness of me. Look verse 26, but ye believe not. Because you are not of my sheep, as I said unto you, my sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life. and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My father which gave them me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. What wonderful words these are. So how can a person know if they are truly in the care of the shepherd, if they're really part of his flock? He says two things basically here. They believe and they follow. All who believe will follow. They will follow the shepherd. They will hear his voice. They will know what he says. Not that they will follow him perfectly. But they are his sheep. So my question to you this morning is this: do you believe what Jesus claimed, that he is the Son of God, that he died in place of sinners, and he rose again the third day? I mentioned this morning at our sunrise service, I wonder how many people today, how many millions of people in America today are sitting in a church somewhere and they're hearing something about resurrection, but they're thinking in their mind, this is ridiculous. The idea that a Jewish carpenter about 2,000 years ago Actually came back to life from the tomb. That doesn't happen. I would not be at all surprised or shocked if there are people here this morning who think that way. But this is what the scriptures teach. This is what the apostles gave their lives for. Not for something that they concocted and lied about, but they faced the most brutal torture imaginable and died because they knew they had seen the risen Lord. That is why they were transformed from fearful men behind locked doors to those who were out boldly proclaiming the gospel to thousands of people, even though they knew it would result in their arrest and ultimately their deaths. This is a wonderful truth. Jesus did not remain in the tomb. Invite you to turn back with me to Revelation 1. 18. And we have the sequel to this fact that Eva's dead. It says, and behold, I am alive forevermore. He's alive, never to die again. Even in his death, he was in control. He was the living one. And he is alive forevermore. Literally this expression reads, unto the ages of ages. How long is an age? Well, we use that to express a really long period of time Here it says from ages of ages, ages and ages and ages, it's the concept of eternity again. Jesus will never die. He will never cease to be who he is, the Prince of Life. This is why Alfred Ackley, that preacher of a century ago, wrote that wonderful hymn, I serve a risen savior. He is in the world today. I know that he is living, whatever men may say. He was listening to a liberal preacher on the radio saying it doesn't really matter if he rose from the dead, the grave, or not, because his truth is so wonderful and it revives our hearts. That's nonsense. Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 15 that if Jesus Christ did not rise from the dead, then what I'm doing right now to you preaching the gospel is utter nonsense. But he did rise from the dead. And so what I'm preaching to you is the words of life We don't need to be afraid because Jesus is in control of time, he is in control of all of life, and he is sovereign, thirdly, over all death. This verse concludes in verse 18. I am alive forevermore and have the keys of hell and death. A person who has the keys is a person of authority. They can unlock all the doors. Now the Bible tells us there are several kinds of death. Of course, when we think of death, we immediately think of physical death. When a person's heart stops, their brain ceases to function, and their spirit leaves the body. This is, as I mentioned earlier, one of our greatest fears. It's not a pleasant thought to think about death, your own mortality. This is why some people live in denial, never want to talk about death. Don't bring that up. That's morbid Some people won't visit hospitals. Some people don't attend funerals because they don't want to be reminded. Of their own mortality, and of the fact that every day that you live, you are drawing one day closer to your death. That's a sobering thought. It's not very pleasant, but it is reality. It's true Many people throughout history have tried to live in denial. Joseph Stalin was always afraid he would be assassinated, and so he had eight identical bedrooms made. And he would never tell people which one he was going to sleep in. And at the last minute, he would go into one. So if an assassin came Chances are they would go to the wrong bedroom and he would not be there. Louis XV made an order that no one must ever refer to death in his presence But you know what? He died. Enemy is a great death to humanity. It's a great death. How much sorrow and pain does death bring into our human existence? This past year in our church family we lost nine people Never had anything like that before. Seemed like we were just going from one fruit funeral to another. There are many people here this morning I know who are keenly feeling their loss There are many widows and widowers here. There are many people with a hole in their hearts. And there are people that I know are not here this morning Because they can't bear the thought of going to this Easter service where people are filled with joy and gladness and rejoicing. Because it's a stark reminder to them of the loss of their loved one. The Bible says that as Christians we sorrow not as those that have no hope. Because the Bible says clearly in many places that Jesus Christ defeated death. Now you might ask if you're thinking along with me, how is that true? Because Christians die. You just talked about these nine people that died in your assembly Speaking here of the fear of death and of what comes after death The ultimate death. 1 Corinthians 15, verse 25 says this, speaking of Christ, for he must reign till he hath put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. He goes on to say at the end of that chapter, O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? Hebrews chapter 2 sheds some light on this. I'm going to read a couple verses to you here. Hebrews chapter 2, verses 14 and 15. It says, For as much then as children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same, referring to Christ. That through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is the devil, and deliver them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. One of the reasons it says here that the incarnation took place, that Jesus became a man and lived on this earth for 30-some years is so that he could defeat death. And so that we would no longer need to live our lives in the bondage of fear. It says here in verse 18 that he has the keys of hell. The word for hell here is the word Hades. It's used 11 times in the New Testament. It refers to a temporary destination. I want you to turn with me to Revelation chapter 20. The book that we've been in towards the very end of it, Revelation chapter 20. I want to begin reading. Verse 12. Just picture the scene in your mind. John writes, and I saw the dead, small and great. Stand before God, and the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged out of those things which were written, and the books according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and hell, and that word there is Hades, were delivered up the dead which were in them, and they were judged every man according to their works. And death And hell or Hades were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. That is the ultimate death, physical death, which so many people worry about, is really not the thing to worry about. It's the other sides. It's the second death. Now I've just preached a sermon of why you do not need to be afraid, and yet I've read a passage that is truly frightful. The fact is that before you can receive the good news, And have those reasons not to fear, you've got to understand the bad news first And the bad news is, according to Scripture, that we are all sinners, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God, every single one of us. fails to live up to what we know is right, and we do things that we know are wrong on occasion We sin in our actions. We sin so often in our words. We sin in our thoughts. We sin in our attitudes. We don't do what God has commanded us in His Word to do and what He's commanded us not to do, so often that's what we do. We are all sinners. We are all fallen. We have inherited a sinful nature. Not that it excuses us, but it explains why sin is universal. The Bible further teaches that the consequences of this fact that we're all sinners is that all die. The Bible says the wages of sin is death. But it quickly adds, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Jesus is the only one who can keep you from facing the ultimate death of hell. It's only through Christ. He's the one that has the keys. And the key. That brings eternal life is true repentance and faith. Faith in Christ alone. Listen to these verses If thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. That is a guaranteed promise. Do you see that the resurrection is an essential part of your faith? A person cannot truly be right with God and go to heaven someday and enjoy his presence if they say, you know what, I'm just not sure about that resurrection stuff. I can't buy that No, you have to come to believe that that is exactly what occurred, that Jesus rose from the dead on the third day. I mean, if you don't believe that, who are you going to see in heaven someday? You see, the great glory of heaven is not that we're not in hell, but it's we're with the presence of our Lord. And we see the king and his beauty. Now perhaps you would say as so often people do, well, you know, I'm doing the best I can. Trying to live a good life, trying to be a good parent, trying to be a good employee, trying to be a good citizen. You know, I've got my vices, I've got my mistakes, but I'm I'm doing the best I can. Certainly God will give me an A for effort. Because I'm trying. The Bible says that's not the case. Salvation is not based on what you've done. Because you could never do enough. If you were right now to the end of your life to live a perfect life which you can't do, you still wouldn't make up for all the years that you've lived in sin. No, it's not what you have done, but what Christ has done for you. You have to come to a place where you realize I can never be good enough. I could never earn my way. I can never impress God. I can never make up for my past transgressions. I must trust in The perfect one, the Son of God who died in my place and rose again on the third day John 3. 16, the most famous verse in the Bible says, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. The only way to that life is through the Savior. The Savior is the only one who can conquer our fears in life and our fears in death. The death of physical death and spiritual death, it's only through Christ, who is sovereign over all that we can have the release of that bondage. And can have the peace of God ruling in our hearts. Won't you trust Him today? What a wonderful thing it would be on Resurrection Sunday, which is the day that we celebrate, the conquering of death, when Christ went from death to life and is alive forevermore. What an appropriate day it would be for you to come to spiritual life and to be born again. And the people of God would rejoice. Won't you seek Him today? Let's close in prayer. Father You know the need of every heart. You know those, Father, those who are bound by fears. Who are held captive at what the future might hold, I pray that today something that is said from the Word of God would minister comfort to their hearts. It would cause them to rest in you and trust in you. Father, you know those who have huge burdens. Lord, I pray that you would give them grace so that they would be able to cast them at your feet and would find that sweet relief And Father, for those who are not your children, who are not your sheep. who have good reason to fear the ultimate death, I pray that today they would seek the Lord while he may be found, that they would find that he is the rock of ages. That he is the only cleft, the only place of refuge from the wrath of God. And I pray that they would hide themselves in Christ and his righteousness alone. And would cast away any thought that they can be good enough. Oh Lord, work in our midst today, we pray. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.