If you have your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 5? It's interesting that every Sunday You always feel a slightly different vibe in the church, and today I would say it's very subdued. When it's uh cold and wintry out and You're here, sometimes you uh spirits are a little bit low. So uh there would be a great temptation for you to fall asleep and to just uh catch up on some much-needed rest. uh in the next uh 40 minutes or so. But uh I would encourage you, I'm gonna do my very best to hold your attention and to be energetic, but uh would you at least give me a fighting chance, okay? Sometimes when I get up here and I see people already starting to nod off and I haven't even made it up here, I'm like, I don't even have a chance. So please uh please give God's word your attention if you would, please. We're continuing. our study of 1 Peter. We're coming to the very end now. And we read together from Ephesians chapter 6, but we're going to be looking this morning at 1 Peter chapter 5. December the 7th, 1941 is one of the most famous dates in American history. It's a date that will live an infamy, as President Roosevelt said. It was coarse the date of the surprise attack on the naval forces at Pearl Harbor. The Japanese High Command chose Sunday morning as their target date because they believe that's when the soldiers would be least prepared for battle. And what is amazing about that particular day, though it was a very tragic day, is that there was warning that was given. uh before the attack actually occurred that morning. At 7. 02 A. M. there was a radar unit on the north coast of Oahu that has spotted the first wave of 183 Japanese planes, and they called to warn that the enemy was on the way, but the warning was ignored Being prepared for battle is the first step to victory. It's fascinating to realize that Peter, as he speaks about the importance of being prepared for the devil's attack, is not speaking theoretically But speaking experientially from his own time of failure. Look with me at 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse 8. Familiar verses this morning. 1 Peter 5:8. Peter writes, Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. Whom resist steadfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world. The fact is that Peter succumbed to the devil's attacks when he denied the Lord, even though he was repeatedly warned by our Lord that this would occur. Let me remind you the book of 1 Peter was written to suffering Christians. They were suffering persecution from Jew and Gentiles alike, and they were being scattered to the four corners of the known world. And throughout this epistle, Peter encourages them with the message that God's grace will sustain them. in their time of suffering. And now in chapter 5, Peter is wrapping up his comments and he calls on them to respond in humility to the situation. Look with me. At verse 6, he says, humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time. Why should they respond in humility? Because it is the humble who receive God 's grace. It says that he may exalt you in due time. And then we come to verse 7 when we were last together, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. Often In the context of suffering, we become anxious and fearful. And so we are instructed here that we are to cast our care upon the Lord. Peter here quoting from Psalm 55 verse 22 which says, Cast your burden upon the Lord, and he will sustain thee. And here we are told to cast our care upon him, for he careth for you. And then we come to verse 8. Be sober, be vigilant. Now what is the connection? Between verse 7 and verse 8. I think the connection is this: when you're going through a time of suffering and difficulty, you are vulnerable to satanic attack. You're very susceptible to the wiles of the devil. Because people who suffer, contrary to popular opinion, don't always get stronger or better. Sometimes they become bitter and cynical and disappointed with God. I think we can think of it this way. Most of the men who died in the Civil War did not die of gunshot wounds or of cannon fire. No, most of them died from infection that set into their wounds. And the fact is that when we are wounded physically and emotionally, we are very much in danger of being spiritually infected by the wicked one. of viewing our circumstances in such a way that rather than turning to God in our difficulty, we turn away from God. And so this morning I would like to preach to you on this truth that Christians must beware of Satan's attack in our suffering. My first point comes from verse 8, and it is this that Christians must be prepared to face Satan's attack when we are suffering. He says, Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. This verse begins. By telling us how we should be prepared. And it gives us two brief commands that work together. Be sober. Be vigilant. Now, this command, be sober, is found some three times in this epistle. If you look with me back at chapter 1 in verse 13, you'll see this exact term used again. Peter writes, Wherefore, gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation. of Jesus Christ. Verse 13 was the beginning of the body of this letter. And in chapter 5 and verse 8. Peter is beginning the conclusion of the body of this letter. And so we have here kind of like uh literary bookends. Peter is using these terms, this term be sober, to alert his readers. He's coming back to where he started. He's wrapping things up, and he wants to conclude with this admonition. That we are to be sober. Now, this exhortation to sober-mindedness is being used in a figurative way. Peter is not addressing the issue of drunkenness in this admin. Certainly, drunkenness has no place in the Christian's life. But here it is being used figuratively to designate the spiritual alertness that is required of Christians. This precise term is found six times. in the New Testament. And I want us to look at another passage to get a better understanding of what is in view here. Turn with me, if you can, to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. First Thessalonians chapter five. And I want to begin, begin reading At verse 6. Keep a finger in 1 Peter 5. Turn to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse 6. It says, therefore Let us not sleep as do others, but let us watch and be sober. For they that sleep sleep in the night, and they that be drunken are drunken in the night. But let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and for helmet the hope of salvation Now let me draw some conclusions like this. First of all, you see that this mindset of being sober is set in contrast with people who are without Christ. Lost people are described in Scripture as being in the dark. They don't really understand and comprehend what's going on in the world. But we as Christians have been called to be sober, to be mindful. This is a call to be spiritually alert. We see in verse 6 that these two terms are used again. It says watch. and be sober. And also this term is being found in the context, again, of spiritual warfare. And we find that, of course, in the same way here in 1 Peter 5 and verse 8. So turn back with me, please, to 1 Peter 5. 8 This is telling us that we must not be spiritually drowsy. We must remind ourselves, as Tozer said, that this world is not a playground, but a battleground. And we are soldiers behind the enemy's lines. We need to be ready. One commentator describes sober-mindedness as clarity of mind. That results in good judgment. One of the rare commodities that we find today, even in the church, is good judgment So often people make poor choices, bad decisions, because they forget. That they are in a battle. We are also commanded to be vigilant. That is, we are to be watchful. Worry is prohibited in verse 7, but watchfulness is demanded in verse 8. I think Peter's life experiences, once again, coloring his exhortation in this book. I'm going to encourage you to keep a finger here and turn with me to the book of Matthew, the very first book of the New Testament. Matthew chapter 26. Matthew 26 and verse 36. This is a record of Christ And his disciples in the garden of Gethsemane. It says, then cometh Jesus with them unto a place called Gethsemane. And he saith unto the disciples, Sit ye here while I go and pray yonder. And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and very heavy. Then saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death. Tear ye here and watch with me. And he went a little further and fell on his face and prayed, saying, Oh my Father, if it be possible. Let this cup pass from me, nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. And he cometh unto the disciples and findeth them asleep, and saith unto Peter, What? Could you not watch with me one hour? Watch and pray that you enter not into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. And the term that we read of being vigilant in 1 Peter chapter 5 is here this term watch. And what happened that very night. Look with me ahead in this very chapter of Matthew 26 to verse 69. Now Peter sat without in the palace, and a damsel came unto him, saying, Thou also wast with Jesus of Galilee. And he denied before them all, saying, I know not what thou sayest. And when he was going out into the porch, another maid saw him and said unto him that they were there, that this fellow was also with Jesus of Nazareth, and again he denied with an oath, saying, I do not know the man, and after a while came unto him they that stood by and said to Peter, Surely thou art one of them, for thy speech betrayeth thee. And he began to curse and to swear, saying, I know not the man. And immediately the cock crew. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord. which saith unto him, Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. And he went out and wept bitterly. Peter failed to heed his master's admonition to watch. And so he fell at the accusations of a servant girl. We need to be watchful, or we will be setting ourselves up for spiritual failure. We must be constantly on the lookout for Satan's attack. For the changing of our heart, for temptation that comes our way. Why should we be prepared? Well, first Peter chapter 5 and verse 8 gives us the reason, and it's because of the nature of our adversary. Look at the way the devil is described here. Because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about. Seeking whom he may devour. First of all, consider the nature of our adversary. The word adversary has the idea of an enemy or an opponent in a lawsuit. The very word Satan comes from the Hebrew for an adversary. This informs us that Satan is hostile towards every believer. If you're here and you are a child of God, I want you to know that the devil is against you. And he will do everything he can to oppose you. He does not play fair. He'll do whatever he can to defeat you. He will use disappointments in life to turn you away from God. He will use the influence of hypocritical Christians to keep us out of church. He will use our suffering to undermine our trust in a good God. There is nothing that is off limits. There's nothing that he won't try to do to weaken your commitment to Christ. He's described here as the devil. And this particular term here speaks of a slanderer or accuser. In Revelation 12, 10, we read that he is the accuser of the brethren. And we see examples of this throughout Scripture. We see this in the book of Job. That cosmic contest between the Lord and the devil. And we see that Job was faced so many trials and difficulties at the hand of the devil. And he came before the Lord accusing Job, saying, the only reason that Job serves you the way he does Is because you've blessed him so much. If you take away his family, if you take away his wealth, if you take away his health, he will curse you, he will turn from you. Now the devil was wrong. But that gives us an insight into the way he accuses us before God. But not only does the devil accuse us before God But the devil often will accuse God as a God before us. He will tell us that God has not been fair, that God has not been good, that God has not been faithful to us. He is the accuser of the brethren. We read in Zechariah chapter 3 of Satan accusing Joshua the high priest. This has always been his method of operation. He often will use our sinful failures to keep us from serving and following the Lord. If you ever had these thoughts in your mind, things like a real Christian would never have done what you have done. Or God will never forgive you for that. Or a person who sins like that shouldn't even go to church. We must never forget the Bible describes the devil as a liar and the father of all lies. Let us not be ignorant of his devices. And then we have this next description. He's described here as a roaring lion. This is the only time in Scripture that Satan is described as a roaring lion. The imagery of the lion is used often in the Old Testament to personify someone who was your enemy or your foe. And some scholars believe that Peter is alluding to Psalm 22 and verse 21, which says, where the psalmist cries out, Save me from the lion's mouth. Which is very, very interesting because that, of course, is the Psalm of the Cross. And so it could very well be reflecting the prayer of our Savior. Now, Peter describes this lion not just as a lion, but as a roaring lion. The roar of a lion is one of the most amazing sounds in God's creation. The Lord has specially constructed their lernicks so that it can make an incredible sound, the volume of a lion. roar has been measured at 114 decibels. It's so loud that it can be clearly heard five miles away. Remember when I was with Pastor Aaron in Tanzania, and he we went, he took me on the safari, and we spent the night in this tent there. It was a very nice tent, but it was still out in in the in the safari. And uh we spent the night there and at night we could hear this roar in the distance. Now, it really wasn't close by. It was probably miles away, but it was very disconcerting. It was hard to sleep when you heard the roar of a lion. Now, why is it that a lion roars? You would think that if a lion was hunting, it would be counterintuitive to roar because it would give you away. It would let your prey know that you're in the area. Well, it's thought that roaring often will paralyze their prey with fear. And this is one of Satan's most effective weapons during our time of affliction. He roars and we panic. We assume the worst will happen, and we begin to be controlled by anxiety. So often we were when we face a crisis, we respond in fear rather than faith. When I counsel people, I so often say this when they bring a difficult situation to me, I will say to them, you're either going to respond to this in fear. Or in faith, it's going to be one way or another. It's like you're coming and the road is dividing, and you have to go the left or the right. You're going to have to decide: am I going to trust the Lord Or am I going to respond in fear? Satan seeks to get us to respond in fear. And so often, instead of clinging to the promises of God, we listen to the roar of the adversary But what exactly is Satan trying to accomplish in our life? Notice how it's put here. It says he walketh about seeking whom he may devour. The idea of walking about means that he's on the prowl. He is looking for a victim. He's restless. He's looking for someone to attack. Lions usually attack the weak and the wounded and those animals that are not being watchful. And what is true in the natural world is true in the spiritual world. When we are weak and we are wounded and we're not aware of the bigger picture of what's going on. That's when we are vulnerable to his attack. And notice how it's described here: seeking whom he may devour. What is the implication we should take from this? Well, let me first of all say this. Probably all of us have at one time or another been to a zoo and we've seen lions in some enclosure. And it's amazing to look at how majestic and powerful and incredible they are. When Peter first wrote this epistle, And the first generation of readers read this. They would not have had experience of seeing a lion in a zoo. Most of them, if they had ever seen a line in their life, they would have seen it in the Colosseum. When there were contests there where human beings were pitted against lions, and the human beings usually lost. Especially when they had no weapons with them. They were put out there because they were enemies of the states. And so I'm saying that when people heard this analogy of a roaring lion walking about seeking whom he may devour. They weren't thinking of us, all lions are really cool. I mean, they're so majestic, they're incredible. No, they would be thinking lions are killing machines. Because I've seen them in the Colosseum. Now it's interesting this expression, seeking whom he may devour, has the idea of swallowing whole. Just like with one big gulp, swallowing whole. This was the word used in the Greek translation of the Old Testament to describe Jonah being swallowed by a great fish. So if we were to put this in modern terms, I think we would say this. Satan is playing for keeps. All right? He's not just trying to throw us off stride, make our lives a little bit difficult. No. He is trying to destroy our faith. He's trying to get us to do what occurred in the life of Judas Iscariot. That in a sense was in his mind a great win. Here, one of the twelve, one of the disciples, one of the followers of the Lord that people looked up to. Turned out to renounce his faith and betray his master and walk away. And what does the Bible say in the upper room? It says that Satan entered into the heart of Judas. What Satan wants to do is turn someone who professes to follow Christ into a Judas Iscariot, someone who has later seen they never really were a disciple. They never really were a follower of Christ. Or if he can't do that, he wants to turn them into a Peter. who wasn't true truly a follower, but who denied his Lord three times. This is what Satan is trying to accomplish in our life. He is trying to separate us from our faith in the Lord's. And Peter knew this from firsthand experience, the price of being unprepared. We must not forget our unseen foe. We are exhorted not to be ignorant of his devices. We read together this morning that we wrestle not against flesh and blood. That is our primary Enemy and foe and difficulty that we face are not other people. It's not the atheist, it's not the false believer. It's not the wicked murderer or pornographer. Those are not our primary foes. It is the unseen forces of evil that surround us. So how does Satan attack us? Well, primarily he tempts us to believe lies. In John chapter 8 and verse 44 , It says the truth does not abide in him. It goes on to say that he is the father of all lies. Satan will seek to tempt you to believe lies about God, lies about his word, lies about yourself, lies about other people. This is how he works. So often when I meet with troubled people , And they come to me for counsel. What becomes very apparent very quickly is that most of their problem can be reduced to this. They have believed one of Satan's lies. They have come to believe what Satan is telling them rather than what God's word tells them in the word. And it's turned everything upside down in their life. Satan will try to get us to believe that God has not really been good to us. You know, our very English word and the word God come from the same term, the same ancient term. Because you can't really think about God without acknowledging that he is good. If God is not good, then there's not a God. Because by definition, God is good. But often in our suffering, in our prolonged difficulties, we begin to question the goodness of God. And Satan wants us to do that. He wants us to come to the place where we will renounce our faith and say God is not really good God has not been faithful. He has not fulfilled his promises in my life. All things have not worked out for good for me. This is what he will seek to do. So how do we combat him? What do we do? The answer is we must take up the shield, the sword of the spirit. Peter learned from the attack that he faced. And that's why he would write these words of admonition in 1 Peter 5 and verse 8. But now I want us to turn to verse 9. Peter tells us the key to defeating our formidable adversary, whom resist steadfast in the faith. Christians must be prepared to stand courageously against Satan's attack when we are suffering. It says, whom resist? Let me talk about this word for a minute. The word means to stand against, literally. To resist something is to stand against it. This is our posture as Christian soldiers. We are to stand our ground. Let me invite you to turn back with me to the passage we read together this morning, Ephesians chapter 6, please. Ephesians chapter 6. I want to read these introductory verses in this great passage on spiritual warfare. Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 10. Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able, notice this, to stand against. The wiles of the devil. The same language here, to stand against or to resist. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers. against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand In the evil day and having done all to stand, and the next verse, stand therefore Having your loins gird about with truth and having on the breastplate of righteousness. Now, if you were paying very close attention, you would find a form of the word for stand there used four times in those verses. Why is Paul being so redundant talking about standing against and stand and stand and withstand? Because we need courage in spiritual warfare. If you can stand up against a great enemy, you are demonstrating courage. In order to stand for the Lord, we must be courageous. We find this same admonition. given by James in James chapter 4 and verse 7, he says, submit yourselves therefore to God, resist Or stand against the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw nigh to God And he will draw nigh to you. This is a precious promise that we must take by faith. Now turn with me if you're not already there, back to 1 Peter chapter 5. I want you to look down at one of the very last verses of this book, verse 12. It says, by Sylvanus. A faithful brother unto you, as I suppose, I have written briefly, exhorting and testifying that this is the true grace of God wherein ye stand How is it that we can stand courageously against the devil and all of his devices? The answer is by the grace of God That's how we can do it. And this is what we must do. We are not to run in fear from Satan The Bible never tells us to fear Satan. It tells us to fear God We are to stand against Satan. We are to stand up to him because he is a defeated foe. He was defeated at the cross. He was crushed there. It's only a matter of time before he and all of his followers are destroyed. He has no power over us. Therefore, we must stand against him. But how can we stand against Satan? Our text says that we are to be steadfast. in the faith or firm in our faith. It doesn't mean that we are to have faith in our faith. Sometimes Christians get this confused in their minds and they will think about faith as like, you know, I just I just really am trusting in the fact that I'm trusting and and I'm just going to trust really, really hard, as it were. That's called Tedeism. It's like a dog chasing its tail. Our faith rests not in our faith or in our tenacity in believing, but our faith is to rest in God. He is our fortress, our foundation, in whom we can trust So what does this mean? It means that we must rest in what God has revealed to us in His Word. We must Trust in the way God has interpreted our situation and the reality of the universe to us, even though we may at times face circumstances that don't seem to add up. We have these great verses in the Old Testament. Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee. Because he trusteth in thee. Trust ye in the Lord forever, for in the Lord Jehovah is everlasting strength. And in Hebrew, those words, everlasting strength, are literally the rock of ages. The hymn writer put it this way: stayed upon Jehovah, hearts are fully blessed. Finding, as he promised, perfect peace and rest. Do you know what it is to enjoy that rest? when you are facing something that is very difficult, that will alter your life forever, potentially, but you are able to put your trust in God and rest in him and you find the supernatural peace that fills your hearts. Some of you could stand up right now and give testimony to that. That peace that passes all understanding. We must take up the shield of faith wherewith we shall be able to quench all the fiery darts. of the wicked. So how do you respond to the unpleasant circumstances in your life? For example, when you are wronged. You will either choose a spirit of forgiveness or spirit of revenge. This is why in Ephesians 4, 26 and 27, it says, be angry and sin not. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath. neither give place to the devil. When you adopt a spirit of revenge, you are setting up yourself for spiritual failure. You're letting letting the devil work in your heart to fill you. with the poison of bitterness. You must not hold on to that anger. You must forgive. And you must trust what God has said. How do you respond when you're facing an anxious situation? You will either trust in God and find his lasting peace, or lean to your own understanding and be miserable. It's so much better to trust in God to just, as we said a couple weeks ago, casting your care upon him to take your burden and lay it at his feet and say, Lord, I don't want this anymore. I'm giving this to you. I can't figure this out. I can't solve it. I don't have the answers. I'm giving this problem to you. Hymn writer says, 'Tis so sweet to trust in Jesus, just to take him at his word, just to rest upon his promise, just to know, thus saith the Lord. How do you respond when you face a painful time of suffering? Well, you'll either respond with a complaining attitude. Or with an attitude of contentments. And the determining factor will be what you believe Do you really believe that God is in control? Do you really believe that He is working all things for your ultimate good? Do you truly believe that the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord? Do you honestly believe that the sufferings of this present world are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us? You see, your faith in God makes all the difference. 1 John 5. 4 puts it this way. This is the victory that overcometh the world even. Our faith. Every single day we either respond to the situations we face in faith or in unbelief. Perhaps you would say this morning that your faith is weak. Well the Bible says in Romans 10, 17, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. This is why you must bathe your mind and the promises of God. You need to read the word and meditate on the word and memorize the word and pray the word. You need to fill your heart with the Word of God. Rest your mind on those promises. You need to feed your faith. Why should we stand against Satan? Look at the end of verse 9. Never thought about this knowing The same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world. Why does Peter include this idea here? The answer is because when you are really suffering, you tend to think that you are experiencing something that is utterly unique. Something that no one else in the world is facing at that moment, something that perhaps no one else has ever encountered before. There's something about our suffering that isolates us from others. We feel like we're in a world of our own, and so often our mind is clouded with so many questions and thoughts. and painful feelings that we can't really interact with others the way we would like. We feel isolated and we're tempted to think no one understands me And the situation I'm facing is just very, very unique and very different. This is a dangerous place to be. You think that no one can sympathize with you, no one can really help you. Or perhaps you think that God really doesn't have an answer for my situation. You know, God has answers for most things. But sometimes there will be an exceptional case like mine, and there's really no word from God for that. There's no answer, there's no solution. That is all a delusion. It is not true. So often we think that other people don't suffer the way we do This is not the case. I see this played out all the time. I've mentioned this to you before, but It's happened on more than one occasion that someone will come into my office, they'll pour out their heart, they'll cry, they'll tell me their story, and they'll say something like this: I suppose you've never heard anything like this before. And my response is, well, actually, I heard something like this about two weeks ago. And before that, a couple weeks before that, and before that, your situation is not unique. Your pain is not abnormal. It's part of living on a fallen, sin-cursed planet. In the world, Jesus said, you will have tribulation. It's important for us to realize That other people are suffering just like us and in ways very similar to us. They have in the history of the world countless times, and they are right now And therefore, there are answers to this. There are principles of Scripture to apply to this circumstance. In 1 Corinthians 10, 13, it says a similar idea. It says, there hath no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. Your suffering that you're facing right now is not some rare and unique circumstance. It's garden variety. It's an everyday occurrence. There are people in the world right now who feel just like you and are facing circumstances similar to yours. There might be people in this congregation. whose hearts are as heavy as yours is this morning. And so what we are to take from this is that God does have answers for this. And that there is a camaraderie that we have as soldiers of Christ who are in a battle, who are facing opposition and difficulties in life. We all have our suffering that we must bear, endure hardness, the Bible says, as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. And so we must not listen to Satan's lies that our circumstances are unique, and therefore we should just try to figure things out ourselves. And make pragmatic solutions and answers to our problems. No, we must turn to God. We must recognize the suffering that we face is not unknown to him, it's not unique, and there are many others who suffer just like us. We must be sober and vigilant. We have a great hymn that has these words in it, leave no unguarded place. No weakness of the soul. Take every virtue, every grace, and fortify the whole. From strength to strength go on, wrestle and fight and pray. Tread all the powers of darkness down. and win the well fought day. God has called us to be courageous soldiers of Jesus Christ. And we can conquer by our faith and our trust in Him. him. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, how desperately we need your help, how weak we are, how vulnerable we are. to the attack of our adversary. How quickly we believe his lies. How quickly we turn to our own understanding. And away from your promises. Father, I pray that you would take your word and you would use it to better prepare us for his assault. I pray that you'd remind us again that your word is sufficient, that your promises are true. Help us, Father, to cast our care upon you. Our Lord and Savior. And Father, for those here this morning, who have never put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. I pray that you would open their eyes. They would turn from the darkness to the light. They would see the spiritual reality that is revealed in this book. that they would see that indeed they are lost in their sins and hopeless and in captivity and that they desperately need a savior Who can save them? I pray that they return to Jesus and be saved, Father. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.