If you would turn your Bibles with me to Psalm 118. Psalm 118 Have you ever heard a song maybe for many years and then later on found out you were singing the wrong lyrics? Or maybe you've heard someone singing a song and you realize they're singing the wrong lyrics. And you're like, that's not how it goes. My wife has that issue with me all the time. I frequently come up with the wrong lyrics and I'll look at her and I can just look at her face and say, so I didn't sing that right, huh? It's like, no, but it's a nice set of lyrics you have. It's something made up that it works, but it's not the right lyrics. I remember when our kids were little, we went around to a lot of churches as missionaries, and almost every church we went to we would sing Rescue the Perishing. And one of my kids, I believe it was Alyssa, used to sing, Rescue the Parachutes. Care for the giants. Jesus is merciful. Jesus will save. And she's like, I don't know why we sing that. But I guess he does. Rescue the parachutes. Recently my grandson was singing the song Revive Us Again, where he sings, Hallelujah, Zine the Glory, Hallelujah, Amen, Hallelujah, Zine the Glory, Revive Us, I guess. is how he I guess this is what we're supposed to have is revival. I remember many years ago when I was a teenager, there was a a younger girl in the church. Here at Calvary, and we would sing the song from Psalm 25, O my God, I trust in thee. Let me not be ashamed. Let not mine enemies triumph. Over me and she would sing it, O my gosh, I trust in thee She no knew she was never supposed to say, Oh my God, so she said, Oh my gosh, in the song, not realizing that it's okay to say that in worship. So sometimes when we have Problems in lyrics. Sometimes we just mess lyrics up. Sometimes we don't understand what they mean. And we sing them ignorantly. And sometimes we sing them, and we find out later there's more to it than we understood. And that's something that I believe happens in Psalm 118 in the New Testament when it is sung. If you remember, they on at the triumphal entry of Christ, the people cry out from Psalm 118, Save us, we pray. Oh Lord, O Lord, we pray, give us success. They say those words in our text here. or save us, we pray, but in in Greek they are Hosanna. They're simply singing Hosanna, or in our English translation, Hosanna. Verse 26 says, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And they cried out those words from Psalm 118. But they didn't fully understand the words. that they were saying, and the depth of that meaning. If you remember we've been studying the the Hallel songs, Psalms, the Egyptian Hallel, which is Psalm 113 through Psalm 118, and it's a part of a group of psalms that are sung at the Passover and each Passover feast. And they were sung it really at the other feast as well, but especially at the Passover feast, which celebrated the deliverance of the people of Israel from Egyptian slavery. In Mark 14, we read that at the Last Supper, when Jesus instituted the first Lord's Supper service, they sung a hymn. And they went out to the Mount of Olives. And that hymn that they sung, one of those, would have been this last hymn, Psalm 118, that we are looking at, have been looking at for several months. And they went out to the Garden of Gethsemane, where he was then betrayed by Judas. By nature of that reality, These words of Psalm 118 are pregnant with significance, and they have significant meaning for us tonight as we prepare to observe the Lord's Supper Psalm 118 has, as we've mentioned, multiple layers of meaning. There are multiple layers of significance. Because this is an Egyptian halel. There is a clear Exodus layer. There's a layer that refers to the Exodus. For example, verse 14 of Psalm 118 is a direct quote from the song of Moses that was sung in Exodus. Where it says, The Lord is my strength and my song, and he has become my salvation. It's a direct quote from that song that Moses and the nation sang after the army of Egypt was drowned in the Red Sea. But there's also a Davidic layer. Very likely David is the author of this psalm. We can't say dogmatically, but there's clearly a Davidic layer. One of the challenges for the interpreter of this psalm is to observe the change of speaker throughout. You will find the singular I and me and my And that likely refers to King David, someone who stands for the people, and he fought to lead the people in conquest over their enemy. Verse 10 speaks about all nations surrounded me. In the name of the Lord, I cut them off. And now he is leading the nation in praise to God. for the deliverance that God provided for them. Verse 15 speaks of that when he says, glad songs of salvation are in the tents. So there's an Exodus layer, there's a Davidic layer, but there's clearly a messianic layer. Jesus is the ultimate king of the line of David. And he perfectly fulfills the words of this psalm. And this psalm looks forward to messianic deliverance. Later Old Testament passages like Isaiah 28, 16. speak of this quote from this psalm with reference to the Messiah. We saw this last month when we looked at, or I guess it was two months ago, Psalm 118, verses 22 and 23, where he says The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. And again, two of the verses we're looking at this evening clearly have messianic importance. We see in verses 25 and 26 where we read, Save us, we pray, O Lord. O Lord, we pray, give us success. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. We bless you from the house of the Lord. And then verse 27, The Lord is God, and he has made his light to shine upon us. Bind the festal sacrifice with cords up to the horns of the altar. You are my God, and I will give thanks to you. You are my God, I will extol you. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. For his steadfast love endures forever. When we read this psalm, the theme of it is abundantly clear. The psalm begins and ends with those words that I just read, Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love. endures forever. This psalm is a call to give thanks to God for his steadfast love. And in verses 2 through 4, all Israel is called to give thanks to the Lord for his steadfast love. And then the priesthood The descendants of Aaron and even the Gentiles, the God-fearers, all the nations are called to worship God for his steadfast love, which endures forever. And we see this really as the king, David, and then the Messiah, the greater king, leading his thankful people in praise to God. For his steadfast love, which endures forever. Tonight, as we observe the Lord's Supper, we find that we are looking at these last verses of this psalm, and we're urged to give thanks to the Lord. for his steadfast love. It is revealed in two specific areas. First of all, give thanks to the Lord, for he saved us through the cross. The song that was played as a testimony in song this evening was so appropriate for what we are looking at this evening. But we find here that Christ is leading us in thanksgiving for the salvation he accomplished on the cross. And the people in Christ's triumphal entry, they they sang the right song, but with the wrong meaning, without the fullness of the meaning and understanding that this psalm intended. It's interesting that all four Gospels in the New Testament, record the triumphal entry of Jesus when he comes into Jerusalem on that Palm Sunday, beginning the Passion Week that would end with his death on the cross that Friday. All four Gospels bring this up. And as Jesus approached Jerusalem, coming to the Mount of Olives, with the temple now in sight. He sent two disciples into Bethany to bring him a young colt of a donkey that had never been ridden on before. When they enter the city, they find the colt just as Jesus had. Said, they untie the colt, they bring it to the Lord, they place their garments upon the colt, and the Lord rides on the donkey into Jerusalem. If you read in Mark's account of this event in chapter 11 of Mark 11, verse 8, we read what transpired next. And it's really a marvelous scene. We think of this on Palm Sunday. In verse 8, he says, Many spread their cloaks on the road, and others spread leafy branches that they had cut from the fields. And those who went before them and those who followed were shouting, Hosannah, Hoshanah, save us, we pray. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is the coming kingdom of our Father David. Hosanna in the highest. And so they are remembering the words of Psalm 118, and they're bringing the words of Psalm 118 into their worship as they see Christ. coming into Jerusalem and they're throwing palm branches down and their garments down on the road before them and the donkey rides over them and Christ on top of that. The people spontaneously burst into song and praise of Jesus. I think it's very significant that they sing the words of Psalm 118. And it's important to remember that many of those who were there did so because They had seen Lazarus raised from the dead. Bethany was the village where Lazarus lived And they had seen Christ raise him from the dead. And in fact, just a few verses, actually in John chapter 12, it says, the crowd that had been with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead. Continued to bear witness. So many of that crowd were those who had observed the resurrection of Lazarus. And now when they see Christ coming on the colt, the foal of a donkey. They recognize him as fulfilling a prophecy that's found in Zechariah chapter 9. Zechariah 9:9 says, Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion, shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king is coming to you. Righteous and having salvation is he, humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt. the foal of a donkey. So as they see this one who raised Lazarus from the dead, they say, yes, this is the king. And they recognize this and they say Psalm 118 is referring to this king. And so they cry out the words of Psalm 118 to this king. This was very appropriate praise. They knew these words from Psalm 118 were of the Messiah. And they were eager for the messianic kingdom. They were eager for his reign. And Jesus himself testifies that those words were appropriate words. They were singing the right words. But without the fullness of their understanding and meaning. In fact, in Luke chapter 19, when the Pharisees were enraged that the people were saying, Hosanna. Save us, we pray. They're calling, blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. The Pharisees say, teacher, rebuke your disciples. And he answered, I tell you, if these were silent, the very stones would cry out. And he's saying, those are the right words. This is right praise. I am the right recipient of these words of prayer. The fact is, they didn't understand the full significance of their prayer. They didn't understand the full significance of their words. Save us, we pray. They wanted a king They wanted a king, not a suffering savior. Notice that the words that they sang to Jesus, they're the words from Psalm 118. They knew this was the messianic psalm that David was a king, and they were looking for one who was the greater than David. But notice what he said in Luke 19 when I read this. Blessed is not he who comes in the name of the Lord. Luke 19, they say, blessed is the king. who comes in the name of the Lord. And then they say, peace in heaven and glory in the highest. Does that not sound familiar? Sounds very much like what the angels announced. When you compare that with what we read in Mark chapter 11, verses 8 through 10. We see they were saying, Hosanna, blessed is he, is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is the coming kingdom of our Father David, Hosanna in the highest. They were looking for a king who would establish a kingdom and would save them From Roman oppression. They were looking for a king who would free them or would save them. from Roman rule and establish the Messianic kingdom and bring prominence again to the nation of Israel. And they're not wrong for thinking this. Because interestingly, in Zechariah 9:9, the prophecy about the Messiah coming in, the king on a colt, the full of a donkey, that's verse 9. What does verse 10 say? Speaks about him speaking peace to the nations. His rule shall be from sea to sea and from the rivers to the ends of the earth. So you have the king coming in, lowly, humble, on a colt, the full of a donkey. And then in verse 10, you have him ruling the nations. And his kingdom is an international kingdom. They were looking for a king like David who would destroy their Goliath. who would subjugate the nations, who would make their nation the rulers of the world. But they failed to understand that before the king would come to conquer the nations, they first needed to be saved from their sin. The words, save us, we pray, O Lord. Our words that first and foremost must refer to our need of salvation from sin. We need a Savior to save us from our sins So many today think of Christ as a savior, and they'll acknowledge Christ as a savior, but they fail to see what they really need to be saved from. They fail to understand the meaning and the need and the full significance of the cross. And so many are like the crowd that came in and they sang praise to Jesus. Hosanna, save us, we pray. We want what you have to offer. Give us A kingdom. But they really do not understand what it means when they say peace in heaven. What does that mean? Isaiah 53, 5 says, He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. That brought us peace with God. When they said, Save us, we pray, they said, We want a kingdom. We want to be saved from Roman oppression. We want to be saved from the taxes that are so onerous to us. And Jesus said, you need to be saved from something far more serious than taxes. You need to be saved from your sins. And yes, you want peace. But the chastisement that is necessary to accomplish that peace is what I'm going to accomplish. And they did not understand as they sang those words that the cross precedes the crown. That the cross comes before the kingdom. And only when he had gone to the cross could there be a kingdom. This brings us to another time in the New Testament when Psalm 118, verse 26, is quoted. And it's again during that same week of the Passion Week a little bit later on. And this time those words From Psalm 118, 26, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. They're spoken not by the crowd, but they're spoken by Christ. In Matthew 23, if you have your Bible, you can turn there. Matthew 23, verses 37, and following. It's Tuesday of the Passion Week. He was in the temple. He was mourning over the dead religion of the Jewish nation. And in Matthew 23, 37, the Lord says, Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it. How often would I have gathered your children together, as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you were not willing? See, your house is left to you desolate For I tell you, you will not see me again until you say, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And in those words, the Lord is prophesying the destruction of the temple. Your house is left. To you desolate. Like Ezekiel when the Spirit of God left the temple, he's saying, I am leaving the temple never to return again. And this temple will be destroyed. It is left to you desolate. And he's proclaiming the destruction that would come some 40 years later. But he also prophesies a coming day. When the nation will say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. This is a future event. So when we read Psalm 118, there's far historical realities that are are mentioned, the Exodus. There's historical realities from the time of David. There's future events that are now historical to us about the cross. But there's also future events now that are being described in these words. When Jesus uses this These words from Psalm 118, verse 26, he says, There is coming a day, I tell you, you will not see me again until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Which leads us really to this second point. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for Christ is coming again. Oh, give thanks to the Lord for Christ is coming again. And every time we observe the Lord's Supper, we proclaim the Lord's death till he comes. We proclaim not only that he died and that he rose again, but that he is coming again, and he is going to establish a kingdom And he's going to rule and reign on this earth. Jesus is coming again to establish his kingdom. The disciples were not wrong about Jesus being the king who was prophesied to rule over the nations from Jerusalem They were just wrong about the purpose of his first coming and the order of the events. When Jesus comes again, he will deliver the nation of Israel from certain destruction. Remember, When just before Jesus ascended into heaven, the disciples asked him, Will you restore to Israel the kingdom? Is this coming now? And he says, not you're wrong, you don't understand. He says, not for you to know the times and seasons which the Father has placed in his hands. You don't need to know the when. But go to Jerusalem, and not too many days hence, you'll receive power. You'll receive the Holy Spirit. When Jesus comes again, he will deliver the nation of Israel from certain destruction. And they will cry out these words: Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Zechariah fourteen speaks of this day. Zechariah fourteen, verse two, describes the nation surrounding Jerusalem. He says, I will gather all the nations against Jerusalem to battle, and the city shall be taken, and the houses plundered, and the women raped, half of the city shall go out into exile. But the rest of the people shall not be cut off from the city. And it's at this time when there's this existential crisis that is coming to the nation of Israel. when Zechariah 12 speaks about the fact that a that a fountain of grace and a pleas for mercy will be poured out on the house of David, on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and they will look upon him whom they've pierced, and they will weep for him as one weeps for an only son. They will recognize that it is the Christ who went to the cross to save them from their sins. That is the one who is coming now to save them. And in that day of crisis, they will look to the Messiah and they'll say, Save us, we pray, O Lord. O Lord, we pray, give us success. Give us success in battle. Then in verse 3 of Zechariah chapter 14 it says, Then the Lord will go out and fight against those nations As when he fights on a day of battle. On that day his feet shall stand on the Mount of Olives that lies before Jerusalem on the east. And the Mount of Olive shall be split in two from east to west by a very wide valley, so that one half of the Mount of Olives shall be moved northward, and the other half southward. It's on that day of deliverance that the words that Jesus prophesied in Matthew 23, 39 will come true. You will not see me again until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. To you recognize me as your Messiah. After this in Zechariah, he describes that Christ Will reign from Jerusalem, saying, And the Lord will be king over all the earth. On that day the Lord will be one, and his name one. And all will recognize his authority to reign. Going back to Psalm 118, it's interesting because the latter part of verse 26 We read in the first part, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. This is the people saying this to the king. Then it says, We bless you from the house of the Lord. And in English this is confusing because You looks like he could be they could be speaking to the Messiah, the king, but you is actually plural. It's like we bless y'all. We bless y'all from the house of the Lord. They're speaking to a group of people. So there's a group of people, we, blessing you all. The we is in the house of the Lord. The you all are coming to the house of the Lord. And there's a blessing that is poured out on them. And it's commentators are confused at this, to be quite honest. It's what is being spoken of. And I have to admit, no one can say dogmatically what is happening here. Perhaps it's the priests. That are blessing the Messiah, they're in the house of the Lord, blessing the Messiah and the people As they come to worship in the temple? Or perhaps it's the people blessing the Messiah and the saints who return with him to rule and to reign with him when he comes on that day. It's not clear exactly what is being referred to, but we have a group, blessing a group. And that's significant to understand. When Jesus comes again, though We will celebrate the Passover together with Him. We will celebrate the Passover together with Him. Notice Psalm 118, 27 says, the Lord is God. And he has made his light to shine upon us. The idea of light here, we think of Christ as our light. The idea of light is that of salvation, that which frees us from the darkness. salvation from deliverance from the destruction that was coming. But then it says, bind the festal sacrifice with cords up to the horns of the altar. You think of the altar, it's a square structure, and on each of the corners of the altar were these horns, and they were there to signify strength, but also the sacrifices could be bound to it as the offering was being made. You can think of this even what Pastor mentioned this morning. When Abraham offered Isaac. Remember on Mount Moriah, Genesis 22, Abraham comes to offer his son Isaac. He builds an altar, he arranges the wood, he binds Isaac. And then the Lord, the angel of the Lord, speaks to him out of and tells him that there's a ram caught in the thicket not to offer his son. But he bound him. So we have this sacrifice, this festal sacrifice, being bound with cords up to the horns of the altar. Some have seen this as a reference to Christ on the cross, and every time we think of sacrifice, we should think of Christ on the cross. And we say, well, what bound Christ to the cross? Well, his fulfillment of his covenant promises. His love to the Father, his love to us. But I think ultimately this is actually speaking of a yet future event. When a festival, a sacrifice, a Passover will be observed yet future. If you remember back to Luke 22, we have read this in previous times. Verses 15 and 16 of Luke 22, Jesus says, I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you. Before I suffer. This is the Last Supper, the last Passover. He institutes the Lord's Supper. And he says, For I tell you, I will not eat it. Eat what? Well, the antecedent of that is Passover. I will not eat the Passover until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God. I will not eat again the Passover until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God. What does that mean? Will there be another legitimate Passover? Yes. Yes, there will be. Maybe you thought that there were no further Passovers. After Christ died on the cross. After all, doesn't 1 Corinthians 5, 7 say that we are to cleanse out the old leaven, that you may be a new lump? As you really are unleavened, for Christ, our Passover lamb has been sacrificed? Yes, it does. Christ is the fulfillment of the Passover. And that's why when we come to the Lord's Supper, we are to be cleansing out the old leaven, that we may be a new lump, that we might be unleavened, we might be purging out sin in our lives, because Christ is our Passover. But you remember Matthew 26, 29, Jesus also said, I will not drink of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom. Said, I will not eat the Passover again until that day. I will not drink the juice of the Passover until that day in my Father's kingdom. It won't be fulfilled. He says, I will not eat it until it is fulfilled in the Father's kingdom, meaning all the redeemed of all the ages coming. and celebrating the Passover together. And it will be not in memory and in celebration of the Exodus out of Egypt. But of our redemption from sin. That means that we will eat it together with him in the millennial kingdom. It's interesting in that passage in Luke 22, five times as he is instituting the Lord's Supper. He mentions his coming kingdom where we will eat and drink together with him. Verses 29 and 30, he tells his disciples, And I assign to you, as my father assigned to me, a kingdom. That you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel. So we have Glorified saints returning with Christ, ruling and reigning with Christ over the nation of Israel and over the nations of the world. This festal sacrifice, I believe it refers to the sacrifice that will be offered in that future day And that's spoken of specifically in Ezekiel 45. If you know your Bibles well, you know Ezekiel 40 through 48 is speaking about the millennial kingdom, the millennial temple, the temple that will be built, the worship that will take place during the millennial reign. And in Ezekiel 45, verses 21 through 23, we're told about the observance of the Passover again during the millennium. And we're told, in the first month, on the 14th day of the month, you shall celebrate the feast of the Passover. That's the same word festal that's found in our text here, Psalm 118. twenty seven. You shall celebrate the feast of the Passover, and for seven days unleavened bread shall be eaten. On that day the prince shall provide for himself and all the people of the land a young bull for a sin offering And on the seven days of the festival, again that same word festal offering, he shall provide as a burnt offering to the Lord seven young bulls and seven rams without blemish on each of the seven days and a male goat daily for a sin offering. It's really a remarkable truth Said there's coming a day again when not old covenant passover, new covenant passover When we will celebrate the Passover, not because these things are efficacious in atoning, but in remembrance of the ultimate Passover. That Christ died on the cross for us. The Passover in the millennium is not a memorial of the Exodus, but a memorial of the cross And Christ wants us to remember that every time we come to the Lord's Supper, that's why he said, I will not eat of it until I eat it again with you in my Father's kingdom. He wants us to do so in anticipation of that time when we will eat the Passover together with our Savior in his kingdom. And we're to do so with joy as we look forward to that day. Every time we come to celebrate the Lord's Supper We remember and we proclaim the Lord's death. But we also proclaim that he is coming again. And when he does, he is coming to reign. He is coming as a king And we will come and celebrate the Passover with him in thanksgiving for the redemption that he has accomplished. Remember what Paul said in 1 Corinthians 11, for as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death till he comes. We are proclaiming that this evening. We are giving thanks to God for the cross. And for the one who went to the cross to save us. And we are proclaiming that He is coming again. And that we will celebrate with him in glory. And that day, Christ will lead us in praise to the Father. Saying, you are my God, and I will give thanks to you. You are my God, I will extol you. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. For his steadfast love endures forever. The cross is the ultimate manifestation of God's steadfast love. And through all eternity, he will be the theme and the ground of our praise. When we celebrate the Passover anew in our Father's kingdom, the cross will be the theme as we look back to what Christ accomplished on the cross for us. And we rejoice. and the sacrifice that was purchased for us. The question is this evening. Maybe you're here and you're like those that came that day of the triumphal entry. And you recognize that Jesus is significant. You recognize that he has died on the cross, but you've never recognized that your great need is salvation from sin. That the cross was the salvation you needed. That the chastisement that brought us peace was accomplished on the cross. And if that's the case, you need to see your need of a savior to redeem you from your sins. And you need to come and repent. And by faith, put your trust in Jesus Christ and receive that peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Maybe you're here and you're a believer. I want to encourage you to make this year a year of continual thanksgiving to God for his steadfast love. That endures forever. That steadfast love that is revealed in the cross of Christ. I encourage you to begin this year thanking God for that steadfast love. That is manifested on the cross as we come to the Lord's Supper. But I also want to encourage you to make each day, as you begin the day, and as you end the day this year, thanksgiving for the cross. For what God accomplished for you through his son on the cross. You can use even the words of this psalm: you are my God, and I will give thanks to you. You are my God, I will extol you. Oh, give thanks to the Lord for He is good. For His steadfast love endures forever. As we come to the Lord's Supper in remembrance, let us also look at this time as a time of anticipation. Of the joyous coming when we will sit in the kingdom and eat the Passover again with our Savior. And may God use that anticipation, that expectation to purify us this year. Christ may come this year to rapture his saints. And we need to live in anticipation of that and purify ourselves in anticipation of that Purging out the old leaven that we might be a pure and new lump because Christ is our Passover. Let's pray. Father, we thank you. We give thanks to you for you are good. For your steadfast love endures forever. Help us this evening to come into your presence and to purge out the leaven. Help us, Father, to look with anticipation to the coming of our Savior. For it's in his name we pray. Amen.