If you would turn your Bibles with me to Matthew chapter 5, we are going to be looking at just one verse, one simple sentence from Matthew chapter 5. Where Jesus continues on in his Sermon on the Mount, and he says, Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. The idea of blessed means truly happy. The ones that are worthy of being congratulated Now this phrase, all of the Beatitudes really are counter-cultural. But this one right here probably has received more jokes or been the brunt of humorous comments. As people misunderstand what Jesus is saying. One has said, the meek shall inherit the earth. Yeah, a six-foot plot of ground above them. Speaking of the grave. John Paul Getty, the billionaire, said, the meek shall inherit the earth, but not its mineral rights. Garrison Keeler said, Jesus said the meek would inherit the earth, but so far all we've gotten is Minnesota and North Dakota. Another one said, it's going to be fun to watch and see how long the meek can keep the earth once they inherit it. Sylvia Plath said, I don't believe that the meek will inherit the earth. The meek get ignored and trampled. Barbara Cochran said, in New York City, the meek didn't inherit the earth. The big mouth does. You see how this statement by Jesus is completely misunderstood. And turned on its head by the world. And in the world's eyes, it looks like foolishness. But it really is describing, as all of the Beatitudes are. The characteristics of kingdom citizens, those who are in the kingdom of God. That's why the very first Beatitude says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs Is present tense the kingdom of heaven. All the rest, until you get to the last beatitude, are future tense promises. But those who possess the kingdom of heaven have these characteristics in their lives. Because of this reality. This is one of the things that that we have to be careful in our definition of the word meek and what meekness is. If we're not careful, we could very easily get a wrong impression in a wrong understanding of what Jesus is saying. And I want to begin by quickly going over a few things of what meekness is not. And as we will see, Jesus is the meekest man. Who has ever walked the face of this earth? This exact word that's translated meek here is found four times in our New Testament. But two of them are directly attributed to Jesus himself. In fact, Jesus takes this phrase upon himself in Matthew 11. saying, take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am gentle. There's our word, the exact same word that's translated meek here in Matthew 5. 5. He says, I am meek, or I am gentle and lowly in heart. And you will find rest for your souls. So when we look at meekness, the best place to look is of course our Savior But helps us understand what meekness is not. First of all, meekness is not like that word that rhymes with it, weakness. It's not timidity. It's not cowardice. It's often just been described as power under control. And that's true. And we're going to flesh that out in a little bit more, but it's a power that is submitted to a greater power. The power of God. There has never been a more courageous man than our Savior Jesus Christ. Not only was he willing to confront boldly the entrenched injustice and wickedness that was in the position of power But he also set his face like a flint to go to Jerusalem for the purpose and intention of taking upon himself the the weight of the world's sins and brutally dying as a sacrifice. For you and for me. That's not timidity. That's not cowardice. That's bravery in its highest form. The word that's translated meek has often been described and used to describe that of a powerful horse Whose will has been broken, but whose spirit is now being mastered under the hand of another. This is the idea of power under control, under a greater control. A horse and all of that wild, unbridled power is useless. Until it is tamed and brought under the power of a wise master. Meekness is like that Meekness does not use its power for its own defense. Meekness does not use its power for selfish purposes. Meekness is controlled strength or power completely surrendered. To God's control, to the will of God, and entrusting Him. Meekness, secondly, is not apathy I think this is often the idea that, you know, a meek person just goes along to get along. He just kind of rolls over and takes what the world punches him with. The heart attitude of apathy and meekness are totally at odds with one another. The apathetic person says, I don't care enough to engage. And what's at the root of that? Selfishness. I don't care enough. The meek person says, I care too much to act selfishly, to act wrongly, to act for my own interests. I care too much. Meekness is not apathy, it's not weakness, it's also not a lack of anger. I think a lot of times when we think about anger, we think anger and meekness are two totally at odds. But that's not the case at all. The Bible says, be angry and sin not. So it means you can be angry without sin. And we see Jesus as a perfect example of being meek And angry. Jesus was sinlessly angry when he rebuked the Pharisees for their hypocrisy, saying, Woe to you, Pharisees. He was also sinlessly angry when he saw the temple being turned into a marketplace, filled with corruption, where the religious leaders used the corruption that was there to make money. And as a result, prayer and worship were gone. And Jesus came in, and the Bible says he turned over the tables of the money changers, and he made a whip, and he whipped the animals out of the temple. Because he was concerned about the glory of God and the needs of the people to worship God. He was angry. It's hard to imagine him not raising his voice in a situation like that. But he was meek because his power was under the control of the father and it was for the glory of his father. Aristotle wisely said, anyone can become angry. That's easy. But to be angry with the right person to the right degree at the right time for the right purpose and in the right way, that is not easy. When I say that anger and meekness are not essentially opposed to one another, that's not an excuse for sinful anger. Sinful anger is still sinful anger, and it is the opposite of meekness. But righteous, God-glorifying anger is designed to correct injustice. Anger is like a fire. In this proper place, it is very valuable. When it's harnessed, it's a powerful tool to accomplish great things. You can think of the internal combustion engine. Which uses fire to be very beneficial to humanity. We can also see the danger of a spark in a forest that's dry. and the destruction it causes. When it's out of control, it devastates. Anger in its proper place is a gift of God. Anger out of its proper place is destructive and is set on fire of hell. Meekness is not a lack of anger. It's anger in its proper place. Mekness also is not afraid to correct and rebuke. There's a word that's very similar to the word we have in our text in Galatians chapter 6. Where Paul says, brothers, if anyone is caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual, restore him in a spirit of gentleness. There's our word, meekness, keeping watch on yourself lest you too be tempted. A Christian doesn't delight in rebuking, delight in correcting, but he cares too much not to rebuke. When it's for the good of the other person. He cares too much not to correct. So we are to rebuke and correct in a spirit of gentleness and meekness. So that's what weak meekness is not. But what is meekness? In order to understand what Jesus means by meekness here, it's really important that we look at this, the context. Because Jesus is giving this these eight beatitudes. And as we talked about in our previous sermons, each of these beatitudes builds on the other. And the foundation of all of the Beatitudes is this first beatitude. You can't exemplify the other seven until you have this first one down. Jesus said, blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. When we looked at this word, poor in spirit. The idea of that word is one who is bankrupt, the one who is a beggar before God, who sees God in his unapproachable holiness. and sees himself as wicked, that even his best actions, even his most righteous deeds, are corrupt and filthy, filled with pride and selfishness and lust and jealousy and envy and bitterness. And we are unable to commend ourselves before God. And we simply must come to God as a beggar saying, Lord, be merciful to me. A sinner. Until you've reached that point where you've come to God and said, Lord, be merciful to me, a sinner. You are not a child of God. No matter how many times you've been to church, no matter how many times you've read your Bible, until you've come to that place where you as a beggar have taken your cup and you've tapped your cup saying, God, I have nothing to offer. I'm asking you You. I'm pleading with you, be merciful to me, a sinner. Then you are not a child of God. The next Beatitude says, Blessed are those who mourn. For they shall be comforted. We talked about this a few weeks ago. The idea of mourning here is not mourning because you lost your job or mourning because You lost a loved one, but mourning because you have sinned against a holy God and your sins are great. And you weep and you mourn because you realize your sins are so great. That takes away all pride when you come as a beggar and you mourn over your sins. There is no pride. And really, humility and meekness are almost like synonyms. The humble person is the meek person. Who has first seen himself as he is and seen God for who he is. When we come to a proper understanding of our spiritual bankruptcy, And our own greatness of our sins is at that point that true meekness can grow by the power of the Holy Spirit. Pride is abase. And I'm enabled to respond with meekness to God, in obedience to him, and meekness to other. The one who is poor in spirit, the one who is truly meek, is the one who marvels at the grace of God to him. How could God forgive me? The grace of God that I have received is so great. Oh, that God has forgiven me. How could I not trust Him with all of my life? How could I not obey him? How could I not listen to him because he has loved me with such an incomparable love? It's one who stands in awe of the mercy and grace of God to him. So when we come to this verse here in verse 5 of Matthew 5, there's nothing really in the verse in itself that helps us define meekness. The context helps us, but it's helpful for us to know that Jesus doesn't just make this up. He doesn't just say, you know, this is a really good truth. I'm going to bring it out. That'd be fine if he did. He's the Son of God. He is wisdom personified, but he's actually quoting from the Old Testament. He's actually quoting from Psalm 37. So if you have your Bibles, turn to Psalm 37. I'd like us to read out of Psalm 37. And that is where we're going to find some very helpful information to understand what it means by being meek. When Jesus said this The Jewish people would have understood the context in which he was speaking it. They would have understood that he is quoting Psalm 37, verse 11, which says, But the meek. shall inherit the land and delight themselves in abundant peace. I'm going to read, beginning in verse 1 of this Psalm, all the way through verse 11, and I want you just to listen for a few things. I want you to listen for the instruction about trust, trusting the Lord, and also I want you to listen to the frequent command, fret not yourselves. Beginning in verse 1 of Psalm 37 Fret not yourselves because of evildoers. Be not envious of wrongdoers, for they will soon fade like the grass and wither like the green herb. Trust in the Lord and do good. Dwell in the land and befriend faithfulness. Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. Commit your way to the Lord. Trust in him, and he will act. He will bring forth your righteousness as the light and your justice as the noonday. Be still before the Lord, and wait patiently for him. Fret not yourself over the one who prospers in his way, over the man who carries out evil devices. Refrain from anger and forsake wrath. Fret not yourself, it tends only to evil. For the evildoer shall be cut off, but those who wait for the Lord shall inherit the land. In just a little while the wicked will be no more. Though you look carefully at his place, he will not be there. But the meek Shall inherit the land and delight themselves in abundant peace. The meek person is the person who has Learn to trust the Lord. How many of these commands that are found in this psalm are rooted in this reality? Trust in the Lord. Wait patiently for the Lord. And this trust is not just a trust that's based on nothing, it's a trust that is rooted in a deep appreciation of the grace and goodness of God that has been given to him. That's why when we come to the Beatitudes, we have, blessed are the poor in spirit. They're those who have cried out to God for mercy. They've received mercy. And now they know that God is favorably disappointed Dispossessed to them, that God cares for them. And they can entrust themselves to God They can say, God, I know you are good. I know you are merciful. That your grace is the first of an infinite number of blessings that I will receive from your hand. The meek person is a person who is submitted to the will of God. In verse 4, David says, delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. And then he says in verse 7, be still before the Lord and wait patiently for him. These verses speak to a submitting of the will to the will of God. And it's a will that delights in the will of God for him. Charles Spurgeon used to illustrate this many times in his writings and in his sermons. With the story of a shepherd who was asked by a doctor what the weather would be like tomorrow. And the shepherd said, The weather tomorrow will be the type of weather that pleases me. And the doctor said, well, how can you be so sure? And he said, Well, what pleases God pleases me. And the weather that pleases God will please me. That's a good instruction for today when we woke up it was six degrees. The weather that pleases God pleases me. Let me I'm gonna just I'm gonna meddle here. Was that your attitude this morning when you woke up? The weather that pleases God is pleasing to me. That shepherd had that attitude in his heart. Because he trusted in God. He had experienced the grace of God in his life. He knew that God was good to him. And although he did not understand why the weather would be what it was, he knew the who who controlled the weather. And he was able to say, what pleases God, pleases me. And the weather's a minor thing. What about the big things in life? Can you say what pleases God pleases me? That's why James says, My brethren, count it all joy. Count it all joy when you fall into various trials. Huh. Why? What pleases God pleases me. Knowing that the trying of your faith works patience or steadfastness. And that God is maturing you. He is strengthening you. He is deepening your faith through these trials. So what pleases God pleases me. The song that I love to sing so many times is the song Whate My God Ordains is Right. I don't know if you know this song. I'm just going to read to you the first two verses. I won't sing it this morning. But he says, Whate'er my God ordains is right, his holy will abideth. I will be still whatever he does. And follow where he guideth. He is my God, though dark my road. He holds me that I shall not fall. And so to him I leave it all. And so to him I leave it all Then he says, whatever my God ordains is right, he never will deceive me. He leads me by the proper path. I know he will not lead me. I take content what he has sent. His hand can turn my griefs away, and patiently I wait his day. And patiently I wait his day. The meek person is surrendered to the will of the The Father, submitted to his will. Its power yielded to a greater power, knowing that God is good And has learned to trust the Lord. The meek person does not fret. He does not become envious At the prosperity of the wicked. How many times when we were reading through Psalm 37 did we see that in the first eleven verses? Three specific times he says. Fret not yourself. Do not be anxious. Do not be agitated. Do not be angry. Do not be envious of the wicked. In verses 8 and 9, he says, fret not yourself, it tends only to evil, for the evildoer shall be cut off. But those who wait for the Lord shall inherit the land. Do you notice this connection here? Those who are meek inherit the land. Those who wait for the Lord inherit the land. So what is the psalmist doing by saying that? He's saying the meek person and the one who waits on the Lord are the same. A meek person is one who has learned to trust God His will, his timing is best. What pleases God, pleases me One of the things that this impacts is our attitudes. It's hard to grumble and complain when you say what pleases God pleases me. What God wills is good, and yet I grumble and I complain. Think about what our grumbling says. When you grumble, you complain. You're saying, I don't trust God who has brought this into my life. God's will is not good. God's purposes are not good for me. God has not been good. What a disparagement of the character of God we make when we complain. It's a serious thing. We think of grumbling and complaining. It's just normal. Everybody does it. But we're actually saying something about God. If he is good and that God works all things together for good to them that love him, to them who are called according to his purpose, when we grumble and complain, we are actually speaking out against God. The meek person has learned to trust him, like a horse who has blinders on. You ever seen maybe the Amish with their horses going down the road and the cars are whizzing by and the horses have blinders on? So they focus on what's ahead. They focus on that which is right in front of them, not all the things that are going on around here. God wants us to have blinders on our lives so that we're focused on Him. Focused on Christ. Focused on God in his glory. Focused on the goodness of God that's revealed in the cross. Our vision is of Christ. Having our eyes and our minds fixed on him, and we say, if God loved me that much, then I can trust him with all this that's going on around here. I don't need to fret. I don't need to fear. How how shall not he if he he gave spared not his own son? If he spared not his own son, how will he not freely give us all things? Because he already gave us the greatest gift. Do you think now he's going to ruin us? So often we look at the distractions and we fail to see the goodness of God that's revealed in the gospel. Sometimes when we're looking at this idea of meekness, it's helpful to see some examples. Not just definitions, but examples. So there's numerous biblical examples that we could speak about. I already mentioned Moses. You look at Abraham. I want to look at Abraham's wife. The Bible describes her as someone who is meek. I was talking through this with my wife, and she said, You should actually mention Sarah. And I was thinking about it, I'm like, yep. So I scratched out some things. You can look at my notes if you want to. And I added Sarah. I think she's a great example. Would you turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 3? 1 Peter chapter 3 in the New Testament. This teaching here in 1 Peter chapter 3 is on submission. Specifically in this passage on wives submitting to their husbands, but it's in a larger context of submitting to governmental authorities, to submitting to all authority that's over us, and then the husband's responsibility to their wives. But read with me, beginning in verse 4 of 1 Peter chapter 3. It says, but let your adorning, the clothing and the way you dress. . Be the hidden person of the heart . with the imperishable beauty of a gentle, there's our word, meek. A meek and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious. For this is how the holy women who hoped in God. Think about this. This is talking about trusting God. This is what Psalm 37 is all about. Trusting God. I can submit myself to God because I know He is good. His purposes for me are good. I will hope in Him. Though all else seems to be contrary, the holy women who hoped in God used to adorn themselves by submitting to their own husbands, as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord. And you are her children, if you do good and do not fear anything that is frightening. This is a fantastic passage of Scripture. There's a fearlessness that's being described in Sarah because not that she hoped in Abraham, not that she trusted Abraham, that he was perfectly wise. And perfectly good. We know that's not the case. But she trusted in God. Described her here as calling Abraham Lord. And that's a cultural thing. What God is describing here is not so much the words that she said, but the The heart that expressed this. And I mentioned this in the first service that when we lived in Tanzania, every wife called her husband Lord, Buana. It's cultural. Whether you submitted to your husband or not didn't really make any difference. But they would call their husbands Lord. So my wife frequently, all the time, every day, would call me Lord. Let me go check with my buana about that. And she would say that on a regular basis. I didn't even really think much about it. She has the spirit of submission. But that was a cultural thing. There are many women who were not submitted to their husbands who would still call their husband bwana. What's being described here is Sarah's attitude of submission to Abraham. But again, not because of Abraham, but because of her Lord. God. She hoped in God. Think about this. Sarah. Abraham comes to her and says, honey, God wants us to leave. Our home here in Ur. Metropolitan area. One of the very advanced societies of that era. And she said, okay, where does he want us to go? It's a logical question. Where are we moving to? I don't know. God hasn't told me that. Try that today, husbands. With your wife. See how easily that happened. Oh, okay. So God hasn't told you where we're going, but he's just telling you we're going. Yes, so let's start packing things up. What? But what do we learn about Sarah? She hoped in God. She trusted in God. She was confident that God was in control. And although she didn't know the end, she knew the God who controlled the end. She knew the God who was in charge, and she said, I can submit to my husband because I know God has called me to do that, and God is in control. Imagine what it would be like to be 90 years old and to give birth to your first child. My wife and I have said in our 40s, having kids is a young person's game. And we're in our forties. When God says, next year, Sarah, you're going to conceive. What? Okay, Lord. I will trust you. I will trust you. Sarah hoped in God. She demonstrated a meek and quiet spirit. She didn't Nag Abraham, where are we going? Why hasn't God told us where to go? She was meek and quiet. En trusting yourself to God. This is a beautiful example. So it's a not an easy one, but it's a beautiful example We see also the meekness of another person in Scripture, of Joseph. He was an example of really remarkable meekness in obedience to God's word and also in a refusal to take revenge when he had opportunity. Think about this. Joseph is a slave who's rising in power, is now in control of his master's house, and his master's wife comes and says, Sleep with me. He's like, who would know? It's a perfect opportunity. But he trusted God and he trusted his word. You know, James chapter 1 tells us that we are to receive with meekness the implanted word. What does the meek person do when he receives the word of God? God says it. I will not argue with it. I will trust God. I will obey His word. I don't care how hard it is. I will trust that God is good and His Word is true. And so what did Joseph say? How could I do this great wickedness and sin against God? I will obey with a meek spirit. And it cost him. It cost him dearly. It cost him his position. And he was thrown in jail. And he languished in a jail for years. But he trusted himself in God. The Bible says that the word of the Lord tested him as he continued to entrust himself to God, even shackled in prison for a crime he did not commit. But then when he became second in command of Egypt, another test would happen. What would he do when his brothers The ones who had sold him into slavery would now come before him and they would beg him for food because a famine had hit the land. What would you do? Your brothers sold you into slavery. Ruins your life. And now they come before you groveling, and you're the king. Tempting, huh? Lots of things may be running through your mind, what you might do. But Joseph demonstrated his meekness. Power under control of a greater power, when he did not take revenge, he did not lash out at them, but instead the Bible says he spoke kindly to them And he took care of them. And he provided for them. He did exactly what Jesus told us to do. Love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Bless those who curse you. Pray for those who abuse you. This can only be done by those who are meek, who have come to first see themselves as beggars before God. But the greatest example of meekness in the Bible is our Lord Jesus Christ. There is no better example than Him. He himself said, I am gentle and lowly in heart. He himself calls us to find rest in him. But we see his meekness when he offered himself as a sacrifice, the Son of God, who became a man, to die for his rebel creation. Isaiah 53 says, He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth, like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shears is silent, so he opened not his mouth. His mouth. In First Peter two, right before that passage about wives submitting to their husbands, we are told By Peter about Jesus, when he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but he continued, and here it is, entrusting himself to him who judges justly. Why do you not be fretful about the wicked when they prosper? Because God is in control. God will bring justice. And I can rest in him. Jesus is the ultimate example of power under control. He had submitted his power To the will of the Father. When the mob came to arrest Jesus, and Peter pulls out his sword, and he goes after the high priest's servant, and He ducks and he catches his ear. Jesus tells him to put the sword away. He said, Do you not think that I could pray to my Father and that he would immediately send me twelve legions of angels? I am submitted to the will of the Father. This is God's will for me. I delight to do your will. What pleases him pleases me. We see in Jesus that he was a lamb when it came to his own causes, to his own defense, but he was a lion in the cause of God's glory. And in the cause of those who were helpless. What we learn of meekness is absolutely beautiful. In respect here to his person, he refused to retaliate, refused to vindicate, he even prayed, Father, forgive them. For they do not know what they're doing. But when it came to matters of faith and welfare of others, Jesus was a bold lion, overturning the tables, rebuking the proud, dead Pharisees for their way that they were destroying the nation. Jesus is the perfect example of meekness for us to follow. He says in Matthew 5, the meek will inherit the earth. What does that mean? How do the meek inherit the earth? Ever wonder about that? Well, a truly meek person already possesses everything. He already, in one sense, possesses the earth because he's content in the provision of his heavenly father. What pleases him pleases me. So you have the shepherd saying, the weather that pleases my father pleases me. He has everything. What God brings into my life pleases me. God owns everything. He owns the cattle on a thousand hills. If God wants to give me those cattle, that's great. But if not, what pleases him pleases me. Paul says to the Corinthian believers that they were sorrowful yet always rejoicing, as poor yet making many rich, as having nothing, what? Yet possessing everything. Possessing everything. He had learned the secret to contentment. What pleases God pleases me. And so I can be content in whatever God allows me to have of his possession. I know the character of God, that He is good, and I can rest in Him. Everything on earth is the Lord's. And I am a child of the king. So I can rest in him. And his soul was truly satisfied. The meek person Does not grumble, does not complain, is the most contented person because he is resting in God. But specifically in this verse in Matthew 5 5, it's a future tense. The meek shall inherit the earth. A truly meek person shall future tense inherit the earth. There's a sense in which we do possess everything because We are the children of the king, and all that he has is ours. Doesn't mean you can go into Walmart and just walk off with the things that are on the shelves. But all that he has chosen to give us is what we truly need. But a truly meek person is focused on the glory that is his in Christ The meek person has learned to wait on the Lord. That's why over and again in Psalm 37 he says, wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord. God's timing is perfect. Paul encourages Timothy to trust in the Lord and submit to the hardships that God has ordained for him, saying, This saying is trustworthy, for if we have died with him, we will also live with him. If we endure We will also reign with him. The Bible says in Matthew 8 that we are children of God, and if children, then heirs. heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him, in order that we may also be glorified with him. Then he says, For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that will be revealed in us. And so the meek person is content in saying, God's timing is best, I will wait on him, but I know that he is good and that I will reign with him. And the trials I'm going through right now are not worthy to be compared with the glory that will be revealed in me. And I will inherit the earth. But did you notice here the connection of suffering and enduring and then reigning with Christ? The one follows the other. The meek person is the one who has submitted himself to the good will of God, such that he can endure trials and say what pleases the Lord. pleases me. I want to touch on three points of quick application here as we close this morning. First of all, if you're here and you're a Christian, I want to encourage you to grow in your appreciation of the grace of God that has been lavished on you. You can only be meek when you have come to understand and appreciate God's holiness, your wretchedness, and the grace of God that has been lavished on you. You can only begin to inherit the earth when you begin to give thanks to God for all that He has blessed you with in Christ Jesus. The salvation that He has purchased for you. Learn to set your affections on things above, not on the things of this earth. Put blinders on. Let your affections be for Christ. Let your eyes be focused on what God has accomplished for you in Christ Jesus. Boy, that changes our grumbling. If you're a grumbler, if you find yourself complaining a lot. Find some yourself as a critical spirit. Do people say that about you? You have a critical spirit. Well, it reveals you're not meek. It also reveals you haven't focused on the grace of God to you enough. If you're complaining, you're not reveling in the grace of God. You're also speaking ill of the good God who has saved you. So you need to spend more time looking at the cross and less time at those things that you wish you had. Secondly, Christian, evaluate your life and see if you're allowing the gentleness of God. To make you meek in your dealings with others. David said that the gentleness or the meekness of God made him great, made him able to deal with others in a meek way. If God has been so gracious to you Are you being gracious to others? Do you find yourself harsh in your words? Would your wife say that you have harsh words to her? Are you treating your wife the way God has treated you? Do your coworkers say you have a quick tongue that lashes out? Are you treating others the way God has treated you? Are you grasping for things in his life? Always trying to get, you know, if I don't look out for myself, nobody's gonna look out for me. Oh yeah, God actually is looking out for you. Are you able to entrust yourself to Him? Wait patiently on the Lord, delight yourself in the Lord, and He will give you the the desires of your heart, or are you depending on yourself to get those things? Do you find yourself vengeful, or are you able to say like Joseph? God is good. God has led me every step of the way, and I will be merciful because He has been merciful to me. Christian, we ought to be of all people the most forgiving, the most merciful, because we have received mercy from God. And lastly, maybe you're here today and you're listening to all this and you're going, man, this is weird. Yeah, this idea of the meek, what are we talking about? The meek shall inherit the earth. This is nuts. Do these people really believe all this? Yeah. Actually, we do. Your problem is like our problem was before we saw God for who He is and us for who we are. The fact is God is unapproachably holy. The Bible says he dwells in light that is unapproachable. No man can come unto him in his own righteousness. The Bible says that all of our righteousness are like filthy, polluted rags. And only when we recognize that, that we come to God as a beggar, and we plead with Him for mercy, do we find His forgiveness is full, it is free, and it's available for you, and it's available for me. It's available for all of us. That's why Christ died on the cross, taking our sins upon himself on the cross, so that we might be forgiven and given the righteousness of God. Him. If you've never put your trust in Christ and repented of your sin, that's the first step. You can't become meek until you first realize that you're bankrupt in spirit. And I would urge you today to come to Jesus. He says, Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me. For I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. There is no rest in this world And all your strivings and all your actions and all your religion, there's only rest in Jesus Christ. Come and find rest in him today. Would you If you'd like to talk more about that, I would love to have the opportunity to share with you, open up scripture, and answer any questions that you may have. Would you come? Come to Christ today. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for Jesus Christ, our Savior. Thank you, Lord, that you have been merciful and you have sent a great Savior for us. Help us, Lord, to be meek, as He has shown us meekness. And I pray this in Jesus' name, Amen