Give your Bibles you can be turning to Matthew 25 On Sunday, October 23, 1983. 241 U. S. military personnel were killed by a truck bomb that detonated at the marine barracks in Beirut, Lebanon. And many others, of course, were gravely wounded. Several days after the explosion, Marine Corps Commandant Paul Kelly Visited some of the wounded survivors at a hospital in Frankfurt, Germany. Among them was a Corporal Jeffrey Nashton. He was severely wounded in the incident. One bystander said he had so many tubes running in and out of his body that he looked more like a machine than a man. And yet somehow he survived. When Kelly visited him, Nashtin struggled to move and racked with pain motion for a piece of paper and a pen. And he wrote. In a shaking hand, the words Semperfy. He was marine, and of course it meant forever faithful. It's fitting on this Sunday before Veterans Day that we remember those who demonstrated their faithfulness in serving our country. This morning I'm not going to preach a message devoted to Veterans Day, but I am going to be talking about faithfulness If you have been visiting with us today, I want to let you know that we've been studying the larger parables. that our Savior told in the Gospels. And this morning we come to the longest parable and the Gospel of Matthew, a parable that is simply known as the parable of the talents. This parable is embedded in a larger lecture that was given by our Lord, known as the Olivet Discourse. This body of teaching deals with future end-time events and was given just days before our Lord's crucifixion. I want you to notice in our text that the parable of the talents follows right on the heels of the parable we looked at last week, known as the parable of the ten virgins. If you'll look with me. You'll see that the parable of Ten Versions ends in Matthew 25, verse 13. And then in verse 14, he has the word for The kingdom of heaven is as a man traveling into a far country. We only have one word separating these two parables, and it's the word for. It's linking these two. The parable of the ten virgins was all about being vigilant, watchful, and ready for the Lord's return. But the parable that comes right after it tells us what that readiness looks like. One parable tells us what we should do, the other parable tells us how we should do it. The parable of the ten talents tells us to watch. Excuse me, the parable of the ten virgins tells us to watch. The parable of the talents tells us to work. I want us to see in this parable that every Christian should faithfully serve the Lord. And I want to just make four observations that come directly out of this parable. The first one is this: God graciously gives to every believer abundant resources by which they can faithfully serve the Lord So there's no one anywhere that can say, you know, I would serve the Lord, but I have no resources. The reality is. And the teaching of this parable is that every one of us, if we can see it properly, has abundant resources by which we can serve the Lord. Look with me at the first two verses. of this parable, verses 14 and 15. Jesus says, For the kingdom of heaven is as a man traveling into a far country who called his own servants and delivered unto them his goods. And unto one he gave five talents, and to another two, and to another one, to every man according to his several ability, and straightway took his journey. This wealthy master in this parable obviously represents the Lord and his servants are professing believers. The setting here is of a wealthy man who has entrusted his servants with considerable wealth while he goes away for an extended period of time. The scenario here would be for several years. And so he calls his servants together and delivers to them this entrusted resource. Now, I want you to carefully notice that the text says that these were his servants and his goods. This money was not given to them as a wage for something that they had earned. It was not something for them to live off of. This was money for an investment. It was not their money. It was his money. He was committing it to their care. They were the custodians of it. But they were to invest it and use his money to make more money. Now, what was this talent? We've encountered this unit of measure before in our study of the parables. It's uh by our modern standards a little hard to calculate because it's uh a unit of weight between fifty eight and eighty pounds and it could be uh greatly uh vary in the amount of money uh value it would be depending on whether the weight is gold or or silver or bronze or copper. And but we do have some understanding from ancient times. that generally this unit of measure could be used to designate what a working person would earn over the span of some 20 years. So that's a lot of money. How much money have you made the last 20 years of your working life? Or how much money do you think you will make if you're a young person in 20 years in the future? If you add up all those years, sometimes you might get like Social Security and it tells you your filings for all these various years. If you were to add up 20 years, that's a considerable amount of money. Even if you don't have a great job. I mean, if you think about it, if you make fifty thousand dollars a year, if that's an average. And you do that for 20 straight years. How much money did you make in those 20 years? You made a million dollars A lot of times we don't realize the amount of money that passes through our hands. But when you add it up over the span of a lifetime, it really adds up. You might wonder what happened to all of it. So my point is that this master is giving considerable money to these servants to invest on his behalf. I mean, even the one who got the lowest amount, who got just the one talent, that was still, to put it in our terms, the equivalent of like a million dollars to invest. Now, what is meant here by talent? This passage does not specifically tell us. And I think this is intentional because the Lord wants us to make broad application to our lives. I think the best way for us to understand this term and the way it's being used And this parable is to think of it in terms of resources or perhaps opportunities. It includes things like your natural gifts and abilities. In fact, our English word talent, we say that person has talent, it comes from this Greek word. But it includes things like our money, our time , our opportunities, our intelligence, even our youth. All of the various resources and avenues that are available to us. Now, I wonder if you have noticed That the resources of the world are not evenly distributed. This is a matter of great contention in the world. It has always been that way. People have always said it's not fair that some people have so much And others have so little. But no matter what scheme they have devised to try to level the playing field, it never works. You notice that? Some people have lots of money, others have virtually none. Some people have multiple residences, other people are homeless. And some people seem to just be oozing with talent and ability. Have you ever encountered people like that? Sure you have. They're very annoying, right? They're good at everything They can pick up a musical instrument that they've never played before, and in 30 minutes they're playing better than you, and you've had three years of lessons. Or they you invite them to go play tennis with you, and they say, Well, I've never played tennis before. But after one set, they're better than you are because they're natural athletes. And the problem is that it's not like some people just have talent in one area. Some people that I know and some people that are present here in this room, they're good at art and math and athletics and music. And no matter what it is, they're talented, they're gifted at that. And then there's some people where you look at yourself and you say, is there anything I'm good at? Do I have any talents or abilities? They're not equally distributed. And so what we see reflected in this parable is exactly the way it is. Now it's very interesting. It says that the amounts were given according to their several abilities. Why is it that God has given some people more resources or more gifts or more talents? Than he has others. Well, ultimately that's his business. He's sovereign. But you know what? One reason is, and I think it's kind of alluded to here, is that often we would not do well if we had those gifts and abilities or that resource or that money, we would not use it well, so he hasn't given it to us. Something we don't like to think about, but it seems to be an implicit teaching in this parable So my point that I want to make here is that every single one of us has abundant resources. Even the servant here that just got one talent got the equivalent of a million dollars to invest. Now, probably most of you here are thinking, I'm like that guy with the one talent. I I I'm like the person that's the third in line here as far as resources and abilities because I I really don't have that much. But I think that if you could measure yourself by the other 7 billion people that are living on the planet today, you might have a different viewpoint. The fact of the matter is, we are all most of us here, I think, middle-class Americans. And if you could measure things, you would find out if you could have a person to represent the various economic circumstances of individuals throughout the world, you would find that probably all of us here are in the top 1% in the world. As far as economic advantage. You ever hear people protesting about the 1%? Those people who are press protesting are part of the 1%. They don't realize it, but they are. And the fact is, we are all part of the one percent. Globally and historically, we are affluent and wealthy. There's nobody here that's worried about starving to death or famine coming through, and your family is going to just over a period of months be reduced to skeletons. Nobody here is worried about that. Because we live in a time of great prosperity, and we live in the wealthiest nation in the world. You see, my point is we're not like the servant with the one talent. No, we're all like the servant with the five talents. Okay? We've been given abundant resources. We've like been entrusted with five million dollars, not one million dollars to invest. We have cars and homes and clean water and plenty of food and we're educated. I don't suspect there's anybody here except for really small kids who can't read. But you go to many parts of the world and you won't find that. I have many flaws. And I have many faults, but I have never had a problem with envying the wealth of other people. And I I think the reason for that is because I lived for four years in a third world country. And when I see where those people lived and the conditions that they lived in, I felt like I was incredibly rich. In fact, if I could take everyone here and we could live for a year in a third world country and then come back, you would not feel bad about your economic situation. Your house would look incredibly good to you You would feel very, very blessed if you had that experience So the first point that I'm trying to make here is that we've all been given abundant resources. And let me remind you, the Bible says To whomsoever much is given, of him shall much be required. In other words, the fact that we've been given so much means that God expects more out of us. Every believer has been given time, talents, money, skills, and opportunities that they can use for the Lord The second point that I want to make is this. God desires that every believer faithfully use those resources for his glory. Look with me at verse 16. That he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same, and made them other five talents, and likewise he that had received two, he also gained other two, but he that had received one Went and digged in the earth and hid his Lord's money. After a long time the Lord of those servants cometh and reckoneth with them. This first servant is eager to please his master. The idea of the text is he gets right to work. The idea of this term traded here probably means That he started a business with that money. And then that made more money. And then he took that money and started another business. He was an entrepreneur, we would say. He knew how to invest money and get a return on it And after several years, he had doubled his money. He was given a large sum of money, a great responsibility. the equivalent in our currency of five million dollars, but he had made his master five million dollars. He was worthy of that trust In verse 17, we read of the second servant. He did likewise. He also doubled his money. However, the third servant has a different response. He didn't use his master's money to make more money. He didn't even invest it to obtain simple interest. No, he hid it in the ground. Which is something that was very common in the day and used to be very common years ago of people hiding their treasure in the ground so no one would ever find it. His response reflects the way he thought about his master and about the investment that he had been given. He didn't value either one. He was acting like a person who had no master or was given no resource. But he didn't have the right to bury that talent because it wasn't his. It wasn't given for his personal use. So let me ask you this morning, what resources have you buried in the ground? It's so easy for us, especially in a culture that praises individuality To think of your talents, your time, your money, your land, your cars as your own to do with as you see fits. But that's not what the Bible teaches about followers of Christ. We have not been given these resources to indulge ourselves or to enrich ourselves or to exalt our name. We have been given these gifts by God for the advancement of his kingdom. These servants were given talents to enrich their master. They existed to bring him glory, and so do we. Whatever talents or gifts you possess, they really don't belong to you. They belong to the Lord. Do you ever think about that? Your home belongs to the Lord. Your car belongs to the Lord. Your money in your bank account, your 401k, that actually belongs to the Lord if you're a child of God And the Lord desires that you use all the gifts, all the resources that he has given to you for the advancement and the exaltation of his name. And the reality is that we must all give an account for what we have done. Do you know what it is to have a sense of little sense of responsibility and pressure when an evaluation is coming up? Maybe you have an evaluation at work and you're going to be called in and they're going to go through a whole list of things and they're going to be telling you how they feel you have done. That is always a stressful time. We don't like evaluation. I want you to know that those evaluations are nothing compared to the evaluation that you will face someday. We see in verse 19 that after a long period of absence, the Lord of those servants cometh and reckoneth with them. That is, he calls them to account one by one. This is something that we almost never hear about in modern American pulpits. Or we probably ever think about. It's one of those things that if we do come across it, we want to put it in the back of our minds. But the fact is that every single person here must someday give an account to God. The Bible calls this for believers the bhima seat or the bhima judgments. There's several verses that allude to this scripture and scripture. I want to turn to one of them right now. We're coming back here, so keep a finger here, but I want to invite you to turn with me to the book of 2 Corinthians. Perhaps the clearest verse on this, 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 10. 2 Corinthians 5, 10. Paul writes, For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that everyone may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. Now, there are a lot of questions and differing opinions about this judgment because we don't have a great deal of detail. And it's not my purpose this morning to try to answer all of those questions. But I want to make some quick observations. I want you to notice from this verse. That every believer must give an account, it says the first part, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. All right? There's no exceptions. Every single one of us will appear. Number two, every believer must answer to God for what we have done with our lives. It has the phrase here, the things done in his body. And that is an idiomatic expression that refers to what we've accomplished during our earthly lives. Every single one of us has the number of days that we will live on this earth. We don't know what that is, but we will someday give an account for that time that God has given to us. And then number three, every believer's service will be evaluated. Now we will not be judged for our sin, because all our sin was judged at the cross. That might be confusing to you because you see at the end of this verse it says, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. Now the word bad there is a specific Greek term that can be rendered worthless. It's the word phallos. Could be rendered worthless. This is like the wood, hay, and stubble that will be burned up How much of our lives, how much of our time and our money goes to worthless pursuits? That's an uncomfortable thing to evaluate, isn't it? How much time do we spend playing video games and on Facebook and on YouTube and our discretionary time and our discretionary money we throw on our indulgences and on ourselves, and we have nothing to show for it. I think perhaps the most common excuse that I hear from people for why they are not serving the Lord Is simply because they have no time. They say, I'm just I'm just slammed. I'm just so busy. I mean, I just run from thing to thing. I have absolutely no time. Pastor, if I had more time, I would serve the Lord. The reality is we have plenty of time. We live in an age where we have so many time-saving devices. That our ancestors did not possess, that it's amazing. We have cars for transportation We have wash machines. We have dish dryers. We have dishwashers. We have all kinds of things in our homes that save us time. There's never been in the history of the world a people who has had more discretionary time than we do. We're not going around just trying to find food for our next meal. We're not just trying to survive. We have spans of hours and hours of discretionary time every single day. But it seems like we're busy because we fill up that discretionary times with things that we want to do, things that we may even think that we need to do, but we really don't. What do we do with our time? So often we throw it away as if it is a cheap and infinite resource. Do we not? But I want you to know that your time is precious because it is the very essence of your life. And someday you must give an account for your life, which means you must give an account for your for your time. What did you do with those years? What did you do with those times? What did you do with the energy that you had in your youth or those 20 years of retirement? What did you do for the Lord in that time? We rarely think of it. We think it's my business. I can do with it what I want. No, that's not what the word teaches. You have been bought with a price. Now would you please turn back with me to Matthew 25? I have a third point I would like to make. Number three, God expects us to prove our faithfulness by serving Him in small areas before He gives us greater responsibilities. Look with me at verses 20 and following of Matthew 25. And so he that had received five talents came. And brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliverest unto me five talents. Behold, I have gained beside them five talents more. His Lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Thou hast been faithful over a few things that will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord. He also that had received two talents came and said, Lord, thou deliverest unto me two talents. Behold, I have gained two other talents beside them. And his Lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant. Thou hast been faithful over a few things. I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord. There's several things that are very interesting here. Did you notice that the Lord said the same words to both servants? The servant who had gained five talents and the servant that gained two talents both heard the same words of commendation. This is an important point I want to make. The Lord will not judge us by how successful we have been. But by how faithful we have been. The Lord wants to know how faithful we have been with the resources that He has allocated to us. This is an important thing to consider. I think sometimes you might think that the rewards that the Lord gives and these commendations are for like pastors and missionaries and evangelists and people in full-time Christian service. And he's going to say to them, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. But the average person who has a job, a nine to five job and has a family to raise and all these other things, you know, they're not going to hear anything like that. That's not true. If you are faithful with the resources that God has given to you, you will hear, well done, thou good and faithful servant. It doesn't, in other words, the Lord is not going to measure by how many outward things you have necessarily accomplished in your life. But by the faithfulness of the resources that he has given to you. This is an important thing for us to consider. I want you to notice the reward that these servants were given for being faithful. Did you see what it was? He says, thou hast been faithful over a few things. I will make thee ruler over many things. Faithful service for the Lord is rewarded with what? More opportunities for faithful service. That's what we should aspire to do. That God would give us more open doors to serve Him and to bring glory to His name. In the world, people work hard in a given profession so that they can become the boss and others can serve them. But it doesn't work that way in the kingdom of God. In God's kingdom, the reward for serving God faithfully is more opportunities to serve Him faithfully. And that should be the desire of our hearts. But so often people want to get to the head of the line without being faithful in the little things. It's often for people to desire position of status and authority. I think every pastor Has had well-meaning people come and say, I think that God has called me to be a missionary. And yet that person is not even faithful in coming to church. They've never witnessed to someone in their life. But they want to be a missionary. They see the the the the the kind of respect and admiration that people had for missionaries that come to the church they say, wow that's great. Go to a foreign country, you see adventurous things. And you come back and you report on it and everyone says, Oh, you're a wonderful person. I think I want to do that. But they haven't been faithful with The talents and gifts and opportunities that God has given them today. It doesn't work that way. Or perhaps A pastor will have someone come and they say, I think God wants me to be a pastor. And yet their own children desperately need to be shepherded. Why don't you start there and then move on? I've heard people come up to me Say, I would like to be a deacon. That's great. I sometimes ask them, do you know what the word deacon means? It means servant. So who are you serving now? Who are you serving today? You see, the way it works in the kingdom of God is you Prove yourself to be faithful in small things, and then God will give you more opportunities for service. So do you want to be a missionary? You need to start evangelizing here in Carroll County. You want to be a pastor? Why don't you start a Bible study at work? You want to be deacon? Why don't you start serving and meeting the needs of the people in your immediate sphere of influence? The first step to becoming a servant leader is to be faithful with the opportunities that God has already given to you. What resources do you have right now? Are you using them for the Lord? I think a lot of people would say, I don't have much, Pastor. Well, are you being faithful with what you do have? Let me give you a very simple example. Do you own a car? I think most of our adults do, because there's a whole bunch of cars out there in the parking lots You got here by car. I didn't see any horses. Didn't see any trains. You got here by car You ever thought about the fact that that is a tool that you could use to minister to others? You could provide a ride to shut-ins to bring them to church. You could give people a ride to doctor's appointments. You could take young people to nursing home ministries. Many of you know you've heard me mention before that my parents were missionaries in the mission field Uh, when I was a child ages of five to nine and we were over in Papua New Guinea, well my dad we had to come back because of my dad's health problems and For a time he tried to start a church here in Maryland. It didn't work very well. He really wasn't equipped for that. He was very discouraged. He had to go back to secular employment as an electrician like he was before he went away to Bible college. But my dad was faithful in his local church. We had one car, but every Sunday. We would go and pick up two ladies at two different sides of town and bring them to church. It was a real pain. It meant that we had to leave. No, it was. I'm just telling you from a child's perspective. We had to crunch into that little car We had to leave an hour earlier than we would have had to have left to go to church. Because we had to drive way over here, and then we had to drive way over there, and then we had to come to church. We had to get ready so much earlier. And we did that twice on Sunday. We did that for the morning service and the evening service. And we did that for years. And we had one car. But my dad was going to use that one car for the glory of God. We all have abundant resources and talents and abilities. The question is Are we using what we have now for the Lord? Hudson Taylor said, faithfulness in a little thing is a great thing. Fourth and finally, the fourth observation I want to make from this passage is this. God will judge us according to how we have faithfully served Him. And now we come to the passage that we read together this morning, verses 24 and following, and the the focus again is on this last servant. This is where all the time is spent. That he which had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art a hard man reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed, and I was afraid and went and hid thy talent in the earth, lo, there thou hast is thine. And his Lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sow not, and gather where I have not strawd Thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the exchangers, and then at my coming I should have received my own with usury, or we would say interest. Take therefore the talent from him and give it unto him which hath ten talents For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he that shall have abundance, but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath. And cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. There's so much here, this passage that I just read is worthy of a sermon on its own. The fact is the fate of the servant is troubling to us. It doesn't fit into our neat categories. This man who hid his talent in the ground begins to make excuses. for why he has not faithfully used his master's money. And if we were to put what he says into our own language today, we would say He said this, you're so difficult to work for. You have such high expectations. So I was afraid and I hit it into the ground. He basically was saying to his master, my failure is your fault. This is a classic example of blame shifting. Let me ask you, what was the root of this man's problem? Do you know what it was at the very base, the very core of his problem? It was theology. Theology. He had a distorted view of God. A. W. Tozer was right when he said that what comes into our minds when we think about God is the most significant thing about us. I want you to notice that the master in this parable does not accept the excuse of this third servant. He calls him a wicked and slaughter servant. This is an intentional contrast with what the master said of the two earlier servants. He said That they were good and faithful, but this one is wicked and slothful. You see, his lack of success was not due to his circumstances, it was due to his character. The master challenges his logic in verses 26 and 27. This master is not agreeing with the lazy servant's description of him as a hard and selfish man. But he is challenging his logic. He is saying, even if what you say is true, if I were that kind of man, your actions still do not make sense. You could have at least invested this money and gained some interest. So this man loses his talent. And it's given to the servant who has ten talents. Why is that? That doesn't seem fair, because the first servant has already proved that he will faithfully use his master's resources. This is kind of the principle of use it or lose it. Now what is really disturbing to us is how this parable concludes. It's not a nice ending of the story, but we found this as a common ending of our Lord's parables. Verse 30 Cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Now let me ask you, what do you make of this third servant? How would you describe him? The key question for the expositor is this, is this man a believer or not a believer? When I was a boy growing up and I heard this passage preached on, preachers would say that this third servant represented a carnal Christian. This is the Christian who will receive no rewards when he gets to heaven, but he gets in. I mean he just barely gets in, but he gets in. And there are two reasons that they would give this interpretation. Number one, they would say he's called a servant, he's the master's servant. That's us as Christians. We are servants of the Lord. And number two If we say that he doesn't go to heaven, you're basically making this parable teach a works salvation, and we know the Bible doesn't teach that. But there's some major problems with that viewpoint. I want you to notice what the text explicitly says First of all, the master calls him wicked and slothful. This is not a description of a child of God. But more importantly, in verse 30, he's described in unmistakable terms as being cast into hell. It says where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Every time the Bible uses this expression, it is a depiction of hell. It is found seven times in Scripture, six times in the Gospel of Matthew, and once in Luke, and always these disturbing words come from the lips of Of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. So I would say to you, make no mistake about it. If you're just going to follow what the text clearly teaches, it is that this man was lost. And he went to hell. Well that raises this issue. Is this teaching that a Christian who fails to faithfully serve the Lord will be cast into hell? Well, no. Because we are saved by grace alone. So did this man lose his salvation? No, he did not. The fact is he never really knew the master. That's why he calls him the way he does as a hard and difficult man to work for. He accuses the master of being selfish and thoughtless to his servants, and that's simply not true. Why did he have this perception? The answer is because he never knew the Lord. And therefore he failed to serve the Lord. This third servant is just like the five foolish virgins who were shut out of the wedding feast. He is also like the man who came into that royal banquet hall that we read of in Matthew 22, who did not have on a wedding garment. I want to remind you that all three of these parables were told by our Lord on one day, on Tuesday of what we call Holy Week. And in these three extended parables, there is a character in them that represents a person who seems to be a Christian, but is not. who comes short of salvation. And so this is a very important thing for us to consider. Now let me be clear. Serving the Lord doesn't save us. But it reflects the fact that we have been saved, that we have new values and a new master, that we view our resources in a different light. So let me ask you this morning: are you faithfully serving the Lord? Are you living for the glory of God? Do you realize that someday you must give an account? Now I think that a lot of people would say, well, Pastor, someday I intend to serve the Lord, but right now It's not convenient. It would never fit into my schedule. I want you to know something, that there will never be a convenient time to serve the Lord. There will always be ready excuses as to why you cannot do what God has called you to do. When you are young and you have all your energy and your youth and your vibrancy about you, the pull of the world. Will call on you to indulge in your flesh and in yourself, and you'll say to yourself, Someday when I get older and more mature, I will turn and serve the Lord. And when you get married, you will say to yourself, right now, I must give my attention to my spouse. I mean, doesn't the Bible even teach that? And then when you have children, you will say, Well, my responsibility now is my kids. I don't have any time to serve the Lord. I must pour my life into my kids. And when your kids leave the home, then it'll be the grandkids that you need to invest in And then when you retire and you think to yourself, I'm going to have all this time to do all the things that I've always intended to do. Many times you will find that that zeal and that energy that you once possessed is gone. And so you can come to your end of your life with good intentions of faithfully serving your master. And yet it's never really happened. This is the reality. If you just let nature take its course , You will live an egocentric lifestyle. You will spend all your time and money and skills on achieving the American dream, on carving out a life of comfort, fulfillment, and indulgence. And you will live just like your lost peers, who lives as if there is no God, no judgment, no heaven, and no hell. But God has called us to something much different. He has called us to faithfully serve Him. We are to live our lives with the mindset that someday we will hear Well done, thou good and faithful servants. We are to live for his glory. And the ironic thing is this It's not like, well, I guess I'll serve the Lord and be miserable. No. There's joy in serving Jesus. You notice what the Master says: Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord. The path of joy is the path of investing your life in something greater than yourself. People who live for self, who carve out the American dream, will have a big, beautiful home on top of a hill and a garage full of well-kept cars. Come to the end of their life because I've talked to many of them and they are empty. Is this all that there is in life accumulating these possessions? Yes, there is much more to life. The whole purpose of life is to bring glory to God and to serve Him and to advance His kingdom. That is where there is true joy, not only in this life, but in the life to come. Ironically, it's when we live for his glory that we find the most joy in this life. So let me ask you, are you faithfully serving the Lord with the abundant resources that God has given to you? Or are you burying it in the ground? We've seen in this passage that burying your talent in the ground is not a viable option for the believer. No, we must take whatever he has given to us and use it to advance his cause around the world. This is what God has called us to do. Let's close in prayer this evening, this morning. Father, I pray that you would help us to carefully consider what we've heard this morning. Help us to remember that we must someday give an account. That we will be evaluated on what we have done with all the blessings that you've given to us. Help us, Father, to desire to be faithful. Help us, Father, to invest our lives in things that are eternal, not in things that are transient. Help us, Father, to set our affection on things above, not on things of the earth. And Father, for those who are here who claim to be your servants But yet are strangers to you, who have hard thoughts of God, who have no desire to serve you because they view you as a stern Taskmaster who's been unfair to them. I pray, Lord, that you would turn their hearts to the Savior today, open their eyes that they might see you as you are And be born again. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.