First Thessalonians chapter four is where we're at this evening. First Thessalonians four. And we are continuing in our study. We began. uh chapter four last time which is about three weeks ago just kind of a by way of review if you have the handout I put some of the main points of our last week, our last uh session together on there so we can kind of feel the flow of of this passage. But before we do that, just by a reminder how the book lays out. It has two main divisions. The first three chapters are looking back at the transformation that God did in the lives of the Thessalonians. and also what the how the apostle and the missionary team, how they responded to them. And it's full of thankfulness. It's full of joy and praise for what God has done in the lives of the Thessalonians, how God took them from idolatry and paganism and brought them to Christ, their following Christ. And as a result, this comes from Timothy's visiting them and bringing back a good report to the Apostle Paul. Then in chapters 4 and 5, it's a forward look, looking to the return of Christ and how we ought to live in light of that, growing in holiness. and faith and in love in response to the return of Christ. So we have the theme here for the Book of Thessalonians is continue to grow in faith, hope, and love in light of the imminent return of Christ. And that's what we're looking at. If you remember how we began to break down this passage the last time we were together, we saw the importance of Sanctification, the will of God in sanctification, specifically in this area of sexual sin and purity, that God was desiring us to be sanctified, to be set apart in the area of sexual purity. And there's three that 's that kind of give us our points from this passage. That you abstain from sexual immorality. So it's the will of God. that you abstain from sexual immorality. It is the will of God that each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness. and an honor. And it is the will of God that no one transgress and wrong his brother in this matter. So you see, the breakdown of this passage of scripture is kind of made clear by these three that 's that are found within this passage. So it's the will of God. For us to be controlled in the area of our sexual life. Controlling your body against sexual temptation, we talked about last time, requires some know-how. He says that you know how to control your own body. And controlling your own body against sexual temptation means knowing your own weakness, that you are That you are prone to weakness in this area, and anyone who thinks that he can stand, take heed lest he fall. It means that knowing that you have been bought with a price, you are not your own. You have been bought with a price, and the price is the precious blood of Christ. Know as well how to treat your body with honor. It's a precious thing. It's something that God has expended a great price, and it is also the dwelling place. of the Holy Spirit, and that knowing as well that sexual purity begins in the mind. The battle for sexual purity begins in the mind well before it goes anywhere else. And that there is no victory over sexual sin apart from the power of the Holy Spirit in the life of a believer. That is why we need to Grow in these areas. And this last area that the Apostle Paul is bringing up to these Thessalonian believers is that it is the will of God that you do not sin. Against your brother or sister in Christ, specifically in this area of sexual sin. Sexual sin is primarily against God But that doesn't negate the fact that it is a sin against another person or other people. Psalm 51, David said, Against you, you only have I sinned. Meaning that the primary responsibility of his sin is against God who has set the laws. But in that process he also sinned against Bathsheba. And he also sinned against Uriah, and he also sinned against his family, and he sinned against the nation. So his sin was not is not limited, you might say, to this fact that it is only against God. It is primarily and ultimately against God, but it has many other components to it as well. And so Paul brings that out in verse. Verse 5, he says, I'm sorry, verse 6, that no one transgress and wrong his brother in this matter. Because the Lord is an avenger in all these things, as we told you beforehand, and solemnly warns you. So he begins by starting up talking about the fact that we are we are not to transgress. or wrong one another in the ma area of sexual or sexual life. The word transgress literally it means to go beyond or to step over some sort of boundary. A line has been demarcated and you step over that line to cross a line. If you have the New American Standard Bible, it translates that word as to violate the rights of another. And that is, it's a good translation, it makes sense, but I think when we use the word violate, it makes us think that he's referring to sexual violence, which is not what Paul is talking about. We're not talking about sexual violence against another. That is also it's it's it is part of that, but is not limited to sexual violence. It's still referring, as he talked about already, to all forms Of sexual immorality. The word pornea is the word that is used there when he's speaking of sexual immorality. And it refers to sexual sin, even that it sexual sin that is legal and consensual. Even if it is legal and consensual, it is still trespassing a boundary. It is stepping over a line that God has established And we step over that line, we sin against God, but in that process we also sin, we trespass against our brother or our sister when we are involved in sexual sin. So even consensual immorality is trespassing. And violating the rights of another person. The word wrong that we have in our translation here literally it means to have more than. To have more than, it means the idea of greedily taking advantage of another person. It refers to an arrogant greediness. That is only concerned with satisfying its own desires and is willing to sacrifice the its neighbor for its own desires. That's the word wronging. So we trespass, we violate a A standard that God has established, and we sin against the other person, but we also greedily take for ourselves what does not belong to us. So sexual sin is always going beyond God 's prescribed boundaries. And it always results in taking advantage of another person. And again, I say this, even if it's consensual, and even if it's only in the mind, even if it's only in the thought life, it is still taking advantage and going beyond the prescribed boundaries that God has established. So even when it's legal, it's consensual, you are trespassing, you are transgressing God's rightful boundaries, and you're using the other person for your own selfish gratification with no regard for their spiritual. physical or emotional well-being. And so Paul is warning the Thessalonian believers. They're standing strong, but he knows that even though they're doing well, They are growing, they're young Christians, and they have turned from their life of sin. He knows this is an area of vulnerability, even for mature believers. And so he is addressing this with very strong warnings and encouragement towards holiness and righteousness. The world sells the cheap lie that if you love someone, it's okay. If you really love someone, it's okay. Greg Beale said, the deception is that selfish sexual motives are often masked by sincere professions of love. Selfish sexual motives are often masked by sincere professions of love. I love you. It's okay. We love each other. What really is being described there is I don't care about you, and I'm willing to violate your walk with God and your spiritual life and the commandments that God has given for my own lust. John Piper said about this, when we sin sexually, we are not seeking the highest good of others, neither the woman or the man. we sin with, nor the person we fantasize about, nor the person in the pornography, nor the spouse or parent or any of these. It is not Christian love that moves us in any of this. It is simply selfish desire. But Christians are people deeply moved by love for others. Christians love people. They don't use them. This is going to be significant because as we continue in this passage, he says. Don't do this, but grow in love for one another. This isn't love. Do love. Christians love, they don't use them. Then we think of this, sometimes we think of this as being primarily directed towards adultery, because you're sinning against an aggrieved spouse. And that is true. This does definitely fit the context of that. The Bible repeatedly warns about the jealousy of an aggrieved spouse. That has been sinned against, and that jealousy is described as a right jealousy. It's a holy jealousy. Not that everything that's done in reaction to that jealousy is holy, but the initial jealousy is of God. And adultery is an obvious violation of the rights of another person. But promiscuity before marriage also represents the robbing of the other person's virginity. Which ought to be brought to a marriage. And even the purity that they have before God. The future partner of that person has been defrauded, even when it's not adultery. Even when it's not virginity, sexual immorality is still sinning against the other person and greedily taking for yourself what doesn't belong to you. And Paul says, you ought not to do this. You are brothers and sisters in Christ. This ought not to be a part of your lives. And the fact is, Jesus spoke about sinning against one another in a very serious context in Matthew chapter 18. We might look at this as He doesn't specifically direct deal with sexual sins against one another, but it definitely is appropriate in regards to that. He talks about generally sinning against one another when he says, whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him to have a great millstone fastened around his neck and to be drowned in the depth of the sea. Woe to the world for temptations to sin, for it is necessary that temptations come. But woe to the one by whom the temptation comes. It's significant. Jesus doesn't mince words here. When he talks about little ones, virtually all commentators are agreed. He's not talking about children at that point. He's transitioned to speaking about believers as little ones who have the attitude and the heart of those who are little in the sense that they have come before the Lord with humility of faith. And as a child they have received the gospel. And one who sins against a child, or who sins against a person who is a child of God, who in childlike faith has come to God and leads them into sin. Jesus has the harshest words for that person. That it'd be better for a millstone to be strapped to their neck and thrown into the depths of the deepest sea, meaning it'd be better to die. That's strong language because sinning against a brother or sister is a very serious offense. And so we need to recognize that this is, the world tells us this is normal, and this is this is what happens, and we shouldn't we shouldn't be so upset about it. But God is. And our Savior is. And we ought to not even countenance this in our lives And he gives us this is enough, I think, reasons not to be involved in sexual sin. But he also gives us another three reasons why we should run from sexual immorality. And he he lovingly firmly warns the Thessalonian believers, and he gives these three additional reasons for in this passage to avoid sexual immorality. And the first thing he mentions In verse 6, the latter part is, because the Lord is an avenger in all these things. So God will punish. Why should we avoid it? God will punish. God is the avenger. And he says, we told you beforehand and we solemnly warned you. The idea of solemnly warning is someone like you're going into the court of law and you raise your right hand and you solemnly swear. This is a serious matter. We're not talking just Lightly or flippantly, we're talking that Paul warned him, warned them in a very serious matter. And the word avenge refers to one who punishes injustice. Maybe you're asking, why is it okay for God to avenge? And we're not called to avenge. The Bible says that God says, vengeance is mine. I will repay. We're not to give to give way to vengeance. We're not to to re pr to uh to give out revenge ourselves, because when we seek to give due revenge in our own wisdom and our own understanding, we often cross boundaries. It is not perfectly righteous. We don't do it with perfect knowledge of the offense. And we don't do it with the right authority. But when God avenges, he has perfect knowledge, he does so in perfect justice. And he does it with perfect authority. And so God says, I do avenge in these areas. Paul had just prayed in chapter 3 of this Epistle for the Thessalonians, that God would establish their hearts blameless in holiness at the coming of the Lord Jesus. So Paul's also thinking about God's vengeance here, but he's also thinking about the fact that you will stand before God, and everyone will give an account before God. There is a day of reckoning before God, even for believers. God will judge the believer who sins against another in this way. We see this in other passages of Scripture. Hebrews 13 4. Let marriage be held in honor among all Let the marriage bed be undefiled. Marriage is good. It's God's design. God made it. Sex is beautiful. It's God's design. It's glorious. But then he says, for God will judge the sexually immoral and the adulterous. the goodness and the sanctity and the holiness of marriage and sex within marriage is by saying anything outside of that is evil and God will judge it. Remember when David sinned against Bathsheba? Or sinned with Bathsheba, you might say, sinned against her and sinned with her. Even though ultimately he repented, God did bring judgment upon David. He says, You're forgiven, but here's the consequences. You're forgiven, but there are still consequences for your sin. In 2 Samuel chapter 12, I believe I have this. Yeah, here we have this 2 Samuel 12, verses 9 and following. He says, Why have you despised the word of the Lord to do what is evil in his sight? You have struck down Uriah the Hittite with the sword, and have taken his wife to be your wife, and have killed him with the sword of the Amorites. Now therefore the sword shall never depart from your house, because you have despised me. And have taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your wife. Thus says the Lord. Behold, I will raise up evil against you out of your own house. And I will take your wives before your eyes and give them to your neighbor, and he shall lie with your wives in the sight of the sun, for you did it secretly. But I will do this thing before all Israel and before the sun. You realize God said you're forgiven, but that does not mean there won't be consequences, and the consequences will be severe. So when we see this, it helps us to realize how seriously God takes these matters. What are some of the judgments that God may bring on sexual immorality? Well, I don't think we can limit God. God is much more creative than us. God is able to do what he desires to do. But we do see that with David the punishment matched the crime. And what David did, God brought against David. God's judgment is frequently seen in our culture if we look around us by the proliferation of broken homes and broken marriages. It's seen by the abundance of sexually transmitted diseases. It's revealed in the abundance of mental health issues that are often the result of guilty consciences. Ironically, it frequently results in an unsatisfying sex life in marriage. God may bring abundance of troubles, he may bring a loss of respect, he may bring an untimely death, he will certainly bring a loss of rewards. In eternity. But God has said very quickly that He is an avenger in this matter. And God takes this very seriously. In Galatians chapter 6, verses 7 and 8, he says, Do not be deceived, God is not mocked, for whatever one sows, that will he also reap. For the one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the spirit will from the spirit reap eternal life. God has called us not to indulge our sexual appetites in a moral way, but he's called us And that's the second point that he brings out. Why should we not do this? One, because God is an avenger. Two, because God has called us to holiness. He has called us. to holiness. The idea of the word call is like the effectual call of a believer when he he by the Holy Spirit recognizes his sin and sees the gospel and he responds in faith. And the grace of God floods in, cleansing us from all of our sins. And he doesn't called us and given us grace so that we can continue on in sin. Rather he's called us and given us grace so that we can walk in holiness. Too often Christians, I think, equate the grace of God and salvation as a license to live as one pleases. But when you think about it, that really just turns the gospel on its head. Jesus came to save us from sin, not to give us a license to sin, but to save us from sin. Not only to save us from the penalty of sin, but from the dominion of sin. We are saved from sin. This is, remember, Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, for by grace you have been saved through faith, so you can live however you want. Isn't that what it says? By grace you've been saved through faith, so you can do whatever you want. No. By grace you've been saved through faith. Saying this is not your own doing, it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God has beforehand, prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. The grace of God enables us to walk in holiness, to disregard God's purpose. For our salvation and his will for our sanctification is to disregard God. Let's look at this verse here. He says in verse 7, for God has not called us for impurity. But in holiness. Therefore, whoever disregards this disregards not man, but God. So when we think of sexual sin and we say, well, I don't think that's that big a deal. I I know the the pastor says that, and I know My Sunday school teacher says that, but I don't my parents say that, but I don't think it's a big deal. He says, you're not rejecting man. You're rejecting God. You're denying God. God's word and God's Spirit call us to holiness. And if we reject His word and the promptings of the Spirit, We reject God. And again, when we reject God, God is an avenger, and God is not mocked. And so the seriousness of this is brought out by Paul's words here. And lastly, The third reason, God is an avenger, God has called us to holiness, and the Holy Spirit dwells in the believer. God has given us his Holy Spirit. He says, who gives us, gives his Holy Spirit to you. The gift of the Holy Spirit is the third reason why we ought not defraud And trespass against our brother or sister in this matter. God is the great giver of the Holy Spirit, and He's given us the Holy Spirit for the purpose of empowering holy lives. The Holy Spirit It's been given to us so that he can we will have holy lives. He is working to make us holy. But when we commit sexual sin, we grieve the Holy Spirit of God and we sin against Him. And I've heard this many times. Christian saying, I know, I just can't. I'm unable to resist this temptation in my life. That's not true. If you're a Christian, That's not true. If you're not a Christian, that is true. If you can't resist, then you're not a Christian. But the Holy Spirit lives inside of you, enabling you to walk in holiness in this area. To say, I can't. is to deny the indwelling Holy Spirit who enables you to walk in holiness. He has given us Romans 8 says the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus. has set us free from the law of sin and death. We do not have to walk in this any longer. We have been given freedom through the Holy Spirit. But in another way, it's also defiling the temple of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit lives inside of our body, and when we sin sexually, we are bringing a defiling. We are we are In a sense, blaspheming because we are bringing defilements into the temple of the Holy Spirit. 1 Corinthians 6, 18 through 20 says, flee, flee from sexual immorality. Every other sin. A person commits is outside the body, but the sexually immoral person sins against his own body. Or do you not know that your body is a temple Of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God. You are not your own, for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body. This is the great warning the Apostle Paul gives us here, so that we do not defile the temple of the Holy Spirit. And he strongly lays out a case that the will of God for us is holiness being set apart from sexual sin. This is God's will for us, and He has enabled us to walk in it in the power of the Spirit. And maybe you're thinking in your own heart, we talked about this a few weeks ago when we began in the first part of this chapter. I failed in this area. I have sinned against God in this area. And this is where we come when we run back on the grace of God. 1 John 1. 9 says, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and he is just to cleanse us. from our sins. To space and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. All. It's an open promise. Though your sins be as scarlet, you shall be white as star No. That is the promise of God. But it cannot be just dealt with by saying it's not that big a deal. I don't think God cares. I think it's okay for a Christian. God can't expect me to live pure in the 21st century. century. He can, and he does. And he enables you. Where there sin abounds, grace abounds all the more. And so the ability to walk in holiness is here and in every generation. So we continue on in this chapter. He turns a little bit. He changes gears, but not a complete change of gears. He's saying basically instead of sexual immorality, we are to be growing in genuine. Brotherly love. Instead of allowing our lust to control us, we are to grow in genuine brotherly love. Beginning in verse 9, he says, Now concerning brotherly love, you have no need for anyone to write to you. For you yourselves have been taught by God to love one another. For that indeed is what you are doing to all the brothers throughout Macedonia. But we urge you, brothers, to do this more and more. and to aspire to live quietly, and to mind your own affairs, and to work with your hands, as we instructed you, so that you may walk properly before outsiders These things may seem entirely different, but they're actually they're actually closely related. He's saying, instead of living in lust and letting your lust control you, you are to live now in brotherly love, which looks out for the good of the other person and ministers to the other person. The word translated now in verse 9 can actually be translated but. And so you see there's a transitioning. To encourage the Thessalonians to put this sexual sin away and to grow in affection, genuine affection for one another, to increase in genuine Christian love True love is a strong motivation for not transgressing and not wronging another brother or sister sexually. So much of what the world calls love, and even what the church calls love is nothing more than lust masquerading as love. I think it's good for us all at at many times throughout our Christian life to go back to 1 Corinthians chapter 13 and spend some time looking over the description of love that Paul gives us in this passage of Scripture. And examining our lives, looking at it and saying, am I truly loving my wife like this? Am I loving my husband? My girlfriend, my boyfriend, my fellow church member, like what Paul describes in 1 Corinthians 13? Or am I allowing the world to define what love is, and I'm living the world's definition of love? God has called me to live a love that is like Christ. And He's given us an example of that in the life of Christ, but He's also given us a description of it in 1 Corinthians 13. He says. Love is patient. Love is patient. You can stop right there and just spend a lot of time on that one. Love is patient Love is kind. Love does not envy or boast. It is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way. The idea what we talked about a little bit ago about it's okay, I love you, this is good. We love each other, so we can do this. That's insisting on one's own way. It is the opposite of love. It is not love. By definition, it is not love. It is not irritable. Hmm. Bring that into the home. Love is not irritable. Would your wife or husband say, that is a picture of my spouse? Not irritable at all. You know, just they just don't get irritated. It's not resentful. They don't bring up past wrongs. Does not rejoice at wrongdoings. Aha! I knew it! I knew it! You did it again! What is that? Rejoicing in wrongdoing. It's the exact opposite of love, but rejoices with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things. Endures all things. Love never ends. I think we can spend a lot of time in 1 Corinthians 13 and just ask God, search me. Try my heart. Show me where I am living contrary to your love. To my wife, to my husband, to my fellow church member. To those that are in the office with me, how am I living contrary to love? And lead me in the way everlasting. Search me, God. It'd be it'd be good, it's a good practice for us to do on a regular basis. Because you'd be surprised at how many things you go, oof. Ooh. I've already seen it on several faces this evening as I've been reading these things. This command to grow in love is not something new. They've been taught by God, he says, to love one another. What does it mean that they've been taught by God? To love one another. Well, we know the Old Testament teaches us to love one another. Leviticus 19, 18. I think I have that in here. Oh. There we are, Leviticus 19, 18. You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people. But you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. It's a high standard. Love your neighbor as yourself. You say, well, I first need to learn how to love myself. No, no. It's assumed. We love ourselves instinctively. No one has to learn how to love himself. People say, well, I just have low self-esteem. No, the problem is not that you have low self-esteem, is that you're you're upset that people don't esteem you as much as you esteem yourself. We love ourselves instinctively. It is the nature that we have. Jesus reiterates this truth in John 13, and then he takes it even to a new level. John 13. 34, a new commandment I give to you that you love one another. Already said, just as I have loved you. Wow. How did Christ love us? You know, husbands are commanded to love your wives as Christ loved the church. But it doesn't mean wives are off the hook there either. Because we're all commanded to love one another just as I have loved you. We have this universal command to love sacrificially. To love sacrificially, like Christ who gave himself for us. But I believe what Paul is actually speaking about when he says, you have been taught by God is not that Jesus said that that's true, not that the Old Testament says that that's true, but that the Holy Spirit of God, God who is love, who lives within them, Has taught them in their hearts that they are to love. That's why they're already living this out. He says, you are already doing this, but I want you to do it more and more. I don't want you to be content with what you've done so far. I want you to press forward in loving one another sacrificially. Because this is what God has called us to. We're never to be content. Notice also that the Thessalonians are living out this love, but they're not to do it in a selective way. He says here, now concerning brotherly love, you have no need for anyone to write to you. For you yourselves have been taught by God to love one another. That for that indeed is what you are doing to all the brothers throughout Macedonia. Sometimes when we read these passages of scripture, we're like, yeah, I'm doing that pretty good for so-and-so, my good friend over there, and my good friend over there. And I'm loving this person sacrificially because I I really like that person. And I see a lot of potential in them. He says you're doing it for all the brothers. It's a a love that doesn't pick and choose, but love sacrificially Across the board. This love is extended for all the brothers in Macedonia It's pretty amazing when you think about it. When we were looking at 1 Thessalonians chapter 1, verse 8, it says that the word of the Lord sounded forth from them in Macedonia, the region of Macedonia, and in Achaia. But they also loved them by setting an example for them. The Bible says that the example of their conversion and the way they lived was known to all the brothers in Macedonia. That their example was clearly known. But additionally, it seems that they were ministering to these fellow believers in distant villages throughout Macedonia Who are having hard times, who were needing help, who were needing to be encouraged. Might have been acts of hospitality. They're all dealing with a great deal of persecution. It might have been a sharing of resources when persecution touched the finances of people. But it was a love that didn't say, hey, we're insular. It's just us. We don't care about those other people. But it's a love that looked beyond to those that were in need outside of their immediate community. And Paul commends them. He said, you're doing a great job. And I think of that in our church as well. This is a church that is a loving church. When I look at our fellowship, I'm always amazed. Many times I'll go to visit someone and I'll hear about ten other people that have been visiting that person. I'm always amazed at the love that we see in our congregation to one another. And so as I say these things, I'm not saying you need to start doing this. Like Paul to the Thessalonians, I want to encourage you to keep doing it. And I want you to encourage you to grow in this, to love. More and more to not say, hey, I've done enough. You know that I have I have put out enough for my brothers and sisters in Christ. The cross of Christ totally negates that attitude. Jesus never said, I've done enough. You know , it's enough that I healed all their diseases and I cast out the demons and I taught them so well. I've done enough. That's not the attitude of our Savior. And so the love that we've experienced really negates that attitude for us. And we're called to continue to grow and to give out because our Savior has done that for us. Boy, I'd love to spend some more time on this. Time, time, time. It's an evil thing. Brotherly love. Brotherly love. Mm-hmm. Okay. We're gonna we're gonna jump into it. No we're not. We're gonna stop right here. We're gonna stop right here and I'm going to pick up the rest of this next week because there's just too much good stuff and I don't want you to to say I don't remember what he said because he covered 17 different things. I don't remember which what he said. So there's that tendency. So uh hopefully next week you'll have the opportunity to come back and we'll continue on in verses uh actually verses 11 and 12, beautiful passage of scripture. Aspiring to live quietly and to mind your own affairs and to work with your hands. And he says, so that you may walk properly before outsiders and be dependent on no one. Those are great verses for us to take in next week. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. Thank you for the warnings that are there. Thank you, Father, that you have given us your Holy Spirit. You have sealed us with the Holy Spirit of promise. You have given us the ability to walk in holiness through the power of your Spirit. And Lord, I pray that as a congregation and individually we would be known for our love one to another that does not transgress the proper boundaries, but seeks to to live in in sanctification, set apart from the world's standards of of sexual uh immorality, and rather living by your standard. Father, we thank you for all your goodness to us. We thank you for Jesus Christ our Savior. And it's in his name we pray. Amen.