Make sure I got my clicker here. It's good to have you here. We're going to continue in our series on the book of First Thessalonians. We're beginning the second half of the book. Going into the the transition of the book in chapter four. So just by way of review or actually I'm sorry we're going to be starting our new verse for this week out of second 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. We're continuing on. We've memorized through verse 6. Now we're going to be adding in verses 7 and 8 over the next few Wednesdays. So, because of that, let's stand up and say this together just through two times, the reference and then the verse. 1 Thessalonians 5, 7 and 8, and we'll begin to put this into memory 1 Thessalonians 5, 7 through 8. For those who sleep sleep at night, and those who get drunk are drunk at night. But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation 1 Thessalonians 5, 7 through 8. For those who sleep sleep at night, and those who get drunk are drunk at night. But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love and for a helmet, the hope of salvation. Thank you. You may be seated. We're going to begin putting those verses to memory in conjunction with the verses that we've memorized leading up to that. As we have talked about the book of First Thessalonians, we mentioned that there are two main divisions in the Book of First Thessalonians. The first three chapters are looking back at God's work among them, how God brought them out of idolatry into the truth of the gospel. And at the same time, Paul and his missionary team, their ministry among them, how they lived among them. And then in chapters 4 and chapter 5, it's a look forward to the return of Christ. and how they ought to live in light of the fact that Christ is coming again. And so you notice down here we have this section, chapter 4, growing in holiness, love, and diligence. And we're going to be beginning that section of growing in holiness. Sorry. Growing in holiness tonight. And then in the chapter chapter 5, we have being watchful and being sober as we begin to memorize this evening as well. The theme of the book is continue to grow in faith, hope, and love in light of Christ's imminent return. And the Thessalonian believers are not in a position of rebuke. Paul isn't writing them to correct them or rebuke them. but he's writing them to encourage them. He's rejoicing in the report that he's just received from Timothy, the progress in their faith, the fact that they are continuing to seek the Lord, continuing to love the apostle, the love, the truth of the gospel. And now he's encouraging them to grow more and more. And in that light, We begin here in chapter four. And we're just going to read through the first few verses and then jump in. Hopefully, we'll get through five verses this evening. He says, Finally then, brothers, we ask and urge you in the Lord Jesus that as you receive from us how you ought to walk and to please God, just as you are doing. That you do so more and more. For you know what instructions we gave you through the Lord Jesus For this is the will of God, your sanctification, that you abstain from sexual immorality, and that each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness and honor. not in the passion of lust, like the Gentiles who do not know God, that no one transgress and wrong his brother in this matter. Because the Lord is an avenger in all these things, as we told you beforehand, and solemnly warned you. For God has not called us for impurity, but in holiness. Therefore, whoever disregards this disregards not man, but God, who gives his Holy Spirit to you. As we come to this second section of the book, we're going to find a number of different topics that are broached. One is the topic of sanctification and sexuality. Another one deals with work and the the way we are to work and live. And yet another one deals with death and the reality of the coming of the Lord and how we're to respond to death in light of that. And these areas are major areas that every Christian has to reckon with and to walk in truth, in light of. But Paul begins this, and he's urging them to continue to grow in their personal holiness. And he does so not from Rebuke, but he does so with a gentle urging. You notice how he started this chapter. He says, Finally then, brothers, we ask and urge you in the Lord Jesus. So he has this gentle but strong urging to be pleasing to God. As we have told you already, we are seeking to encourage you to grow in these areas. And the vocabulary that Paul uses is really a vocabulary that speaks of one who just received a good report. He hasn't received a great deal of negative information. But he still has a concern for them in these areas. When we're talking about sexuality, it doesn't matter what type of congregation, what type of church you're you're speaking to. It doesn't matter how long people have been believers, doesn't matter if they're young or old. It's a topic that every single Christian needs to take to heart. And you can say, but that's not a big problem in this church. Well, praise God if that's the case, but there are many still who struggle in this area. And even if you're not struggling currently. It's an area where you still need this warning. You still need this instruction. And Paul has just received a good report. They're not like the Corinthians. But he says, I still want to urge you. And he uses this word brothers. It's typical of how Paul speaks to them this entire letter. He doesn't assert his authority as an apostle, but he comes alongside of them as a brother and says Listen to me. Let me encourage you to do this. And then he he uses this word ask. It seems like an almost an un unexpected word that he would ask them. We expect him to say, I command you in the Lord Jesus to do these things. But he says, I ask you. And it's a language of request. Even though what he's telling them to do is a command, and we'll see that as we continue on, it is a command, but he comes with the gentleness of asking. It's kind of like a parent sometimes who says, Can you pick up your toys right now? And they don't mean it's open for debate. I remember many times with my kids like, would you go uh clean up your room? And they never once said, nah, I don't think so. Because it was really not an ask. It was a tell. And I was just being nice. I was doing it in a gentle, kind way. But they knew that it came with the force of authority, Dad says. do it. And they would go do it. And sometimes they get a little bit older and they like to joke around. They'll say, eh, I'm not really interested in it right now. And I'm like, uh ha ha. That's funny. Go clean your room. But Paul does something very similar. It comes with the language of request. And it comes like as almost like their equals, even though Paul isn't their equal, he is the Apostle Paul. And then he says, I exhort you. And that means again means to come alongside and encourage them to do the same thing. And he says, in the Lord Jesus. And so the urging is done based upon the Thessalonians' relationship with Jesus Christ. He has this confidence because they have already received Christ as their Savior. He knows that they look at Christ as their Lord. They have responded to him as their Lord. And so he says, in the Lord Jesus. I am asking you to do these things. And he expects them to receive it in that way. And he knows that they are faithful believers who were already living in a way that pleased the Lord. In the face of great persecution, they were seeking to live pleasing to the Lord. And it's interesting to note how Paul is quick and eager to praise Where praise is due. Notice how he interrupts his flow to add the words, just as you are doing. In verse 1, he says, Finally then, brothers, we ask and urge you in the Lord Jesus. that as you receive from us how you ought to walk and to please God just as you are doing. So he's he's all he's using this encouragement. He comes alongside of them, he uses this gentle language, and he says, and I know that you are doing this. So when there's an opportunity to give praise, he's eager to give praise. That's instructive for us where we have opportunity to praise those that we are mentoring and those that we are discipling and our children as well, that we praise where praise is due. And Paul does that. He says, just as you are doing. I see you're doing that, but let me urge you to do so more and more. He's not urging them to do anything new. He says, as you've already received from us, when I was there with you, this is what I taught you. This is nothing new. This is the same thing that I've been telling you since you met me. And he anticipates their obedience because they've already assented to it. And the goal is to walk in a manner that pleases God. The goal of the Christian life is to please the one who redeemed us, to be pleasing to the master who bought us. The motivation for this instruction is to please the Lord. And this kind of points back to what he mentioned just at the end of chapter 3. To remember, he said, that you are to be walking this way because the Lord is coming. And you and he says at the very end of chapter 3 So that he may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus. with all his saints. And in the context there, it's the coming of Christ to rapture the church and then to bring them through to the the judgment seat of Christ. where they will be evaluated, where their works will be evaluated. And so he says the goal is to be pleasing to God in light of the coming of Christ. As a Christian, we are no longer to live, to try to extract the maximum amount of pleasure out of this life. This is how the world lives. Trying to extract the maximum amount of pleasure out of this life. Instead, we are called to continually strive to be more and more pleasing to God, to be glorifying Him with our lives. It's like what C. S. Lewis said though. If you aim at heaven You will get earth thrown in. If you aim at heaven, if you aim at pleasing the Lord, you'll be surprised at how the blessings that God gives, the ability to enjoy this life, are greater. If you aim at heaven, you aim at pleasing God, you get earth thrown in. But if you aim at this earth, you will get neither. The sad fact is if you aim to satisfy and to suck out all the maximum amount of pleasure out of this life, you find that there is no pleasure. And all that comes is actually death and destruction and misery. But if you seek to glorify God, then you find the ability to enjoy the world that He has given in a greater way. But Paul is calling the Thessalonians, he's calling us as well, to be perpetually discontent. To be perpetually discontent with our spiritual growth. He says that you do more and more. I know you're seeking to please God, but I want you to be discontent. With how much you are pleasing God, with the effort that you are putting in to be pleasing to God. I want you to be continually discontent with that effort. That may sound odd, but there are areas for a Christian Where we should be discontent. We should be discontent with a shallow knowledge of God. We should be continually discontent with our knowledge of God, striving to know Him more. We should be discontent with our prayer life. We should be continually discontent striving to pray better and to come into the presence of God more. And here Paul is urging the Thessalonians to be content or discontent in their personal holiness. We never reach a place in our life where we say, I can plateau here. And I can just walk on this level, and that should be sufficient. There is no time in the Christian life where we can say, yep, I pretty much got this wrapped up. We are to always be striving for more. And the more we know God the more we realize just how far we have fallen from , his holiness. And so the answer is to be constantly striving after holiness. It reminds me of what Paul said in Philippians chapter 3. Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own, but one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead. I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. And here's the Apostle Paul saying I forget those things, the accomplishments that have happened in the past, and I strain forward. It's like a runner leaning into the tape. I am straining forward. I am pressing on. I am aiming at the goal of the upward call of God. I am not content with where I am. I always want to be growing. And that should be something that we as well are striving for. And he points them back again to their previous instruction. Notice what he says here. He says, just as you are doing. And that you do so more and more, for you know what instruction we gave you through the Lord Jesus. And that word instruction is actually, this is where Paul begins to turn the corner from asking and urging to now using a word that's a little more forceful. He says, you remember the instruction. The word literally is a it's a it's a military term. It has the idea of orders being given from a commanding officer down the chain of command. It's translated command in other places. We find it in Acts chapter 16. He says, having received this order He put them into the inner prison. So this is the the prisoner or the the prison guard in the in in Philippi. He received an order to put Paul and Silas in prison. He was receiving a command, and he followed through with that order. He put them in the inner prison and fastened their feet in the stocks. That's the same word he has here. The instruction, the order, the command that came from a senior commander That Paul then gave to them. And that senior commander is the Lord. He says, For you know what instruction we gave you through the Lord Jesus. So this instruction is not something you can say, yeah, I could take it or leave it. It maybe I'll listen to it, maybe I won't. It said, no, you are followers of Christ. He is your Lord. The commanding officer has given you this order, and you are to follow it. But he comes alongside gently because they are faithfully seeking to please God. They are faithfully seeking to walk in obedience to God. And so he doesn't come down with great authority, but he comes gently encouraging them to take this to the next level. And he tells them, specifically in verse 3, for this is the will of God, your sanctification. Sanctification is the will of God for us. You and I were not saved so that we can live however we want. We weren't saved so that we can say, okay, I've got heaven taken care of, I've got eternal life, now I can do whatever I want with my life. That's a wrong understanding of grace. The Bible repeatedly says that we are saved not by works, but by grace. But grace then must motivate us to live holy lives. This is the message of Ephesians 2, 8, and 9. That we've been saved by grace, not by works. But then he says that we are to walk then in good works, which we have been foreordained to walk in. This is what he says in 1 Peter chapter 1, but as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct. Since it is written, you shall be holy, for I am holy. You shall be holy, for I am holy. So we are called. to follow and pursue after sanctification. He talks about here, this is the will of God I think so many people struggle with knowing the will of God. And young people and old, oftentimes you'll have people give you calls, odd people even this past week have people calling me wanting to know how can I discern the will of God in this area of my life. What job should I take? What college should I go to? What person should I marry? But when we talk about the will of God, the Bible spends more time talking about other aspects of the will of God than those areas. The Bible mentions three primary aspects of the will of God. It refers to the sovereign will of God. Sometimes it's called the decreed will of God. This is the purpose that God has decreed from eternity past that He will bring to pass. Sometimes it's called the secret will of God. But the reality is sometimes God has shared with us some of those aspects that He has decreed, that He has sovereignly declared, are going to come to pass. And we see an example of this in Isaiah chapter 46. Where he says, Remember the former things of old, for I am God and there is no other. I am God and there is none like me, declaring the end from the beginning, and from ancient times things not yet done. saying, My counsel shall stand, and I will accomplish all my purposes. When God says he's going to do something, it will happen. He will accomplish it, and nothing will stop it. That is the sovereign will of God. There's another aspect of the will of God that we see as well. It's the desired will, sometimes called the dispositional will of God. And it refers to the the the attitude or what pleases or displeases God. We see an example of this in 1 Timothy chapter 2, where it says, this is good and it is pleasing in the sight of God our Savior. who desires all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. In this regard, there is a difference between God's sovereign will, which must come to pass, which will come to pass, And this regard, where it's kind of the disposition of God or the desire of God, but he has not decreed that all people will be saved. So there's a difference between God's sovereign will. And his desired or his dispositional will. He has not decreed, and we know that's the fact, that all people will be saved, though there is in the heart of God this desire. The third aspect of the will of God is what we find being described here, the revealed will of God. And this refers to what God wants us to do and is revealed in His Word. We have an example of this just one chapter later in 1 Thessalonians 5, verses 16 through 18, where he says, Rejoice always, pray without ceasing, give thanks in all circumstances. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. This is the revealed work will of God for us. And in this passage of Scripture, we're told that the sanctification is the will of God, specifically. Sanctification in the area of sexuality. This is the will of God, your sanctification, that you abstain from sexual immorality. And he addresses this truth in three phrases. You can see this in, I just kind of brought our passage out and put it in front of us. And three of these phrases that begin with the word that. This is the will of God, your sanctification. That, first of all, you abstain from sexual immorality That each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness and honor, and not in the passions of lust, like the Gentiles who do not know God that no one transgress and wrong his brother in this matter. So we have these three phrases that kind of break out what we're going to see in this passage of scripture. And we won't be have time to get through all of them this evening. So Lord willing we'll we'll touch on the rest the next time, the next Wednesday that we meet. But he describes here that it is the will of God that you and I abstain from sexual immorality Paul is speaking to a people who live in a sex-crazed culture. I'm not talking about us. I'm talking about the Thessalonians. Sometimes when we think of the world that we live in, we assume that sexual perversion is worse today than ever before. But that's not true. If you read about the Greco-Roman world and the sexual mores of that world, you find that they were also living in a hyper-sexualized culture, and many of the standards were even worse than what we might find in our culture. Sexual perversion was not only normal, but it was encouraged within the culture through temple prostitution. The religious activities of the culture encouraged Sexual immorality. Even the gods that were worshipped were celebrated for rape, adultery, and bestiality, and a whole host of other So the culture itself was influencing them heavily, even the religious aspects of the culture were influencing them heavily towards this end. When Paul writes this letter, he's writing from Corinth. And as we know, the the city of Corinth was celebrated for its sexual looseness. It was the sin city of the ancient world. It was a stopover point for sailors, and it was famous for its brothels and temple prostitutes. The uh where do I I have that picture. Yeah, the temple of Aphrodite was there, and it said that there was a thousand temple prostitutes who descended on the city every night. This was a city that was full of immorality. When he wrote to the Corinthians, he reminded them that the gospel had transformed them. He tells them, or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither the sexually immoral. nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality, nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers, will inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you. But you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. He's describing a people who formerly were all these things. They were sexually immoral. They were idolaters. They were adulterers. They were homosexual. They were drunkards. They were swindlers. And he says, those type of people will not inherit the kingdom of God. Christ came to save those people, to wash those people, to sanctify those people, to justify those people, to transform them. And a Christian who can live in that type of life and not be bothered by it at all and continues to go down that path without any sense of remorse. is indicating that he probably never has been washed, never been justified Because the gospel transforms us. The gospel radically changes our view of sex. It sees sex as a gift of God to be enjoyed freely between a husband and wife. But outside of that, it sees it as a violation of God's commands and God's will. This command forbids any kind of sexual sin. Sexual immorality translates the Greek word porneus. from which we get the word pornography, but it includes all kinds of sexual sins. Things like adultery, premarital sex. Pornography, homosexuality, incest, and the list could go on. It is a blanket term that describes any form of sexual activity in thought or in action that is outside of God's design. The Bible is abundantly clear that God created sex and he gave it to us to be enjoyed within the bounds of a lifelong monogamous marriage between a man and a woman. And Hebrews 13, 4 says, the marriage bed is honorable. It is a good thing. But fornicators and adulterers, God will judge. Paul urges the Thessalonians to abstain from sexual immorality. The word abstain in Greek means to keep away or to be distant from. I think that's really good counsel. When we come to this issue, I think oftentimes we try to see How close can I get to without actually crossing the line? What's the line that if I cross, I have now sinned? And we want to know how far can I go? The question shouldn't be how close can I get to the fire without being burned, but how can I be pleasing to God? How can I control myself in such a way that I am pleasing to God? In Romans 13, 14, he says, but put on the Lord Jesus Christ. And make no provision for the flesh to gratify its desires. Don't see how close you can get. If I if I go out to dinner with this person who's not my wife, is that is that sinful? Yeah, I'd say it is. Well, show me a verse for it. No. You are making provision for the flesh. You are putting yourself in the place of temptation, and that is sinful. A good biblical example of how we ought to act is found in Genesis 39. When you have Joseph being tempted by Potiphar's wife, she tries to seduce him, to have sex with her. And the Bible says that she didn't just try to seduce him once, but day after day she tried to seduce him. And the Bible tells us that Joseph rebuffed her saying, how could I do this great wickedness and sin against God? And then what's interesting is that It says that he refused to sleep with her or even be with her. Interesting He said, I'm not even going to spend time with you. I'm not even going to hang out with you. Because I know that that is not appropriate. And that is going to put me in a place of danger. Rather than see how close we can get to sin. First Corinthians 6. 18 tells us flee. sexual immorality. Every other sin a person commits is outside the body, but the sexually immoral person sins against his own body. And he says, don't get close. Don't try to see what the line is. Don't try to figure out just how strong you are. Flee sexual immorality. Be like Joseph. Don't even agree to be with that person. And although the Thessalonians were walking as they ought to walk, Paul knew the subtlety and the destructive nature of sexual sin. It's destructive, it's deceptive, it's subtle. So he urges them to keep their distance from sexual sin. J. C. Ryle said Sexual sin is the sin that leaves the deeper scars upon the soul than any other sin that a man can commit. It is a sin that destroys thousands of young men in every age. And and that's true, but it also destroys thousands of old men in every age. And has even overthrown a few of the saints of God in the past. Samson and David are fearful proofs. And so The Bible does talk about youthful lusts, and to flee youthful lusts, but that doesn't mean you can let your guard down when you're older. The guard needs to be up at all times. So he says here, it is the will of God that you learn to control your body and not be controlled by it. In verses 4 and 5. Now just Bear with me for a minute or two. I want to explain something that 's going to be important here to because you may see, you may have it may have a translation that says something different. From the early centuries of the church, there has been a question about what Paul was referring to in verses four and five, where he says that each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness and in honor. The debate primarily stems around two words in this passage, the word control and the word body. Our translation translates control and body. And that seems pretty clear to us. If I read this in the in the ESV it seems very clear. Because our our translators of the ESV put their finger on the scale. They put their finger on the scale in the in the sense of they they interpret translated. And you almost have to do it. Do you have to come down on one side or the other of the scale? The word control is a word that most frequently means to acquire or to possess. We find it in Matthew 10, verse 9. Acquire no gold or silver or copper for your belts. Most frequently it means to acquire. We have the word control. It has the idea also of to possess. And the idea of possessing something can mean the idea of controlling. But most frequently it means to acquire. And the word body, that's actually translated body here, is actually the word for vessel, like a clay vessel that you would hold liquids in it. The ESV translators made the assumption that Paul was referring to the vessel of the body. Though others have thought that Paul was referring to one 's wife as a vessel, like in 1 Peter 3:7, where Peter tells husbands to give honor to their wives as the weaker vessel. And the implication of that is that both husbands and wives are vessels. Husbands are weak, wives are weaker. And so they're to give honor to their wives as the weaker vessels. And so if you were to. You could translate this or interpret this as being what it does in the RSV, which translated, learn how to take a wife for himself in holiness and honor. I don't think that's the right interpretation or the right translation. And I want to just give you a couple reasons why. The state of marriage is one of God's tools to help people avoid sexual immorality. That is true. But I think our translators got it right for several reasons. First, being married does not guarantee sexual purity. Just because you are married doesn't mean you have no struggle with sexual purity. Undoubtedly, many of the Thessalonians were already married, but that didn't mean that they were free from this danger of sexual immorality. Secondly, if vessel refers to one's wife, Paul fails to address the fact that women are also tempted in the area of sexual immorality. And so it only addresses half of the congregation. Thirdly, it seems to contradict what Paul said in 1 Corinthians chapter 7 that it's good for the unmarried and widows to remain single. If the only way to overcome sexual immorality is to get married, then why would Paul say it's good? To be single and remain widowed. And fourth, normally, when the term vessel is used in a metaphorical sense, it's very frequently found in the New Testament to refer to one's own body Like in 2 Corinthians 4, where Paul says, we have this treasure in earthen vessels. That same word So I think our translators have it right, but just in case you're using a different translation, there's a reason why there can be differences. It's not that evil people have changed the meaning. People are trying to understand exactly what Paul meant. And this actually goes back to the early days of the church where people debated this. What did Paul mean? But I think the implication here is that we are to learn to control our bodies in the area of sexual immorality so that we do not fall into sexual immorality. But controlling the body and avoiding sexual immorality requires some know-how. Notice he says in verse 4 that each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness. And honor, not in the passion of lust, like the Gentiles who do not know God. And so, what are some of the know-hows? How can we learn to control our bodies so that we avoid sexual immorality? Some of the things that we find here in this passage is we need to know our own weakness. We need to know that we are weak and that this is a danger. Paul is writing to believers, he doesn't have any specific evidence that there is anyone in the church that has fallen into this sin. But I've been a pastor too long, and Paul had been an apostle too long to know that in any church that there that everyone's doing it just right in this area. Many people will come to church and seem to be just fine, but inside they're struggling with this and they're inches away from disaster. So Paul is urging them to know their own weakness, how dangerous spiritual pride is. When we think, I'm mature enough. I can handle this. That's when we're in great danger. 1 Corinthians 10, 12 tells us that anyone who thinks that he stands Take heed lest he fall. David was at the pinnacle of his power. He had just seen God do amazing things in his life Rescuing him from existential danger, bringing him into the kingdom. And it's at that pinnacle of his power that he relaxed and he let his guard down a little. And he fell into great sin. Solomon warns in Proverbs about the simple youth. And he says, I've seen among the simple, I have perceived among the youths. A young man lacking sense passing along the street near her corner, taking the road to her house, passing along the street near her corner. Oh! I doubled that. Okay. Somehow I added two of those verses here. Taking the road to your house in the twilight in the evening at the time of night and darkness. The key I wanted you to focus on is these four words. Maybe you've read these verses before and just kind of skimmed over that. Do you ever wonder why he mentions darkness four times? In the twilight, in the evening, at the time of night and darkness. He just like to repeat himself? See how many Hebrew words he can use to describe darkness, kind of a little bit of a puzzle? No. Darkness is dangerous. Darkness affords anonymity. This is why many of these sins happen in darkness. It's why unfettered cell phone access is foolish. It's why you should not allow yourself or your children the darkness of uncontrolled cell phone access. And he sees this young man who 's just gonna meander down the street on his way home and he knows where she lives and he's gonna wait till nighttime, till it's dark, till no one can clearly discern who he is. And he knows where he's she he's probably gonna find her. And he doesn't recognize his own weakness. And he thinks I'll be able to withstand her. But if I don't, no one will know. And we find out that he falls. Knowing our own weakness is the first step. Towards spiritual victory in this area. Secondly, know that you have been bought with a price. Paul says that you are to control your own body in sanctification and honor. He's mentioned sanctification twice. The idea of sanctification means to be set apart from sin to God for the purpose of living a holy life. You have been bought with a price. You are no longer your own. You are set apart to be living a holy life He says in 1 Corinthians chapter 6, or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own, for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body. What is the message of this generation? My body, my choice. For the Christian, that's not true. You've been bought with a price. So glorify God in your body. Because it is his. And you've been bought with the price of the blood of Christ. Know that you are to honor your body as the temple of the Holy Spirit. The word honor refers to a value or a price or a precious thing that has worth. Because our bodies are the temple of the Holy Spirit, they have been conferred an immense worth. And we are to guard that dignity, that our bodies are the dwelling place of the Holy Spirit of God. And as a result of that, there is a great worth in the bodies because God has come to dwell with us. 1 Corinthians 3. 17 he says, do you not know that you are God's temple and that God's Spirit dwells in you? So don't you realize that? Then he says, if anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him, for God's temple is holy, and you are that temple. And no, fourthly, that sexual purity begins in the mind. He says that we are to control our own bodies, not like the Gentiles, in the passion of lust. These are those who don't know God. And they're allowing their lusts to run wild, their thoughts to control the end where they go. The word passion refers to an uncontrolled desire. And James uses that same word in James chapter 1, verses 14 and 15, where he says, But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. That's that word. Then desire, when it is conceived, gives birth to sin. And sin when it is fully grown brings forth death The important truth remembers that when we sow a thought, we reap an action. And God is concerned not only with our actions. But with our thoughts. Paul says in this passage that we are not to live an uncontrolled desire, but our desires, our thoughts, are be to be brought under the control of the Holy Spirit. The last point I want to bring out here is just briefly know that there is no spiritual victory over sexual sin apart from the power of the Holy Spirit. There is no spiritual victory over sexual sin apart from the power of the Holy Spirit. And in several places, we'll actually see this as we continue on in this passage, the Apostle Paul brings us out. He teaches that believers must have no confidence in the flesh, but depend on the power of the Spirit for sexual purity. Galatians 5. 16 says, walk by the Spirit, and you will not carry out the desires of the flesh. One of the keys to walking by the Spirit. is to be filled with the Spirit, to having the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. In Psalms 119, David asked the question, how can a young man or an old man keep his way pure? By guarding it according to your word. With my whole heart I seek you. Let me not wander from your commandments. I have stored up your word in my heart that I might not sin against you. Only as we read and study and memorize and apply God's word and encourage it to saturate our minds will we ever find victory over this temptation of the flesh. But it's only as we yield to the Spirit, to walk by the Spirit moment by moment, and day by day. Elizabeth Elliott said that you only have to be faithful for 60 seconds of every minute. And the fact is that we walk by the Spirit 60 seconds at a time. We walk by the Spirit 60 seconds out of every minute at a time. Minute by minute, hour by hour, day by day. Maybe looking and say, how could I ever be pure until I'm married? Well, sixty seconds at a time. Yielding to the Spirit, yielding to the Word of God, letting the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. But maybe you're here tonight and the reality of your sexual sin and brokenness is looming large in your mind. And you're listening to this and you're going. Oh, if only I had done that. Perhaps you feel the shame and the guilt. Maybe even a crushing weight. Even as I'm talking, you might be feeling a crushing weight on your chest. And you feel like. I can't even breathe because I just remember my shame in this area. To you, I want you to know that the grace of God is greater than our sin. Where sin abounds, grace abounds all the more. There is no sin that God cannot cleanse Jesus Christ died on the cross to pay the penalty for all of your sexual sins, and he offers free and total forgiveness to all who will come and repent and put their trust in him. Remember the woman caught in adultery. And he said to her, Neither do I condemn you. Go and sin no more. Because he knew that he would pay the penalty for her sins in his own body on the cross. Isaiah 118 is the verse I want us to think about as we close this evening. The Lord says, Come now, let us reason together, says the Lord, though your sins are like scarlet. They shall be as white as snow. Though they are red like crimson, they shall become like wool. This is a beautiful reality for all who come broken, sinful, guilty. Full of shame. And they come to the Lord and they repent and they trust in Jesus Christ. What he did on the cross for them, they are washed. It's what Paul mentioned. He said, and such were some of you, but you've been washed. We sing the song, Washed in the Blood. The blood of Jesus Christ was spilt, was was shed on the cross as the penalty for our sins. So that we can be washed white as snow. There's not a single person that isn't broken in some way sexually. And to each one of us, Christ says, Come, and I will wash you white as snow If you're here tonight and you do not know Christ as your Savior, and you don't know what it means to be free from that guilt, I would love to talk to you more about that. that I would love to. It is so important. And it is so beautiful. So freeing to have that guilt lifted off of you. And it's available to all. If you'd like to talk to me afterwards, I would love to spend some time and talk with you. For us that know Christ, we are called to sexual purity. We're going to look more at this as we continue on in this study, but may God help us to walk in sanctification in this area. Let's pray. Father, I thank you for your word. I thank you, Lord, that it is alive. It is powerful. It meets us where we are. I thank you, Father, for the gift of sex that you have made. It is good. And we confess that. Help us, Father, to see it as it is, to hallow it the way you have taught us to. And Lord, I pray that you would be that we we would please you more and more, that we would never be content, but that we would always be striving to please you more in this area of our life. We ask this in Jesus' name. This name, Amen