June 27, 1525, Martin Luther married Catherine von Bora. He was 41, a former monk. She was 26, a former nun. They barely knew each other, and both confessed that they didn't love each other when they were married. But their marriage would become the model Protestant marriage in Germany and throughout Europe. Perhaps you're wondering how Martin and Katie met. What was their love story? Well, in 1523, twelve nuns in a German convent became convinced that Luther's views were correct. And that the Roman Catholic perspective was wrong. They converted to biblical Christianity, but how would they escape from the convent? To leave a convent without permission was a capital offense. So they wrote to Luther, and he devised a plan for a local merchant to smuggle them out of the convent in twelve empty barrels. Twelve nuns were safely delivered to Wittenberg. But now Luther had the responsibility of finding a husband for each of these women. He did so very skillfully and efficiently with the many young men that were there training. for the ministry. However, there was one woman whom no one was willing to marry because she was so stubborn and strong-willed. Twice Luther had a marriage arranged for her, but in both cases the groom backed out at the last hour. Martin Luther was very frustrated. Catherine joked that perhaps Luther should marry her, and after a few weeks of consideration, he did just that. She would give birth to six children, and they would adopt four more. They were virtually strangers when they married, and they were both notoriously strong-willed. And they did have their share of spirited arguments. But their union was strong and affectionate. She complimented Luther in many ways, like Many bachelors he did not eat well, or spend money wisely, or take care of his household. On their wedding night she discovered that the straw in Luther's bed had not been changed in over a year. She said it was rotting. And she quickly put an end to that and began to manage his finances, his time, and his diet with great efficiency. Katie Van Bora made Luther a much better leader and a much more content and happy man because of their marriage. He would later write, there is no more lovely, friendly, or charming relationship, communion, or company than a good marriage. I wonder if you would agree with that statement. I'm afraid that many Christians would think that his remarks are sentimental nonsense. And that is because the state of many Christian marriages is deplorable. This is not just my estimation, but the conclusion reached by many Christian leaders. I and most pastors spent much time dealing with marriage problems. It is a rare week when I do not speak to someone about their troubled marriage. And the problems seem to be more frequent and more serious today than they were in the recent past. The fact is that many Christian marriages are just surviving. Some are slowly headed for divorce. And this is very distressing. Because when marriages are weak, families are weak, and when families are weak, the church is weak, and society itself is weak. But it should not be this way. God has provided all that Christians need. to have healthy, thriving marriages. Strong, vibrant Christian marriages should be not the exception, but the rule And I think one of the things we need to do is adjust our expectation to be in line with the biblical model. Why is it that marriages are so troubled today? It's not because marriage is a failed institution. It's because we have failed to do what the scriptures teach us. And we have allowed the spirit of the age, the world in which we live, to have a greater impact on us. And our thinking and our behavior than the Word of God. I want to begin tonight by asking you this important question: How is your marriage different? from the marriage of two lost people. Often when I speak to people about their marriage and whether they think they have a good marriage or a poor marriage, whatever, the reasons they give for why their marriage is strong or why their marriage is weak would be the same reasons that lost people would give. But when you study the scriptures, you'll find that the scriptures expect the Christian life to be very different from that of lost people. Your marriage should not be similar to your unsaved neighbors that live next door to you. Christian marriages should be excellent. They should be strong. They should be vibrant. They should be very different from the marriages of lost people. And that's the theme that I want us to explore tonight. I want to look at seven reasons why Christian marriages should be excellent. When I do premarital counseling, one of the things I want to get come across to young people who are often anxious and worried and cautious and In some cases, rightfully so, because marriage is a sobering commitment. No one, I think, enters marriage wanting it to fail. But there is good reason for hope and optimism if the husband and wife truly know the Lord and are committed to him. So let's look at these seven reasons why Christian marriages should be strong. Number one, because Christian couples Can identify the main problem in their marriage. Why is marriage such a difficult arrangement? Why is it such a challenging relationship? Well, I want us first of all to consider what the wisdom of the world would suggest. And I may touch on some things that uh may come in line with your thinking. Number one Because many because uh they marry the wrong person. Many people believe that if they marry their soulmate, they will have a happy marriage, but if they don't They are doomed to a miserable relationship. And so when people encounter marriage difficulties, they will think, I married the wrong person. I can never be happy, and so what I must do is end this marriage and find the right one for me. And so millions of people get a divorce and they marry again and discover the same old problems. In fact, if statistics are true, most of them would say that their problems in the second relationship were worse than in the first. And some people will say, well, I can't believe I made the same mistake again. And so they marry perhaps a third or fourth time, or they try they give up trying to marriage and they And they never stopped to realize the problem might be not with that they married the wrong person, but inside here Now the Bible never teaches that God has only one person with whom you can have a successful marriage. Yes, God is sovereign and control, and in the providence of God, He's brought two people together, and that is true. I'm not questioning that. at all. But I think it's a little dangerous to think that you've made the wrong choice and that there's only one person that you could ever possibly be happy with. When you look at church history and examples such as I gave earlier in this message, you will see that that is not the case. Another reason that people often give in the world for why their marriages fail is because they fall out of love. There is a certain euphoria that comes with any new romantic relationship. But God never intended that emotional high to be sustained throughout a lifetime. In fact, the Lord desires that our youthful infatuations grow into a strong, committed love that is far superior to any youthful fantasy. But some people don't understand this and they're chasing that emotional high. And so when they no longer feel that way about their spouse, they get out of that relationship and start a new one. And they do often feel this euphoria at the beginning of a new relationship, but that quickly fades just like the other one did And then of course there are people in the world who would say the reasons marriages fail are because people have irreconcilable differences. This is one of the stock reasons for divorce. But I would say to you, if the husband and wife are both repentant and humble, any problem can be conquered. The gospel is not restricted by conventional challenges. Another reason that people give is because of serious communication problems. Communication is usually a challenge. It has always been this way. Men and women tend to communicate differently. But the idea that somehow you need to become an expert in communication in order to have a successful marriage is preposterous. The fact is that with patience and understanding, any communication difficulties can be overcome. So all of these things I dismiss as the root cause of why marriages fail. Why do marriages fail? The answer is because two sinful people are getting married. That's why. This is what the Bible teaches throughout Scripture. I want to read just one verse. You don't need to turn there. I mentioned it actually this morning, Genesis 3. 16. It says, In sorrow shalt thou bring forth children, and thy desire, it says to Eve, shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee. And most scholars think when it says, thy desire shall be to thy husband, it means thy desire will be to rule over thy husband. But he shall rule over thee. This verse is alluding to the fact that there will be contention and strife naturally because there are two competing wills in a marriage relationship. The fact is that nothing exposes the corruption of your heart like the mirror of your spouse. One of my favorite books on marriage is entitled When Sinners Say I Do. It may not have a very romantic title, but it's very accurate. Reminds us of the reality that marriage is the union of two people with a deadly problem. But our situation is far from hopeless because we have the gospel And lost people do not have the gospel. And that should make all the difference. Secondly, the second reason I'm going to give why Christian marriages should be excellent is because Christian couples have a common bond in Christ. Secular marriage counselors all encourage couples to intentionally share a common interest If a husband and wife spend time rock climbing or camping or some other hobby, they are more likely to have a happy marriage. Statistics bear this out. This makes sense because one of the God-given reasons for marriage is companionship The fact is, when the husband and wife work together like a team, it will promote harmony and unity. But I want you to know that the most significant interest that any two human beings can share is their bond in Christ. I want to invite you to turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 3. And verse 7. In the first six verses of this chapter, Peter addresses women, especially women married to unsaved men. He gives just one verse of admonition to husbands. He says in verse 7, likewise, ye husbands, dwell with them according to knowledge. Giving honor unto the wife as unto the weaker vessel, and as being heirs together of the grace of life That your prayers be not hindered. Would you notice with me that Christian couples are heirs together of the grace of life? This is a beautiful expression of the spiritual bond that the husband and wife share with one another. It is a sacred cord. That has knit our hearts together in Christ. When the husband and wife find their primary identity in their relationship with Christ They have discovered a bond that will invariably draw them closer to one another. If they find their identity primarily in something else, That will tend to pull them apart from one another. This may sound strange to you, but Husband and wife are not just bride and groom, but they are brothers and sisters in Christ. And so all of the one another commands apply to their marriage relationship. What does this common bond in Christ practically mean in the marriage relationship? Well, it means First of all, they will recognize that their spouse is not the enemy, but a fellow soldier in a great spiritual battle. They will not be ignorant of Satan's devices and what he is trying to do and driving a wedge between them and trying to weaken their marriage relationship, but that they will understand that we have to be united. Against the enemy. That my spouse is not the enemy. He or she is not the problem This means that they will pray for one another and with one another lest the devil gain a foothold in their home. One of the questions I often ask people who come to me for marriage counseling is, do you pray together each day? Do you pray for your spouse each day? And almost invariably when they come to me with a troubled marriage, the answer is no. They don't do that. And it may sound like a trivial thing, it may sound like a small thing, but it's an indication that they have forgotten their common bond in Christ and the common enemy that they face. It is when we see each other as being on the same team that it makes a big difference. It means that they should make Christ thirdly the center of their home. The home is not so much an expression of their hobbies and their interests and what they like to do, but it's about their shared faith. It means that they approach child rearing as Christian discipleship, not trying to fulfill some legacy that they might have. Not trying to promote their own interest because of how gifted and talented their child is, but they see it primarily as Christian discipleship. How can we make our children strong followers of Jesus Christ? It means that they will worship and serve God together as a team. It means that church life will be a significant part of their social interaction. It means that they will realize that God's purpose for marriage is much bigger than their personal happiness. The third reason that Christian marriages should be excellent is because Christian couples are obedient to God's instructions concerning marriage. Did you know that God's instructions for marriage are very brief and repetitive? There are really just three key passages. that directly address marriage. There are others that touch on it a secondary way, but that's not the primary reason that purpose has been, that passage has been written. Let me show you this very quickly. Turn with me to Ephesians chapter 5. I want you to see that even in different books and books written by different authors, the emphasis and the teaching is identical. Ephesians chapter 5, look with me at verse 22. Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands as unto the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, and he is the savior of the body. Therefore, as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in everything. Alright? That's God's instructions to the wife. And then we look at verse 25 for the instructions to husbands. Husbands, love your wives. Even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it, that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word, that he might present it to himself. A glorious church not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish. And then there is a summary verse at the end of this chapter, verse 33, where Paul says, Nevertheless, let every one of you in particular so love his wife, even as himself, and the wife see that she reverence. her husband. Now turn with me to the twin epistle of Ephesians, Colossians, Colossians chapter 3. Colossians is much more concise. It just has a verse for the husband and a verse for the wife. Verse 18: Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands as it is fit in the Lord. Number 19, verse 19: husbands, love your wives. And be not bitter against them. And then the third New Testament passage that really speaks to marriage is 1 Peter 3, where we were a moment ago. And the first six verses relate to the wife, especially here the wife married to an unsaved man. I'm not going to take the time to read this. But just to mention that the same emphasis is there about submission, and that is given in verses 4, 5, and 6, and then in verse 7. The husband is called upon to dwell with his wife according to knowledge, which is one application or one expression of him loving his wife in a sacrificial way. So, what the apostles taught about Christian marriage is very simple and very repetitive. It's not something that's hard to decipher. It's not like something that we have to put on this big chart and try to understand the nuance of it. It's just very, very simple. to grasp, but it's very difficult to do. Husbands are commanded to love their wives, and wives are commanded to submit to their husbands We've read those words again and again. Now, for nearly 2,000 years, the Christian church received these simple instructions without objection. But in the last few decades, many Christians have tried to find a way around the politically incorrect statements by Paul. No one has a problem with Paul's instructions to Christian wives to love their wives. Everyone agrees with that. But many Christians are embarrassed when Paul calls on Christian wives to submit to their own husbands. The media narrative strongly promoted in the Western world is that men are oppressors and women are the oppressed. And this secular viewpoint, of course, has infiltrated the church. I don't have time in this message to mount a biblical defense of what the Bible clearly teaches concerning submission. Let me just say, however, that Paul was not suggesting what is known as an egalitarian viewpoint. This is very popular with the evangelicals today. They will go to Ephesians 5. 21, and they will say it says the word submit to one another in the Lord. And so the husband is to submit to his wife, and the wife is to submit to her husband. That is not what that verse is teaching. That verse is is teaching, it is an introductory clause that's talking about the submitted relationships that are coming next. It talks about the husband-and-wife relationship, the parent-child relationship, and the employer -employee relationship. And it's an introduction to those three types of relationships. There are many Christian books on marriage today that you would buy on Amazon or something like that that would promote this egalitarian view. But it's not rooted in biblical exegesis. It's rooted in a politically correct understanding of the husband and wife relationship. He was not advocating mutual submission. It's it's foolish to think that that is the way it is. Just like if you're um at work and you have a a boss there and and you say to him, you know, I think the way we should do this is that sometimes you tell me what to do, and other times I'm going to tell you what to do. He's probably going to have a problem with that. No, that's not the nature of our relationship. You are under my authority, he would say. Paul was advocating not an egalitarian perspective, but a complementarian perspective. The Bible teaches from cover to cover that man and woman are of equal value in the sight of God. To use theological terminology, they are ontologically equal, but functionally different. One of the things that feminism has tried to do is to teach that the only real differences between men and women are because society's expectations and influence on them. But that they're really the same and they really have the same capabilities. And that of course has been proven false in a variety of ways. Men and women are different. They have a different psyche. They have a different mindset. The scripture bears this out, not that they're inferior, but they are different. The Bible says that wives are to submit to their husbands, not because they're in any way inferior, and this is no way, shape, or form gives the husband the right to oppress his wife. Or to abuse her in any way. Because the Bible calls on him to love his wife sacrificially. And Jesus Christ never abuses his church. He tenderly loves and guides his church. But the point I'm trying to make , Is that we have these instructions. These are instructions that the world despises and disdains and throws to the side as worthless relics of the past. But Christian marriages should thrive because it's rooted in reality and the way God has created us and the way God has designed marriage to work. And so if we simply do follow these instructions. By the grace of God, we should have superior marriages. And that brings me to my next point. It's very, very hard to do these things. The fact is that number four, Christian couples should be filled with the Spirit. This is something the world doesn't have. We have the empowerment of the Holy Spirit. to enable us to do these things that tend to be contrary to our nature. If you'll turn with me, please, to Ephesians chapter 5. Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 18. This of course is the beginning of this passage that bleeds into chapter 6 and right before this passage on marriage. It says in Ephesians 5 verse 18, and be not drunk with wine wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. That is the command. He goes on to show what the effects of that will be. He speaks about it personally in a person. speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. This is the individual who's filled with the Spirit. And then he talks in verse twenty about giving thanks always for all things unto God the Father, the name of our Lord Jesus Christ So a person who is filled with the Spirit has a positive spirit. They have a heart of praise, a heart of thanksgiving. But there's another evidence of being filled with the Spirit, and that is submitting to one another in the fear of God. That means in the marriage relationship that the husband recognizes that he has been called of God to love his wife sacrificially, and the wife realizes she has been called to submit to the leadership of her husband. And the fact of the matter is, that is very difficult to do. I have had more than one Christian Wife come up to me and say, I just simply cannot submit to my husband's leadership. I just find it impossible to do. He's not much of a leader, but I'm the leader Well, you know what it is impossible to do apart from the empowerment of the Holy Spirit. Now I think that most Christians assume that the husband has the easy role in marriage because he just has to love his wife. The wife has to submit to him. But I want you to know that loving your wife in the way prescribed in Scripture, in a sacrificial way, is every bit as difficult as submitting. to somebody else's leadership. It's not that one person has the easy role and the other has a difficult. They both are impossible. apart from the empowering of the Holy Spirit. They both involve dying to self And yielding by the grace of God to his will for your life, which it sometimes is very difficult. This is what the Puritans called mortifying the flesh. Putting to death your selfish, sinful desires, and saying, Lord, I will yield to your will in this matter, even though my heart is having great difficulty obeying this. I don't have time to fully develop what this means. But I want to establish in your minds the idea that this is a power that lost people do not possess. They are not filled with the Spirit. They do not receive these instructions from God of love and submission. And this is a great advantage that God has given to us. There's a fifth reason why Christian marriages should be superior, and that is because Christian couples know how to forgive one another. A good Christian marriage is made up of two people who know how to forgive one another. Christians are people who have been called to forgive. We read this throughout the Gospels, especially in the Gospel of Matthew. I'm going to invite you to turn with me, please, to Matthew 6 and verse 12. This is part of what is known as the Lord's Prayer. The Lord says, Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And then He has, as it were, a footnote to this down in verse 15. But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your father forgive your trespasses. In Matthew chapter 18 and verse 21, the Lord tells a parable, one that we covered not too many months ago. About the servant, this manager who was forgiven a mind-boggling amount of debt, but then when he remembered This man who owed him a far smaller amount, he was not forgiving. And the Lord concludes this parable in verse 35 with these words, so likewise shall my heavenly father do also unto you if ye from your hearts forgive not every one his brother their trespasses And what is strong to me about that verse is he says, from your heart, in other words, your forgiveness of someone who has wronged you cannot just be a matter of you saying some words with a real begrudging spirit, but it has to really come from your heart, something that you truly mean, a real meaningful transaction. In Luke chapter 17, we read another passage our Lord taught his disciples about Forgiving one another. Matthew's excuse me, Luke 17, verses 3 and 4. He says, Take heed yourselves if thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him, and if he repent. Forgive them if he trespassed against thee seven times in a day, and seven times in a day turn again to thee, saying, I repent, thou shalt forgive him. There's a command. You don't say, I'm going to see if I'm going to forgive him or not. No, God says you have to forgive them. And what is, of course, astounding about this passage, Is that if someone sinned against you seven times in a day and each time you confronted them with the way they had sinned against you and then they asked for forgiveness, what might you suspect? You might suspect that their repentance was not really sincere. I mean, they've done this seven times in one day. But God says you are required to release them of that debt and to forgive them. In Ephesians chapter 4 Although it does not specifically and directly address marriage, it still is something that's very helpful in the marriage relationship. Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 26 it says, be ye angry and sin not. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath, neither give place to the devil. When a husband and wife allow bitterness to enter their marriage and things go unresolved day after day after day, you are opening the front door and inviting the devil to come into your home and destroy your marriage. That's what Paul is saying here. Instead, what we are to do, verse 32, is to be kind one to another, tender-hearted forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. And in the book of Colossians, chapter 3 And verse 13 it says, Forbearing one another and forgiving one another, if any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you. So also do ye. And then going down to verse 19, it says, husbands, love your wives and be not bitter against them. Bitterness. Is a poison that kills many marriages. Healthy Christian marriages should be places where repentance and forgiveness take place on a regular basis. The words that we say to one another are important and significant. And it's not appropriate for the husband or the wife to say, well, I know I said a lot of really nasty, mean things, but they know I don't really mean it. They know that I was just really upset. They know that I was just frustrated with the whole situation You need to acknowledge your sin. You need to ask for forgiveness. You need to pray about this together. So often couples just bury one layer, one incident after another on top of one another until they are smothered by unresolved issues in their marriage relationship. But God has called us, just as I spoke this morning about keeping short accounts with God, we are to keep short accounts with our spouse and and quickly seek reconciliation in these matters. This can take place when there is honesty And humility. One of the things that I have often found in troubled marriages is that when I ask them So how often have you asked your spouse to forgive you for the sin that you have committed? I hear silence on the other end. That doesn't happen in their household. They have never discovered what God requires of them, and that is that they humble themselves, confess their sin, ask for forgiveness, and then be reconciled. Number six, Christian marriages should be superior because Christian couples know how to love one another. The fact is that Christians have been called to love one another. Love is the essence of our obligations to one another. It's the primary evidence that we are followers of Christ that says, by this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have love one to another. It's the premier fruit of the Spirit. It's the most frequent command given to us in reference to others. The scriptures are filled with admonitions. I'm not going to take the time to read all of these. But we have things like in the um 1 John 3. 11, for this is the message that you have heard from the beginning that you should love one another. Let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought to love one another. Sometimes people object and say, but my spouse acts more like an enemy. Well, the Bible says you're to love your enemies. You see, there is no valid excuse for refusing to demonstrate love to your spouse. Very often when people have a troubled marriage, They will come into my office and they will say something like this. I no longer love my spouse. That, of course, is what I call the get out of marriage card that people try to play as to a legitimate reason that they should get a divorce and their marriage should end. And sometimes when people say that to me, I will say to them, well , is your spouse a believer? Yes. Well, God has commanded you to love your brother. And your sister in Christ. The Bible does not teach that a lack of that affection and those feelings give you any grounds for ending that relationship In fact, the Bible calls on us repeatedly to love our brother and sister in Christ. In fact, if if people in marriages would simply follow the one-another commands, Of how we are to love our brother and sister in Christ, you would find that you would have a great marriage. Because they are all conducive to a strong and healthy relationship. Christian marriages should be filled with love, and Christians should be the most loving people in the world. And that brings me to my final point of why Christian marriages should be superior, and that is because Christian couples seek to reflect the beautiful relationship between Christ and His church. This of course is what we find in that primary passage on marriage in Ephesians chapter 5. This is the ultimate purpose in marriage. The Bible presents four main purposes for marriage. The ultimate purpose By the way, if you want to know the four, there's for children or procreation, chapter one, there's for companionship in chapter two. There's for purity according to 1 Corinthians chapter 7. But the ultimate reason is in Ephesians chapter 5, and that is that our marriages would not be about us And our fulfillment and what we're trying to accomplish and exalt our name, but that they would be a reflection of the gospel, that they would bring glory to Christ that they would be a living illustration of Christ's love for the church. You see, Christian marriages are not about trying to get along so our kids have a stable home environment. Christian marriage is about something much greater and much grander than just the husband and wife. It reflects the greatest love story the world has ever known. It is to be a faint reminder of the Savior's steadfast love for his bride, the church. and the glad submission of the people of God to their Lord and Savior. It is only when we keep this overarching purpose in mind that we will have truly excellent marriages that stand out in this dark world as a bright light pointing to the everlasting gospel. May God grant us grace to see God's glorious purpose in this precious relationship. Let's close in prayer. Father. I pray that you would help us to understand and to grasp by what has been said tonight. That we have every reason to expect that our Christian marriages would be strong and healthy. I pray that you'd remind us that they are to be radically different from the marriages in the world in which we live. Because of all these reasons and many more, you have given us all that we need, all the instruction, all the power. All the grace that we need to have strong and lasting marriages, I pray that you would help us to be obedient and to follow your plan for our lives. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.