We're beginning in verses seven and following. I'll just read these verses that we'll be looking at this evening from Isaiah 66, verse 7. Before she was in labor, she gave birth. Before her pain came upon her, she delivered a son. Who has heard such a thing? Who has seen such a thing? Shall a land be born in one day? Shall a nation be brought forth in one moment? For as soon as Zion was in labor, she brought forth her children. Shall I bring to the point of birth and not cause to bring forth, says the Lord? Shall I, who cause to bring forth, shut the womb? says your God. Rejoice with Jerusalem, and be glad for her. all you who love her, rejoice with her in joy, all you who mourn over her, that you may nurse and be satisfied from her consoling breast, that you may drink deeply with delight from her glorious abundance. For thus says the Lord, Behold, I will extend peace to her like a river, and the glory of the nations like an overflowing stream. And you shall nurse, and shall be carried upon her hip, and bounced upon her knees. As one whom his mother comforts, so I will comfort you. You shall be comforted in Jerusalem You shall see, and your heart shall rejoice, your bones shall flourish like the grass, and the hand of the Lord shall be known to his servants, and he shall show his indignation against his enemies. As we've been going through this last section of the book of Isaiah, we mentioned that there is the alternating pattern between message of comfort and a message of warning. And we obviously are coming to a message of great comfort. that we should be thrilled with. As we look at the book of Isaiah, there's one thing that if you forget all the lessons that we have gone over and have to pull back your notes another day to remember all the things we studied here. The theme I think will probably go with you. And you may be, you may be uh on your deathbed someday and someone will say, What is the theme to the book of Isaiah? And you'll be like, oh, I know this. Return and rest in Yahweh, for He alone is salvation. We've repeated that many, many times throughout this study. And I trust that that will always be with you as you look at the book of Isaiah in your own personal study. And here we are in our Study the last half of the book of Isaiah, chapter 66, and the comfort through eschatology. Remember, we started with the word of comfort in chapter 40. And even as I was reading these verses tonight, you probably noticed the three references to the word comfort that comes out. That God is bringing comfort to the nation of Israel and to his people. in the area of eschatology, the study of last things. This passage of scripture is one I have longed to come to, and it's a beautiful passage of scripture. And we're encouraged here to stand amazed at the miraculous birth of a nation. to stand amazed at the miraculous birth of a nation. And these verses we've been reading recently in Isaiah chapter 62, we read of the Messiah. praying for the restoration of Jerusalem. Remember how we read in Isaiah 62. 1 that the Messiah says, for Zion's sake. I will not keep silent. And for Jerusalem's sake, I will not be quiet until her righteousness goes forth as brightness. and her salvation as a burning torch. And the Messiah declares that he will perpetually be bringing before the Father the hope and the confidence of Zion's restoration. And then in chapter, that same chapter, verses six and seven, he says he appoints watchmen who will be praying night and day and giving the Lord no rest. until he establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in the earth. And that is an instruction for us to be praying for the peace of Jerusalem, to be praying for the fulfillment of these prophecies. And it's in light of that reality, that prayer that we read in Isaiah 62 and into Isaiah 63, that we now come to this answer. God 's answer This glorious answer to that prayer. As we read this passage, the metaphor of a woman giving birth is used. You couldn't have missed it. In verse 7, the woman isn't specifically identify. We're just starts off by saying before she was in labor. We're not told who she is. We're not given the antecedent initially and we're forced to wonder who is being spoken about here. Who is this woman? And at least 16 times in these verses, the words she and her are given. She shall do this, her travail. And we're not told initially who that is. And it's not till the end of verse 8. that we're given an understanding of who this woman is. And it's Zion. Zion. Remember Zion is another name for the city of Jerusalem, God's chosen city. And in verse 10, he describes it no longer as Zion, but as Jerusalem. He says in verse 10 of this chapter, rejoice with Jerusalem and be glad for her. So we have the clear connection between Jerusalem is now the woman who is giving birth. This birth metaphor can be a bit confusing. At first, if you look at it, we're wondering who is the one who's being born? Who is the child that is being born? It says at the end of verse 7, she delivered a son. Well, who is the Sun? Well, it's a synecdoche, because it means the the one refers to the whole. And we find the full understanding of it at the end of verse 8, or in the middle of verse 8. Shall a land be born in the day? Shall a nation be brought forth in one moment? So we have a land and a nation being born From the woman, which is known as Jerusalem. Well, what makes this birth so special? What makes this birth unique to other births? The metaphor not only describes the actors that are in this drama, but also an action and a rather unusual action. The birth scene that is described here is a remarkably unusual Birth scene. We have a number of pregnant women within our church that would say, I'll take this one. I would like a birth like this. It begins by saying, before she was in labor, she gave birth. There's a lot of women who be like, I'll take that. Rather than the 8 to 10 to 12 to 14 hours of labor, I will gladly have a birth that is Simple. Before her pain came upon her, she delivered a son. I think there's a number of women that would appreciate that. And this is not to be taken extremely literally because in verse 8 it says, as soon as Zion was in labor, she brought forth her children. image here is saying there is an immediacy, a suddenness. It's an unusual, sudden, miraculous birth. And then it's described even a little bit further. As the birth of a nation that takes place in one day and in one moment. An event, a birth of a nation that happens in a moment of time. What is being described is God's miraculous work of restoring to life the nation of Israel. Now there are various interpretations. This is just what I just described to you here is pretty much acknowledged by virtually all Bible scholars. regardless of their eschatological viewpoints, they would all agree that this is what the passage is saying, but there are various ways to interpret And so we're going to touch on them briefly here this evening. One way that we could look at this passage of Scripture is to see this as the return of Israel from Babylonian captivity. Some Bible students see this as being fulfilled when Israel returned from Babylon in 537 BC after the decree of Cyrus. Now we've already talked about Cyrus in our study. on the book of Isaiah. Remember in Isaiah 44, I believe I have this in Do I have this in our notes? Nope, I don't. I apologize. In Isaiah 44 Verses 28 and following, the Lord specifically mentions the pagan king who would decree the return of Israel from Babylonian exile. And he calls him Cyrus. Even though Cyrus would not yet be born for over 100 years. And he says in Isaiah 44, 28, Who says of Cyrus, He is my shepherd, and he shall fulfill all my purpose. saying of Jerusalem, She shall be built, and of the temple, your foundation shall be laid. And God, a hundred years before Cyrus was born, before there was ever a child who would be born named Cyrus, before And ironically, Cyrus was not Babylonian, of course. He would be of the Persian Empire. And so this is the amazing thing. God calls the king by name. A century before he was born, the one who would decree this. God says, that you may know that I am God, that you may know that I am the sovereign one who directs and orders all of history. Perhaps this return of Israel from Babylon is the birth that is being described here. Because at at the time that This is written by Isaiah. They had not yet gone into captivity. 100 years would still elapse before they would go into captivity. The problem with that is it doesn't fit the description here. For one, when Israel came back from Babylonian captivity, the 50,000 who returned from Babylonian exile and came into the land, they remained under the Persians. They did not establish a nation. They were not their own country. They were mainly the Persians, and then the Medes, and then the Greeks. And finally the Romans. And all this time they never became an independent state. And it was finally the Romans who destroyed Jerusalem. and dispersed the Jews again from Jerusalem in 135 A. D. after the Bar Kokhbah revolt. And so we see here That doesn't fit. They never actually became a nation as this. But all this was prophesied by Daniel. Daniel prophesied the kings and the kingdoms that would arise and that would have rule over Jerusalem and over Israel and the things that would happen down to very precise and specific events that would take place. But also it doesn't fit this prophecy here in Isaiah 66 because it didn't result in peace like a river. We sang about peace like a river in our first song this this evening. And he describes here In verse 12, behold, I will extend peace to her like a river. That is not the result of what happened in B. C. 537. Some have viewed this as the formation of the church at Pentecost. Some Bible students interpret this and they take a non-literal interpretation. They spiritualize this passage of Scripture. And they say when the church was born at Pentecost is the fulfillment of these verses. In Galatians 5. 26, We're told that New Testament believers are citizens, not of this earthly Jerusalem, but of the Jerusalem above. The Jerusalem which is from above. We're also told in Peter that we are a royal priesthood and a holy nation. And so, understandably, there are Bible interpreters that say these promises were actually fulfilled in the church at the day of Pentecost. Peter and Paul understood the reality of the kingdom that Pastor Tobin spoke about two weeks ago when he was preaching on the Lord's Prayer on Sunday evening. When he preached on the phrase, Your kingdom come. And when you read through the New Testament, you find things about the kingdom of God, the kingdom that is described. There are clear New Testament passages that teach that Christ's kingdom is a current reality, that we are Who are believers in Christ are members of a kingdom. We are a holy nation. We are part of the Jerusalem which is from above. In Luke chapter 17, Jesus tells the Pharisees not to look for a kingdom, because the kingdom of God is in your midst. And meaning, I'm the king, he says. So the kingdom is here because I am the king. So you shouldn't be looking for a kingdom. The king is right here. In John chapter 18, verse 36, Pilate, when Jesus told Pilate, he said, My kingdom, though, is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting that I might not be delivered over to the Jews, but my kingdom is not from this world. And so we have this reality that there is an aspect of this kingdom that is present, that is spiritual. But he also says at the same time that there is a not yet aspect of the kingdom. In Luke chapter 19, Jesus says he proceeds to tell a parable because he was near to Jerusalem. And because they supposed that the kingdom of God was to appear immediately. He said, therefore, a nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and then return. And in this parable, Jesus is explaining that between There will be a period of time between Christ's first coming and his return, his second coming, when the full manifestation of the kingdom on earth will take place. And that's why we do pray in our Lord's Prayer. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. We pray for that because although there is a reality, an aspect of it that is now , We are waiting for the fullness of it, the full manifestation of God's kingdom. So, although the church has been grafted into the new covenant, and there is some validity to seeing this prophecy in Isaiah 66. uh with the New Testament church. However, the descriptions that are found here are more literal and they demand, I believe, a more literal fulfillment for several reasons. First of all, the second coming of Christ is to a literal geographical Jerusalem. When Christ comes, he doesn't come to a spiritual Jerusalem. He returns to the Mount of Olives He returns to a literal, geographical, physical Jerusalem. Joel 3 says this, Zechariah 14 says this, Acts 1 says this, the New Testament is replete with this reality. Secondly, Romans 11 declares emphatically that all of Ethnic Israel will be saved. And then it quotes Isaiah 59, verse 11, which says, the deliverer will come from Zion, and he will banish ungodliness. from Jacob. And so we see that this is a reality yet to come. Thirdly, we're called in this passage to rejoice over Jerusalem with joy. And those who are called to do that are those who mourn over her. If this Jerusalem is the Jerusalem which is from above, why would we mourn over her? That's the heavenly Jerusalem. So it must be referring to the physical Jerusalem, the geographic Jerusalem, which has faced great persecution. And lastly, if you look at the context not only of Isaiah 62, where we're praying for the tribes of Israel, and Isaiah 66, verses 20 through 22. where there is the temple being described and the the holy mountain of Jerusalem is being described, I think it it clearly needs to have a more literal understanding, a little more literal interpretation. So another option that this could be referring to is the rebirth of the nation of Israel on May 14th, 1948, the 77th anniversary. If you're following the Gregorian calendar of the foundation of the modern state of Israel was last week. Last week was the 77th anniversary. of the independence of Israel. Now if you're following the Jewish calendar, it was May 1st. So it's two weeks ago, two and a half weeks ago, if you're following the the Hebrew calendar. But when Isaiah prophesied these words, what's significant, when Isaiah prophesied these words, the nation of Israel was still a nation. Jerusalem was still inhabited. The temple was still standing. But he's prophesying something that is going to take place. A destruction, a scattering, and a regathering. And even he himself couldn't have fully understood it. But the rebirth of the modern state of Israel, if we look at these verses, it does in many ways fit this reality. It literally happened in one day. The events surrounding the establishment of the modern state of Israel are providential to the point of being miraculous. Nations are typically born over decades and centuries and sometimes even millennia. but a dispersed people who were literally dispersed over all six of the inhabited continents and over 100 countries And who have not been recognized as an independent nation for over 2,500 years, to come together into their homeland, their historic homeland, And be recognized as a nation in one day by an international body that didn't come into existence until two years prior. is remarkable to say the least. A parallel to this may be something like the Amish returning to Switzerland. And taking over the nation and being declared as a nation in one day. And they've only been gone 500 years. The nation of Israel had been scattered for 2,000 years. They had not been an independent nation for over 2,500 years. There is really no parallel to this in history. But we see in this God was working in amazing ways to bring this about. God was working through men like Andrew Bonar and Robert Murray McShane, pastors of the Church of Scotland, who visited Israel, were sent by the Church of Scotland to visit Israel in 1839 and report on the condition of the few Jews that were living there. And their report was the foundation of a report called A Memorandum to Protestant Monarchs of Europe for the Restoration of the Jews to Palestine that was written in 1840. Although they saw the need, they understood biblical prophecy all the way back in the 1800s, they said, this needs to be done, this is what God said he's going to do. But the political means to bring that about wasn't available. And so it kind of languished. The modern Zionist movement was sparked by an event that took place in France. known as the Dreyfus Affair in 1894. The Dreyfus Affair happened when a French army officer named Alfred Dreyfus was accused and convicted of espionage with the Germans. Alfred Dreyfus was Jewish. And after being convicted, he was publicly stripped. You see here the public stripping of his medals in Paris. And his sword was broken, all the while he maintained his innocence. He was given a life sentence and sent to Devil's Island to serve out his life sentence. Several years later, Alfred Dreyfus was completely exonerated and the evidence against him revealed to be a forgery. However, that day in Paris, as the crowds gathered around while he was being stripped of his medals, the crowds shouted, Death to the Jews, death to the Jews. And there was an Austrian reporter who was there who was also a Jew. His name was Theodor Herzl. And he realized that day that the Jewish people would never be accepted in Europe. They would never be free in Europe. That the only solution for the Jewish people was to have a country of their own. And so in 1897, he convened the first Zionist Congress to pursue a homeland for the Jewish people in Basel, Switzerland, to search for a home for the Jewish people. And they sought out they thought they sought out Palestine, they sought out other places, they even sought out Uganda as a possible homeland. Some twenty years later in nineteen seventeen after the British conquered Jerusalem from the Ottoman Empire In 1917, the Foreign Secretary of Britain, Lord Balfour, published what became known as the Balfour Declaration. The Balfour Declaration stated that His Majesty's government views with favor the establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish people. But again They saw a need, but they lacked the political will to bring it to pass. It was not until the atrocities of World War II, where one-third of the Jews in Europe were systematically exterminated, was there enough sympathy and political will For the Jewish people to bring back, be brought back to their homeland. On November 29th, 1947. The United Nations adopted a plan called the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine. If you look at it here, the blue territory would be given to the Jewish state. and the yellow would be given to the Arab population and the white would be Jerusalem, which would be governed by an international body. How do you defend that? That's an impossibility. It was an impossible idea. But the Jewish people led by David Ben Gurion accepted the plan and began preparations for the establishment of their nation. at the end of the British mandate, which would end on May 14, 1948. And so on May 14, 1948 At 4 p. m. in Tel Aviv, David Ben Gurion and the People's Council declared Israeli statehood. Who's that behind him? That's Theodore Herzl, the reporter that was there the day the Dreyfus affair took place. And he was stripped of his medals in Paris. May 13th, 1948, the nation of Israel did not exist. May 14, 1948, the nation of Israel came into existence after more than 2,500 years of not being a nation. Who has heard such a thing? Who has seen such a thing? Can a land be born in a day? Can a nation be brought forth in one moment? For as soon as Zion was in labor, she brought forth her children. Does that not fit with this passage of Scripture pretty well? In a pretty amazing way. What I think is many times people say, I would love to have seen some of these prophecies fulfilled in modern times. I believe that this is actually one of those prophecies that was fulfilled in very recent times, within the last 77 years, that God prophesied an event that took place. Within the last 77 years, there are people alive today that witness these events. It's pretty exciting. Possible objections to this interpretation? It's the fact that what's described later on is not transpired. Peace like a river? I don't think anybody can look at the modern state of Israel and say, peace like a river has flown into the land, or the glory of the nations like an overflowing stream have come into Israel. Okay, so what's another option? The spiritual rebirth of the Jewish people. At the return of Christ, Zechariah 12 tells us that a spirit of grace and of pleas for mercy will be poured out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that when they look on me, on him whom they have pierced, they shall mourn for him as one mourns for an only child. and weep bitterly over him as one weeps for a firstborn. There's a description in Zechariah chapter 12 of a conversion of the nation of Israel, a rebirth, a spiritual rebirth of the nation that takes place in a moment, in an instant. where they are born again. Jeremiah 31 describes this. Jeremiah 31, the first half describes the intention of God to restore Israel to her land. And then in Jeremiah 31, 31, we talk about the new covenant. So we have the restoration of the land to the land first, and then the new covenant taking place with the nation of Israel, beginning in verse 31. God promises to make a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah. And it says, For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them. I will write it on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. This event is a sudden event. At the return of Christ, the nation of Israel turns to Christ. In a moment, it will result in peace and righteousness. And it will result in the glory of the nations flowing into Jerusalem, like what we have read in our previous chapter. So, how do we understand this? What is being described here in these verses? John Calvin said that everything from the return from exile, the Babylonian exile, to the final establishment of Christ's kingdom is in view. Fair enough. He's saying there's there's multiple things that are taking place here. I think the best way to look at this passage is to see verses seven through nine. as referring to the re-establishment of the political state of Israel on May 14, 1948. And verses 10 through or uh verses 12 through 14, 10 through 14 as referring to the future conversion. of the remnant that shall survive the tribulation as what is described in Zechariah 12 and in Zechariah 14 and in Romans chapter 11 So we have a blending of these two last ideas, the restoration of the nation of Israel politically, geographically, in one day. And the the revival, the spiritual revival of the nation that takes place in one day, which brings in peace like a river. and the overflowing of the blessings of the nations to the land. But what is so beautiful about this, and our our time is limited, I'm going to try to bring out just a few more points. What's so beautiful about this is what it says in verse 9, shall I bring to the point of birth and not cause to bring forth, says the Lord? God is the one who brings forth The idea of the Jewish people ever returning to the land of Israel seemed for so many centuries to be a near impossibility. In fact, if you read some Christian commentators from 1940, that recently 1940 they'll say the idea I know the Bible seems to say here that the Jews will return to the promised land, but that cannot be understood literally. It must be understood spiritually. That could never happen. Literally within eight years it happened. And so there's a danger of saying to God, that can't happen. I know this is what you said, but that can't happen because of the political environment. Some have doubted whether that'd be possible, and God has done it. Even now, when people consider the precarious position that Israel is in, surrounded by hostile nations and terrorist organizations that want to destroy Israel And the potential for a nuclear-armed Iran, they wonder if is it possible for Israel to survive? The X factor is God. God said, I will do this. And he will do it. What seemed impossible to be done, God has already done. God is the doer of this event. He says, Shall I bring to the point of birth and not cause to bring forth, says the Lord? the assurance of the ultimate fulfillment of these words in the establishment of a nation of Israel, not just geographically, but one that has repented and received Christ as their Messiah. is not because of the Mossad or the IDF or the United Nations or the United States It is because God said it. I will do this. John Oswald, who was one of the great commentators, on Isaiah said this, the world may say that Zion is barren, and even if pregnant, too weak to give birth to anything like the righteousness of God. But it is not Zion who is saving the world. It is God. God is the one who does this. We have, as we continue in this passage, verses 10 and 11, God calls us to rejoice in this reborn nation. This is just so beautiful as we are called even now to rejoice in what God has said he will do. The certainty of the promiser. should cause us to rejoice. He says, rejoice with Jerusalem and be glad for her. All you who love her, rejoice with her in joy, all who mourn over her that you may nurse and be satisfied from her consoling breast, and you may drink deeply with the light from her glorious abundance. If Jesus wept over the unbelief of Jerusalem and the destruction that would come, shouldn't we? He says, all you who mourn, shouldn't we mourn? If our Savior mourned for them, and then shouldn't we rejoice? Because our Savior is rejoicing We should be praying with expectancy for God to protect the nation of Israel and to save Jews and Arabs and Palestinians in the land, but to save his people, because he has said, rejoice. I am doing this. When God restores Zion, the blessing that will bring will not be merely to Zion, but will be a blessing to all the world. And Isaiah uses the imagery of a mother's breast. satisfying her child with the abundance of milk. When my wife used to nurse, I used to just laugh at times because you'd see the kids if they they finish nursing they pull away from the breast and there's a little milk mustache and their eyes are closed and they're going In their sleep, they're completely satisfied. And they're just honked out. We just laugh watching them. The imagery here is of total satisfaction when God restores and brings to life the nation of Israel, not just politically, but spiritually. They and all the believing world will enjoy the abundance that God will bring to them. And this is what Romans 11 specifically says. Paul expresses this in Romans 11, 12. I think I have this as a slide. Let's Nope. I skipped that one. There we go. Now if their trespass means riches for the world, and if their failure means riches for the Gentiles, How much more will their full inclusion mean? If it meant riches, what will it be when they are fully included? Now I am speaking to you, Gentiles, and as much then as I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I magnify my ministry in order somehow to make my fellow Jews jealous, and thus save some of them For if their rejection means the reconciliation of the world, when they turned away from Christ, the Gentile, the gospel went to the Gentiles, it allowed us to be reconciled to God, what will their acceptance mean but life? From the dead. It will be glorious. It will be this analogy being nursed from Jerusalem. Jonathan Edwards, the famous theologian and pastor who God might use mightily to spark revival in New England, said in his book, The History of Redemption. The day shall yet come when the Jews who were the first apostles to the Gentiles, the first missionaries to us who were afar off shall be gathered in again. Matchless benefits to the world are bound up with the restoration of Israel. Their gathering in shall be as life from the dead. He wrote that before he knew the nation of Israel. This was hundreds of years before Israel was restored to the land. And he said, this is what God is going to do. The last thing we need to see here, and this is just very quickly, God calls us to rejoice at the marvelous results of a newborn nation, a reborn nation. Verses 12 through 14. For thus says the Lord, Behold, I will extend peace to her like a river, and the glory of the nations like an overflowing stream. And you shall nurse, you shall be carried upon her hip and bounced upon her knees as one whom his mother comforts. So I will comfort you. You shall be comforted in Jerusalem You shall see, and your heart shall rejoice, your bones shall flourish like the grass, and the hand of the Lord shall be known to his servants, and he shall show his indignation against his enemies. We have two results here. Peace like a river and comfort like a mother's. Peace like a river and comfort like a mother's. The idea of peace like a river. It's like you ever stood by a river and just watched this water just keep flowing. It just keeps flowing, it keeps flowing. It doesn't seem to stop. You're like, where does it all come from? That's the idea of this overflowing, never-ending abundance of peace. that God promises to bring. Our world doesn't know anything about that right now. Husbands fight against wives, nations fight against nations, children fight against one another, co-workers fight against each other, ethnic groups, tribes, religions are fighting each other, political parties are at war with each other. But when Christ comes again, he will establish peace like a river. When Christ comes, he will not only establish peace with God by repentance and faith in Christ, but also peace on earth. We saw this from the very beginning of this book, Isaiah chapter 2, which gives us a little foretaste of what's described here. When Christ comes, he shall judge between the nations, and shall decide disputes for many peoples. And they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war anymore. When Christ comes, there's going to be a radical transformation of this world. As he reconciles the nation of Israel to their God and brings peace to this world. But also comfort like a mother. He says here three times in verse 13 the word comfort. The antecedent to this word comfort is found in Isaiah chapter 40. The second half of the book of Isaiah begins with the word comfort. Comfort, comfort my people, says your God. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem and cry to her that her warfare has ended, that her iniquity is pardoned. And we looked at that verse thoroughly, and we saw that the idea is that a double for her sin has been found. The exact double for her sin is found in the Messiah, the servant of the Lord who is revealed in Isaiah 42, Isaiah 49, Isaiah 51, and Isaiah 53. The servant of the Lord is the double for her sins. And he says, comfort my people, because the payment for her sin has been found. Only when Israel's sin is dealt with by faith in Jesus Christ can they understand and experience the comfort that God has in store. And the same is true of you and I, who are Gentiles. Our sins separate us from God, from his tender mercies And it demands God deal with us in wrath. He even says here at the end of this verse, verse 14, and he shall show his indignation against his enemies. You have two choices. Either you receive the comfort of the Lord in Jesus Christ, or you receive his indignation because you have rejected him. The question is, have you received God's comfort by faith in Jesus Christ? If you refuse God's comfort, the only result is indignation. We've gone long this evening. But I hope this is an encouragement to you. I hope you look at this and you say, you know what? God's word is true What God said he would do 2,700 years ago before the nation of Israel even went into exile, God fulfilled 77 years ago. And we're awaiting the full fulfillment of that yet. God promised a virgin-born Messiah in Isaiah 7. He promised a Messiah who would be a boy and also be mighty God. In Isaiah 9. He promised a Messiah who would suffer and die as a sacrifice in Isaiah 53. When God promises something, he fulfills it. And we can rest in that. Have you trusted in him? And if you have, rejoice and pray. Because his word is true. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you that your word is true. And no matter what man does or tries to do, your word cannot be thwarted Lord, we pray for the peace of Jerusalem. We long for that day when the Prince of Peace will set foot on this earth again. And the nation of Israel will look upon him whom they've pierced and weep for him as one weeps for an only son. Lord, we pray that you would speedily bring this to pass. Bring in the fullness of the Gentiles. so that every eye may see him, and every knee may bow, and every tongue may confess that he is Lord. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen