If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to John chapter 10? John chapter 10. About 30 years ago when I was first starting out in ministry and I was ministering at my home church in Frederick, Maryland, there was a man who came to visit us one Sunday morning, distinguished-looking gentleman. And uh I was following up on him that following Thursday night. He was a scientist who worked at Fort Dietrich there in Frederick. And after some conversation with him, he announced to me that he was an atheist. He did not believe that there was a God. He's fascinated by what I believe and what our church believed, but he didn't believe in those things he said because there was not enough evidence To support our claims. This morning we come to a passage where our Lord's antagonist asked him for more evidence that he is the Messiah. And verse 24, it says so the Jews gathered around him and said, How long will you keep us in suspense if you are the Christ? Tell us plainly. Before we get into our Lord's response, we are looking at the seventh and final dialogue between Jesus and the religious leaders. in this chapter. I want for a moment for us to consider the context, the setting that is given by John. Between verses 21 and 22 of John chapter 10, there are probably about two months of time. I say this because the healing of a blind man that took place right after the Feast of Tabernacles was in September of October. And here we read of the feast of dedication, which was in November, December, most likely December of this year. It's very possible that Jesus and his disciples in that two months' time returned to Galilee and ministered, and some of the chronology that's found in Luke's gospel would probably include some of the events that are recorded there. But then they have returned to Jerusalem. And they're there during the feast of dedication. Notice what it says in verse 22. At that time the feast of dedication took place at Jerusalem. It was winter. And Jesus was walking in the temple in the colonnade of Solomon. The feast of dedication is the celebration that we commonly call Hanukkah today. Festival of Lights. But unlike the other feasts that we find in John 's Gospel, this one Does not really have biblical roots. It's not found in the Old Testament. The historic beginning of this is during the intertestamental period. That's the 400 years. between the close of the Old Testament and the beginning of the New. In 167 B. C. The Syrian king Antiochus Epiphanes sought to destroy the Jewish faith He wanted to Hellenize or Grecianize this region of the world. He wanted everyone to have the same beliefs. and to observe the same things. And so he intentionally sought to mock and destroy the faith of the Hebrews. And so he did the most outrageous and insulting things that he could imagine. He had a pig sacrificed at the altar in the temple. He turned the holy place into a brothel. He had a statue of Zeus set up in the Holy of Holies. And he had his soldiers force feed pork to the priest. He made the rite of circumcision and the keeping of the Sabbath illegal. He did everything he could to mock them and insult them and humiliate them. But as you can imagine, what he did was to anger them. A man rose up named Judas Maccabees, who led a revolt against their pagan intruders. He effectively employed guerrilla warfare. And the Syrians were defeated and they were driven out of the temple. And the temple was reconsecrated to the worship of Yahweh in December of 164 BC. This momentous event was the basis of the eight-day feast of dedication. So the timing of this is at winter, probably December, probably close to when we would commonly celebrate Christmas. Jesus will be ministering for four more months because in April of the next year he will die on an old rugged cross. It's winter time and Jesus is walking in the large covered porch known as the Colonnade of Solomon. It was an area Quite large, about the size of two football fields, a place for informal teaching, and it provided some protection from the rain and the cold wind. It's winter. There was a porch, there were sidings, people would gather there. And as Jesus is walking the Jewish religious leaders gather around him and begin to question him. Let me remind you that when John in his gospel simply says the Jews , He's not referring to the Jewish people. He was referring to the Jewish religious leaders. It's his shorthand way of referring to them. These were probably some members of the Sanhedrin. And they asked him this question. When are you going to tell us if you are the Messiah plainly? But Jesus is not going to repeat himself again and again and again. Instead, he exposes their hypocrisy and unbelief. And then he will contrast their response to him with the response of those who follow him, the sheep. We have a great contrast in our passage this morning. Everyone here this morning will either ultimately trust in Jesus Christ as their Savior, or they will ultimately perish eternally. The Bible from the beginning to the end speaks of two destinies of humanity, of two ways, of two roads. Not of many, not of a third way, but of only two possible responses. And the question is, which response will you have? Are you a follower of Jesus Christ? Jesus describes the differences of those who follow him and of those who reject him in this passage. So our passage this morning, our sermon this morning will have two main points And the first point is this, Jesus reveals the identity of those who reject him in verses 24. Look with me, please, at verse 24. So the Jews gathered around him and said to him, How long will you keep us in suspense if you're the Christ? Tell us plainly. When our text says that they gathered around him , it indicates that they circled around him or they closed in on him like this was a premeditated thing, and they're they're surrounding him, they're seeking to intimidate him. This was not a casual discussion, but a premeditated attempt to entrap Jesus and arrest him and ultimately kill him. They asked him, how long will you keep us in suspense? This was not a legitimate question on their part. They want him to make some incriminating claims so that they can accuse him of blasphemy, arrest him, and murder him We see in the previous chapters this pattern of hostility and rejection on their part, but somehow, some way, he has gotten away from them. He has evaded their grasp. They were not truly seeking to follow him. They were not looking for more information. And so Jesus does not put on a display for them. He does not perform a miracle. He does not say something noteworthy about his identity. Because they have finally rejected him. This is not to say that all of the religious leaders had finally rejected him, because we know that some would come to faith later. But I think we find four characteristics of those who finally reject Christ in this passage. Number one, those who finally reject Christ are not truly seeking the truth. Now those who reject Christ will often claim that they are seeking the truth, that they are trying to find out the identity of Jesus. I've spoken to many atheists in my life, and many of them have said to me, you know, if I had more evidence I would believe. Some of them have even said, I would really like to believe. I think it would be cool to believe what you believe, but I just can't do it. It doesn't make any sense to me. What we find throughout this Gospel of John is that an underlying reason why people do not believe is because they do not want to repent of their sins. And follow the Savior. In John chapter 3 and verse 19, we read, and this is the judgment, that light has come into the world, and the people love the darkness rather than the light, because their works were evil. Romans 3. 11 says, no one understands, no one seeks for God. You may say, no, that can't be true because there are a lot of people who seek the Lord. Well, there are some people who claim to seek the Lord, are not really seeking the Lord. And then there are people who truly seek the Lord, but only because the Spirit of God has convicted them and is working in their lives. But apart from that, no one naturally in their fallen state will seek the Lord's. Secondly, we see those who finally reject Christ do not truly listen to his word. In verse 25, notice what Jesus says here. He says, I told you, and you do not believe. The works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me. He says, I told you, and you do not believe. Now Jesus here is not referring to some specific statement that he made. He's referring to the entirety of his public teaching ministry that they have heard. He has rev revealed himself as the bread of life, as the light of the world, as the door, as the good shepherd. He has claimed titles like the Son of God and the Son of Man and the Great I Am. And they understood what he was saying because they took up stones to stone him. So why did they not hear his word? In another contentious discussion he has with them in John chapter 8, he says this in verse 47. Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear them is that you are not of God Thirdly, those who finally reject Christ refuse to believe the abundant evidence that points to his identity. Look at that last phrase in verse 25. The works that I do in the Father's name bear witness about me. This is a reference primarily to his miracles. I've mentioned to you many times in our study of the Gospel of John that the first half of the book, that is the first twelve chapters , are structured around seven signs or seven miracles that point to the identity of Jesus Christ. The healing of the water to wine in chapter two, the healing of the water turned to wine, and then the healing of the nobleman's son in chapter four, and then the healing of the l Lame man of the pool Bethesda in Chapter 5 Feeding of the 5,000 in chapter 6 and uh walking on the water in that same chapter, and then the healing of the man born blind in chapter 9 All of these were spectacular miracles. And just a few months ago, Jesus had healed this man who was congenitally blind. He had never seen. He was born in a state of darkness. His eyes were undoubtedly malformed. And yet Jesus healed him so that this man could see. And we know the religious leaders investigated this notable miracle. They questioned this man. They questioned his parents and they questioned him again. And although the evidence was overwhelming, and his parents and others could confirm, yeah, this is that guy that used to be the beggar by the gates. They still would not believe. They still would not accept this. And they excommunicated this man and put him out of the synagogue. They were angry because he did not do what they wanted him to do, and that was to disprove the miracle that he had experienced. In the very next chapter, chapter 11, we have the ultimate of the seven miracles. They're kind of growing in notability. We have Jesus raising a man named Lazarus from the dead who'd been dead for four days. And how did these religious leaders respond? They plotted to kill him. They wanted to silence this witness. They did not believe But now in verse twenty-six we have a very brief verse that contains a great deal of depth and mystery. It says Jesus says to them, but you do not believe, because you are not among my sheep. Now what is Jesus conveying here? Who are these sheep? Well, this chapter began with him talking about the sheep and the sheepfold. Chapter 10 and verse 1, Truly, truly I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door, but climbs in by another way, that man is a thief and a robber. But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the gatekeeper opens. Notice this the sheep hear his voice. He calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. And then we have another clue in verse 16 about these other sheep. Notice what it says. Jesus says, and I have other sheep. That are not of this fold, referring to the fold of Judaism, I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock, one shepherd. Now I want you to notice that he caused in this analogy the sheep, sheep before they even were following him. And so I would suggest to you that the best way of understanding who these sheep are is that these are those who are chosen. These are the elect. These Gentiles in verse 16 are called sheep even before they hear his voice and follow him by faith. That doesn't mean that they were saved at that point. This is the same sort of thing that we find in Acts 13 and verse 48, when Paul and Barnabas are evangelizing among the Gentiles, and we read, And as many as were appointed to eternal life believed. And on another occasion when the Lord encouraged the Apostle Paul, who was discouraged, and he told him to remain here, because I have much people in this city. It's not saying that they were already Christians because the gospel had not come to that place before. We've encountered this idea of election earlier in this gospel in John 6. 37. says all that the Father gives to me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out. And John 6, 44, no one can come to me unless the Father who set me draws him. Now let me make some important clarifications. God's sovereignty and salvation does not mean that people are not responsible for their unbelief. They are responsible for their unbelief. These men were guilty They had incredible miracles and incredible words said in their presence, and yet they consistently and deliberately And stubbornly responded in unbelief. And Jesus condemned them for it. He says in John chapter 5 and verse 40, you refused to come to me that you might have life. You don't want to come. That's why you're not coming. And in John chapter 7 and verse 17, he says, if anyone's will is to do God's will, He will know whether the teaching is from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority. In other words, if a person really wants to know the truth about the identity of Jesus Christ , They will be able to discern that in the scriptures. In the teaching of Christ. You see, these religious men did not want to believe. To follow Christ would have been to give up their status and their power that they had worked hard to achieve. Secondly, God's sovereignty and salvation does not mean that Christians do not need to evangelize God who has chosen some to be saved has also chosen the means by which they will be saved. And that is through the preaching and teaching of the gospel. That's why we are to go into all the world and preach the gospel. That is why we've been given the Great Commission. This is why we must not keep the gospel to ourselves, but wherever we go, whatever community we find ourselves living in or working in, we are to be alights. Because people are not saved apart from the gospel. And thirdly God's sovereignty and salvation, and man's responsibility to believe, lie beyond our full comprehension. Sometimes people say to me, I don't know how all that works, Pastor. Good. I'm glad you figured out what I'm saying here. It is beyond our full comprehension. A lot of people are under the impression that we should be able to understand fully and completely everything that God has revealed to us. And a lot of people feel burdened to do that, and so they simplify things and they cut corners and they ignore certain verses in text to to fit into something that's compatible with the way they naturally think. And in doing so, they are ignoring some very key revelation of God. And John, excuse me, in Romans chapter eleven, after Paul has talked about in chapter eight and chapter nine and in chapter ten about God and his sovereignty and how he will keep his people and how God will continue and be faithful to his promises to Abraham concerning his people, Israel, even in the last days. He concludes all of that with this great doxology, and he says that his ways are past finding out. And the the language used there is of a hunter who's trekking his his game And he's following the foot tracks through the woods, but they become lighter and lighter, and finally he cannot discern the footprints anymore. They just disappear. And that's the way it is when we try to sometimes follow the deep teaching of God. We go as far as as we can, but we come to a place where we simply can't go any further. And the reality is, is even all that God has revealed to us, there's a lot more that He hasn't revealed to us. That's what he says in Deuteronomy 29. 29. So his ways are past finding out. But he says this point to make a contrast with his sheep. And so now I want to talk about Jesus reveals the identity of those who follow him. Those who are truly his sheep. Look with me at verses 27 through 30. These are beautiful verses for us to consider this morning. Jesus says, my sheep hear my voice, I know them, and they follow me. We see some of the distinctive characteristics of believers here. First of all, my sheep hear my voice My sheep hear my voice. We've encountered this teaching about the voice of Christ several times in this gospel. In John chapter 5 and verse 25, Jesus says, the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. And John 5, 28, all who are in the tombs will hear his voice. And what we see here is that the voice of Jesus is powerful. It gives life In John chapter 10, in verse 3, earlier in this chapter, we read, the sheep hear his voice. In verse 4, the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. Verse 5, a stranger they will not follow, for they do not know the voice of strangers. Now we today do not hear the voice of Christ in an audible way, not like his disciples and his antagonists that were standing there. In that covered area. But we hear his voice in the gospel. We hear the truth That's owned by the Spirit of God, that resonates in our hearts and shows us and reveals to us that God is real and that there is a heaven and hell, and there is a Savior that He's provided. And we respond in faith. And then we read the second aspect The sheep are those whom the shepherd knows. He says, I know them. I love all the personal pronouns that are found in this text. My sheep. Talks about me, talks about I. I know them You might say, I thought he knew everything. He does. This speaks of a personal relationship. God knows us. And we know him. Verse 14 says, I'm the good shepherd, I know my own, and my own know me. It is a mutual thing. We love him and he loves us, but it's not symmetrical. God knows us a whole lot better than we know him. The only reason that we love God is because he first loved us. And the only reason we know God is because he first knew us. And he knows us exhaustively. That is, he knows every single detail. He knows you better than you know yourself. We all think that we are an authority on ourselves. We know everything. We remember everything. There's actually things about your life and your background and things that you have forgotten. Have you ever encountered that? Some event or something that happened long ago and someone from that time period talks to you about it and you say, oh yeah, I forgot all about that. I forgot that that's how that happened The reality is that even though we think we know everything about ourselves, we are sort of a mystery to ourselves But our shepherd knows everything about us. And so in verse 27, the Lord's sheep characterizes those whom he knows. In a personal way. And did you know that there's something even greater than knowing God And that is that he knows you. Now, why would I say that? Well, for one thing, your knowledge of him is flawed And number two, your memory is flawed and it might be getting worse. My mom suffered with dementia the last few years of her life. She passed away, as many of you know, in April. I remember talking to her last year. And she said to me, I don't even remember how I became a Christian. I couldn't tell you my testimony, if someone asked. And I can hardly remember any Bible verses anymore. And she would say to me, Do you think I'm still a Christian? And I said, don't worry, Mom. God still knows you. It's just like sometimes when I come to see you, you don't know who I am. But then I remind you who I am, and then you remember. God remembers you. There's a third characteristic of sheep. So important. They follow me. They follow me Sheep are followers. They follow their shepherd. They acknowledge him as their lord and leader. This speaks of a lifestyle of trust. And obedience. You might say, well, aren't sheep also prone to wander, become distracted, and go astray? Yes, they are. But the shepherd goes and rescues them and brings them back. Sometimes people ask, how do I know if I'm one of the sheep? My question is, are you following the shepherd? Are you following him? Do you walk with him? Do you trust in him? Are you seeking to obey him? This is what it is to follow the shepherd. So we've looked at the distinctive characteristics of the sheep, but now I want to talk about something that's truly precious And that is the security of the sheep. The security of the sheep. This is the most significant passage in the Bible that I'm aware of. on the perseverance of the saints or eternal security. Look at verse 28. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. Jesus says three things in this verse. First of all, I give them eternal life. Notice this is a gift. It's not something that anyone earns. It's not something that you work really hard for and then you're given this gift called eternal life. No, you are given this gift The moment you believe before you have done any act of obedience at all, and it's received by faith. And notice what this gift of salvation is called. It's called eternal life. Now I want to make a profound point. The reason why it's called eternal life is because it's eternal. You know, sometimes labels don't mean what they seem to mean. Remember once seeing a sign that said open 24 hours, and then a small apprentice said accept between midnight and 6 a. m. Well then guess what? It's not open 24 hours. That's a misnomer. That's not true. God's not like that. When he says that he gives his people the gift of eternal life, it really is eternal, unending life, a relationship that will never end And this speaks not only of something that will happen someday, but something that you have the moment you believe, a higher quality of life, a relationship that makes life meaningful. And then we have this promise, and they will never perish. This expression conveys a double negative in the Greek text. You could render it, they will never ever perish. Jesus is emphasizing this. It's not like in some rare situations they may perish. No, it's impossible for them to perish. is what he is saying. And then the third expression, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. The picture here is again of a predator coming like a wolf. And the shepherd snatches up a little lamb and somehow that wolf is more powerful than the shepherd and he grabs that little lamb and pulls it out of the shepherd's hand. Jesus says, that's not going to happen to me. It's not going to happen. Because there is no one, not Satan, not his demonic host, not your fallen hearts Not this unbelieving world that can take his people from the shepherd. You see, Jesus will lose none of his sheep. Have you ever thought about this? He has said in this chapter, he has revealed himself as the good shepherd. How good of a shepherd would he be if he lost his sheep? It would be a slur upon his character and his ability to guard and to watch over and protect his people. But he is the good shepherd, and no one and nothing will take his sheep from him. And I want you to remember this, that our security is not found in the fact That we are holding on to our shepherd. Yes, we are to hold on to our shepherd, but more importantly, he is holding on to us. Just like a little child who's crossing the street with his father. And his father says, hold my hands. And that little child and their little fingers wrap around their father's hand or at least part of his hand. But their security is not dependent on the grip of that little child. Because if danger comes, the father will just scoop that child up. Because he has a hold of them. And nothing's going to take that child away. The Bible says that nothing can separate us from the love of Christ. This should be a foundational truth that every Christian lives on. That no matter what danger, what unexpected problem comes into your life, nothing will separate you from the love of Christ. Are you still feeling insecure? Then look at verse 29. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of my Father's hand. Not only is the Good Shepherd holding on to us, but our Almighty Father is also holding us. He is the one who has given us as a gift to his beloved son. Remember John 6. 37, all that the Father gives me will come to me. No one is able to snatch them out of his grip of grace. Notice how it's worded here. Not only does he say that no one will do it, he says no one is able to do it. It's impossible. We sang in Christ alone this morning. And that final verse says, No power of hell, no scheme of man can ever pluck me from his hand. Till he returns or calls me home. Of course, those words were taken from our text this morning. And then look with me at this little verse at the end of this, verse 30, I and the Father are one. The Father and the Son are perfectly united in purpose and plan for the preservation of the sheep. Because although they are different persons, they are one being because there is only one God. Jesus here is making reference to the Shema, Deuteronomy 6. 4. Here, O Israel, the Lord our God is one God. And he's saying, yes, I've spoken of the Father's hand and the Son's hand holding on to his people, but I want you to know there's only one God. And there's two persons, or three persons, of course, in the Godhead, but here he's referring to two, though there's one being And so they're never across purposes with each other. So it's never like there's ever been a discussion in heaven. Where the father and the son are there and they say, what do you think about this person? They just keep messing up. They're not a very good Christian. And the father says, I think we should cut them loose. And the son says, no, no, no, no. I think we should give him another chance. Nothing like that has ever happened. Because they're one being, they're on the same page. They're both fully committed to preserving the people of God. So let me ask you, do you have this sense of security? It's very important that believers know who they are. That they are the people of God. That they are in Christ. And Satan loves to undermine this truth and chip away at believers. And make them think and feel, maybe I'm not really a Christian. I'm not really all that I should be And and that neutralizes their testimony. That neutralizes their joy. It robs them. And and rather than them Walking closer with Christ when when they feel that way, so often they walk further away because they feel that they're not worthy and maybe they don't really belong after all But what these verses that we've considered this morning should do for the believer is give us assurance That nothing will ever separate us from the love of our Good Shepherd. But I want you to know that only those who fit the description of verse 27 can claim the promises of verses 28 and 29. Have you heard his voice? Does he know you? Do you have a relationship with him? And are you following him? This is what God wants for his people. Christians, I want to make just a few points of application now. Christians should find assurance. In the sovereignty of God and our salvation. I don't understand how it all works. But I believe it to be true. God's sovereign work in salvation should not disturb us but delight us. It's the only truth that can provide the assurance that we will never be lost. I mean, what ultimately is your ground of assurance is that that, you know, I'm a really good guy. You know, I I I I fulfill all my commitments, I'm very resolute, and so I'm here to tell you there's no temptation, there's no trial, there's no problem that could ever come into my life that would ever turn me away from God. If that's the way you think you're a fool. And you don't know your own heart. You have way too much confidence in the flesh. Apart from the work of God and the protection of God, and you're continually fleeing to Him, you would fall, my friend. You would stray. You would go away. Now there are many Christians, and perhaps some even here, who do not believe That those who are truly born again can never be lost. I've run into many, many people over the years, and there are some churches that hold this. And I believe it's possible, let me just say this up front, I think it's possible for a truly born-again believer to not understand the fullness of this truth and believe you can lose your salvation. Let me also say that this happens to be the default setting of every lost person who's ever lived All lost people believe that if there is something called salvation, you could certainly lose it because they put great emphasis on their autonomy and their ability and their freedom to make choices. So I can choose to follow Christ. I can also choose not to follow Christ a little bit later. So when I talk to Christian people who do not believe in eternal security, They tend to bring up two objections. And I'm going to address them very quickly. Number one, they will say, I've known people who lost their salvation. They'll point to some prominent Christian leader, maybe the pastor of their childhood, maybe a deacon in their church. Who used to be held forth as a wonderful Christian, but then they abandoned it all, they turned away from God, and now they're living a wicked life, and they claim they don't believe in God at all. And they'll say, see, this person was a Christian, and now they're not a Christian. But the Bible interprets that scenario differently. In 1 John chapter 2 and verse 19, it says, they went out from us, but they were not of us. That is, they were never truly born-again believers. They may have looked like it, they may have sounded like it, you may have thought they were, but they were not the real thing. And then the other objection that I've heard so many times is this They'll say, Pastor, if you tell people that they can never lose their salvation, you will be giving them a license to sin. Because what keeps a person 's line is the fear, oh, if I if I do that, or if I stray too far, then God's going to send me to hell, so I have to walk the straight and narrow, or else He's going to get me. And that's what keeps people on course and being obedient. It's not true. That will foster a form of legalism. But it's not the way relationships work. Let me demonstrate this to you. If a mother tells her child, I love you, and nothing you can ever do will stop my love for you. Is that child's reaction going to be yes? Now I can disobey my mom and I can live a wicked life. And she's still going to love me because that's what she said. No, that's not the way human psychology works. Those kind of committing words, affectionate words, draw you closer to that person. Sort of like if a husband tells his wife that he he loves her and he's never going to get rid of her, he's never going to divorce her, and he looks her in the eye and he says, This, I'm never going to leave you, no matter how difficult it gets. He says this with tears in his eyes. His wife is not going to respond, great, now I'm going to go out and cheat on you because you said you would never leave me. That's not the way people in a relationship Respond. It's not. And so when the Bible tells us that we are secure in Christ It doesn't give us a license to sin. No true believing person will think of it that way. Instead, it gives us assurance. It gives us peace to know that our Savior will never abandon us. We live in a world where people continually disappoint us, where they make promises. And they don't stand by their word. They make commitments, but they walk away from them. And they abandon people who are depending on them. Parents do this, spouses do this , companies do this. This is part of the fall. This is part of human nature. But our Savior doesn't do this. He says, I will never leave you nor forsake you. He never abandons us. And he's the same yesterday, today, and forever. Those promises provide a foundation for a Christian to live their life. with assurance and with peace and with joy. This is the will of God for his people May we respond in faith to what we have heard. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you so much for these wonderful verses that we considered this morning. I pray that you would use these verses. to strengthen your people who struggle with their assurance of salvation. I pray that they would take hold of these promises. And find them to be precious and reassuring. And Father, for those that are here this morning that are yet lost in their sins , Who are not following the Savior as their shepherd. I pray that today their hearts would be greatly convicted and they would see that he is indeed a shepherd worth following. That he is worthy of their life because he has laid down his life for them. Oh Father, will you draw people who are lost to yourself today? For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.