Could you turn in your Bibles, please, to 1 Peter chapter 5? In 2011, an extensive survey of pastors was taken in this country. It was through all denominations It was an anonymous survey, and they got many, many results. I want to give you some of their findings. Of those who responded, which were many, to this survey, 90% of pastors said that the ministry was completely different from what they thought it would be. And what they meant by that, it was much more difficult than they thought it would be. 70% of pastors reported frequently fighting depression. 50% of pastors feel so discouraged that they would leave the ministry if they had another way of making a living. 50% of those who start out in the pastoral ministry will not last five years. And only one out of every ten ministers who starts in the ministry will actually retire as a minister in some form. I do not doubt the accuracy of those findings because I'm often on the phone with pastors trying to convince them not to resign their ministries. Sometimes people ask, why is the ministry so difficult? Let me give you some reasons very quickly. Number one, because you're dealing with people. All the time. Some of you here are managers. You have people that report to you and And you know that dealing with people, evaluating people, counseling people, admonishing people is very draining. And you know when people come to see a pastor, they're usually not coming to give you good news. Hey, I just got a race No, they're coming to give you bad news and to tell you about problems, issues, failures on their part. Another reason that it's so difficult is because of criticism. Pastors receive a lot of criticism. And that has only increased with the ability to reach out and touch someone very quickly and easily through technology. And we live in a day of anti -authoritarianism. Question authority is the mantra. And so Pastor Cena 's authority figure are always questioned and held in suspicion by many people. The fact is, there's also a great deal of disappointment in the ministry. Pastors will pour their lives into someone who has many issues and problems and Perhaps they make a profession of faith. Perhaps they go through a process of discipleship and they seem to be taking baby steps and you say, this is great, and you're so encouraged. Look, look at how this person is progressing and how they're growing in Christ. And then so often it all falls apart. And they're no longer interested in meeting with you, they're no longer interested in coming to church and all the things that you thought were signs of true spiritual life. We're actually just a fraud. We're just a copycat. We're just a temporary thing. And that happens all the time. And generally, the people that pastors invest the most time in. are individuals who will eventually leave and be very negative about things. So there's a lot of disappointment. One man described it as trying to every week build a sand castle. Next to the ocean, and you pour your life into all this work and erecting the structure, and then a wave comes and just knocks it all down, and you start all over again. Then there's the self-reproach that comes. The self-reproach of knowing that you don't quite measure up and the things that you're preaching, you don't Fulfill perfectly yourself. And you're not the man of prayer. You're not the witness that you should be. You're not the holy man of God that you've been called to be in every respect. And so you constantly feel and battle with being a hypocrite yourself. And then of course there's the fact that you're never off duty. You may say, well, you can take a day off, Pastor. But you're still a pastor and you're still worried about 14 different situations that you've been dealing with, of marriages that are falling apart, or people who are going off the deep end, or people who are disgruntled. So even when you're away on vacation or on your day off, you have that. And of course, people are constantly call contacting you. We have these wonderful devices now. To make that possible. And I know people tell me all the time, well, Pastor, just put your phone down. Just don't take it with you. You know, just leave it alone. But what if some great catastrophe happens, which often does And it needs your immediate attention. It's sort of like being a parent in some respects. You know, if you're a parent, you never stop thinking about your kids, you never stop worrying about them, even when they grow up. You think about them every day. You're concerned about them every day. You pray for them every day. You never have an office where you can say, I'd like to take two weeks off as being a parent. Where I don't have to have any investment in them at all. I don't have to have them enter my mind for a second. That's not possible. That's not possible. And then of course there's the fact that you are continually Satan's target because you are on the front lines. But I want you to know that there is the other hand. The ministry is also filled with the lights. You do get to see people saved and discipled and their lives changed, and there are people here today That I've had a part in your life and your growth and your coming to Christ and your discipleship and your following the Lord today. What an incredible, encouraging, delightful thing that is. You also have a sense of doing something that's significant. Every day you're dealing with things of eternal consequence. That's a really wonderful thing. to be involved in in people's lives. And how about this? You get paid to study the Bible. You get paid to study the Bible. How good is that? You know what I will be doing tomorrow here at church? I'll be studying my Bible. And I'll be paid to do that. That's a wonderful thing. And you get to develop meaningful close relationships, especially when a pastor has been in a place for years and years and he sees the children grow up and it becomes an intergenerational relationship. What a wonderful thing that is And a pastor, although he does receive much criticism, pastors also receive great expressions of appreciation and love from the congregation. And other callings, other professions do not receive that in equal proportion. And so the ministry has wonderful blessings and wonderful burdens that go with it. Now this morning our text deals with the ministry Peter begins in verse one, the elders which are among you, I exhort Who am also an elder and a witness of the suffering of Christ and a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed? Now, why does Peter launch in to this closing admonition here in chapter 5 and verse 1. Well the connection seems to be this. If you look up at chapter 4 And verse 17, it says, for the time has come that judgment must begin at the house of God. He's talking about the church. And what Peter is subtly preparing the leaders and the various churches that he was addressing with is the fact That being a pastor means that you will have to take your share of suffering. He also says in chapter 5 and verse 1 the elder and a witness of the suffering of Christ. And he is subtly and indirectly preparing these men for the suffering that would come in the ministry. And by the way, not just the suffering that I've been talking about this morning, but the persecution that would come if you look at the history of the church. Most of the Christians that have been executed, have been tortured, and have been imprisoned for their faith were pastors. Because the authorities that persecuted the church obviously went for the leaders. And so that's how this fits into the larger meaning of this epistle. Now Peter here uses this term elder. It's the Greek term presbyteros, which we get our word presbyterian from. He also speaks of this term and chapter verse 2 and verse uh verse 2 of chapter 5 it says feed the flock or more literally shepherd the flock. That's the word for a pastor. A pastor is just another word for shepherd. And then he says also in that verse, taking the oversight. And the word oversight there is the word episcopas. We get a word episcopalian from that. Because they have a form of church government with a bishop. Different denominations have defined these in different ways, but everyone agrees that the office of elder, pastor, and overseer all refer to the same man. Just different aspects of his ministry. Now, notice how Peter identifies himself in verse 1. First of all, he says, who am also an elder? It's interesting, he doesn't take an authoritarian tone. He doesn't say, Listen, I'm an apostle. No, he says to these early preachers, I'm one of you. You're an elder, I'm an elder. We're on the same ground here. Let me exhort you as someone who knows what you're facing. He also describes himself as a witness of the suffering of Christ. Peter may be alluding to the fact that he was an eyewitness of the cross. It's possible that he was in the distance looking on at what was taking place. But it's more likely that he is saying that he is one who has testifies for Christ and of the suffering that he endured. And thirdly, he identifies himself as one who will share in the glory when Christ returns. And we see him Touching on a theme that he has developed throughout this epistle, that first there comes suffering in the Christian life, and then there comes glory. And it's the same way in the ministry. This is God's plan for all of his servants. Now this morning I find myself in the awkward position of preaching to you about my calling. There's not that many pastors in here, I don't think. I see a few. We had two sing for us earlier, which was very appropriate. But the fact of the matter is, this should matter to us. I just want you to know that if I just picked my sermons randomly, like some pastors do throughout the Bible, I would never preach this on a Sunday morning. Because it would be like inside talk about what I do and and it would seem like I'm focusing on myself. I would never want to do that. But as we're working our way through this epistle Unless I'm going to skip over this section, I need to preach through it. And every Christian should be concerned About the shepherds of God 's flock. And there's several reasons for this. One is because the there's always been a connection in the history of the church between the spiritual leaders that God has raised up in a given generation and the health of the church. As goes the leader, so goes the church. And the reality is that today we have absolutely a dearth of godly men shepherding the people of God. There are so many churches that are without pastors, so many churches that have a roll revolving door of pastors, of them coming in for a year or two and then getting a new pastor. It's a real issue, a real problem. And this should be a concern to all Christian people. But there's also other reasons. Number one is that everyone, and we have many young people here, you're going to grow up someday and you're going to have your own family. And one of the most important decisions you can make for your family is What kind of spiritual leader am I going to place myself and my family under That's going to carefully preach to us the Word of God and shepherd us spiritually. That is not a small decision to make And so you need to know what the Bible teaches about what a pastor or elder should be. But there's also the fact that many individuals here have some type of spiritual oversight or influence on others, and so there are points of connection. between the office of pastor and the shepherding that other believers have been called to do. And so there's something here for all of us. I'm going to preach you this morning on essential truths for shepherding the sheep of God. What we have here is Peter's philosophy of pastoral ministry. I want to divide this up, this passage, into three sections. First of all, I want you to consider The primary duty of a pastor. This is found in verse 2, in the first phrase, it says, feed the flock of God. Now I've already mentioned to you that that term, that Greek term that is translated feed , Actually is a little more general and refers to all of the duties of a shepherd But the translators have emphasized the primary duty in the way they have translated this. This is the same term that Paul used in that very famous address that he gave to the elders at Ephesus in Acts chapter 20 And verse 28, he says, Take heed thereunto, unto yourselves and to all the flock over which The Holy Ghost hath made you overseers to feed, that's the term, to feed the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood. And Paul, in that expression, as he speaks of these blood-bought believers, is revealing to those shepherds how precious these people are. And therefore, how great the significance of their care should be But every commentator who approaches this passage in 1 Peter has as a cross-reference John chapter 21, the last chapter of the Gospel of John. You might want to turn there, John 21. This is that famous post-resurrection occurrence on the shores of Galilee where Jesus speaks to Simon Peter, the man who not too many days earlier had denied him And he says to him, It says, so when they had died in verse 15, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? And he said unto him, Yea, Lord. Thou knowest that I love thee. And he said unto him, Feed my lamps. And verse sixteen, and he said unto him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? And he said unto him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. And he said unto him, Feed my sheep. And here again he's using that same terminology of shepherd, my sheep. He's saying, Peter, this is my calling on your life that you would be a pastor, a shepherd. of the people of God. So that exhortation was very personal. The Lord in his glorified, resurrected state, gave him this commission. And so Peter is now many years later repeating and echoing that admonition that he heard from the lips of our Savior. to other men who would follow him in this path. So turn back with me, please, now to 1 Peter chapter 5. I want to generally speak about what are the duties of a shepherd or a pastor. First of all, a pastor must feed the people of God every Sunday A pastor should provide rich spiritual nourishment for the people. This is his primary responsibility. In Acts chapter 6, we read of the apostles saying, We will give ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the Word. A prayer-empowered ministry of the Word must be the pastor's first task. People don't need motivational speeches. They don't need the pastor's political perspective. What they need is the pure and unadulterated word of God. And notice that the people are described as the flock of God. That is, they don't belong to a church. They don't belong to a given entity. They don't belong to the pastor. They ultimately belong to God. The church is the flock which he has purchased with his own blood. Now, I want you to notice another detail in our text that you may not have considered. It says, feed the flock of God which is among you. What does Peter mean by which is among you? Well, the consensus is that Peter means the sheep that have been allotted to your care. Now, I wonder if you caught the implication of that phrase. Every Christian, every born-again believer who is identified here as the flock of God. should be under the care of an under -shepherd. This is God's will for all of his people. Now, there are millions of professing Christians today in our country who never attend church. And are in no way, shape, or form under the care of the pastor. They are lone rangers. They are free agents. They don't want anyone holding them accountable. Or challenging them about things. They want to go it their own way. And in their mind, there's nothing wrong with that. It's between me and the Lord. It's no one else's business. Accept that God's word is very clear that we all need accountability We all need somebody who's going to challenge us and talk to us and minister to us and help us and support us. When a person who is a believer chooses not to attend church, chooses not to be under the care of a shepherd, they are opening themselves up to many dangers. And it is not God's will for them. A pastor must not only feed the people, he must lead the people of God. It says here And verse 2, taking the oversight. Pastors are responsible for watching over the church of God. They must know the state of the flock. They must seek to minister as they see the need arise. This is something that people often never think of. But the fact is that there are duties and responsibilities of the sheep as well. So often people never think about this. And though a pastor may be very diligent and try to be very careful to know what's going on, it's impossible for a pastor to really know what's going on in the heart of everyone and his church, especially if it's a larger church. Unless they reveal that to him. And so so often the frustrating situation the pastor finds himself in is there's someone who's been walking away from the Lord, whose heart has become hard to the Lord. And it's been in the process of that for years. And he had no idea. Until something devastating occurs. And it's kind of after the fact that he is brought in. Let's think about this in relation to your physical health. No one sits at home in agony and pain and says, I don't know why, my doctor's not calling. I'm in misery here. I really need his help. Why doesn't he call and check on me? Now what do they do? They pick up the phone and they make an appointment and they go in and say, Doctor, I've got a problem. Things aren't going so well with me. And then the doctor ministers to them and tries to help them That's something that the people of God should do. When you find that your heart is becoming hard and cold or you've got a problem with someone else. and you see bitterness entering your heart or when you're drawn away by the worldliness that is pulling at your flesh or you are giving in to some besetting sin that's starting to dominate your life You need the help of a shepherd. That's the way God designed it to be. Seek out his help. And let God 's under -shepherd minister to you. A pastor must also love the people of God. Paul wept for his people, and so did Jesus, the Good Shepherd. And that agape love will always demonstrate itself in making sacrifices. Because being a cat pastor is not a job, it's a calling. And John chapter 10, the passage that Dave read for us earlier, the Lord distinguishes between a hireling And a true shepherd. A hireling works for wages, and when his shift is over, he doesn't care what happens to the sheep. But a shepherd cares for his sheep. He numbers them. He knows them by name. He calls them. He leads them. He rescues them. He binds up their wounds. Because pastors are not executives. They are servants of God who care for the people. And a pastor must protect the people of God. Paul, especially there in that wonderful speech in Acts 20, speaks of the wolves who are the natural predators of sheep, and he says that Satan will always send wolves to come and attack the flock of God. And so the shepherd must be eternally vigilant. Against the enroads of false teachers and those who would be divisive. Shepherds must guard the flock of God But now I'd want you to look at how a pastor is called to minister. This is the real heart, the body of this message. Beginning the second part of verse 2, going through verse 3. And what I want you to see here is that there are a series of three contrasts. You will see this pattern where he says, not this. But this, look at this. Not by constraint, but willingly, not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind Neither as being lords over God's heritage, but being examples to the flock. So let's look at these three contrasts and consider what they teach. First of all, not by constraint, but willingly. What does this mean? The fact is that there is a constraint, a healthy constraint. that a man of God should feel that would lead him to enter the ministry. Paul speaks of this in 1 Corinthians 9, 16, where he says, For though I preach the gospel I have nothing to glory of, For necessity is laid upon me, yea, woe is me if I preach not the gospel So Peter here is not speaking of the constraint of the Holy Spirit that says to a man, You must go into the ministry. He's talking about the constraint that comes from others. There are many well-meaning Christians, parents, Sunday school teachers, and pastors. who so strongly encouraged people to go into the ministry that they unwittingly set them up for failure. Some pastors I know they give the impression that unless you're in the ministry, you're really wasting your life. And they're constantly trying to get people to come forward and surrender to the ministry. Can I tell you something? I'm a little bit different, but so often when people come to me and talk to me about the ministry, I try to talk them out of it. You know why? Because they're going to get a whole lot more difficulty than my opinions when they go into the ministry. And if they haven't really thought it through and counted the cost and really considered it, then they have no business going into that. I've seen so many Christians that were in no position to enter the ministry, go forward because they wanted to please their parents or other people or gain some um some support of other Christians who would all pat them on the back. But they were not really called of God and it devastated their spiritual lives. The fact is, you should only enter the ministry if you feel that God has called you and you know that you wouldn't be happy doing anything else. I want you to know that's true of me. There is no one here that I look at your career or your profession and say, man, it would be nice if I could do that. I've never talked to the men who are plumbers and said, man, I'd love to be a plumber. Those who are farmers, I've never thought to myself, you know, I'd love to get up when it's still dark outside and go out and milk some cows. That would be awesome. That's never entered my minds. And those of you who run down the road every day and fight traffic and sit in your little office and meet with people all day and you have meeting after meeting after meeting after meeting. I do not envy you There is nothing else I want to do than be a pastor. And that should be the way it is with every pastor. that's truly been called to shepherd the flock of God. The same term that's used here of constraint is Translated in 1 Corinthians 9 27 as grudgingly, where it says that God doesn't want us to give in a grudging sort of way. God doesn't want our money when we give it begrudgingly, and neither does he want our service when it's not from our hearts. And let me just say this doesn't just apply to pastors, it applies to everyone who serves the Lord. You ever felt this way? I wish you didn't have to go to that prayer meeting. Oh I've got to go to that choir practice again. Oh, why do I have to be on the nursery schedule today? Oh, another Saturday night. I've got to prepare for that Sunday school lesson. Why doesn't somebody else step up and teach a class for once? Ever think that way or say things like that? I'm sure there are many who have. And if I were honest, I would have to say there have been times that I've approached ministry that way. By the way, the solution is not to drop out and say, well, I guess I should just resign my class. Stop singing in the choir. Stop doing this. No, you get your heart right. You don't solve one problem by making another bad decision. There's a second thing he says here about how we should minister, not for filthy lucre sake, but of a ready mind. What does this mean? Well, it's saying that those who enter the ministry should not be motivated primarily by money. That shouldn't be the driving force. Does some Christian churches understand verses like this to be teaching that pastors and others in the ministry should not be compensated at all? You may be aware of churches like that, but this is not what Peter is saying. In 1 Corinthians 9, Galatians 6, 1 Timothy 5, and there are others, the Bible is very clear that the laborer is worthy of his reward. I think the key to understanding what he is saying here is to understand what he means by that wonderful old expression, filthy lucre. Don't you like that? Filthy lucre. Now I think that most of you probably think that's just another way of saying money, but it conveys more than just money. It's talking about money that's been gained in a dishonest way. So what Peter is warning against is people who go into the ministry. Because they see a way to deceive people and to get money from them You see, when a person enters the ministry, they are entering into a position that people tend to trust. And they often will open their hearts to that person. And they will respect that person. And that person has A lot of authority in their life. If if if that pastor tells them to do something, they're going to do it in many cases. So with that kind of standing, there becomes a temptation to use that position, that God-given position of authority to serve yourself. This is the Bible's clear warning again and again about false teachers. If we were to take the time and go through all of these passages in the New Testament that describe false teachers, you would see that again and again it says that they're motivated by greed. They see people as an easy mark. They go in, they say what people want to hear. They preach a health and wealth gospel. Come to God, and all your problems will go away. All your financial worries will disappear. And they are religious hucksters who take advantage of people who are naive And ignorant in many cases, and in many cases have some greed in them as well, because they see God as a quick, rich scheme. And they give this man money and he absconds with their money. This happened in the early church. We read about it historically, about false teachers. often following the vein of Greek philosophers who would come in, pretend like they knew everything, people would give them all their money, and they would skip town and go on and start up down the road doing the same thing. And so Peter here is warning that a man who goes into ministry must not use his position to serve himself or to line his own pockets. And then there is a third contrast here. Neither as being lords over God 's heritage. One of the dangers of leadership in any realm is that you allow the authority that you have been given to go to your head. Do you know people like this? They just are given just a little bit of authority, and all of a sudden they're the most important, and they're going to exercise that authority as far as they possibly can. I don't make many references like this to pop culture, but think of Barney Fife, okay? Small town deputy, he gets a little bit of authority and he wants everyone to know that he's in charge. There are people like that where you work. If you give them a promotion, they're going to become a different person and they're going to make everyone toe the line. Because they love having that little bit of authority. By the way, that's a revelation of a person of very small character. But there's always going to be people like that. There's people like that in the ministry. Rather than seeing it as a wonderful privilege. A sacred trust that God has given to them. They see it as finally I get to be in charge and tell people what to do. The fact is that power is intoxicating. And unfortunately, this happens to spiritual leaders as well. Jesus spoke about this often to his disciples. I think of it's recorded in both Matthew and in Mark, this very teachable moment. You don't have to turn there. But in Matthew 20 and verse 20 it says, Then came to him the mother of Zebedee's children. with her sons worshipping him, or bowing down to him, and desiring a certain thing of him. And she said unto her, What wilt thou? And she said unto him, Grant that These my two sons may sit the one on thy right hand and the other on the left in thy kingdom. It's very likely that this is Jesus' aunt. And she has come to request that her sons Who were his disciples would get the best positions in the kingdom of God. That when He came to his kingdom as she assumed he would, and would rule over Israel, that they would be at his right and left hand. They would be in the positions of wealth and influence and power. And Jesus saw this misguided request as an opportunity to teach his disciples. And we read that the disciples were indignant, the other disciples. Oh, this is a breach of protocol to come and so in such a bold-faced way to make this kind of request. And Jesus It says, called them unto him, that is his disciples. And he said, You know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise dominion over them, and they that are great exercise authority upon them. But it shall not be so among you. He says this is the way it works in the lost world. People use their positions of power to dominate other people. and to subjugate them to their will. We read about people trampling others as they climb the corporate ladder. And when they get there, they do nothing but try to solidify their power. To make certain that they retain that and they rule with an iron fist They abuse people, they mistreat people because they've worked hard in their minds to get to this position of leadership, and now they are going to use it to good advantage. Jesus says this is the way it works in the world, but it doesn't work that way in my church. He says, leaders Are to be the chief servants. He says, Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister. And the word there doesn't refer to a pastor, it's just referring generally to a servant. And whoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant, even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. So if we are going to follow the example of the Good Shepherd, pastors and other spiritual leaders should not be bullies. They should not think that they have the right or the authority to bind men's consciences and to make them do their will in every particular unless it is clearly revealed in the Word of God. Pastors must not be dictatorial. Why? Well, because the passage is clear that the people do not belong to you. They're described as the flock of God, and here in verse 3 as God 's heritage. These are the people that God has graciously given to the care of spiritual shepherds. Let me stop and apply this for a second. Has the Lord placed anyone in your influence, your realm, your sphere of influence? That you must give an account for someday. For many of you, the answer to that question is yes. If you're a parent, did you know that you have been called to be a shepherd of your children? That's one of the responsibilities that God has given to you. Several years ago there was an excellent book written. about parenting entitled Shepherding the Heart of Your Child, and the author there got it exactly right. Every Christian parent has been called to shepherd the heart of your child. So often we think that's the duty of the Sunday school teacher. That's the duty of the youth pastor. That's what the pastor is paid to do. No, that responsibility has been given to you, dear parents. Over the years, as young people have been in my office and I have talked to them, I've heard. A frequent refrain that is disturbing to me. And that is that so many Christian young people who come from Christian families who attend churches like this Would say, you know, my parents have never talked to me about the Lord. They've never talked to me about spiritual things. They never asked me if I'm praying or if I'm reading my Bible or how things are going in my life. They never talk to me about those things. But they take me to church, they put me in Sunday school and things like that. And they think that they can delegate that shepherding responsibility. Parents, you cannot You must someday give an account for how you have shepherded your children. And there are many other people here that have other people in your realm of influence. Maybe you're a deacon. Maybe you're a Sunday school teacher. That's more than just a class that you've been given. You have to teach more than just a lesson. You need to be concerned about your students. Who have an eternal soul that will live somewhere forever. And you need to reach out to them and speak to them and talk to them and pray with them and visit them if the need arises. And not thinking, well, that's none of my responsibility. It is your responsibility. There's a sense in which God has called every believer in some realm To shepherd others. And then we read this not being lords over the flock of God, but in contrast but being in samples or examples to the flock. Instead of being authoritarian, pastors are to lead by example. This is one of the reasons why there are so many pastoral qualifications, because a pastor is to serve as a model of spiritual maturity. Now, I don't know any pastor who is comfortable with that statement. I know I am not. I do not like standing up here and saying, you know what? I am the model of what you should be. That makes me cringe. Because I can think in so many ways that I'm not the model of godliness But what Peter is getting at here is that pastors are shepherds, not cowboys. They don't come behind the flock, behind the people, and yell at them and crack their whips and drive them in the way they should go. No, they're out in front of them like a shepherd. Saying, follow me as I follow Christ. And then finally, in our passage in verse 4, we have The discussion of why a pastor should be motivated to minister. Look at verse 4. And when the chief shepherd shall appear. Ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away. You see, pastors are only under -shepherds. We're not the ultimate shepherd. There's a sense in which every single one of you, your pastor, is the Lord Jesus Christ. Now the Lord is referred to in John 10 as the Good Shepherd. In Hebrews 13, 12, he is called the Great Shepherd. And here in 1 Peter 5. 4, he is described as the chief shepherd or the arch shepherd. The one that all the under-shepherds must answer to. And the idea here is that we must minister to please him. Spiritual leaders should not be pleased, should not be driven to minister in order to please themselves or even to please the people. but ultimately to please our Lord Jesus Christ, because he is the shepherd of our souls, and he is the one that we must give an account to. And then he says, when Christ returns, we see that he will give a crown of glory. He shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away. The term for crown here. refers to those wreaths that they would put on an athletic champion like at the Olympics. It was made of greenery, so it would quickly turn brown and decay, and in time it would just flake away. But he says the crown that God gives to those who are faithful will never fade away. This is what should motivate shepherds of the flock. There are many blessings that come with being in the ministry and many hardships. But the pastor's focus is to be on the Good Shepherd, the Chief Shepherd, who has called us into the ministry and will someday bless us and reward us. This crown will last for eternity, not to the glory of pastors, but for the glory of the chief shepherd, at whose feet we will cast our crowns. Because the Lamb is all the glory in Emmanuel's land. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it instructs us in every aspect of our lives and the work of your church. We pray, Lord, that as you have in the past, that you would raise up from this assembly faithful pastors who would go forth to shepherd your flock In this nation and in other parts of the world. Pray that you continue to do this. And Father, that you would bless our assembly in days to come. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.