Would you turn with me to First Peter chapter one? Many years ago I read a book entitled Singing in the Fire. It's a compilation of biographical sketches of believers who faced persecution throughout the centuries. The most arresting story in the book, in my estimation, was about a Chinese man named Wang Ming Dao. Mr. Dow was born to Christian parents during the Boxer Uprising in the year 1900. During this time, Thousands of Chinese Christians and foreign missionaries were murdered. In fact, Mr. Tao's father Committed suicide one month before he was born because he could not bear the thought of the coming torture that awaited him. So Mr. Dow was born with this dark secret about his father. But despite this, he had a strong desire to serve the Lord. In the 1920s, he became an itinerate preacher. who traveled throughout the villages boldly preaching the gospel. He also published an influential paper entitled The Spiritual Food Quarterly In 1937, he built a large tabernacle in Beijing that seated over 500 people, and he continued to have a very fruitful and prosperous ministry for many years. But everything changed in 1949 when Mao Zedong led the Communist Party to victory. In 1955, he was imprisoned. and brutally tortured for days on end. The communist authorities knew that if they could break this very respected Christian leader It would help them a great deal in their cause. They tried everything imaginable. One of the things that they did is that they told him that they were at the same time, it was true, torturing his wife. And that if he just signed a letter saying that they were rights and that he would support their aims and that Christianity was not true, if he would simply sign this document They would release them both, but if he did not, his wife would continue to be tortured until she died. And so on September the 30th , 1956, he signed that document, and he and his wife were released. But he was broken in spirits. He felt he had betrayed his Lord. And for many days he wandered through the streets of the city. Mumbling to himself, I am Judas. I am Judas. He contemplated ending his life like his father had 56 years earlier. And so finally he spoke to his wife and he said, I can't live like this. We are going to go back to the Chinese authorities and we're going to recant everything that we signed. And that's exactly what they did. And for the next 23 years, he and his wife were kept in prison, in different parts of the prison. Finally, in 1980, he was released. He emerged deaf and nearly blind. But he lived out the rest of his life in frailty and in weakness, but with joy. Because he saw what God was doing in China and the rapid expansion of the gospel there, despite the official persecution. I personally cannot imagine enduring that kind of suffering for Christ, but the fact of the matter is that story is not so rare. There have always been Christians for the last 2,000 years who have been suffering for the Lord, and there are Christians who are suffering today who are being persecuted because of their allegiance. to the Lord Jesus Christ. What we experience in 21st century America is an anomaly. Now when we hear, I think, such a story of faith. We often automatically ask ourselves, do I have that kind of faith? What would I have done if I was placed in a similar circumstance? This morning, as we continue our study of 1 Peter, we come to a passage that speaks to the test of our faith. I want us to look at two verses this morning, verses six and seven. Peter writes Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for season, if need be, you are in heaven as through manifold temptations, the trial of your faith being much more precious than of gold that perisheth though it be tried with fire. might be found into praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. Now the suffering that Peter has in mind here is specifically the suffering that people endure because they are followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. The fact is, at least for now, most of us, if not all of us, Do not know what that is. We may get a strange look. We may be denied a job promotion, but the suffering that we endure for being Christians is very minimal in this country at this time. But the principles that Peter gives us here in this passage work for us even when we are facing suffering that is not because Of our allegiance to the Lord Jesus Christ, but simply because of the suffering that we endure and that we face in life on a fallen planet. You see, the Bible is a very practical book. Peter describes the Christian life. as a life that is filled both with suffering and with joy. And these are not mutually exclusive. It's not that you can have one or the other. No, in our Christian lives we can have both. At the same time. This is something that we find throughout Scripture. The Bible says we can have this kind of joy because our joy is not dependent. on our circumstances. Have you ever read the concluding verses of that little book of Habakkuk? I love those verses. Let me read them for you. He says, although the fig tree shall not blossom, neither shall fruit be in the vines, the labor of the olive shall fail, and the fields shall yield no meat. The flocks shall be cut off from the fold, and there shall be no herd in the stalls. Yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will joy in the God of my salvation. This is a man who's describing a scenario where everything has gone wrong. And yet he says with determination and conviction, I will rejoice in the Lord my God. We read the same thing in the New Testament. You recall the story of Paul and Silas when they were thrown in that prison at Philippi. They were brutally whipped and restrained in painful stocks. But how did they respond? The Bible says, and at midnight Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises unto God, and the prisoners heard them. No wonder that Paul describes his ministry as sorrowing yet always rejoicing. 2 Corinthians 6. 10. This week I was struck by this verse. In the opening words of 1 Thessalonians, it says, Paul writes to them saying, having received the word in much affliction and with joy of the Holy Ghost. They received the gospel, and they were brutally persecuted for being followers of Christ. And yet, he says at the same time they had the joy of the Holy Spirit. evident in their lives. You see, it's possible by the grace of God for Christians to maintain a spirit of joy even while they suffer. So I'm going to preach you this morning from this passage on how to sing in the fire. The first thing I would like you to notice with me, please. is that you must remember that your suffering cannot sever your relationship with God. Notice what he says in the first phrase in verse 6, wherein ye greatly rejoice. Now, what is it that he is rejoicing in? Well, the answer is found in the verses that precede it. Look at verse 3. Blessed be God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you, who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time wherein ye greatly rejoice. You see, we can rejoice in that living hope that will never be taken away. So this is where Peter begins. This is the mindset we must have when we face suffering. We must realize that we have something that our suffering can never take from us. And that is our relationship with God, our salvation through the Lord Jesus Christ. Now it's interesting to note that this word rejoice here in verse 6 is a very specific term in Greek. It is never used in secular Greek. In fact, it may be that this is one of those words that the apostles kind of invented to express. Christian truth. It's found 11 times in the New Testament, and it always is used to describe a deep spiritual joy. It is found in Mary's magnificant in Luke chapter 1 when she says, My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoiceth, there's the word, in God my Savior. It's used of our Lord Jesus Christ in Luke chapter 10 and verse 21 when he says it says that he rejoiced in his spirits And in John chapter 8 and verse 56, Jesus says, Abraham rejoiced to see my day. And that's the same term there. It's used in Acts chapter 16 and verse 34, after the Philippian jailer was saved and his household, it states that he rejoiced with all his house. And that term is also found in this little book of 1 Peter on three occasions. One here. Of course, it's in verse 6 I just mentioned to you. The other is found in verse 8, where it says at the conclusion of that verse, ye rejoice with joy and And it's used again in chapter 4 and verse 13, where he says in verse 12, believe Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you as though some strange thing happened unto you, but rejoice Inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's suffering, that when his glory shall be revealed, ye may also be glad with exceeding joy. Now most scholars think that Peter is thinking about a sermon that he heard his Savior deliver. We know it as the Sermon on the Mount, because that is where he heard this particular term used in Matthew chapter 5. And verse 10. You don't need to turn there. You know these verses. It says, Blessed are ye when men shall revile you. and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice, there's our term, and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven. We do not rejoice in the pain and suffering of our trials, but at the beneficial results that will come from them. So how do we deal with the anxiety and depression that so often accompanies our suffering? The answer is we must focus our minds on what is true and lasting. So much of our turmoil When we face a trial is due to the way we think about it, the way we interpret it. And so we must focus our minds on what is lasting and true and what the scriptures tell us about our gods. So often people who are gripped by fear play the what-if game You ever play the what-if game? Where in your mind you spin out all these scenarios of what could possibly happen? Because of some news that you've received, and all of a sudden you have a very dire forecast for the future. What if That lump is cancer. What if I lose my job because of this? What if I can't pay my mortgage? So how do we mentally combat these nagging questions? How do we keep from being paralyzed with fear? The answer is we must go back to our foundation, our life in Christ. We must remind ourselves of who we are and what our future holds. We must recall the fact that God has graciously saved us, that we have a home in heaven reserved for us, and that the power of God will keep us. So what do you fear this morning? I don't make light of these things. Some of you are facing very serious situations, I know And these things can cloud your mind and oppress your spirits. Perhaps you're afraid that you might lose your job. Well, consider this. You have an inheritance that you will never lose. Oh, and in eternity, the loss of a job will seem like nothing. Be afraid that you might lose your home. Well considered this promise that we had read for us this morning. In my father's house are many mansions. Are you afraid that you might have cancer and die? Well, it only means that you will be in the presence of our Savior sooner than the rest of us. And you will face no more pain or sorrow there. You see, for every nagging doubt and fear, there is an antidote in the Word of God. The second thing I would like you to notice from our passage this morning that enables us to sing in the fire is that you must remember that your suffering is only temporary. Notice what it says in verse 6, though now for a season, if need be, you are in heaviness through manifold temptations. He says it's only for a season. I want you to notice one thing, just kind of on the side here. The Lord does not expect us to face the great difficulties of life. without showing any emotion. There was a philosophy that was very prevalent at the time the New Testament was written called Stoicism. And it taught that one of the ways that we should learn to deal with tragedy, with difficulty, and with suffering that undoubtedly will come in life. Just by learning to steal ourselves and not really respond emotionally to it. And so we just are to keep an even keel. We don't get really overjoyed over things. And we don't get really down about things. We just kind of stay the same. A stoic response. This was very popular with the Roman soldiers. in the time of Christ who who wanted to be emotionless. The only problem is that God made us with emotions. God made us to feel it's a large part of our humanity. And so that's not really the answer. And so we see here, I want you to understand that God is not calling us to go through everything in life with a silly grin on our face. No, he understands that there are seasons of our life where we will be in heaviness, and that word heaviness means grief or sorrow, where our hearts will be Weighed down and crushed with grief and sorrow. But even in that grief and sorrow There can be a sustaining joy in our hearts. Now I want you to notice what this passage goes on to say. It must tell us that we must remind ourselves of these gospel truths so that we can find stability and sorrow. The scripture often brings up this idea that our suffering is only for a season. Now, when you're facing suffering, it seems like an eternity, doesn't it? It seems like it will never end. It just drags on and on. And you say to yourself, when will this be over? In Psalm chapter 30 and verse 5, we read, Weeping may endure for night, but joy cometh in the morning. In John chapter 16, the Lord is saying, as it were, farewell to his disciples before his crucifixion, and they are very discouraged at this time. And he says to them, Verily, verily, I say unto you that ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice and ye shall be sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy. And then he uses this analogy. A woman when she is in travail has sorrow because her hour is come, but as soon as she is delivered of the child, She remembereth no more the anguish for joy that a man is born into the world. And ye now therefore have sorrow, but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice And your joy no man taketh from you. That's the joy that is given to us as Christians. In 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 16, Paul says, our light affliction is but for a moment. And do you recall the theme verse of this book at the conclusion of 1 Peter 5 and verse 10? It says, but the God of all grace who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, listen to this, after ye have suffered a while , Make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. Our suffering is just for a while Now have you ever gone to the doctor or dentist for a painful procedure? Maybe you had them and they needed to set a bone or you had a dislocated shoulder. The only way that you could get relief from that pain was for a moment to endure even a whole lot more pain. And sometimes the doctor will say something like this is really, really going to hurt, but it's not going to last for long. Or you go to the dentist and they get out that huge needle. And they say, you're going to experience some discomfort. But it's only going to last for a short time. Now, why do the doctor and the dentist tell you that this is going to hurt only for moments? Because they know that that's very important psychologically. You can put up, you can endure almost anything if you know it won't last for very long. But it's when it drags on and you see no end in sight that it becomes intolerable. Perhaps you would object and say the problem is that my suffering has not been for a little while. It has lasted for years and years and years. So is this verse providing false hope? Is this some type of the power of positive thinking that Peter is trying here? Absolutely not. The fact is that even if your suffering lasts a lifetime, it is only for a little while in light of eternity. This is why Paul said in Romans 8. 18, For I reckon that the suffering of this present time is not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us. In eternity, the times of your suffering will seem very short and very brief. The third key that I find in this passage that we should remember in order to be able to maintain our joy. is that you should remember that your suffering is accomplishing God's good purpose in your life. Look at verse 7. He says that the trial of your faith being much more precious than of gold that perisheth though it be tried with fire, might be found into praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. I want you to know that God is not arbitrary in the way he sends his trials. Verse 7 begins with the word bad, and this particular word indicates A purpose clause. God always has a good purpose in the suffering that he allows in your life. He doesn't look down and he say, well, you know, there's so-and-so down there. They haven't suffered for a while. Think I'll send them some suffering. God 's not like that. Lamentations 3. 33 says, he does not afflict willingly. So what suffering are you facing right now in your life? Whatever that suffering is, whatever that disappointment is, whatever that pain is, whatever that fear is, that anxiety is, God intends to use it. For good in your life. And that raises the question, what are some of the specific ways that the Bible reveals to us that God uses suffering for good in our lives. What are some examples of good? So let me give you some examples, some of the reasons why God does this. Number one, God sends suffering into our life to humble us. This is why God said that he allowed the children of Israel to wander in the wilderness. Deuteronomy chapter 8. He says, it was my intent to humble you. They were proud. And so he humbled them. He tested them in this way. This is what Paul says in 2 Corinthians chapter 12 about that thorn in the flesh. He says, a messenger of Satan was sent. Lest I be proud. It was sent to humble him. This is one of the reasons that God sends difficulties into our lives. Another reason that God sends trials into our lives is to correct our disobedience. We find this in Proverbs chapter 3 and Hebrews chapter 12. The Bible says that it's an indication, not that he hates you, but that he loves you, because he's like a father who is responsibly chastening his children lest they go astray. So our response when we know that that trial in our life is there because of our disobedience because we have wandered away should not be anger. It should not be discouragement. We should see it instead as an evidence of his grace and his love for us. And we should yield in faith to his purposes. A third reason that God sends trials into our lives is to enable us to help others. We may never think about that, but 2 Corinthians chapter 1 brings this out explicitly. It says that God gives us comfort in our suffering so that we can comfort others who face suffering. When we suffer, it really gives us a bond with other people who suffer, especially in that exact area. I've mentioned this to you before, but I've seen this so many times. When someone here has lost a spouse, and they grieve, and they hear of someone else in our assembly has lost a spouse, their heart goes out to them. And they are able to minister them very effectively. When someone has been diagnosed with cancer And they hear of someone else in the assembly who has been diagnosed with cancer. They now have an instant bond with them. And they talk to each other about their treatments and so forth. When someone has a real serious, heart-wrenching problem with one of their adult children, they hear of somebody else dealing with that, then they really feel like they can minister to one another because they're in the same boats. This is one reason that God sends trials into our lives so that we can minister more effectively and more sympathetically to others. Another reason that God sends affliction into our lives is so that we long for heaven. I mentioned this verse earlier where Paul says, for I reckon the sufferings of this present time were not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us. When things are going great, when we have no pain, when we have no difficulties in our lives, we tend to become earth-focused. But when we are in the fire of affliction, when we're in the crucible of change, we long for heaven. This is why the suffering church, the persecuted church, has always written many hymns, many poems, and many sermons about heaven. And longing for heaven. Helps us to set our affections on things above and not on things of the earth when we suffer. Another reason that God sends trials into our lives is to build our character. We find this, Dave mentioned a verse earlier from James chapter 1. Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, various kinds of trials. Knowing that the trying of your faith worketh patience. And the word patience there means not that you don't get annoyed with people. It means endurance. In fact, if you were to go through the scriptures, you would find there are many times where the Word of God speaks of God putting us through suffering and pain so that we develop spiritual stamina. We often talk about spiritual growth and we emphasize, and rightfully so to some degree, the importance of prayer. And Bible study, right? Prayer and Bible study. Read your Bible. Pray every day. And you'll grow, grow, grow. That's a wonderful song for our kids. But you know what? That's not enough for us to grow into the types of individuals that God wants us to us to be. Oh, we need those things. Don't get me wrong. We have to have them. You can't grow apart from God's word and apart from the avenue of prayer, but that's not enough. It'd be like an athlete sitting around all day, and he says, you know how I'm going to train for the Olympics? I'm going to be really, really careful of the diet of things that I eat. And I'm going to make sure that I get plenty of rest every night. What would we say to that guy? You might want to try exercising. You might want to get a little activity in there. You might want to stretch those muscles and really push them so that what? So that you are prepared and you have endurance. For the race. Yes, you need good sleep. You need good nutrition, but you need a whole lot more than that. And sometimes we focus on the rest and the nutrition aspect of our spiritual lives and the word of God feeding on the word and prayer But how do we get those spiritual muscles or muscles of faith to be exercised? It's only By God giving us a test of our faith, a trial of our faith that will strain us and push us and calls us to cling to Christ more vigorously and trust in Him. Now in verse 7, there are two other things that are specifically brought out here as purposes of our trial. We have here the picture of a crucible in which metal is placed and is heated up. In the ancient world, they would have to use some type of bellow system to get the temperature high enough to melt metal. Someone would be working there making sure there was just all this oxygen being poured on that fire. so that it got hot enough to melt the metal and burn out the impurities that were there, and then it can be fashioned into what they wanted to make. And this is the imagery that Peter is using. You see, when we are experiencing intense suffering, it feels like we're in the fire, doesn't it? It's not where we want to be. It's not a pleasant experience. We want to get out of the crucible. But God is doing something in that fire. When we put metal into a crucible, it burns up the impurities. It doesn't damage the gold. It doesn't destroy the gold. It makes it more pure. And so when we face trials and suffering in life, it burns up things like pride and self-reliance. These things go up in smoke Our perspective on the world and its vanities changes abruptly when we are in the fire of affliction. But perhaps the element that God burns up most in our lives and trials Is that of unbelief. Notice here that the faith here is described as being much more precious than gold. Do you think of your faith as something that's important? I think we tend not to think about that. But our faith, our reliance on God, our unreserved trust in Him. Is a precious commodity. I read the story this past week about these men who were out hunting in Siberia. And they found themselves caught in a great snowstorm. Feet of snow were coming down. And they couldn't make it back to their cabin. And they were caught at night, and the temperature began to plummet. 20 below, 30 below, 40 below zero. And the men realized, even though they had a lot of equipment, that they were going to freeze to death. If they didn't do something to save their lives. And so they made this little shelter out in the wilderness. And they got together some leaves and some branches. And they were going to try to start a fire. And the man looked into his pocket and he had two matches. And they went and they lit one of the matches, but they were in this storm and the breeze quickly came and snuffed out the flame, and it never started. They had one match left. And they struck that match and they huddled close together and they were much more careful. They just got the flame started, but again, a strong breeze came by and blew it out. The men looked at each other in desperation and they said, what are we going to do? And the man says, we've got to find a way to start fire or we will die tonight. And so the man, they began to look frantically and think about what they could do. And the one man reached down into the lining of his coat because his pocket had a hole in it. And down to the very bottom of the lining of his coat. There was a match head that had fallen there. Two-thirds of the match were gone, and just the matchhead was there, and he held it up to his friend, and he says, you know what this is? And he says, yes, he says, that's the most precious thing in the world to us. And they very carefully cautiously struck at and started a fire and within 20 minutes they had a blazing inferno and their lives were spared because of that tiny little match had in the lining of his coat Now God views our faith as a precious thing. It's much more precious than gold. It's our reliance on Him. It's our trust in Him. It's our turning to our Heavenly Father and depending on Him. And this is what God wants to strengthen in our lives. So often, however When things are going well in our lives, our faith begins to wane. We begin to take things for granted. We don't read our Bibles as we should. We don't pray as we ought. We don't serve the Lord. We don't really depend on Him. We're just going an autopilot. We think everything's fine. I don't really need the Lord's. And we begin to respond in disobedience because the root of all disobedience is always unbelief. We don't really think we need God. And so God puts us in the fire of affliction to burn out that impurity of self-reliance and unbelief. so that we cling desperately to Him. This is one of God's great tools in our sanctification. This is what we desperately need is for God to purify us. We sang about that this morning. Did you pick that up in the hymn that we sang? When through fiery trials thy pathway shall lie, my grace all-sufficient shall be thy supply. The flame shall not hurt thee, only design thy draws to consume and thy gold to refine. It's important for us to consider that. When we're going through the fire. Isaiah 48 and verse 10 says, Behold, I have refined thee, but not with silver. I have chosen thee in the furnace of affliction. Now most commentators believe that the main point that Peter is making in verse 7 is that God sends suffering into our lives to demonstrate the authenticity or genuineness of our faith. That is what the word trial means in verse 7. It's very specific. You see, our suffering and affliction reveals who we truly are. When things are going great , When we have our life on autopilot, you don't really get a sense of who that person is. But when a person has these props that help to sustain us knocked out one after another from their life, then you become to see who they truly are and what they truly are relying on. You see, suffering removes the veneer of our lives and provides an x-ray of the soul. So how you respond to suffering is no minor matter. It is of the utmost importance. I've used this illustration before, but I've always found it instructive. The Puritan preachers of the past who knew something about suffering would use this illustration. They would say that a man's leather shoe, through friction and walking in the streets Will eventually wear out. They will wear a hole in the sole of that shoe. But if a man were to walk the streets of London in his bare feet, his feet will not wear out They will instead grow callous and hard and thick. And they would say, what is the difference? The difference is that the leather is dead, but the skin is alive. Why is it that some people, when they face affliction, They don't run to the Lord, they run away from the Lord, and they abandon their faith, and they essentially cease to identify themselves as Christian. The answer is because they don't have a living Faith. But a true child of God's, though they may not respond perfectly, when they are put in the crucible in the fire of affliction, they will cling more tightly to God's. And their faith will become stronger because they have a living faith. Our suffering not only vindicates our faith, it glorifies God. When we face through a fiery trial, our faith is confirmed, but our God is also glorified. And every season of suffering. We have a unique opportunity to glorify God in our affliction that we would not have otherwise. This is what I tell people. When they go through affliction, you have an opportunity that God has given to you to bring him glory and to be a testimony to his sustaining grace. People are going to be watching you. People you have witnessed to who are lost, family members, co-workers, they're going to be watching to see how you respond. Those who are Christians. They are going to be taking notes from you about how you're responding to this affliction. How is it that a Christian who has known the Lord for years, how do they respond when they're put in the crucible? You have an ex uh opportunity to bring glory to God. And you know what? It's how Christians have responded to persecution and suffering. That has been a great impetus of the growth of the church. How did the little band of followers in an obscure region of the world like Galilee or Israel. How did that become the dominant religion in the world? One of the key factors is the way Christians have responded to suffering. The early church That Peter's addressing, not many years after this book was written, many Christians would die for their faith. The Roman authorities felt that by putting Christians to death, they would put an end to this upstart religion. It did nothing of the sense. What it did is that people saw the courageous ways in which people died for their faith, and they said, there must be something to this. And so more and more people were saved. In fact, we have many records that even the executioners who put Christians to death later came to faith in Christ because of their testimony. And in England, during the reign of Bloody Mary, when 288 martyrs Were murdered for their faith. Mary thinking that she would find a way to secure England as a Catholic nation because she would wipe out the leaders And yet historians say this was the turning point that made England a Protestant nation. Because as they saw these individuals die with grace, And with peace for their faith, it turned people to saying, there must be something to their faith. There is something precious about their faith that I want in my life. Something worth dying. That was true of the man that I mentioned earlier, this Chinese gentleman, Wang Ming Dao. It was true of him, but it's been true of others as well. Some of you know the name of Wachman Ni, the famous devotional writer. He also suffered for his faith. In 1952, he was sentenced to prison and hard labor for his faith in Christ while ministering in China. He would spend the remaining 20 years of his life incarcerated. He was placed in a cell that was 9 foot by 4. 5 feet. He had a meager diet and hard labor, a very difficult life. But in prison we read that he was a witness for the Lord. And there were many prisoners who were brought to faith in Christ because of his testimony. He also wrote many books that have blessed Christians ever since. In the final letter that he wrote to a loved one, he stated that he was ill and dying, but then he said this, but I maintain my joy. You see, by God's grace, we can sing in the fire. Let's close in prayer this morning Our Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for The truth that we find in it for everything that we face in life. We thank you, Father, that you're faithful to us even when we go through the fire. I pray that you would help us to respond in faith to whatever difficulty we might be facing right now. Pray that we would not run from the Lord, but we would run to the Lord. That we would remember That we have an inheritance that cannot be taken from us, that whatever our suffering and pain rob us of, they cannot take what is most valuable and most important. And that is our living hope. I pray that you'd help us to focus our mind on the fact that our suffering is but for a short time, even if it lasts for the rest of our life. Our suffering is but for a moment in light of eternity. And I pray, Father, that you would help us to remember That you have a purpose in whatever suffering we face, that it's not arbitrary or meaningless, but a design for our good And if we respond in faith to it, we will bring glory to our God and we will have joy in our hearts. So help us, Father. To profit from the word today. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.