It's good to have you here this morning. It's beautiful Lord's Day. In April of 1521, Martin Luther was summoned by the Holy Roman Emperor Charles V. To appear in the German city of Worms to answer questions concerning his theological writings. It was at this trial that Luther was asked to renounce his published statements which contained radical doctrines like justification by faith alone. Luther's response to their demands became a foundational declaration of the Reformation. He said, unless I am convinced by the testimony of the scriptures or by clear reason, for I do not trust either in the Pope or in councils, alone, since it is well known that they have often erred and contradicted themselves. I am bound by the scriptures I have quoted, and my conscience is captive to the word of God. I cannot and I will not recant anything, since it is neither safe nor right to go against conscience. I cannot do otherwise. Here I stand. God help me. Amen. I think that most of you probably know that we are rapidly approaching the 500th anniversary of the Protestant Reformation. On October the 31st, 1517, Martin Luther nailed his 95 theses on the door of the Wittenberg Church. It was a document that prescribed various positions, and it was put there so that there would be debate and discussion. about these central theological issues. There were many abuses that he observed in the Roman Catholic Church of which he was a part. And he wanted to show that these things were in fact contradicted and condemned in Scripture. This event is considered by historians as the beginning of the Protestant Reformation. This is a very significant event that Christians should better understand. Because of this anniversary, we're going to break away from our expositional series on 1 Peter for just a few weeks. And we're going to look at some of the foundational truths that came out of the Reformation. Perhaps the most famous packaging of these truths is known as the five solas. These are often expressed in Latin form. There's sola scriptura, sola fide, sola gratia, sola Christos and sola de Gloria. This means That Scripture alone is our authority, that we are saved by faith alone, that we are saved by grace alone, that we are saved by the righteousness of Christ alone, and that we live for the glory of God alone. These doctrines were recovered in the Reformation, but they are embedded in Scripture. They are biblical truths. They are foundational pillars of the evangelical faith. This morning I want us to consider the first of these, the one known as sola scriptura. And I want us to be clear about the meaning of this. Sola means alone. And the term scriptura, as you probably guessed, refers to scripture. So it means literally scripture alone. Now let me further explain what that means. It does not mean that there is no truth outside of the Bible. There are many truths about the universe that are not revealed in the pages of Scripture. But all that is in the Scripture is true. This does not mean that we have no authority in our life except for the Bible. In other words, if you get pulled over for speeding and a police officer comes up to you, you should not say, listen, I don't recognize your authority because I believe in the principle of sola scriptura. No, that will not fly. Because the scripture itself says that God has ordained various authorities in our lives. So what does it mean? It means many things. Sola scriptura can be applied in the area of the sufficiency of scripture, of the clarity of scripture. But primarily, it refers to the authority of Scripture in our lives and in our society. It's not Scripture and the church. It's not Scripture and tradition. It's not Scripture and experience. It's not Scripture and Science. No, it is Scripture alone that is our ultimate authority. And all other authorities in our lives are subservient. They are under the authority of Scripture. The scripture is the ultimate voice, the final verdict. There is no higher court of appeals. It is the will of God. And so it is very important for us as Christians that we understand this foundational principle. I want to preach to you this morning on this truth that the Bible is the ultimate authority in the life of a Christian. And I want to approach this in ways that I normally don't. I am an expositional preacher. I like to phrase my my sermon points in certain ways. But today I'm going to be looking at them more in answer to questions that will serve as our main point. So the first question is this: why is sola scriptura so important? And I want to answer that in several ways. First of all, because this matter of authority explains the most important differences that people have in their lives. How would you explain the key difference between a Roman Catholic and a Protestant? Is it the Mass or the veneration of Mary or prayers to the saints or the celibacy of the clergy or justification by faith alone? The answer is these are all significant differences, but it's not the essential difference. The essential difference is the word authority For the Roman Catholic, the ultimate authority is the Church. What does the Church teach? That settles matter. But for the Christian, the ultimate authority is the Word of God. That is why, if you've ever discussed these issues with a Roman Catholic, you'll find that you're using a different ground of authority. And that is why your quotations from Scriptures are not convincing to them because they do not regard that as the ultimate authority in their life. This explains why we have radically different views of God and of the afterlife and of what's right and wrong. with other religions as well. Muslims look to the Quran as their ultimate truth. Mormons claim that the Book of Mormon is the Word of God. The Hindus and the Buddhists have their holy books. that they look to for spiritual guidance. Of course, the politically correct view today is that all of these sources of authorities are true. We call this pluralism. In a quest for tolerance and unity In many of our universities and colleges, young people are taught that all religions are basically the same and they're teaching the same essential values. That, however, is absolutely untrue for anyone who will do any investigation on their own. The vast majority of these religions also claim to be exclusive. So not everyone can have the exclusive realm of truth. And they contradict each other on key points, such as who is God and how can we know God? And what does God demand from us? And how is it that a person is saved? Those essential things, they have radically different answers. So they can't all be right. That's completely illogical. You see, this matter is very important There's a writ another reason why this is so important, is that is because what we consider to be the ultimate authority in our life Will determine how we live our lives. Now, maybe you've never thought about this before or not. But what is the ultimate authority in your life? The fact is that everyone is a theologian and a philosopher. Sometimes people will say, well, you know, you live your life by the word of God, but I don't live by any rules at all. That's not true. It's impossible for a person to make any decisions or to live their life without having certain values. certain principles, certain goals. They may not articulate them. They may not even really be aware of them, but they are living by a creed. There are certain things they believe and certain things they do not believe. They have a worldview. All of us. have parameters that we live by, values and goals that dictate the way we live our lives. Now, a lot of people might think that they've come up with them on their own. We all like to think we're original thinkers. I just came up with that. Not the case. You have gotten some from your family, your parents, and the things, the values that you've heard them talk about, undoubtedly. You've gotten them from your friends. You've gotten them from the TV programs that you watch and the books that you have read. All of these come in and filter into your mind. to provide a worldview for you. And some of them you have rejected, and some of them you have accepted. But the question is, what is your ultimate source of truth? And how accurate is your basis of truth? This is a very important matter. It really has to do with your eternal destiny. Would you turn with me please to Matthew chapter 7? Matthew chapter 7 this morning. And I want you to look with me at verse 24. The greatest sermon that was ever preached was preached by our Lord, and it's known as the Sermon on the Mount. It's the most complete and full sermon of Christ that we have. And the Lord concludes that authoritative message with these words. Matthew 7, 24. Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man which built his house upon a rock. And the rains descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell not, for it was founded upon a rock. And every one that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand. And the rains descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it. And notice the people's reaction. It came to pass when Jesus had ended these things, the people were astonished at his doctrine, for he taught them as one having authority and not as the scribes. What an amazing thing to say. Can you imagine someone standing up and saying, you know, if you do what I say, if you follow my words, You will be a wise person, your life will be built upon a rock. But if you dismiss what I say, then your life will be built on sand and you will come to utter destruction. This is just another of many examples we have in Scripture that you either accept what Jesus says and who he claims to be, the Son of God. Or he does simply reject what he has to say as a lunatic or as a deceiver. Because he makes such bold and dogmatic and divine claims. So what's the ultimate authority upon your life? Everyone builds on some foundation. And if we build upon the foundation of our own understanding of our pop culture Of secularism, if we build our life on that sifting sand We will eventually be washed away and come to utter destruction. So you see, this matter of what you consider to be the ultimate authority in your life is a matter of eternal life and death. The second thing I want to address is this. What is the biblical basis for sola scriptura? First of all, let me say that the Bible claims to be the Word of God. It is reasonable to assume that a personal God would reveal Himself to people. And this is exactly what we find in Scripture. God has revealed Himself in a general way in creation, but He's also revealed Himself in a special way in His Word. There are two key passages in reference to the Word of God that every Christian should know because they're so important and so concise and so essential. One is found in 2 Peter chapter 1. I'm not going to have you turn there. I'm going to read it. 2 Peter 1, 20 and 21. Peter writes, Knowing first, this first, that no prophecy of the Scripture is of any private interpretation. For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. The Bible is not a collection of opinions by ancient writers. It ultimately comes from divine revelation. Holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Spirit, as they were borne along like a ship upon the sea. The words that they wrote were exactly what God wanted us to have. Theologians Call this verbal inspiration. The second passage is in 2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17, which says, all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof. for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. The Greek word, therefore, inspired does not mean that it's uplifting. It means that it is God breathes. Here we find that all Scripture is given by inspiration of God. Theologians call this plenary inspiration. We don't think that just from passages like the 23rd Psalm or the Lord's Prayer or the Sermon on the Mount that these really famous passages are the word of God, the others, not so much. That's not what the scripture teaches for itself. It teaches that all of God's word is truth. And we do not have the right to come to it like a buffet table and say, you know, I like this part. But this part not so much. We must accept it all as the authoritative word of God. So we see here that this is an inescapable fact for us to consider. The fact is that the Bible claims, directly or indirectly, To be the Word of God over 1,500 times. You read again and again, thus saith the Lord. We read of God revealing his message to his messengers and to his prophets and to his apostles. My point is this, it's either the authoritative word of God, or it's a book filled with lies and deceptions that should be rejected. What I'm doing here again is I'm cutting out the comfortable middle ground that people often try to take. They say, you know I believe the Bible is a good book. I believe it's got all kinds of wonderful truth in there and principles, but I certainly don't believe it's the Word of God. You can't logically say that. It would be like saying, I have a really wise friend. He is a man of character. But he has lied to me about 1500 times. It doesn't make any sense. You either accept it as the word of God, or if you're going to be logical, you completely reject it. The second thing I want to note is Jesus' view of the Bible. Jesus Christ clearly considered the Word of God. the Bible to be the authoritative word of God. Of course, when he was ministering, it was the Old Testament. Consider these verses. He said in his temptation, of Matthew chapter 4 and verse 4. Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. Every word. He said in the Sermon on the Mount, till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law till all be fulfilled. And when he talks about the jod in the title, he's talking about the smallest Hebrew letter would be like the equivalent of our letter I, just a little line in the dots. And the title is a projection that separates one Hebrew letter from another. Sometimes the letters are rather close, and there's just a little little part of it that makes it something, a different letter. Every single Letter, every single part of the letter will be fulfilled, Jesus said. That's the kind of reverence and confidence he had in the Word of God. He said when he was disputing with his religious antagonist, ye do err not knowing the scriptures nor the power of God's. He described the word of God as being inherently powerful. And in another confrontation, in John chapter 10 and verse 35, he makes this argument from Psalm 82, verse 6. And he states this principle. The scripture cannot be broken. What does that mean? Does that mean that a person can't break God's law? Yes, they can. It means the scripture cannot be proved wrong. It cannot be proved wrong. It is authoritative. It is truth. And in John chapter 17 and verse 17, as he was praying for his disciples, he said, Thy word is truth. Not that it sometimes contains the truth or sometimes speaks the truth, but inherently it is the truth. Now why do I say this? Again, I make this logical statement. Jesus was either correct and the Bible is the authoritative word of God, or he was mistaken, and his very identity as the Son of God is pure deception or lunacy. Logically, you have to go one way or another, either in or you're out. You can't say, you know, I think Jesus was a great man and a wonderful teacher, a wonderful model of sacrifice for us, but I certainly don't think he's the son of God. That's illogical. Because he claimed again and again to be the son of God. Now perhaps you would say, and perhaps you're thinking to yourself, what you are saying is all circular reasoning. You're saying the Bible claims that it is the Word of God, therefore it is the Word of God. Or Jesus claimed that the Bible is the Word of God, therefore it is the Word of God. So let me answer that question in several ways. First of all, I wanted to first of all demonstrate that we are not putting some kind of spin on the Bible. When we say it's the Word of God, we are saying what the Bible says of itself. That's very clear. But secondly, let me say that you cannot appeal to a higher authority Then God's words. You can't go and say, yeah, but then there's this over top of that. There's nothing over top of that And let me also say that the Bible possesses the characteristics of an authoritative book. All of these could be developed in great detail, but I'm just going to go through some points here very quickly. Number one, it exhibits remarkable consistency considering that it was written by 40 authors over 1600 years Have you ever read anything from 1600 years ago besides the Bible? It's got a lot of weird stuff in it. People looked at the world a lot differently 1600 years ago. If you ever tried to get 40 people together from diverse walks of life and ask them about their values and what they believe and everything about God, you're going to come up with 40 different views. People have different ideas. But when you come to the Word of God, it does not contradict itself. Its messages are complementary of one another. And there's a thread of truth that runs all the way through the thread of redemption. And and one passage written by one author hundreds of years before Compliments and prepares the way for the next author to write. It all fits together as a coherent whole. How do you explain that? Because it's the Word of God. It exhibits amazing accuracy by the findings of archaeology. Before modern archaeology came on the scene in the 1800s, there were many skeptics who were would say, and you can read it in the ancient books written at those time periods, they would say, you know, the Bible talks of of this city, but that city probably didn't ever exist. It's all just made up. It's a fabrication. They would say this King David, pure fantasy. There was never a man named King David. Pontius Pilate? No Pontius Pilate in Roman history. And that they would say this again and again and again in these very learned books. But you know what? When archaeologists in the late 1800s really developed that science, started going out with their pickaxe, going all throughout the Middle East, you know what? They found monuments from the first century with the name of Pontius Pilate on it, the home where he lived. They found ancient Hebrew writings with King David's name there. is listed as the king of Israel. What do you know? The Bible was right. They found all the places, all the the cities and and Bethlehem and all these other places, and some of which they suggested never existed, they found the ruins of those cities and of those places and the battles described in Scripture. Now let me just say something very carefully. My faith is not resting in archaeology. But archaeology confirms what the scripture says. And by the way, it's not that way with the other so-called holy books. Book of Mormon talks about all kinds of civilizations and places and people and so forth. Good luck trying to confirm those because they're not confirmable. It's pure fantasy. Then we have all the prophecies in Scripture. Have any idea how much prophecy there is in our Scripture, like in the Old Testament, things that said about the coming Messiah? The fact that He would be of the tribe of Judah, that he would be of the uh uh the fa uh uh descendant of David, the fact that he would be born in Bethlehem. The fact that he would perform miracles and then all the many, many prophecies concerning his death and how he would die and where he would be buried and everything else. If you were to go through a number of them, there are over a hundred prophecies about the Lord Jesus Christ that were fulfilled by him. You know what? The other holy books like the Quran doesn't have any prophecy in it at all. But the scriptures do, and you can check them out and say, oh look, that was fulfilled exactly the way it said it would be. And not just with Jesus, but about cities like Tyre and Sidon and God's judgment upon them or God's coming judgment upon Babylon and all those things can be fulfilled. You can see how they were fulfilled in history Or you can look at the fact that wherever the Bible has gone, it has changed society. When missionaries have gone to countries and they preach the gospel and over time, over generations Large number of people have been saved, and so the gospel becomes a part of the fabric of that country. , You know what? Those countries are always the better for it. The quality of life, the respect for human life, the respect for women and for children and the family structure and everything so much better when the Bible comes into that culture. The reverse is also true. You want to see where the most oppressive, the most dangerous, the most degrading places in the world to live, they are places that have shut out the Bible. And said, the Bible cannot be preached, it cannot be taught here. The Bible has changed the world much more than any other book. But you know what? None of these sound arguments will convince a person who is blind to the truth. You're never going to argue someone into the kingdom of heaven. Their eyes have to be open. That's why Jesus Who was the Son of God who performed all these miracles and spoke as no man has ever spoken before? And though his antagonists, the Pharisees, were there to hear his words and to see his spotless life, they still did not believe. They remained in darkness and were blind. But the scriptures are self-authenticating To those who read its pages, who have eyes to see the treasure of the gospel. You know, I've seen this come true again and again You know, when I deal with someone and someone comes to Christ and they are genuinely saved, you know what I find? They always instinctively know that the Bible is the Word of God. I never have to tell them, by the way, you know that book we were reading from? This is God's word. They already know that. They believe that. And you should be reading it. The Bible speaks in 1 Peter 2 and verse 2, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the Word that you may grow thereby. One of the greatest Demonstrations that a person has truly come to Christ when they make a profession of faith is that they have a hunger and thirst for the Word of God. They want to study it, they want to read it, they want to hear it preached. They're like a newborn babe. They have an insatiable appetite for God's truths. So what is my advice to skeptics? Read the Word. Jesus said to his antagonists, search the scriptures. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. So what are the challenges to sola scriptura? There are many, and I won't have time to mention all of them. Let me go through some of them very quickly. These are things that challenge for the ultimate role of authority in our lives. First of all, there is religious tradition. This is what Martin Luther faced in the Reformation when he debated John Eck in the Leipzig Disputation. He discovered that his opponent kept citing church councils and popes to make his points. While he kept citing Scripture, they were using two different measuring sticks, as it were. He would say, well, we know this is true because the Pope said this. We know this is true because this church council said this. And Martin Luther said, no, we know this is true because this is what God has said. And in that debate he made this amazing statement. A simple layman armed with scripture is to be believed above a pope or a council without it. Why is that? Because the Bible is the authoritative word of God. This is a major hurdle that keeps people in darkness. Tradition is a powerful influence in our lives. The fact that someone has believed or practiced something for a really long time by millions of people, I want you to know, does not make it true. So often people will think, how could so many people be wrong for so many years? It must be true. That is not the ultimate truth. You can go through history and find in many cases where millions and millions of people for years and years and years believed something that we know today is not true. You can study your history books to see many, many examples like that. Things that once were believed to be very helpful to a person's health, we now know are deadly. But everyone believed it. That does not make it true. The fact is that Jesus combated traditionalism throughout his ministry. Would you turn with me please to Mark chapter 7? Mark chapter 7. I'm going to show you an example of this. Mark chapter 7 and verse 5. Then the Pharisees and scribes asked him, Why walk not the disciples according to the traditions of the elders, but eat bread with unwashing hands? There was a very elaborate hand washing ceremony as the Pharisees had prescribed that had been in place for generations, and they became it became a matter of your spiritual standing if you spent all that time washing your hands. But the disciples, when they were picking the grain, did not do that. He answered and said unto them, Well hath Isaiah prophesied of you, hypocrites, as it is written, this people honoreth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me, howbeit in vain Do they worship me teaching for doctrines the commandments of men? And then he goes on. And he talks about this practice that they use to keep people in the dark, Corbon of uh of somehow uh in a religious way extorting money that they should have been providing for their parents' maintenance. And he says in verse 13, making the word of God of none effect through your tradition, which you have delivered, and many such things do ye. Most people in the world today who are headed to hell are there because they are following some man-made tradition. They are following the faith of their fathers, of just about everybody they know, and they think that it must be true, it must be right, because this is what everyone that I know And that I respect, this is what they believe, this is what they're trusting in. But this is not the ground of truth. Tradition. Another challenge to authority, the Scripture's authority is reason. Let me be very clear, the Bible is not contrary to reason. The fact is that God is the most logical being in the universe. And that's why we were made with the ability to think and to deduct things, because we're made in the image of God. But our minds cannot be the ultimate measure of truth for many reasons. Let me mention one, first of all, because our minds have been tainted by the fall. We don't see things accurately. The mental lens that we look at the world as skewed and distorted Another reason our minds can't be the ultimate guide to truth is because there are some things that are beyond our comprehension. The scripture says, who hath known the mind of the Lord or who hath been his advisor? Let me put it to you this way: God's never come to you for advice. God 's never come to you for advice. He doesn't need your advice. How we can never think that our mind can be the ultimate arbiter of truth. Because how many times have you been wrong about things? We need something much more certain than that. A third challenge to sola scriptura is science. So often when you see it portrayed on the media, they will contrast Religion and science. And they'll say one is based on fact And the other is pretty much based on fantasy. And they'll show great respect in everything. But behind their very cool demeanor, there is a certain mockery taking place. Often the Bible and science are portrayed as contrasting viewpoints on the truth. One has all the facts, all the evidence, the other just wishful thinking. That is a false analysis. It's a false dichotomy. The problem with making science the ultimate judge of truth is that science cannot answer man's most important questions. Who am I? Where did I come from? What is my purpose in life? Where am I going? The reality is that truth science and biblical truth are never at odds because all truth comes from God. God is the one who created all the laws that govern our universe. This is why many of the greatest scientists in the history of our world have been Christians, because they believe that God created an orderly universe. It was the Christian worldview. that brought about the scientific revolution. Well then why do the findings of modern science so often contradict the word of God? The answer is because most scientists begin their investigation with the presupposition that there is no God, there is nothing that is supernatural, and that we are locked into a closed system of cause and effects. If it can't be tested in the laboratory, if it can't be viewed through the telescope, it doesn't exist. And so they begin with that foundational premise, and they arrive at the inevitable conclusion that there is no God. The other fact, of course, is that they will take facts that maybe are legitimate facts gleaned from research, from observation, and they put them down, but then they must interpret those facts. And that's when subjectivity comes into play. Have you never seen people look at the same set of facts and draw completely opposite conclusions? People do this even in reference to the Word of God. They'll have the same book, the same starting points. But they'll come to completely opposite conclusions using the same information, but they looking at it and they're waiting different passages and different verses in different ways. The same is true with hard, cold facts. It's in the interpretation of those facts that they come to different conclusions. Have you never heard the findings of science to be wrong. I know that some of this is not completely the scientists' fault, but the way things are um communicated to the public, but I can remember as a kid, you know, there were certain foods and certain things that we were told were really bad for us, you should never eat this. I can remember there was a time in like the 70s and 80s where the the most evil thing in the world would be to eat eggs because they had cholesterol. And if you eat eggs, you just might as well mark it down. You're going to die of a heart attack. You know what doctors say today? It's really good to eat eggs. Great source of protein. And they base that on scientific facts. Well, what's changed? Well, their knowledge about things and the way they test things and experience of looking at different case studies. My point is that science cannot be an infallible guide to truth. And if all the facts were known We would see the Bible and the science are not at odds or contradicting one another. There are many other examples that I could go of of challenges to biblical authority. There's the challenge of experience where people will say, well I know what I've experienced in my life. Well you know what? Your experience is not the ultimate ground of truth. People in the charismatic world do this. I know the Bible says that this is this, but I know what I experienced. We don't have time to turn to it, but in 2 Peter chapter 1, Peter says that we have a more sure word of prophecy. And in context there, he's talking about his experience of seeing the transfiguration of Christ. Christ, he says he was an eyewitness of his majesty, but he says, you know, there's something that is even more certain than what I saw with my eyes. And that is Scripture itself. There is the challenge of popular opinion And I could go off on a whole diatribe about this. You know, recently the Supreme Court ruled and changed the definition of marriage. Now the Supreme Court, as I understand it, is supposed to interpret the Constitution. I haven't found anything about the Constitution saying that uh uh that that marriage is that open-ended. Maybe it's there somewhere. But everyone who can see what's going on realizes that it's the pressure of media elites and of public opinion that drives the decisions often that they make. But I want you to know that just because something A whole number of people have come convinced of something does not make it real or true. And it's sheer lunacy to throw out The collective wisdom of humanity for all the centuries, what the Bible has revealed, what God has revealed in His Word about the very institution that He created, and throwing that all to aside And saying, yeah, now we hold a different position ten years ago, but today we now know what truth is. And we can define same-sex marriage as a legitimate marriage. I want you to know that God's definition of marriage has not changed. And the scriptures are our ultimate authority. But perhaps the greatest challenge to our authority is the narcissistic idea that we can be our own authority. We live in an age of anti-authoritarianism. That's why we see slogans like question authority or speak truth to power or no one's going to tell me how to live my life. This message is really resonates with our flesh. We like that idea, that kind of rebellious spirit. I'm going to live life on my own terms. But this individual quest for autonomy is not rooted in God's truth, but it's rooted in the devil's lies. Do you remember what Lucifer said in Isaiah chapter 14? He says, I will ascend into heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will sit. Upon the mount of the congregation, I will send above the heights of the clouds, I will be like the Most High When we determine that we are going to live life on our own terms, that we answer to nobody but ourselves, we sound very much like the devil. Because he was the first rebel, the first one to fight against the sovereignty of God I often counsel people in difficult personal situations. Sometimes these are matters of the heart. And this is where the rubber meets the road. This is where it really becomes a test of do you believe that the Bible is the ultimate authority in your life? And I will turn to Scripture and I will say the Scripture addresses exactly the situation you're facing. And let me tell you exactly what it says, and I'll read the passage for them, and they will say Well, I'm not going to do that. Or that would never work for me. But this is the word of God. Yeah, but I I I I couldn't do that. There would be so many problems. I want you to know that this is God's word. It's not a suggestion. It's the unchanging authoritative word of God, and we reject it to our peril. Now very quickly, let me conclude with this. How do we live out sola scriptura? How do we make God's Word the ultimate authority in our lives? I would say this: we must read and study the Word with great reverence and delight, if this is truly the Word of God. This must be what we know more than anything else. Isaiah 66, verse 2 says, But to this man will I look. Even to him that is poor and of a contrite heart that trembleth at my word. Martin Luther said he was twenty years old when he first held a Bible in his hands, and his hands were trembling. Because he was thinking to himself, this is the word of God If you go through Psalm 119, which deals with the Word of God, that longest chapter in the Bible, again and again you find the psalmist talking about his delight in the words. Secondly, we must evaluate all that we encounter through the filter of God's Word. Everything that we hear, whether it be a sermon, Whether it be something on the radio or on the television or blog that we read, whatever information, worldview comes into our minds, it must go through the filter of God's words. And if it's false, it must be rejected. The fact of the matter is, the world is full of fake news. It tells us to live for self, to live for things, to live for the sensual and superficial, to live for the here and now, and all of that is a false reality. And if we live by these values, it will enslave us and destroy us and ultimately condemn us. Thirdly, we must renew our minds with the truth of God's word. Romans 12, 2, that famous verse says, Be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your minds. We as Christians, that's continual. We must continually renew our minds with the truth of God's word that tells us what is true, what is accurate, and the way that we must live. I've been meditating on this verse this week. It's a beautiful verse. Psalm 119, 128. It says, I esteem all thy precepts concerning all things to be rights. And I hate every false way. I esteem all thy precepts concerning all things to be right. That should be our heart cry. That when God's word says something, it is true. So whenever we face a situation or circumstance and we scratch our head and we say, I'm not sure what I should do in this. The very first thing we should say to ourselves is, what does God's word say about it? And when we determine what God's word says, either directly or indirectly through principles then we must obey because the word of God is the authority in our lives. For centuries, people believed that what Aristotle said was true. He taught that if you drop two objects The heavier object will always go faster. Maybe some of you think that's the case too. It's not true. He was regarded as the greatest thinker of his time. He could not be confounded, but in 1589 Galileo determined that that was not true. He worked it out through calculations and experiments, but no one would believe him. And so finally he brought together the most learned professors of his day, and they were to convene at the leaning tower of Pisa. And there he went to the top, and simultaneously he dropped a 10-pound weight and a one -pound weight. And all of these men were down below observing. And they both came and thudded at the same time. And he said, see, gentlemen, I'm right. But half of those learned professors said, no, no, the 10-pound weight landed first. And they would do it again and again, but they wouldn't believe what they saw with their own eyes and heard with their own ears. Because they were blinded to the truth. Because they were so invested in a lie that they had believed. Oh dear friends, let us as Christian people remember that God's word is a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. It is our ultimate authority. And let us live by it. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that we can trust in it. We can live by it. We thank you that it is sufficient and authoritative and clear. has all that we need for life and godliness. Help us, Father, to live by its truth. Help us, Father, to delight in it to read it, to memorize it, to study it, to share it with others, to treasure it up in our hearts. Help us, Father, to be a people of the book. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen