Give your Bibles, please. You can be turning to Romans chapter 3. You may have seen in the news this week On Tuesday, that day, October 31st, was indeed the 500th anniversary of the Protestant Reformation. I began a couple weeks ago a brief series of messages to commemorate that very significant event. And tonight we'll continue with that. It all started, of course, and the 500th anniversary commemorates the bold move of a young German monk by the name of Martin Luther. He was a bright but troubled young man. He entered college at the age of 14, which was not unusual in that day. He studied law. And he seemed destined for a bright future. As a lawyer, he was very good at debating. But in 1505, his life took a dramatic turn when he was caught in a thunderstorm. As a good Catholic in a time of crisis, he prayed to a particular saint, Saint Anne. And ask her to save him, because there was a lightning strike that was very close at his feet, and he thought indeed he might perish. And he said that if she would spare his life that he would become a monk. And he was true to his word. He became an Augustinian monk. But he was still not at peace. He was very serious about whatever he undertook, and so he decided he wanted to be a really holy, godly monk. He fasted often, so often in fact, that his superiors were afraid that he was going to starve himself to death. He wore coarse clothing that was very uncomfortable. He would beat himself with a whip known as a flagell. And when he did sleep, the few hours that he did, he slept on a stone floor because He subscribed to the ascetic notion that by punishing the flesh, you could conquer sin in your life. But he still found no peace. He would say later that if anyone could earn his way to heaven by the life of a monk, it was I. About this time, he began to study scripture for himself, and he came to a verse that troubled him. It was Romans 1. 17, which says in the last part, the just shall live by faith. What troubled him about this verse is how can a person become just? How can a person be righteous before God? He was trying and trying, but he always seemed to come up short because he knew there was still sin in his heart. He says that he came to hate the righteousness of God. His mentor in the monastery was a man named Staubitz. And he was a man with some common sense and wisdom. And so he decided that going on a little excursion, getting away from the monastery would be good for Martin Luther. So he sent them on a pilgrimage. to Rome in the year 1510. He walked all the way there. And as he was coming within view of the Holy City He was so excited because he was just certain that he was going to see a place of piety, a place of godliness like he could never have imagined. But when he got to Rome, he found crime and he found corruption in the streets and in the churches. He mentioned that he attended a Mass there, and the priest, of course, would conduct the service in Latin. And they got up and they were obviously uh intoxicated and they were very jovial about what they were doing. And he heard them say in Latin Bread thou art and bread thou shalt remain. None of the common people knew what they were saying But they were mocking the idea that the bread was somehow changed into the element of Christ. He was shocked by that. He went back to Germany with more questions than answers. When he was there in Rome , He made certain, like the other pilgrims, that he went to the Skala Sancta, this is a stone of stairway Roman Catholic tradition says that this was the stone stairway that Jesus ascended when he went to meet before Pilates, and that he fell along the journey and his blood was spilt on those stairs. And you would say, well, wait a minute, that happened in Germany. That happened in Jerusalem. Well, the Catholic Church teaches that angels picked up those stairs and flew them to Rome. and place them there so that the faithful could ascend them. And so people would line up and they would go up those stairs on their knees praying prescribed prayers that God would forgive them from their sins. And Martin Luther says that as he made his journey up there, the verse kept coming to his mind with every step, the just shall live by faith. The just shall live by faith. But he was not comforted by this text. He was troubled by it. When he returned, he enrolled as a student and also became a professor at a new college in the German town of Wittenberg. He lectured primarily on the books of Psalms and Romans, which he delighted to study. And one day, probably in the year 1514. Luther was preparing his lecture on the opening chapter of the book of Romans when he finally made the discovery that would change his life. and the history of the world. He writes, There I began to understand that the righteousness of God is that by which the righteous lives by a gift of God. namely by faith. And this is the meaning. The righteousness of God is revealed by the gospel, namely The passive righteousness with which merciful God justifies us by faith, as it is written, the just shall live by faith. And then he says, here I felt that I was altogether born again and had entered paradise itself through open gates. And Martin Luther was saved. And his life was changed. This morning, as we continue our study, of the five solas we come to sola fide, which means faith alone. It is really a shorthand way of expressing the doctrine of justification. by faith alone. This doctrine is the centerpiece of the Reformation. It is the essence of the gospel. Luther called this the chief article In fact, he said that a church cannot exist for one hour without this doctrine. The fact of the matter is he was correct. Any assembly that does not preach justification by faith alone that we are saved by the grace of God and not through our works. An assembly, no matter what it may call itself, no matter how many good deeds it may do, is not a church. if it does not preach the gospel of justification by faith alone. But I want you to know that this is much more than just a theological or historical question. It's a very personal matter. In fact, it's a matter of life and death. It addresses the very issue of an individual's standing before God. We like sometimes to cloak our own standing by the people we surround ourselves with, and we want in essence say, I'm with them. And indeed, we should desire to be part of the body of Christ. Don't misunderstand me. But we must always remember that we must each stand before God as an individual. We can't get into heaven through the merits of someone else that we think is more godly than us. We can't get in through our parents' religion or our grandparents or our uncle Or anyone else, we must stand before God as an individual. And the fact of the matter is that every human being stands either justified By faith alone, or condemned for eternity. That is the status of every human being. So let me ask you this morning What is the basis of your hope of eternal life? Have you been justified? Have you been declared not guilty, but righteous in Christ? I'm going to preach to you this morning on this truth, this foundational truth, that Christians are justified by faith alone. And I'm going to approach this as I have some previous messages in the matter of question and answer. The first question I want to address is this, why? is justification by faith alone such a big deal. A person might think of it as just a triviality, as a nuance, as not that important of a matter But that would be incorrect. I want us to take a look at the book of Romans, the key word In the book of Romans is the word righteousness. And the first half of the book, chapters 1 through 11, answer the question: how can a person be righteous before God? In chapter 1, Paul says that the Gentiles are condemned before God. He talks about their idolatry and their immorality, and he says that they are under the wrath of God. And all of Paul's Jewish readers would say a silent amen. But then Paul goes on to chapter 2, and he shows that the Jews who are trusting in the law of God and their obedience to that law are also equally condemned. They may be more moral, but they are equally unjust. and unrighteous and justly condemned by a holy God. And so he continues that discussion into Romans chapter 3, and he arrives at this conclusion in Romans chapter 3 and verse 3 19. He says, Now we know that what things soever the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. He says, it doesn't matter if you're a Jew, it doesn't matter if you're a Gentile, all of the world is guilty before God. And then he comes to this conclusion, verse 20, therefore, by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge Now, if this is all that the Bible taught, we would all be in bad shape. Because we're all guilty And none of us can earn our standing before God. But then we have this great declaration in verse 21 that we read together a moment ago. But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifest, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. He's saying this righteousness That is not by the law, but in fact is by faith, has been taught and is revealed in the Old Testament scriptures, the law and the prophets. He says, even the righteousness of God, verse 22, which is by faith of Jesus Christ or in Jesus Christ, unto all and upon all them that believe, for there is no difference. He's saying, it doesn't matter if you're Jew or the Gentile, the same gospel works for all. And that's why he says this famous verse, verse 23, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. The logic is this. The reason salvation is available to all who believe is because everyone has the same problem, which is sin. So how is it that sinful people can be justified or saved? That's the most important question in the world. And it's answered in the verses that follow. Verses 24 and 25 This is one of the great gospel texts of the Bible. It says, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance of God. In these two verses, we have three solas of the Reformation. We have salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. And notice he goes on to say in verse 26, declare, I say at this time, his righteousness, that he might be just and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus. This is the beauty and the logic of the gospel that a holy and just God can declare sinful people like us to be righteous Not because he has somehow abandoned his standard of justice, but because the just one, the Lord Jesus Christ, has died in our place. And that is how he can be just and justify sinners like us. This is the beauty of the gospel. So why is justification by faith so important? Because it is the only way that a person can be right with God. It's the only path to justification. It's the only way to heaven. Just as God provided only one Savior, He provided only one way to heaven, and that is by justification by faith alone. This doctrine is also significant because anything other than faith amounts to salvation by works. You can call it in different names, in different avenues, and different manifestations, but if it's not by faith and what Christ has done for us, then it is a work. What do we mean by good works? We mean things like keeping the moral law. Do you think That by not killing people, not committing adultery, and not lying and not stealing and things like that, that somehow you are showing that you're an upstanding citizen and that God will save you, that's Do you think that by attending church or the fact that you've been baptized or by fasting? Or by helping the poor, by by feeding them at uh an event at Thanksgiving or providing shelter for the homeless, do you think that by doing these things you are earning favor with God and you are earning your way to heaven? That's the way people normally think. That's the way all the world naturally thinks. There's something I can do to earn my way. But this is not what the Bible teaches. This is what lost people invariably think. This is what all other religions teach. The Muslims have their five pillars, and the Buddhists their eightfold path. This way of thinking is universal. People instinctively think that they're good people. They do. I've mentioned this to you before. You can go to a detention center. You can go to a penitentiary, if you will, and you will find that everyone there will tell you. That really in their heart they're a good person. They've been unfairly treated. You know, if you knew the background they came from. Then you would understand how they got in this predicament. This isn't really who they are. They're not really a dangerous criminal. They're really a good, kind-hearted person. Even the worst of the worst think that of themselves. We all like to give ourselves the benefit of the doubt And to think that we're much better than we truly are. People instinctively tend to think that, yes, they've done some things they're not proud of. Yes, they have some vices. Yes, they do things and say things they know are not right, and they would not commend to anyone. But if you were to measure their good against their bad, the good is going to overwhelm it, and God will be Happy to let them into heaven. They think they're good and they assume that God has the same opinion But the scriptures say very loudly that this is all wrong. This is all a delusion If this is what you're thinking this morning, I want you to know the Bible is absolutely clear that that is the wrong response. Let me show you. We're just going to do a whirlwind look at some verses in this immediate context that show that is not the case. Look with me at Romans chapter 3 and verse 28. Paul says, therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law. Look with me ahead to the next chapter, Romans chapter 4 and verse 5. I'm going to begin reading at verse 3. For what saith the scripture, Abraham believed God and was counted unto him for righteousness. Now to him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace, but of death. But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him, that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness I want you to turn ahead, if you would, with me to the book of Galatians now. Galatians chapter 2 and verse 16. This is a very important verse. But most Christians don't know it very well. Galatians 2. 16. Notice what it says here. Knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law. But by the faith of Jesus Christ. Even we have believed in Jesus Christ that we might be justified by the faith of Christ and not by the works of the law, for by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified. Did you know that this verse essentially says the same thing six times? We call that being redundant, but it's making a point The point is we're not saved by works, we're saved by faith in Christ. And why does the scripture say things like this again and again and again and again? Because people are so slow to believe it and understand this. Turn with me to the next book, Ephesians chapter 2, familiar verses, verses 8 and 9. For by grace are ye saved through faith. And that not of yourselves it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Turn with me now to the next book, the book of Philippians, chapter 3. And verse 9, Paul giving his own testimony right before this section, and he says in verse 9, and be found in him that is in Christ, not having my own righteousness. which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith You see the same truth expressed again. And there are many other scriptures that we could look at, but I think you get the point. Whatever you do this morning. Do not leave here with the notion in your mind that by trying a little harder, by maybe coming to church a little more often. By helping out and volunteering at the soup kitchen more than you have in the past, that somehow you can earn merit with God and therefore you will go to heaven. Don't think that for a moment because the scripture says again and again and again and again, that is not so Salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone And that raises the second question I want to address this morning, and that is, what is the nature of the faith that saves? What exactly does it mean to believe? How would a person know if they actually have saving faith? That's a really important question. So let me start by saying what saving faith is not. I'm going to talk about some counterfeits of saving faith. We have to Move out of the way, as it were, the wreckage and the rubble before we can build on the truth of Scripture. This is not saying That if you believe in something, you'll be okay. Often people in the world will talk about somebody and they'll say, this is a man of faith. Or this is a woman of faith. And often in the world the idea either explicitly or implicitly is that it doesn't matter what you believe as long as you are sincere. The important thing is that you believe in something. You gotta believe in something, they say. There's value in believing. And so just believe in something and we'll respect it and it'll work out well for you. That is not what justification by faith alone means at all. This is what is known technically as Fideism. That is having faith in your faith. Sometimes you'll talk to a person and you'll say, So what do you believe in? Well I believe in this. Why do you believe in that? I don't know why I believe, I just do I believe God doesn't call us to an irrational faith. There's another view that says, as long as you believe in God, that's all that matter. We're a little bit better. It's not just faith, it's now faith in God. But what do we mean by God? There's an awful lot of people in the world who think that that's good enough. Just though you believe in God, that's what's important. Let me remind you that on September the 11th, 2001, 19 terrorists hijacked four planes and killed nearly 3,000 people. And they did so believing that God would take them immediately into paradise. They had a sincere faith. They had a faith that produced works and results. In fact, they were willing to give their lives for what they believed. But does anybody here really think that that's a commendable expression of faith? I hope not. Do you think that they actually were ushered into the arms of God? That is ludicrous and ridiculous to even think that for moments. One of the things it illustrates is that The nature of your faith, the object of your faith is what is really important. What is the object of your faith? Faith has no value apart from its objects It doesn't matter how sincere you are or how intent you are or how devout you are if you're believing in the wrong thing. Believing in something with all your heart does not make it so. And then there are others, Christian folks. who get it a little confused in their mind and they think of faith as the basis of our salvation. Now the Bible does teach justification by faith alone, but I want you to know that faith is not the basis of your salvation. Because there's no merit in believing. The basis of your salvation is the death of Christ, his atonement at the cross. It's what he has done, not what you have done. God is not overwhelmed by your faith. Your faith has no merit in itself. It's not a work. What makes your faith valuable is that it's in the Lord Jesus Christ and what he has done. Faith is like the empty hands of a beggar that receives the gift of salvation. But there's no great merit in the empty hands. There's nothing there but absolute reliance and dependence on God. So what is saving faith? We've talked about what it's not, what is it. I'm going to speak very briefly about three essential aspects of saving faith, three components. that have to be there. You can think of it almost like the numbers on a combination. You have to have all three of them, all three numbers to get it to open. First of all, there has to be intellectual content or there has to be doctrinal truth. There has to be certain truths that you understand that you have heard in order to be saved. You cannot be saved apart from truth. You have to recognize that you're a sinner. You have to recognize the penalty of your sin, which is death, eternal death. You have to recognize who Jesus is. He's not just a carpenter, he's the Son of God. You have to recognize that he died in place of sinners. You must understand that he rose from the dead. You must realize that salvation is not something that you earn, that it's by grace alone, through faith alone. This is why it is incumbent upon us to preach the gospel, to witness to others, to pass out gospel literature. This is why we send out missionaries because people will not be saved apart from the message of the gospel. That's why we send out preachers and missionaries. That's the first aspect, the intellectual or factual content of the gospel. And then secondly, there's the agreement with the gospel. People might hear the gospel, but they might reject the gospel and say, oh, that's nonsense. I don't believe in that. And that's of course the most common response that you receive, right? Spoke to someone that this week and um they just uh you know what it is to s to raise the gospel and have them just completely shut the conversation down. Well I've got to be going now. And that's the end of that. They reject it. They don't want to hear it. Maybe it brings up bad memories. Maybe it stirs up sense of guilt in their minds. I don't know what, but there is this offense of the gospel the Bible speaks about. But a person, in order to be saved, has to agree to these truths. They can't say, well, you know, I want to go to heaven, but this thing about Jesus being the Son of God and him dying on the cross, I I'm not sure I I really accept that, but I really, really want to go to heaven and not go to hell. Well These truths are the irreducible part of the gospel. They're essential. You can't do away with them. You have to agree with them. There has to come to a point where a person says, yes, I believe that this is true. Now a lot of people mistakenly think That this means a person's born again, that they're saved, because they might nod their head and say, oh, okay, yeah, all right, I'll go with that. You say Jesus lived a long time ago, he lived a perfect life, he died on the cross. Okay, sounds reasonable to me. That doesn't mean that that person is saved because they agree or not assent to these propositions that you've just laid out. Do you remember what James chapter 2 and verse 19 says? It says in the King James Version, the devils also believe and tremble. The demons know the gospel. You know what? Demons believe that Jesus died on the cross. They know the gospel, but they're not going to be in heaven. They know those intellectual, they know that truth. They know it's the case. We have an example of this. I'm not going to ask you to turn there, but in John chapter 2, I don't know if you've ever thought about this passage or not. It's kind of interesting. It says in verse 23. Now when he was in Jerusalem referring to Jesus at the Passover and the feast day, it says, many believed in his name when they saw the miracles which he did. But Jesus did not commit himself unto them because he knew all men. Now what you don't see in the English text is the word commit. is the word believe. The same word that says in the previous verse they believed in him. In essence it says they believed in him, but Jesus didn't believe in them. They had a superficial faith, they saw these miracles, and they're like, wow. This is interesting. I want to follow this man But Jesus knew there was no commitment. There was no reliance in their hearts. It was all a superficial interest You see, it's possible for a person to not assent and to grow up in a Christian home and to come to church. And to be taught from the time they were a little kid, you know, this is the gospel Jesus died for your sins. He loves you. He wants you to be saved. They nod their head make their parents happy and everything, but their heart is not there. They have not really had an encounter with God. They have not really been convinced of their depravity and their desperate need of a savior and the wonder of the cross. Those things have never really entered their hearts. And this is why so often you will see people grow up and then abandon their faith when they come of age, when they start making decisions for themselves because it never went beyond step two. They knew the information, they acknowledged the information to some degree to be true, but they never committed to Christ. They never put their reliance on him alone. This is often the difference between a nominal Christian and a born-again Christian. Saving faith is a desperate dependence on Christ alone for salvation. It is a personal reliance on the person and work of Jesus Christ. It involves receiving by faith the gift of salvation. Romans 1. 12 says, As many as received him, to them gave he power or authority to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. I've used this illustration many times. It's not unique with me, and you've probably used it before. But you know, if you had a rare disease and you went to the doctor and the doctor said, you have a fatal illness, but you know what? The good news is there's a cure for it. Take this medication. Take it once every day and you'll be fine. And so you take that medication. You go home, you put it in the medicine cabinet and you never open that bottle again. Now you tell the doctor, I believe this will help me. I believe that this is exactly what I need. In fact, your spirit is lightened when you hear this news, but you never take that medication. What's going to happen? You're going to die because you didn't really have a reliance on that medication. If you did, you would be very careful in taking that medication as prescribed every day. But what you said and what you did were obviously revealing two different things that your heart was not really settled, it was not really committed, it was not really reliant on the gospel as found in Jesus Christ. This is the only kind of faith that saves When we completely rely on the Lord Jesus Christ for our salvation and we abandon any efforts to save ourselves. And that raises the third question that will conclude our study this morning, and that is, what are the benefits of justification by faith alone? And I want to start out with negatively. What does it mean? Well, the term justification is a forensic term. That is, it comes from the courts of law. And it is a declaration by the judge, in this case, the judge of all the earth. And when the sentence is handed down, the verdict is given, he says, not guilty. And the way that we often think about this is the idea of our sins being forgiven. Our sins being forgiven. In Colossians chapter 1, we read in verse 14, in whom we have redemption through his blood. even the forgiveness of sins. In chapter 2, he goes into a little more detail. He says, and you being dead and your sins And the uncircumcision of your flesh hath he quickened together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses, blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us. which was contrary to us, took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross. The biblical doctrine of justification Means that God, the judge of all the earth, has declared us to be not guilty, but righteous Now let me make some clarifications because it's very easy for us to get the wrong idea about this. First of all, justification is not amnesty. Amnesty means to pardon a group of people for past offenses simply by means of a decree. I think you all know the present has the power to pardon. It often is controversial. But a president, according to our Constitution, has the power to pardon people who have been tried and found guilty. And he can pardon them. And one of the reasons why people get upset about that is, of course, it doesn't seem just. It doesn't seem fair. What did they do to deserve that? What kind of provision has been made for there to be justice here in this situation? I want you to know that our justification is not amnesty. Because there was Propitiation that was made. There was satisfaction of the wrath of God. God's just demands were met in the death of Jesus Christ. God doesn't just forgive your sins because he feels sorry for you or because he cares for you. He can only forgive your sins because justice has been served in the death of Christ in your place. We must always remember that. This is how God can be just and the justifier Secondly, justification does not mean to make righteous This is one of the great dividing points of the Reformation. The Roman Catholic Church says that justification means that we have been infused with righteousness. And that if we continue to progress in this righteousness throughout our lives, we will eventually be saved. Roman Catholicism mixes and entangles justification and sanctification. Now, don't get me wrong, these two things do connect with one another, but they must be kept distinct. A person who is justified, who has truly been declared not guilty, but righteous, will Continue on in their sanctification because the Bible says four times the just shall live by faith. It becomes their lifestyle But it's not that lifestyle that saves them. Justification and sanctification must be kept distinct. Otherwise, you come up with a works-based salvation. I'm going to quote something here from the Holy Trinity Catholic Bible. Listen to this quotation. Even after a man's sins are forgiven, he must make up for them or atone for them in some way. He must make satisfaction to God for the injustice done by his sins. This is what the Roman Catholic Church teaches. You have to make atonement in some way for the sins that you commit. But this is not the gospel revealed in Scripture. Our sins are forgiven not on the basis of what we have done or what we will do, but on the basis of what Jesus Christ has done for us at the cross. Many Christians struggle to accept the fact that they have been truly forgiven. Many of them are haunted with a sense of guilt and believe that in some way God is still angry with them This is why the Bible is filled with reassuring promises about the totality of our forgiveness. I'm going to read these verses without comment very quickly. Psalm 103, verse 12, as far as the east is from the west, so far have removed our transgressions from us. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool, Isaiah 118. For thou hast cast all my sins behind thy back, Isaiah 38 , 17. Or I, even I And he that blotteth out thy transgressions for my own sake and will not remember thy sins, Isaiah 43, 25. I have blotted out as a thick cloud thy transgressions, Isaiah 44, 22. I will forgive their iniquity and remember their sin no more. Jeremiah 31, 34 He will subdue our iniquities and will cast them all into the depths of the sea. Micah chapter 7 and verse 19. Do you see all these images that Scripture uses? one after another after another after another to provide reassuring promises that our sins Have been taken away. They truly have been dealt with at the cross. Our sins have been forgiven. I so often run into dear Christian people who every time something bad happens to them, they think that God is punishing them for some sin that they committed 20 years ago. My friends, satisfaction was made at the cross. That's justification viewed negatively, but there is a positive aspect of it. And that is the scripture teaches that Christ's righteousness is imputed to us. This aspect of justification is often overlooked by Christians. But think about it this way. The word impute has the idea of something being credited to your account. Now we and our age of debit cards and credit cards understand this concept quite well. Just imagine that you handled all of your finances on one credit card. And let's suggest that you had a serious spending problem. And in fact, you got a billion dollars in debt. And let's say that you had absolutely no way of paying this off. And so you called up the credit card company and you cried your sob story to them and they said, you know what We're going to pardon it. I know it's far-fetched. But they pardon your billion-dollar debts. Or perhaps even better, let's say that some wealthy philanthropist comes forward, he feels so sorry about your case that he writes a check for one billion dollars and satisfies all of your debts. Now how much money do you have? You have zero. You owed a billion dollars, a billion dollars was paid, you have nothing now. But that's not where we are as Christians. Because the Bible teaches that we have been imputed with the perfect righteousness of Christ. It's as if that wealthy philanthropist took out his checkbook and he wrote you a personal check for one billion dollars. That's the difference. The scriptures speak of this. Theologians talk of this as the passive obedience refers to the death of Christ. And they denote his perfect life as his active obedience. The Bible teaches that we have been imputed with both. Some of you have heard before, undoubtedly , this matter that justification means just as if I had never sinned. Have you ever heard that before? It's a wonderful truth. It's a glorious idea. Just as if I had never sinned. But I want you to know it's even better than that. It's just as if I lived the perfect life of Christ, because we have been imputed with his righteousness. This is what the scripture teaches. We have been blessed abundantly. This is our legal standing before God. In justification, we receive not only the benefits of Christ's death, but also the blessings of his life. Not only does the Lord take away our filthy garments of sin , Thank the Lord he does, but he wraps us in the righteous robes of Christ. Believers are all like the prodigal son. But we have not only been embraced and forgiven, but we have been clothed in the garments of grace. This doesn't mean that practically we're perfect. Does it mean that we won't sin again? Does it mean that we won't fail God? But it means that our legal standing before God, the judge of all the earth, is that we are not guilty. But we are righteous in Christ. He sees us with the merits of his son. This is called the great exchange. Jesus takes our sin and gives us his righteousness. This is the glory of the gospel. This is why Romans 8. 33 says, who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifieth. And this blessed justification comes by faith alone to the glory of God. We're going to sing a hymn, you know, pastor has to decide what kind of hymn he's going to close the service with. And sometimes you want a real plaintive, reflective hymn. that speaks conviction and sometimes it warrants a triumphant hymn. But as we sing this triumphant hymn I want you to ask yourself, can I truly say the words of this hymn text? Can I say, no condemnation now I dreads? Perhaps you're thinking right now, I'm not sure I could really say that because you know I'm I 'm still kind of struggling with some sin issues in my life, then you don't understand the gospel. Because it's not about your performance. It's about what Christ has done for you. It's about the declaration by the God of all the universe. that you are not guilty because the righteous son died in your place. Have you accepted salvation by faith alone. That's the question I want to ask yourself as we read this hymn and as you leave this morning. And I trust that if you cannot say that you have, that you will seek the Lord before you leave these premises and discover more of what it means to be saved by faith alone. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it's clear. We thank you for the clarity of the gospel. We thank you that it's not something that we do. But it's all about what God has done for us. We thank you that we are saved by faith alone. I pray that you would use this word to draw sinners to the Savior this morning, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.