If you have your Bibles, please would you turn with me to Ephesians chapter 2, passage we just read. I've mentioned to you before the famous evangelist from the 20th century named H. A. Ironside. He wrote a number of books and traveled all over, and one day he was traveling on a train. And there was a fortune teller who happened to sit next to him, and she said, give me a silver quarter, and I'll tell you your past, your present, and your future. And he looked at her and said, I already know that. He said, it's written in a book I have. She said, really? He said, yes. And he opened up his Bible. To Ephesians chapter 2, and he read verses 1 through 3, and he said, Now that's my past. And then he read verses 4 through 6, and he said, That's my present experience. And then he read verse 7. He said, and that is my future. And then he was going to read verses 8 and 9, which of course have the kernel of the gospel there, but she was not interested in hearing anymore. There are many great gospel texts in the Bible. There's of course John 3. 16, which tells us of the love of God. The most thorough doctrinal explanation of the gospel is found in Romans chapter 3. But perhaps the most amazing evangelistic passage in the Bible is found in Here in Ephesians chapter 2. This paragraph has been called the heart of Paul's gospel. This is the theological essence of the good news. And there's a key word that comes up again and again in this paragraph. Perhaps you noticed it as we read it together this morning in verse 5. Paul says, for by grace are ye saved. And in verse 7, he speaks of the riches of his grace. And again in verse 8, he says, for by grace Are you saved? This passage is all about God's grace in our salvation. What exactly is grace? Well, if you were looking for a one-word definition. It would be the word favor. God showing his favor to his people. If you're looking for a two-word definition, it would be, of course, unmerited favor. And theological definitions, of course, would be much longer and more extensive. God deals with us In unmerited favor. This morning we are continuing our brief mini-series on the Bible doctrines that were recovered during the Reformation. You may know that we are just two days away from a monumental anniversary. Because on October the 31st, 1517, Martin Luther nailed his famous 95 Theses to the door of the Wittenberg Church. To elicit any discussion or debate about things that bothered him. He was a faithful Roman Catholic, but there were things that he saw That disturbed him, that did not seem to be in keeping with Scripture, and he wanted to discuss this with others. And historians look at that as the beginning of the Protestant Reformation. Many people think of October 31st for something else, but I have to tell you, Through my entire adult life I always think of October thirty first as Reformation Day And this year is very monumental because it is 500 years since that event occurred, the event that changed the world. Now last work week we looked at this matter of sola scriptura, that is scripture alone. This doctrine means that the Bible is the ultimate authority. It's not Scripture and something else. It's not Scripture and the church. It's not Scripture and tradition. It's not Scripture and experience. It's Scripture alone And this morning we are going to look at sola gratia, which means grace alone. Martin Luther said that this doctrine is the hinge on which all turns. And he was right. This truth of grace alone is the great dividing line between all man -made religions. And God's revealed religion. It is the great dividing point. Sometimes people think the world is so complex and so disconcerting Because there's so many different churches, there's so many different denominations, so many religions over the world. I mean, it is truly complex. But if you really looked at it from this premise, you would see that there's really just two types of religion. There is a religion that says this is something that man must do to earn favor with God, and then there is what God has revealed clearly in his word, is that man can do nothing to earn his favor. That it's all of grace. This is not an academic or theological debate It is something that is profoundly important to you as an individual. Do you understand that salvation is entirely a work of God's? Or do you think that in some way you did your part, you contributed to being saved? Do you recognize that it's all of grace? Or do you think you've done something to gain God's acceptance? I'm going to preach to you this morning on this simple but marvelous truth that salvation is by grace alone. Now there's no way I'm going to cover these ten verses in the time that remains. I am going to talk about different things in these verses, but this text is far too rich to cover in one message. The first thing I want you to see in the first three verses is that we are graciously saved despite our deplorable condition. Look with me at verses one through three. And you hath ye quickened who were dead and trespasses and sins, wherein in time past ye walked according to the course of this world. according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience, among whom also we all had our conversation in time past in the lust of our flesh fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath even as others. Grace is like a brilliant diamond. And diamonds are best seen on a black cloth. And that is what we have here. Paul is revealing our true situation before we came to faith in Christ, before, apart from God's grace, this is who we all are. He says we all had our conversation or our lifestyle or behavior in time past. This describes all of us. And we see here our true condition apart from God's grace. Now I wonder what you think about man's natural moral state. I'm going to have to delve into a little bit of theology again, but this is very practical and very important. Do you think that people are basically good? Let me start there. There are three basic views that people have of humanity. One of them is that people are basically good. And to use a health analogy, we would say they're alive and well This is what most lost people believe. This is what they believe about themselves. And this is what they believe about others. They think I'm basically a good person. Yeah. Do things I shouldn't do. Have my vices like everyone does. But at my core, I'm a good person. And it's amazing how pervasive this belief is. This is the way man naturally thinks. You go to our state penitentiaries. You go to where people who have committed the most despicable crimes imaginable, and you talk to them, and the vast majority of them will say, I'm a really good person. This is the way people think about themselves. We live in a day in which self-esteem has been gr aggressively promoted in nearly every segment of our culture, and studies have shown that most people think that they are superior morally. They're better than average. And they have been taught that often from childhood. They further go on to believe that the only reason that people do bad things is because they are mistreated or they're given a poor example at home. Or they have some issue in their life, and this is why they make bad, hurtful choices. But that's not who they really are. They're really a good, good person at hearts. And they will look at things like the generosity of people, like when we had these recent hurricanes and earthquakes, and they'll look at all the strangers who went to help people. During Hurricane Harvey and all the money that was given and people who drove around and rescued people and they'll say, see, look how good people are. People at their core are very goods This is, of course, the idea, the presupposition behind the world's great emphasis on education. Many very intelligent people believe that if we can just educate people, if we can just give them the information and the ability to reason and to think, Then we won't have these horrible problems like addiction or like racism Or like violence, these things will disappear when we get our culture educated. But you know what? Our American culture has never been more educated than it is right now, and we still have these problems, don't we? And many of the people who have these problems are educated people. Why is that? Because mankind isn't basically good. He isn't alive and well spiritually. Another view, kind of a moderating view, is that people are both good and bad. That they are spiritually sick. They're not well, but they're not dead. They're just sick. Many religious people hold to this viewpoint, including many professing Christians. The idea is that we need God's help to help, God's help to enable us to get better. This is the viewpoint behind the expression, God helps those Who help themselves. You know, you do your part, and God will do his part. God will meet you, as it were, halfway. But this is not at all what the Bible teaches. The Bible's viewpoint is found in verse 1 and in many other passages. I want you to notice if you have a King James Bible that the word hathy quicken is in italics because it's not there in the original Greek text. It literally reads, and you who were dead and trespasses and sin. Man isn't healthy. Mankind is not naturally sick. Mankind is naturally dead. Spiritually dead. Now that doesn't mean that we don't move or exist. Of course we do. It doesn't mean that people are unaware of what is right and wrong because we've all been made in the image of God. And though that image has been defaced and is still there, we still have a conscience. It doesn't mean that we're unaware of the existence of God. Man instinctively knows there is a God. That is why the scriptures say the fool has said in his heart, there is no God. No, what this passage is saying is that everyone is naturally unresponsive to the things of God. Just as a dead body is unresponsive to any stimuli, so a lost person is unresponsive to God. Romans 3. 11 puts it this way. There is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after God's. That is a categorical statement. It doesn't say there's some who don't seek after God. It says there are none who seek after God. apart from God's grace. This passage goes on to say that we are not only Dead, but that we are spiritually enslaved. In verse 2, says he walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air. That is a reference to Satan. Although many lost people are not aware of this, the fact of the matter is they are in bondage to the devil. They are doing his will. And they're enslaved of the flesh. Verse 3 talks about having our conduct in times past and the lust of our flesh. fulfilling desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath even as others We're spiritually dead, spiritually enslaved, and spiritually condemned. Children of disobedience and children of wrath. I've heard people say before Christians that, you know, I was never really under the wrath of God because I was born into a Christian family and came to Christ in an early age. I want you to notice that Paul says here in verse 3, we all had our conversation. That's everyone. You may have been saved as a child, but you know you were still disobedient to the Lord. And if you had grown up apart from God's grace, you would have become the person described here exactly in this text. Now, did you know the Bible says a great deal about the wrath of God? We have here a reference to the wrath of God There are over 20 different terms in the Old and New Testaments for the wrath of God. Think about that. You know, when anthropologists go into a culture They learn about things that are important to that culture by how many synonyms they have for it For instance, if you go to an Inuit culture up in the Arctic Circle, you will find that they have like 12 or 14 different words for snow, different states of snow. No, we don't because that's not as much a part of our culture. If you go to the Arab world, you will find that they have many, many, many different synonyms for camels, different types of camels. Why? Because that's a part of their culture. When we come to Scripture, we find over twenty different words denoting God 's wrath. Something is mentioned about the wrath of God something like 600 times in the Bible. Now this is very unpopular today In case you didn't realize it. You could attend many churches, even churches that claim to be evangelical, and you could go there for years and never once hear about the wrath of God. And yet in God's word it's found again and again and again and again. You know, ignoring a truth does not change the reality. And sometimes people think if we just don't talk about the wrath of God, maybe it'll go away. But it doesn't work that way. Sometimes people think, well, you're the wrath of God, you know, that was all that Old Testament stuff But the New Testament is all about the love of God. So we don't have to think about or consider the wrath of God anymore. But let me remind you. That in that same chapter where we have the most famous verse in the Bible, John 3. 16, the conclusion of that chapter, John 3. 36, says this. He that believeth on the Son hath life, and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. Everyone in their natural, sinful, rebellious state is under the wrath of God. This is the deplorable condition of fallen mankind. We were all spiritually dead, spiritually enslaved, and spiritually doomed Apart from the grace of God. That brings me to my second point. We are all graciously saved through the intervention of God. Look with me. At verses 4 through 7. But God, who is rich in mercy for his great love wherewith he loved us even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace you are saved, and hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places. in Christ Jesus that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness towards us through Christ Jesus This is a wonderful text. It tells us that everything was bad news until God intervened. The spiritual condition of all of us seemed absolutely hopeless until God did something Notice that this whole passage, this whole paragraph, pivots on the first two words in verse 4, but God's. This has been called the greatest short phrase in the history of human speech. And you'll find something similar to this again and again in Scripture. You know the life story of Joseph? That young man that was sold into slavery by his brothers? And it was all part of God's plan to bring God's people into Egypt for a time to provide for them Develop their identity as a nation? Well, the whole summary of Joseph's life is found in the last chapter of Genesis. Genesis chapter 15 and verse 20 says, Joseph says these words, but as for you, you thought evil against me, but God meant it for goods. In 1 Samuel 23, 14, we read that Saul sought him, that is David, every day, but God delivered him not into his hands. In Psalm 73, verse 26, we read, My flesh and my heart faileth, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. And Romans chapter 5 and verse 8, we read, but God commendeth his love towards us, in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. In 1 Corinthians chapter 1 we read, For you see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called. But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. The scriptures are filled in the Old and New Testaments with the gracious intervention of God. Now what do you think of that? I hope that's amazing to you. Now the question that everyone always wants to ask is, well, why did God intervene in my life? The answer is not found in you. It's found in God's character. Notice what our text says. How our text describes this. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us. Even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. Speaks here of God's mercy and of his love. Not only did we not merit his attention or his love, but we demerited it. We were dead, we were hostile, we were rebellious to his ways, and yet he still demonstrated his love toward us. You see, God loves us not because we're lovable, but because he is a God of love. And he's a God of mercy and compassion. Says here he is rich in mercy. The idea is it's overflowing. Do you know what it is to be moved with compassion? Over a century ago there was an evangelist. In England by the name of Henry Morehouse. He came from a very rough background. He was the leader of a street gang in England. But he heard the gospel and was saved in the revival of 1859. And he preached about the love of God. He was famous for always going around and preaching on John 3. 16. That was his standard sermon. And he had the reputation for being a very loving man. One day he was walking down the street and there was a little girl that was carrying a pitcher of milk. And she slipped and fell, and the pitcher broke, and the milk poured out into the gutter. And she began to cry. And his heart was touched, and he said, Don't cry, little girl. But she said, when I get home, my mother will whip me, because I have broken the pitcher and I have wasted the milk. And Moorehouse said to her, no, she won't. And he picked up that little girl and he took her to a shop close by and they bought The most beautiful picture there. And then he went to the dairy and he had it filled up with milk. And he took her to her home and he said to her, See, I told you your mom would not with you. And she says, I know she won't because this pitcher is so much better than the one that we had before. But our loving God did much more than buy us a pitcher of milk. He sent his beloved son to die on an old rugged cross for us. All of us. Who have been born again are saved only because of God's gracious intervention The third point I want you to see this morning is this, that we are graciously saved without any contribution on our part. And this is where the famous verses come into play. Look with me at verse 8. For by grace are ye saved through faith, and that not of yourselves it is the gift. Of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. I noticed that many of you, when we said these verses, were not looking down because undoubtedly you have memorized them, and for good reason These are wonderful verses to commit to memory. I want you to notice very carefully what the text says. says first of all that we are saved by grace, which is what we're discussing this morning, and through faith. It doesn't say that we are saved because of our faith. Faith is not the ground of our salvation. It is the means or the channel of our salvation. We'll talk more about that, Lord willing, next week. And then we come to the phrase, and that not of yourselves. What does this mean? Well, the Greek construction expresses the idea of origin or source. What he is communicating is this, that you are not the source or the starting point of your own salvation. This is often contrary to the way we see things. We think of ourselves, you know, that I was Living my life and had a number of problems and disappointments and difficulties. Perhaps there was some kind of addiction or there was some kind of a crisis. And then someone shared the good news of the gospel with me, or I heard it on the radio, and it just clicked in my mind, and I knew what I needed to do, and so I came And I repented of my sins and I trusted in Christ, and now I'm a Christian. And often from our perspective, it seems like I did it all. I recognized I had a problem. I recognized the solution when I saw it. And so I made a decision. So you see, I essentially am responsible for my salvation. But the scriptures tell us that's not how it happened. That may be how it seems to happen in our end, but that's not really how it happened. It really happened with the work of God. It was God who started everything. And it was God who opened your heart so that you listened to the gospel. It was God who opened your eyes so that you saw the beauty of the Savior. It was God who Convicted you of your sin and brought you to repentance in faith. 1 John 4. 19 puts it this way, we love him because he first loved us. The next phrase here in this wonderful passage is, it is the gift of God. A gift, of course, is something that you don't earn or work for. It is freely given to you. And you can accept it. Now there's some debate about what this gift is. Some good men believe that it is the faith that is just mentioned. But the Greek grammar more naturally has led most Bible scholars to the conclusion this is the reference to all of our salvation. The entirety of our salvation is a gift of God's. And this is confirmed Again and again in the pages of Scripture, I mentioned earlier that Romans chapter 3 gives us the most theological explanation of the gospel. And Romans chapter 3 and verse 24 it says, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Whom God set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance of God. Now a true gift is not something that you pay for, right? We understand that. Men, let's think about it this way. Let's say that you your wife has a special birthday coming up and So you decide that for some time you're going to put money aside and you're going to wow her with a really special gift. It's a good thing to do, by the way, sometimes. You put out a good bit of money, and then you go to a jeweler and you buy a beautiful diamond for her. Diamond necklace. And it's just the kind that she likes, but one that she's never been able to afford. And so you get that for her. You wrap it up, you take it to her, and on the evening of her birthday, you present it to her. And she opens it up and she is so amazed and says to herself, how could you afford this? This is so expensive. And you say, you know, I've been I've been sacrificing and I've been saving for some time because for this special moment. And she says, just hold on a second. And she reaches into her purse and she digs around and she pulls out a $5 bill and she goes, I want to help out Now how would you feel? Would you be relieved that she did her part? No, I don't think so. I think you would be a little insulted. First of all, you wanted to do this on your part as a demonstration of your love. And secondly, $5 isn't really doing your part. I mean, it costs a lot of money. The box costs more than five dollars. What does the husband want? He wants his wife to receive it with gratitude. And to be overwhelmed with your generosity and your goodness, that's what he wants. And that is why any attempt on the part of man to pay his own way, to earn his own way, is repugnant in the eyes of God. Now I want you to know the scripture is absolutely clear about this matter. This is not a matter of, you know, some people say this and some people say This is what the Bible teaches. It is not of works. It's by faith alone. That is the only means by which we can be saved. Romans chapter 3 says this. Therefore, by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh Be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. And verse 28 says, Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law. And the same thing is mentioned again and again in the book of Galatians, which places a special emphasis on this The very next chapter here in Romans chapter 4, the entire chapter is about the fact that salvation has never been of works. It's always been by grace alone, through faith alone. You see, if salvation was possible by human effort, then Christ died on the cross unnecessarily. Perhaps you're here this morning, you're thinking to yourself, I'm okay, I'm a good father, I'm a good employee, I try to do what's right I donate occasionally to charity. I've even helped out at our soup kitchen before on Thanksgiving. I think that God will accept me the way I am with all my faults But consider all my good points as well. I want you to know that that is the well-worn path to hell. You can't do your part. The scripture says that all of our righteousnesses, all of our good deeds are as filthy rags in his sight. Not only is he not impressed by them, he is angered by them because it means that you have rejected the sacrifice of his son. But people tend to flatter themselves. They think they can earn God's favor. They think they can make the creator of the universe a debtor to them. I've done these things. Now God has to be good to me and he has to let me into heaven because look at my track record. Lost people invariably think that through discipline and determination they can impress God and strike a bargain with him. But God is not impressed with your good deeds. They do not attract him to you. They do not in any way earn favor with him. The hymn writer had it correct when he said, Not the labors of my hands can fulfill the law's demands. Could my zeal no respite know? Could my tears forever flow? These for sin could not atone. Thou must save and thou alone. So what is our response to the saving grace of God? Well the response is that we're humbled, we're profoundly humbled. Because it's not something that we did. It's not something that we earned through our determination and through our discipline. We can't say, well, you know, I turned over a new leaf and and I I pulled myself off by my own bootstraps, and this is where it's gotten me. No one will be bragging in heaven. Look at what I did We contribute nothing to our salvation. It is a gift of God's I'd like to conclude by reading a doctrinal statement to you and tell me what you think of it. Listen carefully. Our justification comes from the grace of God. Grace is favor, the free and undeserved help that God gives us to respond to his call to become children of God, adoptive sons, partakers of the divine nature and of eternal life. So what do you think of that? Sounds pretty good to me. This comes from the official catechism of the Roman Catholic Church. You see, Catholics do believe that salvation is by grace and through faith Now perhaps you're saying to yourself, then what is this whole Reformation thing about? I mean, you're talking about the 500th anniversary. Was this just all this, a big misunderstanding? No, it's all about the word alone. Because the catechism goes on to say, of course, a person must be baptized, they must partake of the Mass. They must do this, they must do this, they must do this, they must remain faithful in the church. God does his part. You do your part. And perhaps you would say, well, what is the big deal about one little word? I mean semantics It's the difference between life and death. It's the difference between salvation on man's terms. And salvation by God's grace. We are saved by grace alone. There was once an English evangelist named Wooten. He was very effective at bringing men to Christ. He was once packing up his large tent after an evangelistic campaign in a certain English town, and a young man came to him quite distraught and upset and agitated. And like the Philippian jailer, he basically said, What must I do to be saved? And the evangelist was still continuing his work. He didn't even look the man in the eye. He just said to him, sorry, it's too late. The young man said, you mean, you mean because the meetings are over, sir? And the evangelist replied, no, you're over a thousand years too late. There's nothing you can do to be saved. It's already been done at the cross. All that you can do is believe. This is the message of the gospel. Do you recognize that you, if you know the Lord, are only a sinner saved by grace? This is the glory of the gospel. It is not something that we have done. It is not something that we have helped with. It is entirely a work of God from beginning to end. And so all the glory and all the praise and all the gratitude go to Him and not to us. If you're here this morning, and as I've been discussing these various ideas and various scenarios, and you think to yourself, well, that's the way I think. I remember a man several years ago was here in this very building and and I and I said something like this. I said, maybe you're here this morning and you're thinking to yourself, you know, I'm a pretty good person. I work hard. I'm a good father And and I think that is going to put me in good standing with God, and I think I'm going to heaven because of that. And I said, that is absolutely wrong. And he said to me, When you said that, that's exactly the way I was thinking And you said it was wrong. And I realized that my thinking was entirely wrong about that. And that young man came to faith in Christ. The first step is recognizing you're on the wrong road and seeing yourself as you truly are, as is described in verses 1 through 3 here. Not a good person. but a dead person. Not a person who loves God, but a person who actually hates God. Not a person who's walking obediently, but a person who is walking disobediently, a child of wrath. It is only when you see yourself as you truly are, that you will see the glory of the gospel and the amazing grace that God provides for salvation. May God help us to cling to this wonderful truth and to respond in faith. Let's pray. Father We thank you that we are saved by grace alone. We thank you for your great work of redemption. We thank you that you save sinful, dead, rebellious people like us, and you change us by your grace. I pray, Father, that you would use something that is said this morning to draw sinners to the Savior and to restore and encourage your people. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.