If you have your Bibles, you can turn with me to the passage we read, Romans 11. I'm not really preaching an expositional message from that text, but we will certainly begin there. In 1543, Nicholas Copernicus published his heliocentric view of the solar system. He claimed correctly in that paper that the Sun is the center of the solar system, not the Earth, as most people believed at the time. Now Copernicus was not the first person to make this discovery. Ancient Greek astronomers knew that the Earth orbited the Sun and Arab astronomers speculated that the Earth was not fixed but moved around the Sun. But for over 1,300 years, European astronomers accepted the Ptolemaic system that supported the geocentric view of the solar system. And the simple reason that most people accepted this view is because from their perspective, it seemed That they indeed were at the center of the universe and everything moved around them. This tends to be our viewpoint on life as well. It's interesting if you were to study ancient maps. of great civilizations, you would find that every great empire, every great nation always puts themselves at the center of the map and everyone else is around them. That tends to be our natural perspective on things. We naturally have an egocentric view of the world. This viewpoint influences everything, including our view of God's. The natural viewpoint of most people is that God exists To serve us as human beings. He forgives us. He provides for us. He protects us. That's what he's there for. But this is not, of course, what the Bible teaches. The Bible teaches the exact opposite. The Bible teaches that everything in the universe exists for the glory of God 's. This morning we come to the last of the five solas that we have been exploring these last five weeks. We have done this, of course, in commemoration of the 500th anniversary of the Protestant Reformation. We have looked at sola scriptura, which means that the Bible alone is our final authority and sola gratia. That is that we are saved by grace alone, and sola fide, we are saved through faith alone, and then solo Christo, we are saved by the work of Christ alone. And now today we come to the fifth and final one, Sole de Ogloria, which means to the glory of God alone. How do these five truths relate to one another? I think a helpful way to think of this is to think of these five truths like the basic building materials. of a temple. Some of you are visual learners, so picture this in your mind. For the foundation of this temple, you have sola scriptura. God 's revelation to us, his special revelation of who he is and of his beloved son. And then on top of that foundation, you have three great pillars of truth. That relate to our salvation. You have on one side, sola gratia, we are saved by grace alone. On the other side, you have sola fide, we are saved through faith alone. And then in the middle you have solo Cristo, we are saved through the work of Christ alone. These three great pillars are anchored on top of that foundation of sola scriptura. And then on top of these three pillars, the roof of this temple of truth. Is so led day of gloria to the glory of God alone. I find this to be a helpful way of visualizing these truths and how they function and relate to us. So today we come to the roof of this structure, to the glory of God alone. Let's begin with what does the word glory mean? This is one of those terms that we use all the time, but perhaps we're not really sure what it means. The word glory in Hebrew originally had the idea of that which was weighty or heavy. Because a person that was important was a heavy person. It's hard for us to imagine this in our day and age where everyone strives to be thin. But did you know that most people in the history of the world have endeavored to have a little bit of girth to them? Because it was a symbol of success. It is still that way in many places of the world today. I can regale you with stories of our missionaries about that. It's absolutely true. And so a person who was wealthy, who was important, who was confident, and was successful was a heavy person. They also had a lot of heavy coins in their pockets. We still use this expression today, that person carries a lot of weight around here. Their opinion matters a great deal. That's the root meaning of the Old Testament word. It also can have the idea of brightness or splendor. And then in the New Testament, the word for glory comes from the word for opinion or reputation. And so, really, if you put these concepts together, the glory of God refers to the greatness of God beautifully expressed in the manifestation of his attributes. And perhaps the key text for the glory of God is the passage that we read together this morning. Oh, the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out. Paul here is just concluding the first half of the book of Romans. He's talked about God's sovereignty and working with the nations of the world, especially with Israel and with individuals as well. And he comes to this exclamation, this doxology of praise. His ways are past finding out. That is, you cannot really trace it or understand it. And he goes, For who hath known the mind of the Lord or who hath been his a counselor? I've said this to you before, but God's never come to you for advice. He doesn't go to anyone. He doesn't go to the sages of the world because he is the God of all wisdom. And all knowledge. And verse 35, or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again. God is not in debt to any one God does not owe anybody anything. And then he summarizes in this monumental statement in verse 36, you can't get any bigger. And your conception of the universe than this, for of him and through him, and to him are all things. To whom be glory forever. Amen. He says, first of all, for of him, that is, everything has its beginning, its origin, its source in God. He is the ultimate cause of everything. And then it says, and through him, that is, everything is sustained and upheld and controlled by him, everything in the universe. From the most minute and trivial detail to the most profound international events. And then and to him. What does that mean? That means that all things are made and exist to bring glory to God. It all comes from Him and it all comes back to Him. This is one of the most amazing statements in all of Scripture. Now what do you think of that? The fact that all glory goes to God. The fact is there are some people that have a problem with that. I have been asked this question more than once. Why is it not pride and arrogance for God to want to receive all the glory? They would say something like this. Why would it be wrong for me to want others to glorify me? But it's all right for God to receive all the glory. How does that work? Seems sort of like a double standard. I wonder if that thought has ever crossed your mind. Perhaps it has, and you were just afraid to ask any questions about it. You've all known the name of Oprah Winfrey. She came from a Christian background. But when she was 27 years old She read in the Bible that God demanded the highest allegiance and affection, and that didn't seem right to her. It didn't seem very loving, she says. And so she rejected Christianity. Perhaps you've heard of the famous actor Brad Pitts. He also came from a Christian heritage, and he said that he felt from reading the scriptures that God seemed to be egotistical. Because he wanted everyone to praise him and glorify him. And that just didn't seem right. And so he turned away from that. So before we really get into our message this morning, I feel like I need to clear away this question. Why is it not sinful for God to seek his glory? Number one, and perhaps most importantly , because it is rooted in the truth. Why is it wrong for anyone to seek their glory, any human being? Why is it that we are so bothered by somebody who wants to be the center of attention and thinks they're all that? You know why? Because we know it's not true. It's a delusion. They're really not that great. They're really not that talented. They're really not that intelligent. But they act as if they're the center of the universe. And we know that's not right. It's not true. But God is He is an infinite and eternal God. This is not hype, this is reality. He is the ultimate reality in the universe. He is the creator of all, and he is the end of all things. He is the sustainer of all things. And therefore, for him not to seek his glory would be to live a lie and what is not true. Another reason it's appropriate for God to seek his glory is because it's actually an expression of love. Now, in our experience on earth, proud people are not loving people. They trample on others to exalt themselves. But this, of course, is not the case with God. He is inherently great. He doesn't need to tramp on anyone And the most loving instruction that he can give to us as human beings is to live for his glory, because that's the ultimate reality of the universe. It's like the law of gravity, except it's even greater than that because God created those laws. And thirdly, the fact is, whether you deny it or whether you like it or not, you were made to glorify God. We have all been made in the image of God. We all have, as you've heard many times before, a God-shaped void in our hearts. And we never really function properly. We never really function as intended until God is at the center of our lives. And so you will find that the happiest, most well-adjusted people in the world are people who live for the glory of God. And you will find that people who live for their own glory, for their own pleasure, for their own praise are invariably the most restless, the most miserable people on the planet, because God never intended our lives to be lived in that way. So I want to speak to you this morning on this proposition that Christians should live for the glory of God. The first thing I want us to remember from the overall teaching of Scripture is that we must remember that we have been saved. For the glory of God. And I want to bring out two important considerations from that proposition. What does this mean? It means, first of all, that we have not been saved because of anything that we have done. Now, I know this is well-tread I have talked about it when we talked about solo gratia and when we talked about the fact that we're saved by faith alone. I keep emphasizing the scripture teaches that we are not saved by works. We're not saved by what we have done. But I can't really talk about the solo without coming back to that one more time. The scriptures teach that we have contributed nothing to our salvation. It is all of grace. Our salvation is sola gratia by grace alone. The key text for this is Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. For by grace are you saved through faith and that not of yourselves. It is a gift of God. Not of works, lest any man should boast. No one will be bragging in heaven. No one will be saying, look at what I have achieved, look at what I accomplished, look at how I earned my way here. No one will be saying that. And said, God will get all the glory for redeeming hopelessly sinful people like us. Our salvation is also by faith alone. I would invite you, if you would like, to turn back just a few pages to Romans chapter 3. We spent Considerable time looking at these verses that are at the heart of the gospel. Romans chapter 3. I'll begin with verse 23. For all have sinned. And come short of the glory of God. That is our problem. We don't live for God's glory. That's true of every sinner, of every human being that has been tainted by the fall, which is all of us. But then we read verse 24, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Whom God has set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance. And then verse 26, to declare I say at this time his righteousness that he might be just And the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus. Now look with me at verse 27. Look at that question. Where is boasting then? Answer, it is excluded. The fact that we have been saved by grace through faith Eliminates any human boast, any pride on our part that somehow we are better than others who are lost, that somehow we have more sense We have a better grasp of morality or better grasp of God's truth than others, and therefore because of who we are, we are saved. All of that is negated. That kind of thinking by the facts of the gospel, we have been saved by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. Jesus is the one who has done it all for us. He is our Savior. He is the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world. He's our Passover, our Redeemer, our propitiation, our Savior. The hymn writer was correct when he said, Jesus paid it all, all to him I owe. This is what we must never forget. And when we recognize this truth, it will compel us to live for the glory of God. But there's another aspect under this heading that I want to bring up, and that is that we have been saved Not primarily for our benefits. Now do not misunderstand me. There are great benefits that we enjoy , As being the children of God, pardoned for sin and a peace that endureth thine own dear presence to cheer and to guide. We could go on and on with all of the blessings that we have in Christ. And we have wonderful verses like John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. And we embrace and we relish in that truth. But understand that we must not reduce the gospel to this thinking that God saves us simply because he doesn't want us to go to hell. Sometimes Christians think that way. It's so easy to make the glorious gospel all about us. I have heard sometimes the gospel explain like this. God saw your infinite worth, and he loved you so much that he sent his son to die for you. That's such a man -centered approach to the gospel. I'm going to use a little bit of illustration here. It's not perfect. It's not a perfect analogy, but it may help us to understand this a little bit, and it's not unique to me Every parent here probably knows what it is to have a little child, and for some inexplicable reason, almost every child attaches their affection on something that's soft. Whether it be a blanket or a stuffed animal, and there's a period of time in their infancy, and when they're a toddler where they will not go anywhere without that, they can't sleep without it. And you dare not lose it. And every parent knows what it is to see that little teddy bear or bunny rabbit or whatever it might be become chewed up and mangled and it looks disgusting, but they will not part with it And so just think of this of the father who finally after several years of this one night decides, you know what, she's getting too old for this. We don't need this stuffed animal. So he takes that stuffed animal. And he goes up and he puts it up in a box in the attic and he says, She'll never miss it. But then the next day he hears her crying and she's saying, Where is my teddy bear? And he says, Well, you know, you're growing up, you don't really need that. Adults don't have stuffed animals, blah, blah, blah. And so she she gets really upset and that night he hears her crying and she won't go to sleep and she just keeps crying. He can't sleep and so he goes up into the attic. And he gets out that teddy bear and he takes it down and he gives it to his daughter. Now, if that little mangled, chewed up teddy bear missing its eyes and one ear Could talk and say, you know, it's about time those human beings recognize my infinite worth. Now is there great intrinsic value in that little stuffed animal? Could you sell it for a fortune? No, you couldn't The only value that animal possesses, that little stuffed animal possesses, is because this little girl has chosen to attach her affections to it. But apart from that, it has no value at all. We're kind of like that stuffed animal saying, you know, the reason why that little girl has me because she recognizes how incredibly valuable I really am. No, we're like that chewed-up teddy bear missing an ear and two eyes, and everyone looks at it and just wants to throw it in the trash because it's worthless. But God has loved us and sent his son to die for us, not because we are so valuable and he just can't get along without us. He loves us not because we're lovable, but because he is a God of love. He shows mercy to us. Not because we're worthy of that necessarily, but because he's a God of pity. He shows grace to us, not because we've earned his grace, but because he's a graceful God. The gospel reflects not on so much on who we are, but on who he is And in the cross, the glory of God is on full display. The attributes of God are revealed. At the cross, we see the wrath of God. We find out how serious our sin truly is. At the cross, we see the justice of God and we see the sovereignty of God because his death was not an accident, but part of his great plan of redemption. At the cross we see the mercy of God and the grace of God and the love of God on display for all the world to see. Our salvation is ultimately all about revealing the manifold perfections of God. We are saved for the glory of God's Now, a great side benefit of that is that we get eternal life. We give it to be with the Lord forever, but that brings him glory. It's not to bring us glory. This is exactly what the scriptures teach. Turn with me if you would like to Ephesians chapter 1. I'm not going at all to expound or even read this incredible preface to the book of Ephesians. Which is verses 1 through 14, which is actually one sentence in the Greek language, but there is a refrain, a chorus, if you will, that is found in this hymn of praise, which talks about the greatness of our salvation. In verse 6, it says, to the praise of the glory of his grace. And then if you look again at verse 12, that we should be to the praise of his glory who first trusted in Christ. And then the concluding verse, verse 14, which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession, unto the praise of his glory. So you see how our salvation is all about the glory of God. We have been saved, not for our comfort primarily, but for his glory. The second thing I want us to consider this morning is that we must remember to worship for the glory of God. What kind of worship would glorify God? And for this, I must go a little bit into the historical context of the Reformation. This was a question that the Reformers wrestled with in their day. All of the reformers, it must be remembered, came out of the Roman Catholic Church. That was their heritage. That's what they were born into. That's what they observed growing up all of their years. And much of the worship that they observed They concluded it was not for the glory of God. The churches were filled with statues which became like idols to the common people. They bowed before them and prayed to them and venerated them. And the reformers correctly observed that this was a violation of the second commandment. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image And their services were all conducted in Latin, a language that very few people knew. And so the common people would sit there in their pews, and the entire service would be in a language that they did not understand. And they were forbidden to use a Bible if they could ever find a Bible. And the sermon was in a language they could not comprehend. The people came out of a sense of guilt, hoping that by attending the Mass, God would somehow pardon their sin. The priests claimed to possess supernatural power, which enabled them to turn the bread and wine in some mystical way into the body and blood of Christ. And so the large portion of Christendom came Sunday by Sunday To hear a service that they could not understand, to hear readings from a book that they had never read for themselves, to hear songs and sermons That were way over their head, and to participate in a ritual that they had no understanding of, only that it was absolutely necessary if they had any hope of ever going to heaven. Their worship was a dead performance filled with rituals and motivated by fear and dread. And the reformers knew that something was wrong. And so they searched the scriptures and they discovered that much of what occurred in their services was either condemned in Scripture or was certainly not commended in Scripture. And so they decided to turn to worship that was regulated by Scripture. And so they would consider passages like John chapter 4 and verse 24, this wonderful verse that says, God is a spirit. And they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. Now, what is meant here by here in spirit? It's not referencing here the Holy Spirit, but the human spirit. That is, we must worship God from our hearts. Do we understand that God Is not impressed. God is not worshiped, and we just go through the motions without our hearts being engaged And that was a problem that the reformers saw, that people, because they couldn't understand what was being said, their hearts obviously were not engaged. They were just going through the motion, standing up, sitting down, kneeling, coming forward, taking communion, and then going home. And supposing that they were better because they had come and somehow taken of these elements. One of the things the Reformers did to encourage worship from their hearts was they introduced congregational singing. That's why Martin Luther wrote hymns like A Mighty Fortress is Our God 's. And they now invited the whole congregation to sing. Because in the Catholic churches for hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years, the people never sang. They had a little choir. from a monastery or nunnery, and they would sing some songs in Latin and a very minor key, and that was the music. And the people just sat there and listened. They were always just spectators, never participants. But the reformers said, no, the scriptures speak of the people of God praising the Lord and singing praises to his name, so we need to encourage the people to sing. And so they turned the psalms into songs that people could sing. in their native language. And they began to conduct services in the language of the people So the services were conducted in German or French or English, depending on what region of the world an individual lived. And the worship that glorifies God, of course, must be, it says in spirit and in truth It must be rooted in the revelation of God as found in his word, and so they knew it was necessity that the Bible be translated into the vernacular, the common language of the people. This is why Martin Luther translated the Bible into German and Tyndale into English. And many other European languages as well, because the people needed to read the scriptures for themselves. This was the real key that exploded the Reformation. It was people reading the Bible for themselves and seeing what was true rather than just trusting in what someone speaking in a language they couldn't understand told them God was seeing. And you'll see this even in the way a church is arranged. You can still see this to this day. You want to know where our church stands and what they emphasize in worship? This is a very simple test you can always apply. Where is the pulpit? In a Catholic Church, the center will always be the altar. That's what worship's all about. It's all about the Mass. In a truly Protestant church, the center will always be the pulpit. It will be the focal point because people have come to hear the word of the Lord. That is the focal point of worship. What has God said? And by the way, even in churches that have pulpits, you can get a sense of the importance of it even by where the pulpit is placed in the auditorium and what it looks like, whether it's something that is solid and substantial Or something that's flimsy and small, or perhaps non-existence. The Reformers understood that worship that pleases God, that glorifies God Must be worship that is based on the Word of God 's. This is why they recover the forgotten practice of expositional preaching. They went page by page to the Word of God and said, Thus saith the Lords. You see, worshiping God is a serious matter. Whether we're worshiping together as a church or whether we're worshiping as an individual in our homes. Worship is not entertainment, it's not a performance, it's not a psychological pep talk. We are worshiping in the presence of God. And so how you come, and the mindset that you have when you come to church and what you allow your mind to focus on is not insignificant. It's very important. It's very easy to fall into a pattern of barely singing during the song time, of daydreaming during the prayer time, and sleeping during the sermon. Yes, I see you out there. When you're asleep. Sometimes people are amazed. You mean you can see what I'm doing out there? You can see if I'm asleep or not. Oh yeah, I see everything. I see it Now there can be many reasons for this. It could be that you worked all night, could be that you're on some medication, could be that you're some kind of person. I know people like this, you know people like this. As soon as they sit down, their eyes close. That's the way some people are. But it could be that you've adopted this pattern that worship's not really that important. That this is just something that I go to to get over with so I can come out and do what I really want to do You know what? If that is your mindset, you're like those people in the Middle Ages who went to church. They put in their time. They checked off the box. I guess God's pleased with me now. I came to worship. I don't remember a thing that was said But I came and I've left, and so I'm good. No, God will not receive that kind of worship. The only worship that glorifies God is worship that is done in spirit that is from your hearts and in truth, based on the Word of God. This is how we must worship. This is worship that glorifies God. And thirdly and finally, this morning. We must remember to make choices for the glory of God. Every day of our lives as Christian individuals, we are to live for the glory of God 's. And every day we make choices that reveal what is truly important to us, what is really the treasure of our hearts. And so our choices are not insignificant. This is what the scripture teaches. Turn with me, please, if you can, to 1 Corinthians chapter 10. 1 Corinthians chapter 10. And verse thirty-one, a very familiar verse. Paul writes 1 Corinthians 10 31. Whether therefore ye eat or drink or whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God 's. This is another one of those all-encompassing verses. Every activity of the believer should be done for the glory of God. And if you can't do that for the glory of God, then you shouldn't be doing that. Now in context here, he's talking about the Christian's testimony before others. Paul here is addressing the matter of eating meat that was offered to idols The Corinthians lived in a city renowned for its idolatry, and every day people brought in meats to offer as sacrifices before their gods, and after the day was over they didn't throw out the meat. They took it to a marketplace, and it would be some type of a sign that says this meat was already offered to gods, but it's now on a discount. 20% off And there were some Christians who adopted the position that meat has been dedicated to demons and to idols. I will not touch it. I will not purchase it. That reminds me of the old lifestyle when I went to the temples, those pagan temples, and I want nothing to do with it. Other Christians said their false gods don't exist. This meat is not intrinsically different. And besides that, I like a bargain. And so they bought the meat in good conscience without any sense of oh I'm doing something wrong. The same was true of beverages that were offered set there as they would put these food for the idols, as it were. You could also buy beverages that were offered in that way. And then Paul goes on to say that in the church, we need to be careful that we do not make choices and do things. That would cause others to stumble back into a lifestyle of sin. And so he concludes that argument, which I don't have time to trace all the way through. Whether therefore ye eat or drink or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God. Verse 32, give none offense. Neither to the Jew, nor to the Gentile, nor to the church of God, even as I please all men in all things, not seeking my own prophet. but the profit of many that they might be saved. You see, our choices, even in trivial practices, can either bring glory to God or they can cause a stumbling block for others, both for believers and unbelievers. You've heard it said before that for somebody somewhere you're the only Christian that they really know. You're the only Bible that they read So when you're at work, does your testimony, does your work ethic, does your attitude about your employer glorify God Or does it make your unsaved co-worker think, wow, you see the way that Christian person talks about their boss and the way they come into work late and the way they make excuses and the way they steal things from the office. I mean, if that's what it is to be a Christian, I will never ever consider the claims of Christ. We have to be careful. We are to be salt. We are to be light. We are to be a testimony. We are to be an edifying force in the church of God and a light in this dark world. And so our choices, even in small matters , make a great difference. Now turn with me back just a few chapters to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Paul in this chapter speaks about the importance of sexual purity He says in verse 18, flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body, but he that committh fornication sinneth against his own body. What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which you have of God, and ye are not your own, for ye are bought with the price, therefore glorify God. in your body and in your spirit which are God 's. Some of the Corinthians have bought into a false dichotomy, a false philosophy that taught that what you do with your body is irrelevant. It's the spirit that matters. So you can Go and do whatever with your body, then you say it's just my body, my spirit's not really engaged. And Paul says it doesn't work that way Whatever you do with your spirit, your heart, whatever you do with your body, everything should be done for the glory of God's. Paul was preaching and ministering in Corinth, which was a very immoral city as part of their worship. A lot of sexual perversion was a part of their pagan rituals. And so Paul has to sound the alarm and call the people to holiness and to purity. There was a time when believers would read these chapters and they would say, how horrible, how depraved it must have been. to live in that culture. But you know what? We're not very far removed from it today. For much of our nation's history. Just about everyone agreed. That sexual intimacy was just between a husband and a wife. There's always been immoral people. But if you were to ask most people, they would say, oh yeah, yeah, it should just be in marriage. That's it. But that biblical notion has been largely abandoned. Sexual freedom is now considered a fundamental human right. And so most of our children today are born out of wedlock. Did you know that? Most children this year born in America will not be born to a man and woman who are legally married. Think about that. Think about how much has changed since you were a child. Homosexual marriage is now the law of the land, and pornography is our nation's most common addiction. Our culture today is very much like ancient Corinth. And if we are going to live lives to the glory of God, we must Heed Paul's warning here. We must flee immorality. We must avoid it like the plague. We must recognize that we have been bought with the price, the precious blood of Jesus Christ. And we must make choices that reflect that we belong to Him and that we live to bring Him glory. We should also exhibit the fruit of a spirit in our lives. Turn with me, if you would, to Philippians chapter 1. Philippians chapter 1. Paul is praying here for the believers at Philippi And he says in Philippians chapter 1 and verse 9, and this I pray you that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment, that ye may approve things that are excellent that ye may be sincere and without offense to the day of Christ, being filled with the fruits of righteousness which are by Jesus Christ unto the glory and praise of God 's. What is the fruit of righteousness? It is the righteous attitudes and actions that flow out of our lives because of our communion with Christ. Because we are yielding more and more to the Spirit of God. And we are putting off our old deeds and our old attitudes and our old lifestyle, and we're living more and more for Christ. And so what comes out of our lives Is the fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. This is the natural produce. Of someone who is controlled by the Spirit of God. And a person who lives this way is living unto the glory and praise of God. This is how God has called us to live. Do you know that we're not only supposed to live for the glory of God? Did you know that we are even to die to the glory of God? In John chapter 21 and verse 19, the Lord is revealing to Peter How he will die, and how John the Apostle will die, it says in verse 19, this spake he signifying by what death he should glorify God 's The entirety of our existence is for the glory of God. Even our final days are not to be indulged in selfish thoughts. But are to be lived for the glory of God. How could we die to the glory of God by showing those around us The joy that is set before us by showing people the assurance that we have that we are going to a better home. By showing them that our real treasure is not the things on this earth, but it is Christ. By dying at peace. And with rest, because we are going to our Father's house. This is how a person can even die for the glory of God. Not filled with complaints. Not filled with vindictive statements, not lashing out in bitterness with regrets. But dying at peace, dying with joy because you're going home. All of the Christians' existence is for the glory of God. I think one of the finest examples of living for the glory of God was this man, Jonathan Edwards. I visited his grave site this summer on vacation. He was the man that God used in a mighty way to bring about the great awakening in this country. His preaching and writing has left a legacy to our nation and the world. As a young man Of the age of 19, Jonathan Edwards wrote out some resolutions that would govern the rest of his life. He said, resolved never to do anything Which I should be afraid to do if it were the last hour of my life. Resolved never to act as if I were in any way my own. But entirely and altogether God's, and finally resolved that I will do whatever I think to be most to God's glory. This is the best way to live. What is the chief end of man? Know God and enjoy him forever. This is what God has made us to do. This is what he's redeemed us to do. And this is how we can live for the glory of God. Let's close in prayer. Father I pray that you would remind us again of this wonderful truth That we can bring you glory in our lives and the choices that we make, and the sacrifices that we make, and the worship that we give, and the way we Give up things for the sake of others. I pray, Father, that you would help us to be reminded this morning. Of living for the glory of God. Help us, Father, to live not for ourselves, but that you might be exalted. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.