It's good to have you with us this morning. We are continuing our study of the five solas. And this morning I get to talk to you about Christ alone, which should thrill every gospel preacher. Cultural commentator Alan Bloom wrote these words a number of years ago. But they're certainly still true, if not more so, today. He said openness is the great insight of our times. The true believer is the real danger. The study of history and of culture teaches that all the world was mad in the past. Men always thought they were right, and that led to wars, persecutions, slavery, xenophobia, racism, and chauvinism. The point is not to correct the mistakes and really be right. Rather, it's not to think that you're right at all. This viewpoint that is espoused so often today is the postmodern relativism. It has been primarily and almost uniformly adopted by the educated elite in the Western world. And it has influence in all areas of life. And certainly in regards to religion. And the one basic rule that they have in regards to religious beliefs. is simply that one must never think that what they believe or practice is better than what somebody else believes or practices. There must be absolute tolerance, which means not just that you put up with the religious practices of others. but that you celebrate them and you believe them to be equal in the same practices that you endeavor. The idea is that we must accept all religious beliefs as equally valid. This is what is taught in most of our colleges. And this is what is spoused by many leaders in our nation. But the fact is that this popular notion cannot withstand any scrutiny. Does anyone really believe that all religious practices are valid or equal or pleasing in the eyes of God? Any survey of the world and of history will refute this very prevalent proposition. Does anyone really think that the burning of widows with their dead husband is an acceptable religious practice? That was what Hindus practiced. For centuries when a woman's husband died She was tied to his dead body and put on top of a stack of combustible materials and set ablaze. She was burned alive. And that's the way everyone did it in India for centuries because that's what the Hindus taught was the right religious thing to do. But William Carey, when he came with the gospel, he said and proclaimed loudly, this is barbaric. This is wrong. This is cruel. This must stop. And through his influence and the influence of other missionaries, it was finally made illegal. I'm sure you know that many ancient religions practiced child sacrifice. We read that in the Old Testament, the Canaanites. practice child sacrifice. It was a regular part of their religion. And some of the kings of Judah and Israel went so far away from God that they practiced the same things. But God condemned it. And condemned them for their actions. The Aztec Indians on special days of worship would sacrifice 10,000 teenage girls to their gods. They were brutally murdered And that was part of their religious worship. So are we to say, well, we should not call into question what people do in the name of religion? And let's not forget a more modern example, as I'd mentioned in recent weeks The actions of the 19 hijackers on September the eleventh were a religious action They did so because they were following what they believed to be the strict teaching of the Quran, and that is the infidels were to be killed in the name of Allah. So if we are going to be consistent and say that all religious beliefs are equally valid and all religious practices should be supported, we should not have a problem with what happened on September the 11th. Because they were just living out their faith. You see, this idea that all religious beliefs and practices are equally valid cannot withstand the slightest bit of thought, reflection, and investigation. It's ridiculous to believe that all religious beliefs are equally valid. and that there is no truth. This morning as we continue our study of the five solas of the Reformation, we come to one that is especially politically incorrect. In Latin it goes by solo Cristo, which means Christ alone. What does this concise statement mean? It means that salvation is found through the person and work of Jesus Christ alone. It's not found in any other way. Now you may notice that this particular propositional truth is inherently connected with the other things that we've already covered in our study of the five souls. We started out by talking about sola scriptura, scripture alone. Well, what are the scriptures all about? From beginning to end, the scriptures point to the Lord Jesus Christ. And then of course we looked at sola gratia, which means grace alone. Well, what is the ultimate demonstration of the grace of God? It was in the sending of his son to die for sinners like us. And we spoke last week of sola fide, faith alone. But the question is In what do we place our faith, or in whom do we place our faith? And the answer is only in the person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is the exclusive message of the Bible from cover to cover. The Bible does not speak of many ways to truth. It does not support the common analogy that all roads lead to Rome or that people may call gods by different names, but they're all talking about the same God. That is not what the Scripture teaches. And I wonder if we're absolutely clear about that. I wonder what you think of in the depths of your heart when you would think of a kind-hearted Muslim who follows the five pillars of Islam. and who lives a good life in the estimation of their peers. Do you think that that person, because they are a good person, they are kind-hearted, they are generous, do you think that person will go to heaven? Or how about the Buddhist mother in Myanmar Will she be accepted by God because on all accounts she is a good person? She is a loving mother, she is a faithful spouse She is an outstanding member of her community. Will she be accepted into the presence of God for eternity because of her good standing before others? Or how about one that's even a little more disturbing, perhaps? What about a person who believes that Jesus is the Son of God and that he died on the cross? But they also believe that a person must earn their way to heaven through being baptized, attending Mass, observing Lent, praying to saints, going to confession, etc. etc. Is that person accepted in the eyes of God? You see, this these five solas really cuts in some cases uncomfortably for people to the very heart, the very root of the gospel. Is salvation really By grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. You see, these truths, these propositional truths, do not leave us with any other position than that the gospel message is an exclusive message. And these these questions that I ask you, these scenarios that I put before you are not irrelevance They are matters of your own life and death because if you believe that a a good Muslim or a good Hindu or a good Buddhist or whatever it may be, or just a good person in our community, if you think because of their merits, because of their good record in the community, because they are not because they are law-abiding, tax-paying citizens, that somehow they go to heaven, then my friend, you don't understand the gospel. And you need to consider what the scripture teaches about this. Salvation is found in Christ alone. I want you to first of all consider this truth. Jesus Christ is the only Savior that God has provided. If you would like, you can turn with me to John chapter 14 and verse 6, a very, very familiar verse. This is perhaps the most offensive verse in the minds of many people today because it cuts to the root of pluralism. John chapter 14 and verse 6, Jesus is speaking to his disciples. He's just told them that he is going to go away. They are anxious and disturbed about this. He tells them that he is going to prepare a place for them. And he says, you know the way that I'm going. And Thomas saith unto him, verse 5, Lord, we know not whither thou goest. How can we know the way? Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. This is a categorical statement. There's only one way to God And that's through Jesus Christ. You'll notice the repetition of the word the. I am the way, the truth, the life. Why did he put the definite article in front of all of these? Because he wanted to emphasize that Jesus is not a way to God. He is the way to God. Unless someone misunderstands, the second half of the verse is very Dogmatic. It says, no man, that is no person cometh unto the Father but by me. You see, there's absolutely no wiggle room with this verse. It makes a blunt, categorical, dogmatic assertion that you must either accept or reject. And this, of course, is found in other passages as well. We read one together this morning. That's why we read from Acts chapter 4. For thou there is salvation in any other, for there's no other name given among men whereby we must be saved. The apostles were clear. Jesus Christ is the only way. 1 Corinthians chapter 3 and verse 11 says, For other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. But that raises the question, why is it that Jesus is the only Savior of mankind? And the answer is because Jesus is unique. He is the only one that is qualified. First of all, he is God in human flesh. Man could never save himself, and so God sent his only begotten Son to die for us. Jesus was and is a hundred percent man and a hundred percent god. Sometimes liberals will claim that Jesus never actually claimed to be God and they will say he was a great teacher, he was a wonderful example. But he's not God in flesh. We'll just consider, and I'm going to run through these very quickly, a few of the statements that Jesus made. We could go and look at his works and see his power and his miracles that he had the attributes of God. He performed the actions of God. But just consider some of his statements. He said, I am the bread of life. He said, I am the light of the world. I am the door of the sheep. I am the good shepherd. I am the resurrection and the life. He says in Matthew chapter 7 at the conclusion of the Sermon on the Mount, he says that if a person will live their life By my teachings, then they will be able to withstand the judgment of God. Just imagine someone saying that. Any other person in the history of the world, if you live your life on my truth, on me then you will be accepted before God. That is that is such an incredible statement to make But those kinds of statements were made by our Lord again and again. He said to his disciples, you are my friends if you do whatsoever I command you. He said, as we saw several weeks ago, come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. He didn't say, turn to God. He said, turn to me. And he said in this very chapter, he that hath seen me hath seen the Father. And he said right before his ascension, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. We call all power omnipotence. Who is omnipotent but God 's Either Jesus was the most extreme megalomaniac the world has ever known, or he is exactly who he claimed to be, the only begotten Son of God. But Jesus Christ is not only the God man who came to save, but he's also the sinless Lamb of God, slain for sinners. Remember what John the Baptist said. Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. Only a sinless sacrifice would do. There's only one person that has lived a sinless life on this earth. And that is the Lord Jesus Christ. He was able to say to his adversaries, which of you convinced me of sin? No one could ever say that besides our Lord, right? Would you ever say to your friends, well can you ever name a time when I've ever sinned? I've ever done something wrong? Could you ever say that to your spouse? With a straight face? I don't think so. I don't think so. Because we're all sinful. But Jesus said, I always do those things that please my Father. The Bible is filled with all kinds of testimonies to his purity. The thief on the cross said, this man hath done nothing amiss. The centurion cried out, certainly this was a righteous man. In the epistles, we find the apostles confirming this doctrinal truth. It says, for he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin. that we might be made the righteousness of God in Him. Hebrews 4. 15 tells us that our great high priest was tempted as we are, yet without sin. The Bible is clear that Jesus Christ was the sinless, spotless Lamb of God who died for us. So let's think about this for a moment. To say that there is another way to heaven, though it may be perceived by others to be generous and to be tolerant, and to be in keeping with the spirit of our age. But to say that there is another way to God, that there is another Savior, another means by which man can be accepted by God and go to heaven. is to insult and reject the sacrifice of our Savior Because then he came and died in vain. If there was a way that you could get to heaven through following the moral teachings of some other religious leader , or by living a good life, then he came and died unnecessarily. But the reason why the sinless Son of God took on flesh and came and lived on this earth and died for sinners is because there is no other way. He is the only savior of the world. And this is what the scripture teaches. Secondly, Jesus Christ is the only sacrifice that God will receive. I want us to turn to a passage that we looked at last Sunday. Turn with me, please, to Romans chapter 3 again. I mentioned to you last week that Romans chapter 3 is the clearest explanation of the gospel in the Bible. And this passage is so rich that there were some things that I did not and was not able to cover last Sunday. But if you'll look with me at Romans chapter 3 and verse 24. We read these wonderful words, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption That is in Christ Jesus, whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood to declare his righteousness. For the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance of God. Now, in these two verses, we find two significant theological terms. that help us to better understand how it is that Christ's death on the cross can save sinners like us. The first of these terms is the word redemption. It says, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. This term tells us two important things about our salvation. First of all, our salvation is a deliverance from slavery. The Greek term that is used here, that is translated redemption, was most often used in the ancient world to depict the freedom that was purchased for a slave. A person would buy a slave out of a slave market, and that purchase, that redemption was This word was used to describe that. The same word is used to describe Israel's release as a nation from the slavery of Egypt. Jesus said in John chapter 8 and verse 34, whosoever committed sin is the servant or slave of sin. Most people don't realize this. Most people would deny this and argue against this. But the Bible teaches very clearly in several passages. that a person who is lost in their sins is actually a slave to sin. They are a slave to sin. They may not think that is the case. But it is absolutely the fact. This is why they can never stop sinning. This is why even when there are negative consequences for their sin such as the loss of the job or the ruin of a marriage, they still continue on in sin. Why? Because they are sinners and they are slaves to their sin This is what Jesus taught. This is what the Bible teaches. This is what Romans chapter 6. If you're in Romans 3, turn to head just a few verses, a few chapters to Romans chapter 6. And verse sixteen. Paul arguing here about this matter of Sanctification says in Romans 6. 16, know you not that to whom you yield yourselves servants to obey His servants you are to whom ye obey, whether of sin unto death or of obedience unto righteousness. But God be thanked that ye were the servants of sin, but ye have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine which was delivered unto you. Being then made free from sin, ye become the servants of righteousness. This is one of the great ironies of Scripture. The only way to really be free in life is to be a servant of Jesus Christ. The world always espouses freedom They always entice people into sinful lifestyles by saying, look at all the freedom that it provides. But actually, it provides slavery. The only way we can really be free is by being the servants of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now the other great truth that springs from this term redemption is the cost of our salvation. This term speaks of redemption by means of a ransom. Now, a ransom is never something inexpensive. You never read in the paper of some criminal kidnapping a child and demanding a ransom of $10. You'll never read that because it would be ridiculous. No, they asked for an incredible amount of money, and the ransom that they require is always very costly. In 1 Peter 1, verses 18 and 19, it says that we were redeemed. We were bought with the precious blood of Christ. Salvation is free to us, but it required the brutal death of the Son of God. What exactly are we freed from? It says redemption has the idea of being set free. What are we free from? Preachers have often found it convenient to view this from the perspective of the three tenses. First of all, we have been redeemed from the penalty of sin. Galatians 3. 13 says Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. We're redeemed from the penalty of sin. And secondly, we are redeemed, we are being redeemed from the power of sin. This is the process of sanctification. Titus 2. 14 says, who gave himself for us that he might redeem us from all iniquity and purify unto himself a people zealous of good works. And thirdly, we will be redeemed future from the presence of sin. Romans 8. 23 speaks of the redemption of our bodies. 1 John chapter 3 speaks about us being sinless like the Lord Jesus Christ someday. That is our bright prospect as believers. We have not yet experienced the fullness of our redemption, all the blessings that come. from the redemptive price of our Savior, but someday we will. And this is the great prospect that we have as believers. We indeed have been saved to sin no more. But perhaps the most unusual term in our text there, Romans chapter 3 and verse 25, is this word propitiation. This is not a word that we use every day. It's hard to say, and in some ways it's difficult to understand. The logic that Paul is developing here is this. Paul says that we have been justified, we have been declared righteous. But someone might ask, well, how did that happen? And he says, well, we've been redeemed by the blood of Christ. And then someone asks, well, how did that secure our justification or our freedom? And so Paul goes further and says that Christ was set forth to be a propitiation. What does this word mean? Well, it was an Old Testament term originally that was used to describe the lid of the Ark of the Covenant. And once a year on the Day of Atonement, the high priest would enter and sprinkle blood on that lid that was known as the mercy seat. And this is the picture of atonement. This theological word describes the satisfaction or the absorption of God's wrath against sinners. When Christ died on the cross, he took upon him The wrath of God that you and I deserve. He took our punishments He absorbed the wrath of God that we have earned throughout our lives. You see, Jesus didn't just remove our guilt. He removed the just wrath of God against us. This is the very kernel of the gospel, the very core of it. And that is what we sometimes call vicarious atonement or substitutionary atonement. Jesus died in place of Sinners. This is what the Bible teaches again and again from the Old to the New Testament. This is what those Old Testament sacrifices were a picture of. Do you remember what they would do with those animals? Just imagine if you had to do this today. Just imagine the psychological lesson that perhaps you would learn from that. You've sinned, you've broken God's law, you go. And you play the the hands would be placed on the head of the animal, and the confession of sin was made, and your sins, your guilt, in a sense were in a pictorial way transferred to that animal, and then that animal would be slaughtered. And that was all done because you of your sins. The Bible speaks again and again of substitutionary sacrifice. We read in the Old Testament, all we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way, but the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. The Bible speaks of Jesus giving his life a ransom for many in Mark chapter 10 and verse 45 and in Matthew 20 verse 28. We read in Romans 5. 8, but God commendeth his love towards us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us, not just for our benefit, but in our place. It says in 2 Corinthians 5. 21, for he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. 1 Peter 3. 18, for Christ also hath suffered for sins the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God 's. This is the beauty of the gospel. Jesus died in our place. But how could you know whether or not you are going to bear the wrath of God? The answer to that is found in John chapter 3 and verse 36, the concluding verse of this important chapter. It says, he that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. And he that believeth not the Son shall not see life. What does that mean? But the wrath of God abideth on him. What happens if you do not place your faith, your reliance, your dependence on Christ alone for salvation? What this verse clearly teaches and many others is that you will then have to pay for your sins. You will experience the wrath of God's. That's not a pleasant thought. That's not something I say lightly, but this is something that the Word of God teaches only those who trust. And the Lord Jesus Christ will escape the wrath of God. Jesus is the only Savior that God has provided. He is the only sacrifice that the Father will accept. And thirdly, Jesus Christ is the only mediator between God and man. I find it fascinating that mankind instinctively knows That he needs a go-between between himself and God. You ever thought about, even though it's often so distorted in everything, but there are certain semblances That you find in virtually every religion in the world that speak about the fact that man is made in the image of God and that he wants to be right with God. In other words, in just about every religion of the world, they have some practice of prayer. And in many, they have a sacrifice, some type of sacrifice that's costly to them. And they also have a sense that there must be a mediator between God and man. That is why if you go throughout the world and you study the different cultures of the world, you will find that there's almost always some sort of priest or medicine man or witch doctor or shaman or someone who has the ability to reach God on your behalf. Man instinctively knows that he needs a mediator. Now, this is one of the doctrines that separates Protestants from Roman Catholics. As you may know, Roman Catholics pray to many saints. They have a saint for every distressing situation that you might encounter in life, whether it be a severe storm or a sore throat. But you will never find a single verse in the Bible that encourages believers to go through some saint. More commonly, they will pray to Mary. The idea seems to be that That God is so busy and he's so important that you dare not go to him directly. You dare not go to the Lord Jesus Christ directly with your petitions. So you go to someone who is close to him, and then they put in a good word for you. This is, of course, kind of the way it works in the world. A person is hoping to get an advancement at their job and they they work in this giant company and there's all these different levels of hierarchy and they would really like to have someone put a good word for them to the top man And so they talk and they develop relationships so that that person will have a favorable disposition towards them, but they would dare not directly address them because they're too busy and just too important. That's the way people naturally reason, but that's not what the Bible teaches. Catholics also believe that you need to bring your confession and your concerns to the priest who will prescribe various punishments for your sin. But none of this has any scriptural support. Because there is only one mediator that the Father will recognize, and that is his beloved Son. 1 Timothy 2 and verse 5 says, For there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus. Now what does this mean exactly? It means several things. It first of all means that he died for us, because the very next verse says, who gave himself a ransom for all, 1 Timothy 2, 6. But the scriptures use different analogies and different pictures to help us understand the ministry of our Lord and Savior. In 1 John chapter 2 and verse 1, we read that he is our advocate. What is an advocate? An advocate is an attorney. is a lawyer, is someone literally who is summoned to the side of another. The same word Paraclete is used in In the upper room discourse, it's translated as comforter, speaking of the Holy Spirit. And here in 1 John chapter 2, it's used to refer to the Lord. Jesus Christ. He says, My little children, these things are right unto you that you sin not. And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. Jesus takes our case and pleads for us before his Father. What a wonderful thing. We have a hymn that talks about this. I think Charles Wesley goes a little too far. In his poetic, picturesque language, he speaks of our Lord's wounds pleading for us. But I think you get the point. You know this wonderful verse. Five bleeding wounds he bears received on Calvary. They pour effectual prayers. They strongly plead for me. Forgive him, O forgive, they cry. Forgive him, O forgive they cry. Nor let that ransom sinner die. What a wonderful truth that is. What an assuring thing that is. So many Christians, I know there are some here today, Christian people who are plagued by a sense of guilt. of things you've done in the past, of things that disturb your, that are disturbing memories for you. And you you think in your mind, how could God really forgive me? If people knew the things that I've done, they would never accept me or receive me. And sometimes people struggle. To really enjoy their forgiveness in Christ, you need to remember these wonderful truths. You have an advocate. You have one who has died in your place. All of the wrath of God for your sin was absorbed at the cross. God is not angry with you. His wrath is not being poured out upon you today. It is true according to Hebrews 12 that if you go astray, that God will chastise you, but this is a corrective punishment. This is not God punishing you for your sin, but it's God lovingly correcting you and bringing you back And so we must not think that God is against me. No, according to Romans chapter 8, God is for us. God is for his people because of our great Savior. The Bible also teaches that God, that Jesus Christ is our great high priest. This is a wonderful truth that we don't meditate on enough. In Hebrews chapter 8 and verse 1 it says, we have such a high priest who is set on the right hand of the throne of the majesty in the heavens. In Hebrews chapter 4, this book of Hebrews, of course, brings out this ministry of our Lord much more fully than any other book. In the New Testament. In Hebrews chapter 4, we have these wonderful verses, saying then that we have a great high priest. Let us pass into the heavens. Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession, for we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. But was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time. Hebrews 7. 25 says that he ever liveth to make intercession for us. What a wonderful truth that is. We read a similar truth in Romans chapter 8, this wonderful triumphant chapter. It says, who shall lay anything at the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifieth. Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died. Yea, rather that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us. And that is why the next verse says, who shall separate us from the love of Christ? The answer, of course, is no one, and nothing can. Why is that? One reason is because Jesus Christ is our intercessor. Have you ever thought about that before? Have you ever thought for a moment in your time of distress, in your time of grief and discouragement? That the Lord Jesus Christ prays for you. We see this in Scripture. Do you remember in Luke chapter 22? The night before our Lord was to be crucified in Luke chapter 22, the Lord is talking to Peter. And in verse 31 he said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not. And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. I don't think we can fully understand how powerful those words were to Peter in his recovery when he heard from the Lord. I am praying for you. What a wonderful thing. And in John chapter 17 and verse 20, that great high priestly prayer of our Lord, we read this. He says, Neither pray I for these alone, referring to his disciples. but for them also which should believe in me through their words. So who are the people who have believed on Jesus Christ because they've read the apostles' words in the New Testament? That would be us. That would be us. No one here has gotten saved from a message other than what is related in our Bibles. So what does that mean? That means even as Jesus was praying way back then, 2,000 years ago, for us that would come to believe through their witness, so too today he still prays for us. What a wonderful truth this is for us to consider. So my question to you this morning as I wrap it up is this. Who is Jesus to you? Is he just a wonderful carpenter who lived long ago? An incredible teacher? The best example of humanity the world has ever seen? Or is he your Lord and Savior? Is he your mediator? Is he your only hope? Is he your only ground of assurance? The only one that you can turn to in time of need? Edward Mote was an Englishman who was brought up in a very ungodly home. His parents ran a public house, which was like a bar in N. He was brought up in that environment of drunkenness. He ran the streets on his own because they were too busy with the business. They said he was never even taught that there was a God as a child. But at the age of 16, he went and heard a gospel preacher. And the first time he heard the gospel, he believed and was saved. He would go on to become a Baptist preacher in his day. and a hymn writer. His most famous hymn was first known as the immutable basis of a sinner's hope. But we know it as the solid rock. He wrote these words, my hope is built on nothing less. Then Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean on Jesus' name. When darkness veils his lovely face, I rest on his unchanging grace, and every high and stormy gale my anchor holds within the veil. And then his oath, his covenant, his blood, support me in the whelming flood. When all around my soul gives way, he then is all my hope and stay. Do those words resonate with you? Are they the ground of your faith, the basis of your hope of salvation? Is not in what you have done? But in what Jesus Christ has done for you. I hope that it is. And I hope that you are trusting in the solid rock. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you for providing us a great Savior. A Savior who has redeemed us, who has satisfied the wrath of God. A Savior who is our mediator, our intercessor, our great high priest, our advocate. We thank you that you have provided a way. And that way is through your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Help us, Father. to trust in him and rest in him. And Father, for those here this morning who cannot say that he is their only hope of salvation, who are yet trusting in their good deeds. I pray that they would see the foolishness of this position. And the darkness of their sin. And I pray that they would seek the Savior today and be saved. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.