Beautiful and I think very appropriate song as we're looking at this passage of Scripture this evening in preparation for the Lord's Supper. If you take your Bibles and turn with me to Psalm 118, Psalm 118. We'll be looking at a portion of Psalm 118 this evening. The last time we came together for the Lord's Supper, I mentioned as we look at Psalm 118 that This was Martin Luther's favorite psalm. He called it his own personal psalm. And that much of what was in here just fit with his life as it describes being surrounded and being in distress and the Lord being his strength and his song. We can think of the time when he was before the Deita Verms in 1521 and he was excommunicated and ordered to recant, and he said, I cannot and I will not recant anything, for to go against conscience is neither right nor safe. And then he said those famous words, here I stand, I can do no other And I think probably in his mind as he reflected back on Psalm 118, probably verses like verses 13 and 14 that we'll be looking at this evening would have been a reflection for him of what he felt at that moment. I was pushed hard so that I was falling, but the Lord helped me. The Lord is my strength and my song. He has become my salvation. This evening I'd like just to read through this Psalm again, read through the whole Psalm, and we're going to look at just a few verses, verses 13 through 18. And see our call as Christians to sing praise to the Lord because he has become our salvation. So let's read here, beginning in verse 1 of Psalm 118. He says, O give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. Let Israel say, His steadfast love endures forever. Let the house of Aaron say, His steadfast love endures for ever. Let those who fear the Lord say, His steadfast love endures for ever. Out of my distress I called on the Lord. The Lord answered me and set me free. The Lord is on my side. I will not fear. What can man do to me? The Lord is on my side as my helper. I shall look in triumph on those who hate me It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in man. It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in princes. All nations surrounded me. In the name of the Lord, I cut them off. They surrounded me, surrounded me on every side. In the name of the Lord, I cut them off. They surrounded me like bees. They went out like a fire among thorns. In the name of the Lord I cut them off. I was pushed hard so that I was falling, but the Lord helped me. The Lord is my strength and my song. He has become my salvation. Glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous. The right hand of the Lord does valiantly. The right hand of the Lord exalts. The right hand of the Lord does valiantly. I shall not die, but I shall live and recount the deeds of the Lord. The Lord has disciplined me severely, but he has not given me over to death. Open to me the gates of righteousness, that I may enter through them and give thanks to the Lord. This is the gate of the Lord. The righteous shall enter through it. I thank you that you have answered me and have become my salvation. The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Save us, we pray, O Lord. O Lord, we pray. Give us success. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. We bless you from the house of the Lord. The Lord is God, and He has made His light to shine upon us. Bind the festival sacrifice with cords up to the horns of the altar. You are my God, and I will give thanks to you. You are my God. I will extol you. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. This beautiful psalm is a psalm that is full and is really too much for us to to digest in a single setting. So we began it last Lord's uh Last Lord's Supper service and we'll continue. in this one and Lord willing even as we go into the future, possibly one or two more Sunday evenings as we continue to look into this beautiful psalm. But how do we understand the song? As I'm reading through it, I'm sure you're you felt a bit of the tension of what is taking place in this moment as opposed to the next moment. This psalm is the final psalm of what we call the Egyptian halel. We get the word hallelujah from that phrase, halel, it means to praise. And this was the final song that Christ would have sung with his disciples before he went out of the upper room to the Garden of Gethsemane to face his betrayal, his arrest. His persecution and ultimately his death. This psalm, because it is part of the Egyptian Hallel, is a picture or a call for thanksgiving because of God's deliverance. The historic setting is a setting of God's deliverance from Egyptian bondage. But if you notice as we read through this, the first and the last verse are identical. They say, Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. for his steadfast love endures forever. So based on that, we have really the theme of the Psalm, which is a call to give thanks to God. for his goodness, which is revealed in his steadfast love, which endures forever. They're kind of like bookends And everything in between is expressing this reality, is driving to this reality that God is good, his steadfast Love endures forever, and it's a call for us to give thanks to God. So this is really a thanksgiving psalm, a psalm that urges us and calls us to give praise to God To rejoice at God's mighty deliverance is the theme of this song. We read through verses 2 through 4, and it's not merely an internal Thanksgiving. Something that I say in my own heart, oh, thank you, Lord. But it is a corporate giving of thanks that all the people are called into. We saw Israel commended to give thanks to the Lord, the house of Aaron, and all who fear the Lord, the congregation coming together to give thanks to the Lord for his steadfast love. endures forever. If you remember last time we looked at this, we said this Psalm has three main layers. And we're not going to go into the depths of this. Tonight, but just so you can think back on there's an Exodus layer. There's a layer that refers to the deliverance from Egyptian bondage out of the Exodus. And we know this. Not only because this was sung at the Passover, which is of course a celebration of the Exodus and God's deliverance, but also because parts of this psalm actually quote the sa the song that Moses led the people in in Exodus fifteen after Pharaoh's army had been destroyed in the Red Sea. And so even the verses we'll look at this evening A few of them are quote direct quotes of Moses ' song from Exodus 15. A second layer looks not back, but looks around at the a Davidic deliverance, a present deliverance. So the author, I believe, is probably David. And he's describing a deliverance from battle in terms of God's deliverance from the Exodus. And so there's a looking around at a current deliverance that God has accomplished for them. But ultimately and most significantly, this looks forward to a messianic deliverance. a deliverance that is accomplished by the Messiah. We know this not only because later portions of the Old Testament, like Isaiah 28, 16, quote from here. but also the New Testament. And Jesus Christ himself quotes from here about himself, particularly Psalm 118, verses 22 and 23. Where he says, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. So you can imagine Jesus moments before he went out to the garden and he in anguish prayed. In preparation for the trial and the persecution, the death that was awaiting him, singing this song with his disciples. Knowing that he was the stone that the builders rejected, and that he was about to face that rejection, but that ultimately he would become the chief cornerstone. That that rejection was temporary, and that God had made him the chief cornerstone. What a comfort that would have been to our Lord. Our focus this evening for time's sake will be on this messianic layer, although we may touch on other aspects of it as we go through, but I believe it is so beautiful and appropriate for us as we anticipate the Lord's Supper this evening. I just want to see three points that we are called to do. We are first of all, we should sing for joy because the Lord has become our salvation. We should sing for joy. You notice in this in these verses, verses 13 through 18, the the instruction to sing is is repeated. He says, the Lord is my strength and my song. He has become my salvation. And he says, glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous. It is good, it's right, that we gather together as a congregation of believers and we sing glad songs of salvation, that we sing praise to the Lord for all that He has done for us. But verse 13 begins by saying, I was pushed hard so that I was falling. But the Lord helped me. Verse 13 continues the thoughts of verses 10 through 12, where he describes being surrounded by all nations, like bees that have attacked him. If you've ever run over a beehive, perhaps while you're mowing and you felt like They are just coming at you from every angle and there's no escape. The idea here is he's surrounded on all sides. There is no escape But he remains here, he describes himself on his feet. And while he's on his feet, there's a sense in which he is safe, but he knows that if he were to fall, he would become overwhelmed. I liken this to scenes that you might see on a Nat Geo Wild type program where you have a ferocious Cape Buffalo that is being attacked by a pride of lions. And as long as he remains on his feet, there is a chance that he might escape. But the moment he falls, the moment he lands on the ground, it's all over. And in this, we read the psalmist saying, I was pushed hard so that I was falling, so that I was surrounded on all sides. I was doing battle, but I was suddenly pushed hard, and I was falling. And apart from the Lord intervening, all hope was gone. There was no recovery. That's what verse 13, the second half says, but the Lord helped me. But the Lord helped me. God graciously intervenes and helps him. And this picture pictures not only Egypt fleeing from or or Israel fleeing from Egypt and coming to the Red Sea and now the the army of Pharaoh is in the attack and they are surrounding them and all of a sudden they're up against the Red Sea and the Lord takes the pillar of fire and he brings it between them. to separate them, and then he makes a pathway for them through the Red Sea, and they march through on dry ground, and then the army of Egypt is swallowed up. Everything looked terrible. They were about to fall, but the Lord helped him. But I think most significantly it refers to the Father helping his beloved son as he went to the cross. When you think of this, you shouldn't think of this as the Father lessening the pain or lessening the suffering of the cross. but rather of him sustaining Christ so as to endure it. Would you turn with me in your Bibles to Luke chapter 22? I want us to look at a passage of Scripture that is really precious. It's like walking on holy ground when we read this passage of Scripture from Luke 22, beginning in verse 39. It's The praying of our Lord in the garden, as he knows that his betrayer is on his way. In Luke 22, verse 39, it says, and he came out where? Out from the upper room, out from singing Psalm 118 With his disciples, and he crosses the valley and he comes up into the garden. And as was his custom, he went to the Mount of Olives, and the disciples followed him. And when he came to the place, he said to them, Pray that you may not enter into temptation. And he withdrew from them about a stone's throw, and knelt down and prayed, saying, Father, if you are willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours be done. And there appeared to him an angel from heaven strengthening him And being in agony, he prayed more earnestly, and his sweat became like great drops of blood falling down to the ground. Did you catch what verse 43 said there? In response to Jesus' prayer as he endured the overwhelming anguish there In the Mount of Olives in the Garden, the Father sent an angel to strengthen him. Have you ever pondered that reality? If it weren't here in our scriptures, we might be tempted to say, no, that's not right. That can't be right. Why would an angel be sent to strengthen our Savior? We should never imagine that because Jesus is the Son of God, that the suffering on the cross was easy for him. No, this was the hardest thing that any man has ever suffered. This is the hardest thing that any man has ever done. And it's important to remember that he did this as a man, that Jesus suffered alone as a man in the garden. When we think of the incarnation, It's very difficult for us to understand that Jesus Christ was eternally God, but he gained a human nature in the incarnation. He is fully God and fully man, two natures in one person. But Hebrews 2. 7 says, you have made him a little lower, for a little while a little lower than the angels. And it was as a man that he was facing the anguish of the cross for us. Sometimes Jesus operated within the limitations of his humanity. Other times we see him doing miracles in the power of his deity. But here, as he endures the cross, it is in the limitations of his humanity. Charles Spurgeon said of this passage that when we read it, we should meditate for a little while upon our Lord's weakness. That he was exceedingly weak is clear from the fact that an angel came from heaven to strengthen him. For the holy angels never do anything that is superfluous They are the servants of an eminently practical God who never does that which is unnecessary for him to do. If Jesus had not needed strengthening, an angel would not have come from heaven to strengthen him. But how strange it sounds to our ears that the Lord of life and glory should be so weak that he should need to be strengthened by one of his own creatures. How extraordinary it seems that he who is very God of very God should nevertheless, when he appeared on earth as Emmanuel, God with us, so completely take upon himself our nature. That he should become so weak as to need to be sustained by angelic agency. This is, I believe, a picture of our Lord being pushed hard. So that he was falling. But the Lord strengthened him. Recently I heard a description, a scientific description of the suffering that our Savior endured. The torture that he endured and that he faced was really a diabolical, demonically inspired torture that he endured on the cross He had never harmed a soul, but his righteousness exposed their wickedness, and as a result, there was a seething diabolical hatred that was expressed in the torture that was meted out against him. Only two times do we see angels coming to Jesus during his earthly ministry. One example is in Matthew 4. 11, after he endured 40 days of fasting and the temptation of the devil himself. It says that an angel came and ministered to him. It's hard for us to understand that the one who has a better name than the angels, who created the angels, would be ministered to by an angel he created. But we see here that the suffering Jesus endured is beyond human ability to express. When we come to a passage like this, we are coming to the limitations of our human understanding at the agony that our Lord endured. It's after being strengthened by the angel in the garden that he was able to pray in agony even more earnestly, it says, that he prayed more earnestly, and it's then that he sweat, his sweat became like great drops of blood falling down to the ground. But it was in response to being strengthened by this angel. It's important to note that Jesus was not afraid to die any more than any of the martyrs were afraid to die. What overwhelmed His righteous soul was not simply death, but as John Calvin described it, but because he had before his eyes the dreadful tribunal of God and the judge himself armed with inconceivable vengeance. It was our sins, the burden of which he had assumed, that pressed him down with their enormous mass and tormented him grievously with fear and anguish. As I was preparing for this sermon this week, just contemplating the reality of this and meditating on what our Lord endured, filled my eyes with tears. And thankfulness to my Savior who would endure such suffering, such anguish, such pain for me. And he says in verse 14, the Lord is my strength and my song. He has become my salvation. This is a direct quote from the song of Moses in Exodus 15, verse 2. After Pharaoh's army is drowned in the sea, Moses leads the nation of Israel in this praise. The Lord is my strength and my song. And he has become my salvation. The idea here of his strength is that God is the source of strength, that we are powerless to save ourselves. His song that the effect of that deliverance is that it should bring about songs of praise to the Lord. He is the object of our praise. There is no one else that deserves our praise but him. That he has become our salvation. He is the author. He is the source. He himself is our salvation. But when we think of this, Jesus is the greater Passover lamb, and the exodus that he accomplished is the greater exodus than that of what we find in the book of Exodus. Just as the Passover was a foreshadowing of Jesus, our Passover lamb, the Exodus events, the deliverance of the people of Israel from the bondage in Egypt, really was a foreshadowing of a greater deliverance that Jesus Christ would accomplish on the cross for us. It's significant that on the Mount of Transfiguration, when Jesus' appearance was transfigured and the glory of God came through him and he sat and he spoke with Moses and Elijah in Luke chapter 9 verse 31 it says that Moses and Elijah appeared in glory and they spoke of his departure which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. And that word departure is the Greek word exodus. They spoke about his exodus, which he was about to accomplish. And so there I think very clearly the Bible is making a reference to the fact that the Exodus event Was actually a foreshadowing of a greater exodus that he would accomplish for us. The deliverance of Moses was a foreshadowing of the deliverance that our Savior would accomplish for us. What we see here is that our Lord now leads us as his church in praise to God for his power and salvation that were accomplished in the cross of Christ. It's not insignificant that in Revelation chapter 15, the song of Moses is linked with the song of the Lamb. And the saints sing together the song of Moses and the song of the Lamb. And we similarly look back at the song of Moses and we say, He is our deliverer. He is our strength and our song, and he has become our salvation. In this I think as well, it's not wrong to have other songs of other topics, but there is no greater topic of our singing. than our Savior. There is nothing that is greater to sing about than the salvation that He has accomplished for us. Which brings us really to our second point here. We should sing for joy because of God's mighty power which is for us. In verses 15 and 16, he says, Glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous. The right hand of the Lord does valiantly. The right hand of the Lord exalts. The right hand of the Lord does valiantly. Glad songs are in the tents of the righteous. The victory that was accomplished when Pharaoh's armies were drowned in the Red Sea. spilled over to the tents of the righteous. You can imagine the celebrations and the music and the joy and the dancing. that transpired that evening as they were in their tents, remembering that just the night before they were pinned against the Red Sea and an army of Egypt. And the flutes and the pipes and the harps and the family as they sang and danced and celebrated the victory of the Lord, these are the glad songs of salvation. And there is an even greater salvation that we have received in Jesus Christ. And our our lips should be filled with these glad songs. Our homes should be filled with these glad songs of praise. To our God. But what is the theme of these songs? The theme of the songs that are sung is the mighty power of God that has won the victory. Three times the psalmist makes reference to the right hand of the Lord. When you think of the right hand of the Lord, it's the idea of the hand that grips the sword. The warrior is right-handed, the dominant hand. It's the power, the skill. And here he's describing that metaphorically, referring to the Lord's might and power that brought deliverance. Now, I don't know about you, but when I think of the right hand of the Lord, my mind instantly jumps to Isaiah 53. I think of verse 1. Where it says, who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? To whom has the power of God in salvation be revealed? And what's so significant about the verses that follow that, you know Isaiah 53, we've gone through it many times as a church. The line almost seems out of place. To whom has God's power been revealed? And what follows is a description of the Messiah despised and rejected, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. who was chastened for us, pierced for our transgressions, crushed for our iniquities. Yet it is precisely the suffering and the death of the Messiah that reveal the mighty power of God to conquer our enemy, our greatest enemy of sin and death. In First Corinthians chapter one, we read these verses in beginning in verse eighteen. For the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the Power of God. It is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the discernment of the discerning I will thwart. Where is the one who is wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God the world did not know God through wisdom, it pleased God through the folly of what we preach to save those who believe. For Jews demand signs, and Greeks seek wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to the Jews, and folly to the Gentiles, but to those who are called both Jews and Greeks. Christ The power of God and the wisdom of God. For the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. It is in the death Of Christ that we see the power of God revealed for us. And it is to this that we should sing glad songs of salvation. are in the tents of the righteous. And he calls us to sing because God's power has been revealed to us and that he conquered death through his death. And lastly, we should sing for joy because God has not given us over to death. Verses 17 and 18. Are the words of our Savior? I shall not die, but I shall live, and recount the deeds of the Lord. The Lord has disciplined me severely, but he has not given me over to death. Our Savior describes himself as being disciplined severely for us. Maybe this language is a bit uncomfortable. For you. I remember talking to someone about Christ being punished for us, and they said, Oh, I don't like to use that language. But he was. That's what Isaiah 53 so clearly describes. We see in Isaiah 53, 5, that he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement. That brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed. The reality is, his discipline was our discipline. It was on our behalf. Hebrews 5. 8 says, although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he suffered. He was perfecting the sacrifice by suffering willingly on our behalf. We see here that he drank to the dregs the cup of the wrath of God that was for us, and the severe punishment that our sins deserved, he took upon himself. He says here that the Lord has disciplined me severely. Literally means he has disciplined me with discipline. The duplication is an intensifier, that it was a severe discipline. That what our Savior endured was a severe discipline that our sins endured because he had become sin for us. His discipline was ours, but also his death was ours. He says, I shall not die, but I shall live and recount the deeds of the Lord. The Lord has disciplined me severely, but he has not given me over to death. This verse is not denying the reality of Jesus' physical death. but it's proclaiming the impotence of it with regards to our Savior. The cords of death were powerless to hold him. His death was ours, but it was not able to hold him at all. Our Savior's love was exemplified in going to the cross. But he was not kept by the power of the grave in any way. And it's this reality that our Savior loves to boast in, that the Father raised him from the grave. Think of our Lord appearing to Mary. And to the disciples and proclaiming the mighty power of God that raised him from the dead. I think of Jesus in Revelation chapter 1, verse 18, when he appears to John the Apostle. And he appears in glory. And what does John do? The one who was so close to him that he sat right next to him at the Last Supper. He falls down at his face as one dead. And Jesus says, fear not. I am the first and the last, and the living one. I died, and behold, I am alive forevermore. And I have the keys of death and Hades. First Corinthians 15, verse 20 says, Jesus is the first fruits of our resurrection. Later on in that beautiful passage, he says, O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting? The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. His death was ours, his discipline was ours, but his resurrection is ours as well. In 2 Corinthians 4, he says, knowing this, that he who raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus and bring us with you into his presence. Because he was raised, we too will be raised. Our Lord's resurrection leads us into joyful singing, since he was victorious over death. And just this last point here, very briefly. Our Lord's victory over death should not only lead us into joyful singing, but should cause us To proclaim his glory. He says, I shall not die, but I shall live and recount the deeds of the Lord. And again, our Savior recounts the deeds of the Father who raised him from the dead. And he leads us in proclaiming this reality to those who we have the opportunities as ambassadors of Christ. We cannot rightly remain silent in the light of Christ's death and resurrection for us. When we come to the Lord's Supper. Pastor will read this passage of Scripture this evening. He says, we do proclaim the Lord's death till he comes. When we come together, we are symbolically proclaiming the death of the Lord that it is for us. but also that his death was not the end, as we long to celebrate with him again in glory. The love of Christ demonstrated on the cross must control us and compel us to recount the deeds of the Lord. I think of 2 Corinthians 5, verses 14 and 15, it says. . For the love of Christ controls us. . Because we have concluded this, that one has died for all. Therefore all have died. That's the reality. All are dead. in trespasses and sins. All have died, but one has died for all, and he died for all that those who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who for their sake. died and was raised. We're not only called to joyfully sing praise to God and thank him for the fact that his His discipline was for us, and his death was for us, and his resurrection was for us, but that we are called then to proclaim the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ that is available to all who are dead in trespasses and sins. We have been made ambassadors for Christ. And we are to recount the deeds of the Lord Our Savior has given us this responsibility to joyfully sing praise to the Father. But to joyfully proclaim his salvation to those who are dead in their sins Let us give thanks to our Savior, who was pushed hard for us. His agony in Gethsemane and his death on the cross truly hide horrors. That we cannot express and cannot understand. But I'll give thanks to the Lord for He is good. For his steadfast love endures forever. And it is available to all who will call upon the name of the Lord. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you this evening, We stand in awe of the sacrifice of our Savior. And we confess that as we contemplate The agony of the cross and the suffering he endured, there is mystery that is beyond our comprehension. But we confess, Father, that it was for us. And we thank you that you have provided such a salvation, that your strength has been revealed In our Savior Jesus Christ, through his death, through his suffering, which was for us, through his burial, and through his resurrection. O God, I pray as we come to the Lord's Supper this evening that you would stir our hearts with the magnitude of the cost of our salvation. That we would be overwhelmed by the love of Christ, and that it would compel us, that it would control us, that we would become bold ambassadors for Christ. Because one has died for all. Therefore all are dead, that we henceforth do not live for ourselves, but for him who died for us and rose again. Help us, Father. To proclaim this good news to those that are lost and dying. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.