Turn with me in the scriptures to Philippians chapter 4. In the classic book, Pilgrim's Progress, which of course was written by John Bunyan He describes a character by the name of ignorance, whom Christian encounters on his journey to the celestial city. In a very insightful way, he has ignorance, say this to himself, of my thoughts. I take no notice. I'm afraid that that could be said of a great many Christians. Do you ever think about your thinking? Do you ever think about what you're thinking about? It's part of what separates us from the animal creation. We can reflect and examine And look at ourselves from an outside perspective. We tend to think of our thoughts as being inconsequential or uncontrollable. Our thoughts are rarely constrained or examined. We tend to give them free range. One reason that people do this, of course, is because others cannot really know our thoughts unless we give them away. The fact is that our thoughts are the most private thing about us John Milton said in his classic Paradise Lost, a mind is its own place, and in itself can make a heaven of hell and a hell of heaven. We all shield our thoughts to some degree from those even that are closest to us. And we naturally recoil at any suggestion That some outside entity would control our thinking. This is the very basis, the foundational premise Of even our Bill of Rights, the freedom of religion, the freedom of speech All of these things are rooted in this fundamental freedom of I have the right to think like I want to think And the very suggestion of someone controlling our thinking conjures up images of brainwashing or totalitarian governments. So perhaps this morning when we come to a text that instructs us what we should think, we might be a little alarmed. A little taken back. But this instruction is neither evil nor repressive, but in fact a necessary discipline of the Christian life. You see, God's not only concerned about what you do or what you say. He's concerned even about what you think. Look with me at our text this morning, verse 8. Paul writes, finally, brethren. Whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, Whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things. Do you notice he begins this verse with the word finally? That is because verses 4 through 9 are the final exhortation that Paul gives to this church at Philippi. You may say, what about the rest of this chapter? Well verses 10 through 20 are what you might call a postscript. It's like where you write a letter and then maybe at the bottom you write a little note and you thank them for something. That's what he's doing. He's going to thank them for the gift that they sent to him. But even these words are not irrelevant to us because there's some important spiritual instruction embedded in that postscript as we're going to see in the weeks ahead In verse 20, we have his benediction and then just some final words of greetings to end out this book. And now that we've surveyed that territory, I want us to come back to this one intriguing verse. This is an important text because it's the most comprehensive verse in the Bible that addresses the believer's thought life. And so it's important for us to clearly understand what Paul is saying here. If you were to take the beginning and the end and remove what's in between, it would be this. Finally, brethren, think on these things. And in the Greek text, this is an imperative. It's a command. Paul's not filling up space here He's just putting some pleasant thoughts in there. He's saying this is how you must structure your thoughts. This is the kind of things that you should meditate on and reflect upon. The fact is that this is a key part of the Christian life. And Paul has mentioned throughout this book of Philippians A big theme of right thinking. You remember in that very classic passage in chapter 2 and verse 5, he says, Let this mind be in you. Which was also in Christ Jesus. We are to have the mind of Christ. We are to have that mind of service and of humility that was exemplified in the life of Christ. He says in chapter 2 and verse 20, speaking of Timothy, I have no man like-minded. I don't have anyone who thinks the way Timothy does, who cares the way Timothy does. In chapter 3, verses 15 and 16, he says, Let there us therefore as many as be perfect, or that as mature, be thus minded. And if in anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal this even unto you. Nevertheless, whereunto we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule, let us mind the same things. In verse 19 , He describes these false teachers as those who mind earthly things. In chapter 4 and verse 2 , He says, I beseech you, Odeus and Synthiche that they be of the same mind in the Lord. In verse 4, he says that we are to rejoice in the Lord. In verse 5, he says that our gentleness is to be our reputation. In verses 6 and 7, he calls on these believers to stop worrying, to stop being anxious. And of course, this all has to do with how we think. You see, this is a very foundational and essential and important matter for us to consider. You will never progress in your Christian life until you address the matter of your thoughts, the patterns, the structures, the ways that you tend to think about things. So I'm going to preach this morning on this truth that Christians should seek to develop patterns of thinking that cultivate spiritual maturity. And I want to begin broadly this morning, really not so closely connected to our text, but just looking at this theme throughout the pages of Scripture. And that is that the cultivation of our thinking is vital to our spiritual well-being. I want to demonstrate that for you. We're going to begin with some general considerations, and then we'll funnel down specifically to the terms used in our text this morning. So why should we strive to cultivate our thinking? The first reason, perhaps the most obvious reason, is because we are commanded to in Scripture. Jesus was asked, what is the greatest commandment? And he said, thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul and with all thy strength and with all thy mind. Part of the way we demonstrate our love for God is by the way we use our mind, our facility to think. You recall what Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount. He said there that it was not enough to refrain from violent action We must not even be filled with angry and hateful thoughts. It is the thought that counts. He said that avoiding adultery was not sufficient, that we must not lust. You see, God requires compliance at the thought level That's what he demands. Another reason that this is so important is because without discipline Our fallen minds will think on the wrong things. Did you know that? If you give your mind free range It will, because you are a fallen, sinful creature, it will gravitate to what is wrong. You will either fill your mind with worthless junk at best or with deadly poison at worst Even the very best of Christians, those who have gone the furthest in our Christian walks, still struggle with our thoughts and still need God's grace and discipline. to think what is pleasing to God. So where do your thoughts go astray For some of you it may be that your minds are consumed with gossip and jealousy. That's your besetting sin. That's like the natural channel that your thoughts go in relation to other people. Others of you, that may not be your struggle at all. For some of you You have a continual battle with anxiety and what if thinking? What if tomorrow I lose my job? What if tomorrow Our roof begins to leak. What if tomorrow I find out that I have cancer and you live in a constant cloud of fear and of worry and of tension? And your mind just tends to naturally interpret and spin things that way. You have a well-worn channel. And it's like the water just flows right through that channel because you've been digging that channel for 30 years. That's your besetting sin. That's where you struggle in this matter of controlling your thoughts. For others, it might mean that you have to aggressively guard your minds from thoughts of lust and sensuality. It's really disturbing to think about your thinking and to analyze your thoughts and to reflect on what you've thought about throughout a given day. There is nothing that so manifests the depravity of the human hearts. There's another thing, another reason why this is so vital. And this is because God knows all of your thoughts. Now most of us here would probably nod our heads to that, yeah, yeah, we know the Bible teaches that, but have you ever really thought about that? So often I think we live as if God does not know our thoughts, and that somehow we can fool him. What is a hypocrite but someone who lives under the premise that God doesn't know what really is inside of me? And so I can go to church and I can act very religious and I can say the right things and people can think really well of me, but that's not at all what's inside of me. Well, God knows what's inside of you. You're not fooling him. Genesis chapter 6 and verse 5, we read that God sent The flood destroy almost all of humanity because of the wickedness Of man's thoughts, it says, and God saw that the wickedness of man was very great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually In Psalm 139, David says in a positive light, Thou knowest my thoughts from afar off. And that's of comfort to David to some degree. In Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 13, we read that all things are naked and open under the eyes of him with whom we have to do. Everything that is inside of us is open to God's holy gaze. There is no area of our lives where we sin more often. And more audacious and more powerfully than in our thought life I mean if you think about it, if our thoughts were somehow transcribed, you know they have incredible things they can do today with computers. Uh one of the uh my sermons you might know are on Sermon Audio. Well they sent me once a transcript of my sermon where every single thing that I said up here into this microphone was transcribed by a computer, you know, onto paper. And there it was. Imagine if that was done with our words. We would be very worried about that. Every single word that we said in a day But then imagine a step beyond that if everything we thought in a given day was transcribed on paper. That would even be worse than our words. That would be very disturbing to us God knows and sees all of that. He knows what's in our heart. He knows every thought that has ever passed through your mind. He knows the pride. the self-pity, the lust, the bitterness, the jealousy, the anger, the envy, and the lust. He knows it all. You see, what you think about is a really big deal. And then I want to also suggest that it's so important because it's impossible to become a mature believer without controlling your thoughts. It's absolutely impossible. Do you remember that wonderful text in Romans chapter 12? It says, Be not conformed to this world, don't allow the world to mold you, but be ye what? Transformed by the renewing of your minds. The entirety of our Christian lives is a process where we in essence are being re-educated. We're trying to get our fallen minds to think about things clearly in light of who God is and what he has said. In fact, repentance, when we are saved, the New Testament word means a change of mind, a change of our thinking. When a person is saved, their thinking begins to change. They think differently about themselves, about their sin, about God, about what's really important in life. Everything in their and their mind should begin to change and readjust to the light of God's truth. I want you to turn with me to the book previous to Philippians, the book of Ephesians, just a few pages back, Ephesians chapter 4. Remember, this book was written at the same time. As Philippians, when Paul was in prison, I'm going to begin reading at Philippi Ephesians chapter 4, verse 17. Listen carefully to what Paul says. He says, This I say therefore, and testify in the Lord that ye henceforth walk not as other Gentiles walk in the vanity of their minds. Having the understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them because of the blindness of their heart. who being past feeling have given themselves over unto lasciviousness, to work all uncleanness with greediness. But ye have not so learned Christ If so be that ye have heard him and have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus, that ye put off concerning the former conversation, the old man which is corrupt. according to the deceitful lust, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and that ye put on the new man which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness. Now at the beginning of this exhortation of this paragraph, he talks about the fact That in the past we were living in the vanity, in the darkness of our minds. Lost people live the way they do because of their minds. Their thoughts are darkened. They can't see the lights. But he goes on to say that we are to be renewed in the spirit of our minds, and that this is the key to our conduct, which will then be transformed as we think differently, as we think differently According to God's truth. In Proverbs, we read that as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. You are becoming what you are thinking. Did you know that? The way a person thinks literally changes who you are If you see a person who thinks in a certain habitual way over a lifetime, it changes the very contours of their face. And the way they look. This is how a person who has lived in sin and in degradation, you can see it on their face. The innocence, the youthfulness that was once there is gone. A person who lives with a cynical and pessimistic and skeptical view of life, and that's the lenses through which they view everything. You can eventually see it on their face. They may not be aware of it. But your thoughts change who you are. There was a great Baptist preacher a century ago named Alexander McLaren who ministered in Manchester, England. And he has written a fine lifetime worth of expositional messages, and he says on this text these things. I thought it was very significant. There is not a thought that comes into and is entertained by man or rolled as a sweet morsel under his tongue, but contributes something to the making of a man's character. The thoughts that we take in and we reflect on and we meditate upon, that contributes to the person that we are becoming. And by some degree, it has changed your very character. I think we could put it this way, you must work to mold your thoughts, because your thoughts are molding you Our thoughts are the origin of our words. They are the origin of our actions. Our actions lead to Habitual practices. And habitual practices and viewpoint upon things establishes our character. So if we are ever going to change and grow and mature and become the men and women that God wants us to be, we have to address the issue at the fountainhead, and that is our heart, our minds, the inner man. So, what do your thoughts say about you? You see, Paul's instructions that we come to this morning in Philippians 4 are absolutely essential. It raises the question, what exactly are we to think about? And that's where we come to verse 8. And I want us to see secondly, and our second main point of this message, that the content of our thinking is vital. to our spiritual well-being. Before we go through this list, which I must say is difficult to preach because it's difficult to preach from a grocery list. And that's essentially what we have here in verse 8. But I want to make some general observations. Notice that it almost sounds redundant because you might think a more efficient way of expressing this would be whatsoever things are true, comma, honest, just, pure, lovely, good report, right? But instead he has whatsoever things are, whatsoever things are, whatsoever things are. And you say, this is really redundant. And unnecessary. He has done that intentionally through the guidance of the Spirit to make mention of the fact that every single one of these items are significant. He doesn't want them just to be lost in this list. Every single one of these things are important. Notice I would you that Paul does not mention so much what we should not think about. But what we should think about. This is might be the opposite of what you might assume he would do. You might think that he would say, well, you know, you shouldn't think about this, you shouldn't think about this, you shouldn't think about this, you shouldn' about this That's perhaps the way we tend to think about our thinking. But you know it doesn't work very well. Alright? If I were to tell you, listen, I don't want you to think about the number six, alright? Stop thinking about the number six. The only thing you can think about is the number six. Alright? Power of suggestion. He doesn't do that. He takes a positive approach and says, these are the things that we should be thinking about. And I think that we see in here that it's not enough for us to consider what we take into our minds and say, well, you know, it's really not that awful. It's not that bad. It's not what some of my lost friends would watch or read. I mean, they do a whole lot worse than I do. Yeah, I mean I'm a step off of that. The question is not how bad is it? Paul takes this approach, how good is it? How helpful is this in your spiritual journey? Is this strengthening your resolve to live for Christ, or is it dampening and deadening your resolve to live for Christ? I think it's important for us to understand that Paul is not so much addressing what we may describe as our stray thoughts. He's talking here about our habitual patterns of preaching. I'm not going to get this exactly word for word, but many of you have heard perhaps this expression by Martin Luther before, who said, concerning our thoughts, that you cannot You cannot stop your mind from thinking a single thought, just like you cannot stop a bird from landing on your head. But you can't keep that bird from making a nest in your hair. Okay? Because of our human nature and the power of suggestion and all the stimuli that is around us, we will have Our minds bombarded with thoughts that are wrong and not pleasing to God. We can't always control that. But what you can control is not meditating on that and reflecting on that and thinking on that and adding fuel to thought and just turning that over and over again in your mind. That you can control. And so that's really what Paul is talking about here in this passage. Now let's begin going through this list. We have eight items here. The first six are talking about the patterns of our thinking. And the last two are like summary statements that qualify everything that goes before it. So notice what heads off the list. We have whatsoever things are true. This is not a call to honesty, although we should certainly be honest, but it's a plea. for us to keep our thinking rooted in reality. The idea of the word true here is what is real, what is genuine, what is authentic. As opposed to what is fake or phony or false. The fact of the matter is, Satan is the father of lies. And the message of the world is in large part nothing but a delusion. The world constantly portrays in the media out there, no matter what branch it might be. That living a life of the world, a life of sin, is exciting and it's enticing, and it's wonderful. But living for God, living for others, is boring and repressive and judgmental. Often the world, when it portrays the lifestyle of a wicked person, it does not show you the consequences of that lifestyle. Shows that his life is one big party. Doesn't show you the after-effects. But that's the way reality is. Sometimes we'll be watching something. It's usually not in the moral realm that I say this, but my kids sometimes get tired of it, and I'll say, you know, it doesn't really work like that in real life. It might be a car chase or something, you know, and this car is hurtling up over other vehicles and doing all that stuff, and I say, you know, it doesn't really happen like that. But so much of the world is fake. And some things are obvious that it doesn't work like that in the real world. But often in the moral realm, it's not so clear to people, especially with young people who haven't lived long enough to know how things really work. And they might actually think that you can live as if there is no God. And you can live a life of wickedness, and it's just going to be wonderful and happy and fulfilling, and there's no consequences to that. Well, it doesn't work like that. The Bible says, whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. So what should we focus on? And we says that we should focus on what is true. Well, there's a whole lot that is included in that, but I want to suggest this. You know what is the greatest reality in the world? The thing that is most truthful in the universe, it's God. It's God. He should be our focus. We have this wonderful hymn, Be Thou My Vision. It goes on to talk about my best thought by day or by night. The best thing in the world that you could ever think about is God. and his glory and what he has revealed in his word. And then we come to this term, honest. Which has the idea of what is honorable or noble or dignified. This Greek term is used often in the pastoral epistles. to describe the kind of conduct that mature Christians should exhibit in their lives. It's one of the qualifications of a deacon. It's translated in our version as grave. It has the idea of being serious-minded. It's the opposite of being flippant and crude or vulgar. Person should have a sense of dignity, some standing about them. They're engaged in serious matters. And if we are going to become that kind of person, we have to have these kind of thoughts. How much of the world's comedy is ruled out by disqualification? How much of the world's comedy is based on the lowest common denominators? It's crude, it's crass, and it's degrading When we take those things into our mind and we make that our diet, it's changing who we are, changing the way we perceive things. See, Paul's not saying when he gives us this list that we are to like sit down and say, all right, I'm going to take ten minutes to think about what is true. All right, let me think about what is true. No, what he's really talking about is what we take into our minds, what we consume. When Paul first wrote these words to the church at Philippi , The amount of stimuli and entertainment they had available to them was minuscule compared to what we have. We live in an unprecedented age. You can, for hours and hours and hours and hours and hours, bombard your mind with whatever form of entertainment you want. day after day after day after day. In the ancient world only kings could do that. They would have the court jesters and other Musicians come before them to entertain them. Most people in the ancient world had very little entertainment in their life. You probably have more entertainment in one week than they had in a lifetime. We have all of this information available to us, bombarding our minds And what we need to do is we need to carefully evaluate it and think about it and see if it really measures up to what we have here in Scripture. Christians should not occupy their time with what is trivial and frivolous We should fill our minds with what is noble and dignified and serious and good Thirdly, what is just, the idea of what is right or righteous, that is something that is straight and not twisted. It's calling us to be a people who are transparent and straightforward. We do not occupy our minds with plans of manipulation and deception That's what people in the world do. That's the opposite of what we are to be. The Bible describes in the book of Psalms and elsewhere about the wicked that they lay upon their bed and they devise ways. Of deceiving people and controlling people and getting what they want. This is the opposite of that. We are transparent. What you see is what you get. We are right. We are just. We are people of integrity. And that all begins with our thought life. And then fourthly we come to this term pure. The idea of this word is stainless, innocent, or chaste. This, of course, is worthy of a sermon in itself. Sometimes people get the mistaken impression that, you know, in Bible times things were very wholesome and good and and and and healthy and today things are wicked and horrible and so there's not much correspondence between the two. But the fact is that Paul was writing to an audience. that lived in a very pagan immoral culture. The Greco-Roman world was a wicked place. All types of perversion were accepted. Immorality was a part of their worship practices. It was a wicked place. It was all around them. So when he writes to them and tells them that they are to be pure in their thinking, it was not an easy thing like you might assume, just as it's not an easy thing for us today. And the same was true for the church and the people at Ephesus. So I want us to turn back once more to this book written at the same time. Ephesians chapter 5, please. I want you to notice what Paul says here. He says, be ye therefore followers of God as dear children, and walk in love as Christ also hath loved us. And hath given himself for us and offering a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling savor. What would it look like? to be like a sacrifice offered to God. He's going to explain that now in the paragraph ahead. But fornication, which is a reference to all forms of immorality and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not be once named among you as becometh saints. Neither filthiness nor foolish talking nor jesting Which are not convenient, but rather giving of thanks. For this ye know that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man who is an idolater hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Let no man deceive you with vain words, for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience. Let me pause for a second here. Why does he say, let no man deceive you? Because in his day there were false teachers going around saying that you could live an immoral life and still claim that you were a good Christian on your way to heaven. And Paul says, don't let anyone sell you that line. It's not true. You can't live a wicked immoral life and claim that you're headed to heaven. It doesn't work that way. Look how he continues. Be not ye therefore partakers with them, for ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light, and the Lord walk as children of light. For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth, proving what is acceptable unto the Lord, and have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness. but rather reprove them, for it is a shame even to speak of those things which are done of them in secret. But all things are reproved, are made manifest by the light, for whatsoever doth make manifest is light. Wherefore, he saith, Awake thou that sleepeth, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee life. See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise Some of that terminology may be veiled, but all of that application was about sexual purity. And if you look at the text clearly, he's saying it begins with our thinking. It begins with what we take into our minds. We live in a pornographic culture. It's nearly impossible Unless you stay in your room with the lights turned off alone. It's nearly impossible for a person to go through a day without seeing something that is unclean and suggestive. In our daily walks of life, it's almost impossible to go out in the world without being assaulted by this. And that's the way it was in the first century when Paul wrote these words. We could wring our hands all day about why it's come to that, but it's the reality. And we have to deal with the reality Even in the ancient world, when they had these temples of impurity and everything else, and as wicked as it was in their culture, they did not have the internet. And all the various means by which anyone, with just a few clicks of their mouse, can come to view the most wicked and unclean things in the universe. The internet has contributed to turning our nation into a society of addicts. I'm not going to read to you all the statistics. They are so distressing and disturbing. But the statistics that I have read say that a large percentage of people, even in our churches, are to some degree in bondage to this vile corruption. In one way or form, depending on how you define it, they are addicted to pornography. And it has ruined so many marriages and destroyed countless lives. And it's impossible for a person to take that in without it fundamentally scarring you and changing who you are. But there are things that are pure and wholesome that we can meditate upon, and that's what we must intentionally do. Number five, he mentions what is lovely. The idea is what is attractive or inspiring or even aesthetically pleasing. God is the creator of all beauty. And therefore, Christians should love what is beautiful. We should enjoy seeing God's handiwork in nature. People are made a little bit different. But I can't go out into creation and see the grandeur of God's handiwork without spontaneously giving praise to God. And seeing the way he's designed everything and how it looks and how it works and it's beautiful. God made things aesthetically pleasing I think that Christians we see here should enjoy good art and music and literature. Man has been made in the image of God, and yes, that image has been defaced. But there's still glimmers of it that come out, of his creative power and of his beauty, and of his majesty that come out in music and art and literature. And we should seek out the best and make that the subject of our contemplations. And then finally we have good reports. That which is admirable or commendable is the idea of the word. We should Fixate our minds on what is good and admirable so that we would not be embarrassed for people to know what we give our minds to. We give our minds to what is wholesome and good and helpful and edifying to us And then he has these two phrases that qualify the previous six items, if there be any virtue. This is a very important Greek word. It's the word that the philosophers use to describe moral excellence. Paul here is challenging his readers to seek the very best food for thoughts. You might think of it as a diet for your minds. So what would the books on your bookshelf, the CDs in your car, the DVDs in your entertainment center be described as? Would they be described as morally excellents? Are they helping you in your walk with God, or are they hindering you in your walk with God? And then he says, finally, in any praise, anything worthy of praise. This term is usually used of people who are worthy of commendation. We should have the right models, the right celebrities before us. Are your heroes the celebrities of the world or the servants of gods? And then finally he has this command, fake on these things. Let your mind dwell on these things. This has to be a deliberate choice that Christian people make. We are not going to feed our mind with the fare of the world. We are going to be discerning and deliberate and determined to keep out what is worthless and poisonous, which gives uh an improper view of life as it is, we're going to filter that out of our homes and out of our minds. And we're instead going to feed our minds with what is conducive to our spiritual growth. You need to fill your minds with good Christian literature. You need to read Christian biographies to not only inform but inspire Don't feed your mind with mental and spiritual junk food, but instead fortify your mind with the best materials that you can find. This is really one of the keys to spiritual growth. If you were to study the lives of great men and women of faith, you would find this very common characteristic. They were men and women of the book, of the Bible. They meditated upon the scriptures and they read other good Christian books and good Christian literature. And they were constantly feeding their soul with what was helpful and fortifying and strengthening. You've all heard the expression, you are what you eat. More literally It would be you are what you think. You are what you think. So give your mind a diet. of things that will strengthen you and inspire you to follow the Lord more fully. One of the greatest devotional writers of the late Victorian era was an English Baptist named F. B. Meyer. He lived and ministered in England during the time of the Industrial Revolution, when the textile industry was huge. Listen to his exhortation from this verse. He says, thoughts are the looms in the wonderful machinery of the inner life. Which are running day and night and weaving the garments in which the soul shall be arrayed. Your thoughts are weaving, he's saying, the garment of your soul. So how we should keep from our minds anything that would stain And would be unworthy of the person that God wants us to be. May God help us to be people who think on these things. We're going to sing a hymn in just a moment. It says, I am resolved no longer to linger, charmed by the world's delights, things that are higher, things that are nobler. These have the Lord my sight. Let's fill our minds with things that are higher and things that are nobler. Because God has called us. To be holy and to be a light in this dark world. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you. For the instruction that we receive in your word. And Father These words that we consider this morning should be convicting to all of us. All of us have room for growth. in this area of our lives. And so I pray that you would use it to correct us and to sober us And to make us more aware of what we think and how we reflect on things and what we take in to our hearts. And Father, for those who are here this morning, Who do not know you, who have never had a change of mind, who have never come to see themselves as sinners in need of salvation, I pray. That you would draw them to yourself. Lord, help them to understand that they cannot begin to follow the admonition of this verse. They can't begin to think right things. Because they have not been born again. I pray, Lord, that they would recognize their need and that they would seek you. I pray now that you would Take this word and use it to be something that we would meditate upon this week and that our profiting would appear to all. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.