John chapter 9. One of my favorite characters in church history. was that man, John Newton, the man who's most famous for writing Amazing Grace. He also wrote hymn that we sung this morning, how sweet the name of Jesus sounds in a believer's ears. All of his hymns were hymns that he wrote when he was a pastor, in connection with the sermon that he was preaching that Sunday. He did it as an exercise to summarize in a concise way what he was preaching on. And he was a very gifted man. You know his story. I think it's quite famous. He was uh he had a Christian mother, but she died when he was a small child. His father was a sea captain. He followed after his father. And he went to sea. He became a very wicked young man , famous for his cursing and swearing, his immoral life. He was eventually became a slave trader and uh just was living a life of absolute wickedness. But God gradually, through different individuals and books and conversations, brought him to himself and he was converted and he became a preacher of the gospel. He pastored for many years in only England and then later in the suburbs of London. But of course, most people know him just as the author of Amazing Grace, and it has This very familiar refrain in it, I once was lost, but now am found, was blind, but now I see And that last phrase, of course, comes from the passage we're looking at this morning in John chapter 9. And verse 25 of this chapter, the formerly blind man says, one thing I do know, that though I was blind, now I see John records this miracle as the six of seven signs that point to the divine identity of Jesus. But this miracle is also intended to serve as an illustration of the gospel and what happens when a person is converted. They go from being spiritually blind to having spiritual sight. Now the Old Testament predicted But this is exactly what the Messiah would do. In Isaiah chapter 9, in verse 2, it says, the people that walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwelt in the land of deep darkness, on them has this light shone. What was that light? A few verses later it says, For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given. And the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor of the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. We always encounter this text at Christmas time. It is a great text on the identity of the Messiah. But it's those who were in darkness who would see the light. And then in Isaiah 29, 18 it says, and out of their gloom and darkness the eyes of the blind shall see. In Isaiah 35 and verse 5, then the eyes of the blind shall be opened. And Isaiah 42 verse 7, the chosen servant The servant of the Lord says of him, I will give you as a covenant for the people, a light to the nations, to open the eyes that are blind. In Isaiah 61 and verse 1, quoted by Jesus in Luke chapter 4, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me to proclaim the recovering of sight to the blind. So Jesus' miracle was a clear indication that he was the promised Messiah. Now, our passage this morning records two very different responses to Jesus. We have the response of faith in the man who has been healed and the response of unbelief on the part of the religious leaders. This is a conclusion of this whole story of the healing of the blind man. And John here is very effectively tying up all these loose ends and bringing it to a conclusion. To get his readers to think about their own response to Jesus. We might think that there are hundreds of different responses that people could have to Jesus. But they all narrow down to just two: a response of faith and a response of unbelief. So let me first of all speak to you about the coming of Jesus bring sight to those who believe. Look with me at verse 35, please. John 9. 35. Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and having found him, he said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? Let me remind you of the flow of this chapter of what we've covered so far. Some of you have not been here. In the first seven verses, we have a very concise description of this healing. This man was congenitally blind. His eyes were undoubtedly deformed. You could tell the man was blind. But Jesus heals him, and now he sees he was most likely a beggar by the gates. Verses 8 through 12, we have the response of people who knew him. to this incredible miracle. And then beginning at verse 13, the religious authorities hear about it, and they are here to investigate and really to discredit this miracle. First of all, they meet with this man, they interrogate him, they don't get the answers they want. So then they turn to his parents, they interrogate them. They're hoping that they will say, well, you know, he really never was Blind. This is all hoax. But that's not what they hear. They find that this is their son and that he was indeed born blind. And if anybody would know that, it would be his parents. But his parents refuse to give Jesus credit for this miracle because they're afraid of being cast out of the synagogue. And then in verse 24, these religious officials who are frustrated because they're not getting what they want, they turn and interrogate this man again. They're trying to intimidate him into giving them the answers they want. But instead of intimidating them, he runs circles around them with his wit and his humor. And they get no confession from him at all. And so in their anger, they cast him out of the synagogue. He is now cut off from The covenant people. This may not seem like a big deal to us, but this was a huge factor. This man who for all of his life was an outcast because he was blind. And the people assumed that he was under the judgment of God. Now he has this incredible miracle bestowed on him where he can see, but now once again he is an outcast. His own family, his friends, everyone that he has ever known now is avoiding him because they don't want to be cast out of the synagogue as well. He's considered basically a heretic. As someone who has demonstrated that he is not worthy to be part of the people of God. But Jesus hears about this and he comes to him and he finds him In this man's conversion, I want to point out four timeless truths that we see in this man's salvation. That's for the first part of this. And then we'll have some other truths that come out of the unbelief by the religious leaders. The first point I want to make about his conversion is the conversion of every sinner is initiated by God. When this man was healed He was not calling out for Jesus or looking for Jesus, but Jesus heals him. When this man was cast out of the synagogue, it was Jesus who found him. We find the same sort of pattern often in the Gospels. We find it in John chapter 4 about that man who was also healed on the Sabbath day, and it says afterwards Jesus found him in the temple. Remember how Jesus went through Samaria in chapter 4 and he waited by the well as he descended sent his disciples into town to buy food. He waited by the well because he had an divine appointment with the Samaritan woman. Jesus, the Son of Man, came to seek and to save the lost. The Bible is clear that this was not just a pattern with Jesus, but we find elsewhere in Scripture that this is true of every converted sinner. In Romans chapter 3 and verse 11, it says that no one understands, that no one seeks for God. I wonder if we believe that's true or not. It's in Scripture. And it's a quotation of the Old Testament In 1 Corinthians chapter 2, it says, The natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him, neither can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. Every person Who does not have the Spirit of God at work in their hearts when they hear the gospel, they will think it's nonsense. They may not say that. They don't want to be offensive to you. They don't want to hurt your feelings. They may not say that. But that's what they're thinking. And it may come out something like this, I'm glad that works for you. I'm glad that's helpful for you, but it's it's not for me. Thank you very much And sometimes people get very discouraged and they say, why do people respond that way? The answer is because they're blind. You're offering them the greatest gift in the world, the gift of salvation, and they're not interested. It's because they're blind. They don't see their sinfulness. They don't see the beauty of the Savior. They just don't see it. They're blind. And in first John 4 19 that says we love him because he first loved us Now perhaps you would object and say, but but Pastor, I remember very clearly that I was seeking the Lord. I was looking for answers. I was praying to him and asking him to reveal himself to me. And God did reveal himself to me. What do you mean I wasn't seeking the Lord? Well, the answer I would say to that is that God was first putting in your heart that desire to seek the Lord. You may not have been aware of it. He may have brought circumstances into your life that brought you to the end of yourself, that humbled you, that made you anxious and fearful and wondering about the whole meaning of life. But you didn't start things off. He did. And we must always be reminded by this that That we interpret the events in our life from Scripture, we don't take our experience and use that to interpret the Bible So often people get those things confused. There's a second truth about conversion here. The conversion of every sinner involves a personal acknowledgement of the divine identity of Jesus. You see, you can't really trust in a Jesus that you don't know, and you can't really trust in a Jesus who is not God in the flesh. Notice Jesus asked this man, do you believe in the Son of Man? And what's emphatic in that Greek sentence is the word you. Do you believe? It's like, I don't care what your parents believe or what these religious leaders believe who have questioned you. I want to know what do you believe And this is true of everyone. We must have a personal relationship with God. I've said this so many times, but you can't get in on someone else's coattails. Young people, you can't be saved because your parents are saved. That can't be what you're depending on. You have to have a faith of your own. Now many of you may have the King James Version and you may be scratching your head because in your Bible it says the Son of God instead of the Son of Man. These two terms are frequently found in Scripture as titles for Christ. The Son of Man actually is our Lord's favorite self-designation over eighty times in the gospels. He refers to himself as the son of man. In fact, virtually no one else refers to him as the son of man. unless they're quoting what he has said. It's just Jesus who refers to himself as the Son of Man. And the reason why the translators of virtually all modern versions have here in this verse Son of Man is because the earliest Greek Bibles have the phrase Son of Man in them, and that's why they have gone with that translation. Now, what's important for you to know is that both of these titles, Son of God, Son of Man, both refer to the divine identity of Jesus Christ. I think many Christians read their Bibles and they reason this way, which makes sense. The Son of Man is referring to his humanity. The Son of God's referring to his deity. I can understand if you thought that. I want you to know something. You're wrong about that. They both refer to his divine identity. This term son of man comes from Daniel chapter 7, verses 13 and 14. I'm going to read this for you. I want you to listen carefully for the identity, the characteristics of the person who is described here. It says, I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man. There's the title. And he came to the ancient of days. And he was presented before him, and to him that is to the Son of Man was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. Who's that talking about? That's talking about Jesus. Alright? He would have sovereignty, he would have power over every people, group, every individual in the world. And that he would have a kingdom that would last forever. You see how that's not a reference to his humanity. That's a reference to his deity. Now notice how this man responds to this question. Look at verse 36. And he answered, And who is he, sir? that I may believe in him. This man is eager to believe This is not usually the way it works. This reminds me of the Philippian jailer when he said to Paul, what must I do to be saved? Who is he that I may believe? The Lord has worked through this miracle, through the interrogation of the religious leaders. to to bring this man to where his heart is ready and eager to trust in Christ. Usually when we are speaking with people and we're witnessing with people, we don't find people in the state. But what a joy it is when we do. And they're like ripe fruit, ready to be picked. The Lord has been at work perhaps for years in their life. And they are ready. They are hungry. They are eager to believe. That's the case with this man here. Now look with me at verse 37. Jesus said to him, you have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you. This man who was born blind has not really seen Jesus until this encounter He was blind when Jesus met him. And remember, he made those mud packs and he put them on his eyes and he sent him to the pool of Siloam to wash. But we have no record that he came back and saw Jesus. So he did not know what Jesus looked like, but I suspect he recognized his voice. We see here a real development of this man's understanding to who Jesus is. In verse 11, he says, this man called Jesus. They ask him, who healed you? Oh, is this this guy called Jesus? I don't know who he is. In verse 17, he says he's a prophet. In verse 33, he says he's a man from God. And now he is told that he is the Son of Man. And in verse 38, he's going to profess that he is Lord. He says, Lord, I believe. Once again, we encounter this key word in John's gospel, this verb believe, used 98 times in this book. John consistently brings this up to his readers' attention because he wants them to come to belief. That Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing they may have life through his name. That brings me to my third point about conversion. The conversion of every sinner involves coming to trust in Christ alone. Salvation is through faith. What is saving faith? Theologians for hundreds of years have described saving faith as including three components Number one, there's certain objective facts that you must know. Alright? There's some just a few essential things that you must know to be saved. You have to understand that you're a sinner. This is where most people go wrong. They don't think of themselves as a sinner. They know they're not perfect, but they don't think their sin is any big deal. They don't think it bothers other people, or it bothers God, certainly, because they think they're better than most people. You have to know that you're a sinner. You must understand that Jesus is, who he claimed to be the Son of God, the Savior of the world. And that when he died on the cross, he died a substitutionary death for sinners, that he took your sin. the punishment and the guilt that you deserve, he took that burden upon him and he paid the penalty for your sin. And you must believe that he rose again the third day, confirming his identity and revealing that your sin indeed has been paid for. You have to know those things. But there's another step that you might have just thought was the same, but you have to agree with those things. There are many people in this country and in the world, who can tell you the gospel, but they don't believe a word of it They were maybe raised in the context of a Christian home. They went to a vacation Bible school or Sunday school faithfully and they heard the gospel, but when they came of age, they turned away from it. They reject it. And if you try witnessing them today, they go, oh yeah, let me tell you about it. I've had this happen to me many times. I know all about it. I'm a sinner, right? Jesus died for my sins. If I trusted him, I'll go to. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I know all about it They know those facts, but they don't agree with those facts. You have to agree with those facts And a lot of people think that's where it ends, right? But it's not where it ends. Because there's a third aspect, and that is that you must trust, you must rely, you must depend. Upon Christ alone. If you invited me over to your home and I walked up to the table and you had a chair there for me, and you said, please take a seat. And I just kind of stood there and just kind of looked at the chair. Uh and you said something like, Don't worry, it'll hold you. And I looked at it and I just said, that's all right. I'm just going to stand here. Thank you very much. What would I be conveying to you? I didn't really trust that chair would hold me up. It looks so flimsy and it looks like it's in poor repair. I don't really think it's going to work. So even though I might have said to you, oh yeah, I believe you. I I believe this chair can hold me up, but if I don't sit down in that chair, it reveals that I really don't believe. I really don't trust. I'm really not relying or depending on that. And there are millions of people, I'm afraid, in this country and in the world who would say, if you ask them, are you a Christian? They would say, yeah, I'm a Christian But they have never trusted in Christ. They've never rested in Him. They're not really depending on Him. They're really depending on themselves. And he really doesn't play a significant role in their life. So have you come to the place of true faith? Not a nodding of her head, yeah, yeah, yeah, I agree with all that. But where you are trusting in him alone. That's your only hope. There's a fourth point here. The conversion of every sinner results in worship. Do you see this here? He says to him, Lord, verse 38, I believe. And he worshipped him. That always happens when a person believes. They come to bow and to reverence. They have joy and they have gladness. They have a heart for worship. Not perfectly, perhaps not always consistently, but they have a heart for worship. This is one of the inevitable fruits of salvation We have people all the time, praise the Lord, who are saved in this assembly. And sometimes I will talk to them and they will say, I believe that I've come to faith in Christ. And one of the things I look for, among other things, is do they want to come and worship with the people of God? Now there are many other, many, many other fruits and evidences of faith. But a person who truly comes to grips with the gospel recognizes That their whole life is a life of worship. That Jesus is going to influence every decision they make in every day of their life, not just on Sunday. But when they work and how they order their family and their own personal time. They have a desire to pray and to read the scriptures every day. And they really have a desire to gather with the people of God on the Lord's Day. And so people who tell me You know, Pastor, I'm a Christian, but I really find my church really boring. I really don't want to come to church, to be honest with you, and everything. I will usually answer them this way. I said, let me ask you a question. Do you think you're going to heaven? And they say, yeah. What do you think you're going to be doing in heaven? You're going to be worshiping God with the people of God. You're going to be singing his praises. You're going to be declaring the greatness of your Savior. You're going to be singing, Worthy is the Lamb. That was slain. And there's going to be people of every tribe, tongue, and nation there proclaiming this with all of their hearts. So if you don't like that sort of thing here, why would you want to go there? Where it's just tenfold what we're doing here? It doesn't make any sense, does it? You see, when God really changes a person's heart, they become a worshiper. We find this in John chapter 4. Remember the conversation with the woman at the well it says the father is seeking people to worship him in spirit and in truth that's why we send out missionaries That's why we are going to plant a church by God's grace. It's not just because we don't want people to go to hell, that is true, but that's not the primary motivation. We want people to come to worship God. from their hearts because they've been changed. So this is one of the clear questions if you hear, do you enjoy worshiping the Lord? Now I can't always tell from people's faces. You know, some people just they have They have a resting face that doesn't look very pleasant, maybe. And maybe you're just deep in thought and you're concentrating and you're enjoying the service immensely. It just doesn't register on your face. But sometimes I get the distinct impression that some people would rather be anywhere else in the world than in church. And this might be true of many young people And let me just say, I'm going to give you a little bit of a break because of your age and maybe maturity and maybe some things go over your head and everything. But there could be a reason why you find church so incredibly boring and your parents have to force you to come and you really, really don't want any part of it. If you had your choice, you would never go to church. Probably the best explanation is that because you're lost and you're blind and you don't know the Lord. Because those who know the Lord want to worship. No one has to force them to worship. But now we must turn to the second point, the second half of this final paragraph. We see the coming of Jesus brings blindness to those who refuse to believe. Look with me at verse 39, which kind of summarizes this entire chapter. Jesus said, For judgment I came into this world that those who do not see may see. And those who see may become blind. This is one of the reasons we know that this miracle is intended to be like a divine illustration of salvation, because of the way Jesus summarizes this miracle. Now there are a couple things in this verse that require some explanation. First of all, he says, for judgment, I came into this world. You may say, what's the big deal about that? What's the problem with that? The problem is it seems to contradict what he says on two other occasions in this gospel In John 3. 17 it says, for God did not send his son into the world to condemn, or the word there is the same here, judge the world. But in order that the world might be saved through him. And in John 12, 47, summarizing our Lord's earthly ministry, it says, Jesus says, I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. But now in John 9. 39 he says, For judgment I came into this world. So what do we say about this? Is this a contradiction? I've explained it to you this way. The purpose of Jesus' coming to earth was to rescue sinners, not to judge them. But the inevitable consequence of his coming is that some would respond in unbelief and therefore condemn themselves through their willful unbelief. In other words, the purpose of his coming was to save, but the consequence of his coming was that some would reject the gospel and condemn themselves. The same sun that melts the wax hardens the clay. And we have a clear explanation of this in John chapter 3, right after this verse that I just quoted for you, verse 17. Let me read verses 19 And following, it says, and this is the judgment. The light has come into the world, and people love the darkness rather than the light, because their works were evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light. lest his work should be exposed. But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that it might be clearly seen that his works have been carried out by God. And when it says everything does what is true, it means they're sincere. They're sincerely seeking the truth. They're sincerely seeking the Lord. Now look back with me, please, at John 9. 39. We have two parallel phrases here. First of all, so that those who do not see may see. This is not hard for us to understand. It means those who are spiritually blind, like this blind man, that they might come to have spiritual sights. That's why he came. That makes perfect sense to us. But then the next phrase is not so easy to explain. And those who see may become blinds. Does that mean that those who had spiritual sight, he came so that they would become lost and not have spiritual sight? That's not what it's saying. What this phrase is indicating is the Pharisees claimed and believed they could see. But they really didn't. We see something parallel to this in Luke chapter 15 when when it says that he came not to call the righteous But sinners to repentance. You ever read that verse and said, wait a minute, I thought everyone was a sinner. He's talking about there, about the Pharisees who claimed that they were righteous, that they didn't need to repent. He's not saying they're actually righteous, but that's what they claimed. And he's not saying here that they didn't actually see, but they claimed that they could see. They said our spiritual vision is 20-20. We don't need any help. We don't need anybody to open our eyes. We see things just perfectly. Thank you very much. And so we see that their pride and their status drove them to reject Jesus, the light. of the world. Then we come to something very interesting in verse 40. This conversation that Jesus has with this man is in a public place. These religious leaders overhear what is he saying, and they can't help but interject and says, verse 40, some of the Pharisees near him heard things and said these things and said to him, Are we also blind? This question is structured in the Greek text so that it expects a no answer. You could render it this way. Surely you don't think we're blind. I mean, we're the Pharisees. And then notice how Jesus responds, the last verse in this chapter. Jesus said to them, if you were blind, you would have no guilt. But now that you say we see, your guilt remains. This is one of the more difficult verses to grasp in the New Testament. So let me try to bring you to a parallel passage in John that has similar language and helps us to understand a little bit more. Turn with me ahead to John chapter 15. And verse 22. Jesus is in the upper room speaking to his disciples about the hatred of the world, the resistance they would encounter. And he says, if I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have been guilty of sin. But now they have no excuse for their sin. Whoever hates me hates my father also. If I had not done among them the works that no one else did, they would not be guilty of sin. But now they have seen and hated both me and my father. Now what's important for you to understand is that when Jesus talks about sin here and in chapter 9, He's not talking about sin categorically. He's not saying, you know, if I'd never come, that they would have been sinless and they would have gone right to heaven. But because I've come, now they're sinful people. That's not what he's saying. He's referring specifically to the sin of unbelief. That his coming, his light The light of the world exposed the unbelief and the rebellion of their hearts. Just like you as a parent may not know how rebellious your child is if you never give them anything to do and never say no to them. But if you tell them to do something and they say no And you tell them again and they say no louder. And you tell them again and they say no with absolute defiance and they're stomping their foot and they're throwing themselves on the ground, which by the way you should not allow to happen. Your request has not all of a sudden made them sinful. They were selfish and rebellious before you said a word to them, but it's exposed. the rebellion of their hearts. These Pharisees, these religious leaders were the epitome of virtue and righteousness in the Jewish world. And people thought very, very highly of them. But they were very proud and they were self-satisfied with their status, and they thought that that certainly God was very, very pleased with them, but in fact their hearts were filled with hypocrisy. And with rebellion against God. And when Jesus came as the light of the world, he exposed in their hearts that darkness. This is what we're seeing here. What he's saying is if these religious leaders recognized their spiritual blindness , and desired to sincerely know the truth and yet had no exposure to the truth, then they would not be guilty of rejecting Jesus and responding in unbelief to his claims. By the way, I have to pause here. This does not mean that those who have never heard the name of Jesus or the gospel are saved from eternal punishment. Some have concluded that wrongly from Scripture. Romans 1 says they without excuse. It says that the revelation of creation is enough to condemn them, but not enough to save them. That's why we send missionaries around the world. But these men were religious experts in the law of God. They knew the word better than anybody else on the planets. And in the providence of God, they lived at a time and in a place when the Messiah would appear. They saw his miracles, which were undeniable, like the healing of this blind man. They heard his words. They could see that he was fulfilling all of these Old Testament predictions about the Messiah. And yet they still did not believe. And what it revealed was that there was a rebellion, a willful, determined unbelief in their hearts. They did not want to lose their status. They did not want to repent. They were self-satisfied and they believed that they were the enlightened ones and they were confident their spiritual vision was better than anyone else's They considered themselves to be holy and righteous. They did not need to repent and come to the light of the world. They would not admit they were blind. And the brighter the revelation of Christ shone like a light, the tighter they shut their eyes. And so their blindness increased their guilt before God because they were exposed to so much light. And yet they turned away from it. And so Jesus says in the final words of this chapter, you say we see And your guilt remains. Or your sin remains. There's nothing wrong with us, Lord. We can see just fine. We don't need to repent. We're not blind. And he says, your seed remains. What does he mean by that? He means that your sins have not been forgiven. He means that you will die in your sins. It's a matter of debate among theologians, but he might be expressing the fact here that they've gone too far. that they will now face judicial blindness. In other words, the Bible teaches that there is a sin unto death It teaches her such a thing as the unpardonable sin. It teaches her such a thing that a person can repeatedly, when exposed to truth, respond in unbelief again and again and again and again until the time comes when they will never respond because their heart has become so hard and so resistant that they will never ever come to believe This is one of the explanations Jesus gives at the end of his ministry. We don't like these verses very much quoted from Isaiah chapter 6. It says, He has blinded their eyes and hardened their hearts. lest they see with their eyes and understand with their heart and turn and I would heal them. There's a point of no return where there's no way back because you've gone down that road. You've closed your eyes so many times to the truth that there's no way you're ever going to repent and come back because the Spirit of God is never going to convict you and therefore you're never going to be saved. This is not a feel-good passage. It's a warning. There's no cure for those who reject the only cure. There is no salvation for those who reject God's only Savior. This passage is all about the two responses to Christ. There's a response of faith And there's the response of unbelief. The question is how you respond to Jesus, the light of the world. I'm going to conclude with just a few applications. Number one. Jesus delights to reveal himself to outcasts. This man was cast out like the woman at the well. Society had nothing to do with her or with him, but Jesus finds him. Jesus had a heart for the outcast of society, for people of low status. who were considered to be worthless like garbage by the world. Jesus had a heart for them. And you know what? We should have a heart for them too. Sometimes we think, well that person's brought all this devastation. and and suffering into their life. They've brought it among themselves. Yes, they have. Because they're in bondage to sin. That doesn't mean we have a right not to feel for them. Jesus was a friend of sinners. Number two, we should be patient with those who are lost, knowing that most people will not respond in faith the first time they hear the gospel. This man is not saved the first encounter he has with Jesus. We don't know exactly how long has transpired, but it's probably several days. And Jesus finds him again. Sometimes people are very earnest to win people to Christ. They're so eager and aggressive That they don't let the Spirit of God really do its work in their heart. They're like picking fruit before it's ripe. And that's a dangerous thing because they might think they're saved when they don't really understand. Jesus came to this man when he was ready. when he was looking for the truth. So we have to be faithful. We have to find this balance of being patient. And to wait, but also to be earnest that they would be saved. And God needs to give us wisdom to do that. We see here that we that responding in unbelief is a very dangerous thing Every Sunday that you come to this church and you hear the gospel and you respond in unbelief, that is a dangerous thing. You don't leave the same way that you came. Every time you say, no, I'm not going to believe that. No, no, I don't want to go down that road, your heart is becoming harder Repent, recognize your blindness, and receive the gospel. And so I conclude by asking you this question. Have you come to a place where you have said from your heart, Lord, I believe? Lord, I believe, Lord, I believe that you are the Son of God, the Son of Man, that you are God in flesh, and that you came to this earth. and that you died in my place and you rose again the third day. I believe these things and this is what I'm depending on for my salvation. I have no other hope. I do not trust in my own righteousness. in my own good deeds. I recognize that that can never save me. I trust in you and in you alone And I don't just have a head knowledge that these things are true. I do have that, but I have something more. I'm depending, I'm trusting, I am relying on Christ alone. Have you come to that place? Or are you like this man was before? He had met Christ. He believed he was a prophet. He believed he was from God. He had some idea. He had some knowledge of spiritual truth, but he was still spiritually blind to his condition. And to the identity of a Savior. May God help you to trust in Him today. Let's close in prayer. Father. I pray that you would help those who are here this morning who are blind to their condition to see themselves as they truly are. To recognize their need of a savior, to recognize that they can never save themselves, to recognize that to have just a few pieces of the gospel and to be raised in a community of professed believers does not mean that they are right with you. They must have a personal faith in the Savior. I pray, Father, that you would use these words to draw someone to yourself today, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.