Maybe your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to the book of 1 Peter? We continue our study in this book. And we're in 1 Peter chapter 2. One of the most famous theologians of the 20th century was the German Dietrich Bonhoeffer. He wrote a very famous book entitled The Cost of Discipleship. It became a bestseller and is well worth reading. Certainly one of the reasons why it's such a compelling book to read and why it is so popular is because of the story behind it. Many consider Bonhoeffer to be a martyr for the faith. He was killed in a concentration camp three weeks before the Allies liberated it in 1945. His book was in many ways prophetic and autobiographical. Unfortunately, Bonhoeffer was not very conservative in his theology, and so I cannot recommend all of his writings without a strong word of caution. He was a courageous individual. He During World War II, when he saw what was happening to his native land, he came to the United States and for a time stayed here and very well could have remained here in freedom. And in safety, but he decided instead that God was calling him to go back to Germany and minister to his worn-torn country, and that's what he did And he was recruited and became involved in a conspiracy to assassinate Adolf Hitler. Sometimes people look at this monster and they said, why didn't the German people try to stop him? Well, there were many who tried on many occasions. But it's very difficult to assassinate someone who is very paranoid and very careful about his safety. It raises a very interesting question. And that is, was it proper and acceptable for Dietrich Bonhoeffer as a Christian? To be involved in a conspiracy to take out the head of his national governments Now perhaps your immediate reaction would be, of course, Adolf Hitler is like the epitome of evil, a man responsible for The extermination of six million people. But my question to you would be, could you defend your position from the Bible? After all, that is our ultimate source of authority. And so we must look there for our answers. This raises the broader question of what is the relationship of the Christian to governments? This is a complex issue that cannot certainly answer or cover all the material in one sermon, and I'm not going to go off in a miniseries on that. But we are looking at these verses before us in 1 Peter chapter 2, which are very significant In answering this question, there are two main passages in the New Testament that deal with the believers' relationship to government. One is in Romans chapter 13, the first seven verses. which says, the powers that be are ordained of God's. And then there is this passage in 1 Peter 2, verses 13 through 17. Now the Bible teaches that there are three main responsibilities that Christians have to governments. Number one, we are to pray for our governmental leaders. 1 Timothy 2 and verse 2 says that we are to pray for kings and for all that are in authority, that we may live a quiet and peaceable life. We should pray for our leaders. Number two, you're not going to like this, but the Bible clearly teaches that we are to pay taxes We are to pay taxes. Jesus set an example of paying taxes. He taught that. And the Bible is crystal clear in Romans chapter 13 about that as well. Some Christians have fallen into the trap, the mistaken notion, but if the taxes are being used for things that we don't support, then we don't have to pay taxes. The Bible does not teach that. You do not have a biblical rights to not pay taxes. And third, you're not going to like this one either. The Bible says that we are to submit or obey governments. That's what the Bible teaches are our obligations to the government. Romans chapter 13 tells us that the powers that be are ordained of God, and then it says, let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. Paul writes later to Titus and he says, put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers to obey magistrates. The Bible is consistent about this, whether it's Peter or Paul, absolutely consistent. We are to obey and submit and honor the leaders that God has placed in our lives. Now let me remind you that chapter 2 and verse 11 begins a new section in this book. Remember last week we talked about how it beseeches us, it appeals to us as strangers and pilgrims. that we are to abstain from fleshly lust which war against the soul, having your conversation or your behavior honest or good among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak e against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold. Glorify God in the day of visitation. Now, why does Peter go right into this matter of submitting to government? The thought is this. Some Christians, after hearing these words that we are pilgrims on the earth, might draw the conclusion that since we are not really of this world, we don't have to obey the government in this world. They would say our citizenship is in heaven, and so what the government says, what the leaders say, what the authorities say has no relevance for us because this world is not our home. And Peter says, no, that's wrong That's a false conclusion from what I just said. You need to submit and obey the government. This is actually the key Notice we have it here, the first word in chapter 2 and verse 13. And then if you'll look down with me at chapter 2 and verse 18, it says, servants, be subject to your masters There's that term. And then if you look with me at chapter 3 and verse 1, likewise ye wives be in subjection. to your own husbands. And then chapter 3 and verse 5, for after this manner in the old time the holy women also who trusted in God adorned themselves. being in subjection, there's that same term again, unto their own husbands. So the key theme that ties these different paragraphs together is submission to authority. Now how does that sit with you? You like that? You like it when someone tells you to submit? You ever known anybody who got a little bit of authority And they like to throw it around and they go around and they say, I just want everybody to know here that I'm the boss and you're going to do things my way. Now, if you do that, if that's the approach that you take, you're going to be encountering some headwinds. People don't like to be told to submit. I've counseled many husbands before, and I would say to them, you know, the Bible does say that you're the head of the household And it does say that your wife is to submit to your authority. But if you go around all day saying, no, honey, just remember, you're supposed to submit to me. If that is the approach that you take, you're going to have some problems. You're gonna have some difficulties. I'm getting amens from all over here. The idea of submitting is not appealing to our flesh. It's not appealing to our culture. We live in an age of anti-authoritarianism. What is the the atmosphere today is question authority? Be suspicious of authority Don't let them push you around. Don't let them move you from your rights. You have your rights and so you gotta stand up And speak truth to authority. That is the atmosphere in which we breathe. But I want you to know that anti-authoritarianism is not rooted in the scriptures. Now we have a tradition in our country of being very independent. And the idea of someone telling you to submit sounds oppressive and coercive. And the idea of submitting to someone's authority, it's like you've lost a battle of wills. And who wants to do that? And so when someone tells us that you're going to do things my way, our flesh instantly says, oh no, we're not. And so the instructions that we're going to look at today are contrary to our flesh and they're contrary to the world, but they're God's truth. The obvious and repeated admonition of Scripture is that we are to submit to the authorities that God has placed in our lives. And so this morning I'm going to preach to you on this truth that Christians should carefully maintain a testimony of submission towards secular authorities. We should carefully maintain that proper spirit. So let's look at this. This message, I have to tell you, it's going to be a little different from what I normally preach because we're encountering a topic that demands a little different treatment. This isn't quite as personal. It's a little more philosophical. It's a little more broad in general. And uh and and so you know I I doubt that they're going to be selling a lot of CDs after this message. Oh, I just that was such a blessing to be told to submit to government. I want to get that sermon. But it's God's truth. And it's something that we need to hear. Notice first of all The Christian's obligation of submission. And verse 13, submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether it be to the King as Supreme. or unto governors, and I'll stop there. Now the translation of the word ordinance is difficult. It actually means in Greek, the word ordinance is actually a word that means creation. So literally the text reads, submit yourself to every creation of man. That sounds really strange. That's why they didn't translate it that way. So what exactly does Peter mean by that? It could be that he's talking about the laws that rulers create. That's how the King James Translators took and so they say submit to every ordinance or every law or every rule of man. But most Bible scholars think That because of the context and what immediately follows it, what it's talking about is that we are to submit to every level of authority in human government. Because notice what he says right after, whether it be the king is supreme or under governors. We could put it this way, whether it's the President of the United States or whether it's a police officer. No matter where it's in that hierarchy of levels, we are to submit to the secular authorities. Now I want you to notice that this is a command in our text. It's not a suggestion It's also put in a form that means that we are to voluntarily submit to the authorities. In a very true sense, no one can force you to submit. Reminds me of the old story of a Sunday school teacher who was dealing with a belligerent boy in her Sunday school class and he kept standing up and causing problems and she finally went over and she told him, sit down. And he sat down in his chair, and then he said to her, I might be sitting down on the outside, but on the inside, I'm standing straight up. Someone, no one can really make you submit. Real submission is a matter of the heart and of your voluntarily saying, okay All right, I'm going to back off. I'm going to yield to the authority here in my life. It's a matter of attitude, not just a matter of action. Now look at the motive for submission. It says here in verse 13, for the Lord's sake. We don't yield to the government or the secular authority or whatever authority in our life because they are worthy of our submission. Or because they always make right decisions. Or we don't do it even as a matter of self-preservation. In other words, bad things are going to happen. If I don't yield, so I yield, but I'm not going to like it. It says, no, we are to do it. for the Lord's sake. And the reference to the Lord here is a reference to the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, everything that we do as Christians is to be for the Lord's sake. We are to live a Christ-centered life. And so our everyday decisions are done for His glory, for His namesake. Not simply because that's what we want to do or what we think is right, but it's ultimately our submission to Him. To his leadership, to his authority in our life. You should not ask yourself, does the person in authority deserve my respect? Many times the answer will be no. No, the real question is, am I willing to do this for the Lord? Will I be submissive to his authority? Notice the comprehensive nature of the submission. And we have that word every, submit to every ordinance or every level of authority. Whatever authority is in our life. And he goes on to elaborate, whether it be to the king as supreme, this would have been a reference Peter is making to the Roman Emperor. the most powerful man in the world. And Peter may very well have included this because many Christians We're struggling with how do we respond to governments. We know that all of their civic occasions, that it was very common for everyone to go around and say, Caesar is Lord That's what you did in the Roman world. Most people didn't mean anything by it. It was just kind of an expected custom that you were to do. But Christians said, wait a minute. Caesar is not the ultimate Lord. Jesus is Lord. And so Christians refused to say that Caesar is Lord. And so people were suspicious of them and say, what are these people? Are anti-government? Are they anarchist? They won't burn incense to Caesar? They won't say Caesar is Lord And so Peter is very quick to balance out their rightful position of not saying that, to saying, however, you do have to submit to his leadership. And so whether it is the very highest leader in government that you can think of or the very lowest one, be immediate in your life, you are to submit to every single level. In other words, we can't pick and choose which authorities we are going to obey. I like this guy I will follow him, but I don't like this guy over here. No, we have to submit to all of the authorities in our lives. And as I mentioned earlier, the primary passage on this is Romans chapter 13. I'm going to read Just the first two verses that have a very strong argument in it in regards to this. Paul writes, let every soul be subject unto the higher powers, for there is no power but of God, the powers that be are ordained of God. Whosoever therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God, and they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation or judgment is the meaning there. Every governmental leader in the world that has ever existed has been ordained of God. You may say, how can that be? You're talking about horrible people like Adolf Hitler and you could Add to a list of horrible dictatorial leaders who were oppressive to their people. Doesn't mean that God was endorsing everything they did, or that God is saying that what they did was right But it means that in his providence, his overarching providence, that in many cases we cannot seem to understand, God put them in that position. And therefore we have to yield to their authority. It doesn't say that the powers that are fair and conservative and reasonable and responsible we should submit to. I think that's how a lot of people read scripture But that's not what it says. And do you know who was at the very top of world secular authority when Peter and Paul wrote these words? It was a man named Nero who was crazy and hated Christians and he was irresponsible. And he slaughtered many, many believers. He was an evil, evil man. And Paul writes, he has been ordained of God. Now, it's hard for us sometimes to wrap our mind around that and certainly our hearts into that because we have no affinity for people who are truly a terror. But God says you must submit to their leadership. In fact, Peter and Paul, who wrote these words, would both die. and be executed under his authority. So what are some reasons that we should submit to the government? Verses 14 and 15. Notice how it goes on. Or unto governors as unto them that are sent by him. Notice the two things here. For the punishment of evildoers. And for the praise of them that do well. Now this next point is going to be difficult for many of you to even hear. And it says this, we should submit to government because the government is helpful to us. Now, I can see many conservative people saying, I don't know about that. You've heard the famous statement, right? I'm from the government and I'm here to help you. And most people smile at that because they would say, no, thank you, I don't need your help. Most of you are probably conservative in your political leadings, and you're very wary of government. And I understand that it's very easy for government to overstep its bounds and to become a big problem. Our forefathers understood that But I've heard some very conservative people basically say, I just wish there was like no governments. No, you don't. The reason why you say that is because you've never lived in a third world country where in sections of that country there is no real governments. It is a horrible place to live, where the land and the region is controlled by warlords and people who have the most machine guns. And there's no roads that you can travel on without being stopped every few miles where people extort you, where your life is in danger. The roads are almost impassable because no one's putting any money into infrastructure. There's no way of redressing the wrongs that are done to you except by means of some kind of a bribe. No, you do not want to live in a world with no governments. And so I and God knows that. Remember, God is a God of order. And part of the order in our society is that there would be government. Now, we see here that the government exists primarily for two tasks. There might be more, but these are the two primary, these are the big ones. First of all, for the punishment of evildoers. Government must provide law and author and order for society. Now I don't want to get off on a tangent here, but it doesn't say that the government's job is to reform criminals and to turn them into wonderful law-abiding citizens. citizens. You know, we have a real product problem, and that is that most people who go into prison come back into prison again and again and again and they have a lifetime of crime. It is great when hearts are changed, and this is part of what the church, of course, is to be doing in preaching the gospel. But the role of government is to uphold justice. And those who break the law must pay for their crimes. Some leaders have suggested that we really do away with the idea of punishing criminals It's become popular today to view criminals as victims that need to be understood rather than lawbreakers who need to be punished. But this way of thinking is based on the premise that humanity is basically good, while the Bible teaches that man is totally depraved. So we cannot and we must not, as a society, move away from the fact that there is justice. God is a God of justice, and we have within our hearts, though it's often distorted, a sense that if someone has wronged me, if someone has defrauded me, if someone has assaulted me, that they should have to pay for their crime. And that is right and biblical and just. But there's a second thing that we often don't think about with government here, and that is for the praise of them that do well. It was very common for the Roman government to commend and reward citizens who contributed to society. And I just want to suggest that the government should incentivize moral behavior. It should reward people who play by the rules. who pay their taxes, who volunteer in society and make the world a better place, those people should be praised by the governments, not punished by the governments. We should also submit to the government because it's an important part of our testimony. Look at verse 15. For so is the will of God that with well-doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. I mentioned last week that the early church was often maligned and slandered. Look with me at verse 12, having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers They may by your good works which they shall behold glorify God in the day of visitation. Peter says that by their good deeds they could silence or muzzle the antagonists. I think he's saying that it's not enough just for Christians to be law-abiding citizens. In other words, we don't do anything wrong. That's of course true, and that's very important. We should be people who play by the rules. But we should also be a blessing to human society. We should volunteer, we should help, we should serve in various capacities so that we are a blessing Instead of being isolated from the world and saying that out there is all evil, we're going to have no involvement, no say, no influence at all, God has called us to be salt and light. In this dark and decaying world in which we live. Now, thirdly, I want you to consider the limitations of our submission to government. I know this has come perhaps to many of your minds. Yeah, but there's got to be some exceptions. Notice what he says here in verse 16 as free. And not using your liberty for a cloak of maliciousness, but as the servants of God Peter here is responding to some early Christians who were saying, listen, we're free men. We have no king but Jesus. And so I am free from all secular authorities. And Peter is going to say it's true that Christ is your ultimate authority. That's why he says at the end of this verse that in verse 16 that you are the servants of God or the slaves of God. He is our master and our Lord And so we must obey him above all else There are limitations to our submission to government. The Bible provides several examples. Perhaps some of them come to your minds. Remember in Exodus chapter 1? Where Pharaoh told the Hebrew midwives that they were to euthanize the little baby boys that were born. And what happens? They didn't obey. They did not obey the king's command, and God blessed them for not obeying. We have the example of Daniel, chapter 1, who refused to defile himself by eating Nebuchadnezzar's meat and wine. It was against his uh the the laws uh restrictions concerning his diet and he would not do that. They were probably offered to idols and and other things were were wrong there. And so he would not do it. And he made a polite request that he be exempt from that. In Daniel chapter 3, we read of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego who refused to worship Nebuchadnezzar's image. And they were thrown into that fiery furnace. They would not worship a false god. In Daniel chapter 6, we read of Daniel, who refused to obey Nebuchadnezzar's edict that prayer cease. And then of course in Acts chapter 4 and 5, we read that Peter and John refused to stop preaching the gospel even when the authorities told them To stop. There are limits. There are situations where we have to say, no, thank you. We cannot obey that law. If the government came to us and said, you must stop preaching that Jesus is the only way to heaven because people find that offensive , Because you're essentially saying that other religions are wrong, we would have to say we must obey God rather than men. If they were to say, you can never witness to anyone, you can never share your faith with anyone because it causes a lot of problems. People are offended by this and they don't want to hear the gospel. So no one anywhere in this country can proselytize, as they put it, would have to say, we cannot speak the things that we have seen and hurt. We have been called to be witnesses of Christ, and his authority supersedes your authority. There are times, there are occasions, there are principles over which we must break with this overarching theme of submission to government. Now, what do all of those examples that I looked at in Scripture have in common? Well, in those cases, the believers were commanded to do something that was a clear violation of God's words. That's the only time that we have the right to disobey the secular authorities. It might be an unreasonable law. It might be something that is supportive of something that we can agree with, but unless it clearly violates a clear command of the Word of God, we are to obey. And we must remember not to use our loyalty to Christ as an excuse for being rebellious Unfortunately, throughout the history of the church, there have been Christians who have broken the law. In order and viewed it as an expression of their faith, there have been groups that have rided it and have called for anarchy and the overturning of society There's others who have engaged in acts of violence in the name of God. Some have murdered abortion doctors and bombed their clinics. But two wrongs do not make a right. God's word says, the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. We must not use our allegiance to Christ as an excuse for breaking the law. And this little paragraph concludes in verse seventeen with some very broad applications. Notice what it says here. Honor all men, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor The king. We have four brief commands here that are exceedingly broad and general and can be applied in many different ways. Let's look at these briefly. First of all, we should demonstrate honor to all people. Now I wonder what you think of that. What does that mean? Does that mean that everyone should be equally honored? No, it does not. This is not like the common thing. I'm told today where children's sporting events, everyone gets the same trophy. And they're all told they're champions and they're winners. That's not what God is talking about here. There are some people that are worthy of greater honor than others because of their position, because of the way they've lived their life, because of the impact they've had on your life. They should be held in high honor. The Bible says that we are to give honor to whom honor is due However, there is a sense that every human being is worthy of some honor. Did you know that? There is no one who is worthless Why is every human being worthy of some honor, some dignity, some level of respect? Because we have all been made in the image of God. We have all been made in the image of God. And so that means that though that image may be defaced and distorted and degraded by sin And a person may hardly even act and behave themselves as a human being, yet they are still made in the image of God. Does it mean that they're going to heaven? Does it mean that they're a child of God in the sense that the Bible uses that expression? But they have been made in the image of God, and therefore they have intrinsic value. A person 's value is not determined by how productive they are to society or how much money they make. Or how helpful they are in meeting people's needs, when you go down that road, you will come to the place of euthanasia Some people are disabled. Some people are mentally challenged and limited. And they cannot really be a financial blessing to society at large. So if you view society as kind of like just a large business model, then they are expendable. They are worthless. They're not helping the group. But the Bible teaches that every human being has intrinsic authority. They have value That is why, and rightfully so, our hospital will spend great amounts of money to save the life of someone. who may have contributed nothing in his life to society, but his life is still precious and valuable because he has been made in the image of God. You ever wondered how genocide occurs? You ever thought about that? How is it that one group of people decide, you know what, we're going to wipe out this whole other group? We're just going to slaughter them all. We'd like to think that that's been very rare in the history of the world, but it has not been. And you know what has occurred more often? in the last century than in any other time in history, in times when we're supposedly modern and enlightened There was the great Armenian genocide that occurred in Turkey right at the conclusion of World War I. The Turks went through and slaughtered hundreds of thousands of people of this ethnicity. And then we have the killing fields in Cambodia. How about the Nazis, of course, killing six million Jews? Or the genocide that occurred in Rwanda where one tribe sought to eradicate the other. Primarily through machetes. How did that happen? The answer is this, that in every case they no longer saw them as human beings. They were regarded as rats to be exterminated or wood to be burned. They were dehumanized. They had no value. They were just a nuisance. So get rid of the whole lot of them. They had no empathy with them as fellow human beings. That was all gone. This is a horrible revelation of the human heart. And Christians must never view any human being this way. People are not a commodity. They are not a nuisance. They are not a product. They are not worthless. They are made in the image of God, and they are worthy of some level of respect and dignity. And the fact is that God's grace can save the lowest sinner. And we need to remember that. The second command here is that we should love the brotherhood, referring to the brotherhood and the sisterhood of Christ, our fellow believers. We are to honor all people, but there's a step above that, and that is that we are to love all Christians. And the idea here in the grammatical construction is that we are to keep on loving them. This is our habitual response to Christian people. We have an inseparable bond with them in Christ. That should top any differences that we might have with one another. Whether they be racial or political or theological, our bond in Christ with those who have truly been born again, those who are his own, that should be the most important factor. Jesus said, the world will know that you are my disciples if you have love one for another. This is, as I've said to you many times, the most common command given in the New Testament to believers. At least 11 times it says that we are to love one another. Again and again and again. And it's presented in Scripture as the primary evidence that we have been born again. This is something that Peter has emphasized. Remember a while back in chapter 1 and verse 22, we came to this admonition Seeing ye have purified your souls and obeying the truth through the Spirit unto unfeigned love of the brethren. See that you love one another with a pure heart fervently. He's saying there are love. There should not be hypocritical where we come in and we shake their hand and we smile and we say, I can't stand that person But we sincerely love them and we love them fervently It's not something we're putting on. It's really coming from our hearts. He's going to return to this again in chapter 4 and verse 8. Notice what he says. And above all things. Have fervent charity among yourselves. You may say, but that person is so hard to love. I mean, they're always saying things that offend me. Notice what he goes on to say. For charity or for love shall cover the multitude of sin. When you really love someone, you make allowances for them, don't you? You ever talk to a grandmother who's like really proud of a grandson who's maybe a teenager and he's a real terror? And nobody can stand him. They think he's a real problem. And you talk to her and she says, oh, he has such a wonderful heart. What about that car that he stole last week? Well, you know, he's got his problems. She makes all these allowances for him because he's her grandson, because love covers a multitude of sin. That's the kind of love that God's called us to have for our brothers and sisters in Christ. That person you say is so annoying. Someone says, yeah, yeah, but he's got his good points. And we love him. We must love our brothers and sisters in Christ We have to come to a place where we're able to put aside the hurtful and annoying habits and love them the way Christ loves us. You know, if we could do this, what a difference this would make in our lives. Whenever I consider that verse of our Lord, that new commandment, that you love one another, as I have loved you, and by this shall all men know that you're my disciples, I always think to myself, no wonder the world doesn't know that we are his disciples. Because we're not doing a very good job of loving one another. And then thirdly, we come to this in his list, fear God. God is the ultimate authority in our lives. So we've got all of humanity, then we've got Christians, and then over top of that we have God. Peter's already talked about fearing God in chapter 1 and verse 17. He said, Pass the time of your sojourning here in That is not that we are walking around with our hands shaking saying, oh, oh, this is awful. God's going to judge me. It doesn't mean that, but we live our lives with The understanding that we are not our own, that we have been bought with a price, and someday we have to give an account to God's. And so we live, we conduct ourselves, we behave ourselves in line with who God is. The Lord said this in Matthew chapter 10 and verse 28, fear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul, but rather Fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. And that's a reference to God's Oh, that we had more fear for God's, more reverence for his name. Now it's interesting considering what he's discussing here that then we come to the fourth level. But he's not going to say that we are to fear governments, and he's not suggesting by this hierarchy that at the very top is the king, he says honor the king. And so now he's going to address the issue at hand. How are we to respond to the highest secular authorities in our life? We are to honor them. We are to submit to them. We are to yield to them. We are to respect them as much as we possibly can. Let me remind you that Nero was the king when Peter wrote these words. But even Peter writes that Nero is worthy of respect and obedience where possible. Too often Christians have mocked and shown disdain for political leaders with whom they disagree. And some politicians have made it very easy to criticize them. But this is not God's will for his people. We should live as model citizens in the world. We are not anarchists. We are those who have a great king, and he has told us to obey and submit to the authorities in our lives. We must not overcome with evil, but overcome evil with good. The early church was conspicuous for their good works. They did not rebel against the oppressive Roman government. They paid their taxes. They even showed respect for pagan and perverted Roman emperors. One of the things that they did Is when there were battles, they went, and rather that the Romans would just leave the bodies there to rot in the battlefields. But Christians came and gathered up the bodies and buried them. And that was a profound testimony for them. They ministered to those who were afflicted with leprosy when their families said, We're putting you out in the wilderness to die. We want nothing to do with you because we don't want your contagion to come near us. Christians went and ministered to them and brought them food and set up places for them to live and showed them love and respect. And when people commonly put out unwanted children into the elements to die, it was Christians in the early church who came and scooped them up and provided homes for them. This was the good. This was the well-doing that silenced, that muzzled the critics of the early church. Because people could not deny. That they were a force for good, a demonstration of the love of Christ. They won the day, not by resisting the pagan governments. But by submitting to that authority and doing acts of love and kindness to others, may God help us to follow their example. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, I pray that you would help us to receive your word. even though it may be contrary to the way we naturally think. I pray that you'd help us to be submissive to the authorities in our lives, even when they're wrong about things, even Father, when they do not command our respect. I pray that you would help us. To obey and yield whenever possible, whenever it does not contradict your word. Help us, Father, to have a testimony of being gracious and kind and good. to the oppressed and the downtrodden in society, that we might present the gospel and that we might see the truth go forward. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.