Give your Bibles, please turn with me. 1 Peter chapter 3 One of the great questions that humanity has wrestled with for millennia is why do the righteous suffer? We see, of course, that question addressed in the ancient book of Job. There was a best-selling book in the 80s. Written by Rabbi Kushner entitled, Why Do Bad Things Happen to Good People? Someone once asked C. S. Lewis, why do the righteous suffer And he replied, because they're the only ones who can take it. This morning, as we return to the book of 1 Peter We are going to consider this matter of righteous suffering. We don't have much of a problem When wicked people suffer for their sinful actions, we consider this justice. But when good people suffer for doing the right thing , we feel that something is wrong with the world. In fact, we have a common statement that encapsulates this idea Have you ever heard the expression, no good deed goes unpunished? This cynical overstatement expresses the reality that often Doing the right thing brings additional problems. In fact, it may bring persecution. That was the experience of Peter's first century readers of this book, and it's still reality in much of the world today. We have all heard of good Samaritans who were sued for trying to save someone's life, or a whistleblower who lost his or her job because they exposed corruption. I have known Christians who lost their jobs because they told the truth to a customer instead of lying as their boss desired. And every day, hundreds of Christians are martyred for simply following Christ. This morning I want to invite you to look with me at 1 Peter chapter 3, in verses 9 through 12, a passage we have studied in previous weeks. Peter explains how to respond to those who mistreat us in the world. Now Peter is going to narrow his focus from our general response to the hostility of the world to our specific response to righteous suffering. Once again, Peter has come to his dominant theme of suffering in this book, and that is especially apparent in our passage today. I want you to notice The verses 13 through 17 cover form a paragraph. And at the in verses 14 we Encounter this word suffer. It says, but if ye suffer for righteousness' sake, and then again in verse 17 it says, For it is better if the will of God be so that you suffer. for well-doing than for evildoing. This passage is rich And instruction and thought. And so we will just be looking at the first half of this paragraph, verses 13 and 14. So let me ask you this morning, have you ever been punished for doing the right thing? You stepped forward. You said what needed to be said. What you said was truthful, was said in love, but yet you paid dearly for it. Have you ever lost a friend or forfeited a job promotion because of your Christian testimony? If so, you know that the circumstance can be very difficult to handle. We naturally assume that good behavior will be rewarded. But often it doesn't seem to work out that way. This perplexing sense of injustice is what Peter's original audience were facing. And so Peter shows them how to face suffering for doing the right thing. And that's what I want us to consider this morning. I want us to look at these two verses. I have three points for you to consider. And the first thing I want you to notice is that you should realize that suffering may indeed come when you do the right thing. This is a distinct possibility. You should not be shocked or dismayed or discouraged when it occurs because the Bible assures us that this is a very common situation that believers face. Now I want you to draw, I want to draw your attention to the last phrase actually in verse 13. He says, if ye be followers of that which is good. I want you to notice here that Christians are not simply people who believe a few doctrinal truths and attend church. No, we are people who zealously do good in the world. That is the expression that Peter uses here to describe all believers. And this was true of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Peter was a man who observed our Lord in action for over three years. Not too long ago, we did a series on the life of Peter, and I mentioned to you there that It seems very likely that our Lord was a house guest of Peter for at least a year there at Capernaum. He lived there with our Lords. Peter saw him 24 hours a day. He saw his response. He knew him better than just about anyone. And in Acts chapter 10, where we have a record of the Apostle Peter preaching, he describes our Lord in verse 38 as a man who went about doing good. That is how he described our Lord Jesus Christ. In context, he was talking about his ministry of healing and casting out demons from oppressed peoples. So let me just begin this morning by saying if we are going to follow in his steps, we must be people who seek to do what is good, and that is what is helpful, and what is merciful, and what is a blessing to others. We can become so have such a sense of isolation from the world and so close in our Christian communities that we really have no testimony of doing good in the world. But our Lord Jesus Christ touched the lives of those who suffered, and so must we, if we are to follow in his steps. Now, when Peter speaks in 1 Peter 3 of doing good, he is referring to our response to those who mistreat us. Loving our enemies is perhaps the most radical and difficult command to obey in Scripture. Now I want us you to look with me at the first phrase in verse 13. I wonder how you understand this. And how you've thought of this, perhaps at other times when you've read it throughout your life, he says, and who is he that will harm you? If ye be followers of that which is good. The fact is there are two different ways you can take that phrase. And Christian scholars and people have taken it in two different ways down through the centuries. And the reason why it's difficult to determine which way we should take it is because there are good reasons to consider both of these suggestions, and they're both biblical. They're both taught elsewhere in Scripture. So one way you could take this Is to say that no unbeliever can ultimately do any harm to those who truly know the Lord. In other words, there's a certain sense in which Christians are invincible and indestructible in the will of God. And we have passages that tell us this in Psalm 54 and verse 6. David says, In God I have put my trust. I will not fear what flesh can do unto me. And the Apostle Paul says with great voice of triumph in Romans chapter 8, if God be for us, who can be against us? And Brother Nick brought that out several weeks ago in a sermon. See, there's a sense in which you really cannot defeat a Christian. When you persecute him, he is blessed. When you oppress him, his rewards increase. And when you kill him, you send him to his heavenly reward. There's no real way to harm a Christian. Now, all that I said is true But I don't think that 's what Peter is saying here because of the context. There's another way of understanding verse 13. And that is that Peter is saying that most often when you treat your oppressors with kindness, forgiveness, and peace They will respond by refraining from harming you. That's usually the way it works out. Because right before this verse, if you were with us last week, you may recall this He talked about how that we're not to render evil for evil or railing for railing, and that we are in fact to pursue a path of peace. We are to turn from any idea of revenge. And we are to pray for those who oppress us. And so I think in context with what comes before it And after it, this is what Peter is saying. That would make what he says in verse 13 very much like a proverb. Remember, a proverb is not a promise. It is a principle that is generally true. You may recall that last week I quoted from Proverbs chapter 15 that says, a soft answer turneth away wrath. And that was kind of an encapsulation of what Peter was saying. But let me ask you this question. Does it always mean that every single time when someone is angry at you and they're yelling at you that if you respond with a soft and quiet voice that always it will de-escalate the situation and they will no longer be yelling at you and everything will turn out well. Is that what that verse means? Does it promise that? No, it does not. And I'm sure if I were to take the time, I could have people here stand up and give testimony where you answered with a soft answer and they still yelled at you That is a general principle. And I think that's the way we should understand this. When we respond in a Christ-like way, in a humble way, in a peaceful way to those who oppress us, it often will mean that they will de-escalate the aggression, the anger, and things will work out better. But notice what it says in the very next verse, verse 14. But, and if ye suffer for righteousness' sake Happy are ye. So he says, even though you may do this, and you may follow God's will, and you may respond to their anger with kindness, they still may persecute you. So don't be shocked when this happens to you One thing that is certainly clear, and that is that verse 13 is not preaching the health and wealth gospel or the prosperity gospel. Sometimes false teachers have seized on this verse and lifted it out of context and said that, you know, if you really are doing things God's way, and that means sending in all your money to me. Then nothing will ever harm you. You will have no disease. You will have no difficulties in your life. And that, of course, is not at all what Peter is saying or the Word of God teaches anywhere. And we should be very quick to run from those who espouse this pernicious doctrine. In the very next chapter, in chapter 4 and verse 12, Peter is going to come and address this issue in a very similar fashion. And he's going to say in verse 12 Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial, which is to try you as though some strange thing happened unto you. We should not be shocked and dismayed when difficulty comes into our life and say, what's this? I mean, I've been going to church I put money in the offering plate. I even occasionally read my Bible. I pray. And yet difficulty is coming into my life. We should not be shocked and dismayed. Because the Bible tells us that these things will come. We should not ever for a moment, and I have talked to so many Christians who get mixed up in their thinking about this, they think that somehow by doing uh what God has commanded us and by living the Christian life to some degree that they are earning favor with God and that will stave off any difficulty or harm or trials that will ever come into their life. That is not what the Bible teaches. You have just turned a whole proposition of grace on its head. And now you think you are earning God's favor. It doesn't work that way. But then on the other hand, there are some Christians, whenever difficulty does come into their life, they feel that God must be punishing them for their sins. Perhaps sins that they committed before they were even saved. And now finally God's getting back at me. And you know, he's going to make me pay dearly for those indiscretions in my youth. And I've talked to many Christians that every time something bad happens in their life, that's the first place they go to. It is true the Bible teaches that God will chasten us for our sins when we're living in disobedience. But God does not punish us. He does not actively punish us for sins that we have committed in the past, sins that have been forgiven, that are under the blood. And so we must not live with that sense of guilt and a sense that God is angry at us or that we're living in a doghouse, as it were. No, God, when He sends punishment because when we suffer for doing the right thing, that is not a punishment, that is a privilege. As we will see in our passage here, this leads me naturally to our next point, and that is that you should remember that God will bless your suffering When you suffer for doing the right thing, he says, but when you suffer, verse 14, for righteousness' sake, happy are ye Now this term is translated as happy, is actually a beatitude. It's most often rendered blessed. And so we come to this very amazing proposition here that to suffer for Christ is to be blessed. Peter's not saying that Christians should enjoy pain and discomfort. He's not saying that we should look for difficulty. He's not saying that suffering is a pleasant experience because it's not. However, when we suffer, because we have done the right thing, we can be certain that God will bless us in our suffering. Now let me ask you, where did Peter get a crazy idea like that? The answer is he heard that from the Lord Jesus Christ. And he was there to hear those words in the Sermon on the Mount. I want to encourage you to keep a finger here in 1 Peter and turn with me, please, to Matthew chapter 5. The very first book of our New Testament, Matthew chapter 5, right? The conclusion of the Beatitudes and verse 10. We read this. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you These are amazing words to read even today, and they must have seemed even more amazing when the Lord first uttered these words on the mount. This is a very unnatural way to respond to the mistreatment of the world. The word rejoice is actually a command to be happy and to be exceeding glad is a term that's used only here. It means to be elated when something occurs. We are to wear our reproach as a badge of honor. This is the consistent teaching. of Scripture. Consider these verses. Romans 5. 3 says, we glory in tribulation. 1 Peter chapter 4 and verse 14 says, if ye be reproached For the name of Christ , happy are ye. James chapter 1 and verse 2 says, Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations And this is not just what the Bible teaches. This is what Christians have actually done. We have record of this in Scripture. In Acts chapter 5 and verse 41, we read of the apostles, and they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his sake. And in Acts chapter 16, verses 20 and verse 25, we read of Paul and Silas after they were beaten, and their feet were put in stocks, which was a form of torture. It says And at midnight, Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises unto God. I don't know about you, but it seems that that is a pretty extreme expectation that God has for us. My response to suffering, to mistreatment, the first thing that comes to my mind is not to rejoice. And not to feel that somehow I am blessed. But this is what the Bible teaches again and again. So how is suffering for Christ a blessing? Let me mention just a few ways. Number one, our suffering often drives us to God in prayer. Isn't that right? I've heard it said before that sometimes God sends suffering in our lives because he hasn't heard from us for a long time. But suffering has a way of bowing our knee to him, reminding us that we are mortal That we are not sovereign, that we can't control the events of our lives, and we desperately plead with God to help us. Our suffering also makes us long for heaven. We so easily become enamored with the things of this world. And all that it has to offer that we rarely think of the afterlife and what is awaiting us, but then when God sends us suffering We can say with the Apostle Paul, for I reckon that the suffering of this present time is not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. And the fact of the matter is you will find that when the church is suffering the most, it thinks of heaven the most. Thirdly, our suffering enables us to sympathize and minister to others who are suffering. Paul speaks of this in 2 Corinthians chapter 1. He says, Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort, who comforteth us in all our tribulations. that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God The same comfort that we receive by grace, we can then give to others And we have a heart of sympathy for them. Have you ever noticed that when you are going through a great difficulty in a specific area of your life, maybe in your health? Or maybe a family problem, and you encounter somebody else facing a similar difficulty, your heart goes out to them because you know what they're going through. God uses our suffering to help us help others who are suffering. And fourthly, our suffering often provides an opportunity for us to be a witness for Christ. This is exactly what Peter is going to say in the next verse. He says, But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts and be ready always to give an answer. to every man that asketh a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. 1 Peter 3. 15 When you are suffering, you have been given a platform and opportunities to be a witness for Christ that you didn't have otherwise. You encounter different people. Different people will be praying for you. Different people will be watching you to see how you respond. And those whom you encounter who are lost will be looking to see if your faith makes a difference. You see, your suffering for Christ is actually a blessing. But this is hard for us to receive. And so in Matthew 5. 12, he gives two reasons for this to motivate us. He says, For great, first of all, is your reward in heaven. I don't have time to elaborate on this, but let me just say this. No one who has suffered or even died for the Lord Who is ushered into his presence will ever say, you know, it really wasn't worth it. If I had it to do over again, I would have taken a different path. I would not have followed the Lord. I would not have gone through all those difficulties. No one, the Bible says, will be disappointed. No one will regret following the Lord. It will be worth it all when we see Jesus. And then he says in verse twelve, For so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. You see, when you suffer for doing the right things, even though it may be a rather minor bit of inconvenience or suffering, There's a sense in which you are in company with the greatest group of people the world has ever known. He speaks here of the prophets, men like Isaiah, who very likely died for his faith, and Jeremiah, who was thrown down into that miry pit. And Daniel, who was put into the lion's den. They were persecuted for their faith. And when we are persecuted in some way for standing up for Christ, we are part of that honored company. And of all those, the many thousands of men and women through the centuries who have suffered for following in the footsteps of Jesus. But thirdly, this morning, I want you to notice as we turn back to 1 Peter chapter 3, and I would invite you to look with me at the last part. Of verse fourteen. He says this And be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled. Peter is coming out of the point of application, like all good preachers do. He's made some propositional truths for them to consider, and now he's going to tell them the difference that this should make in their lives. And that is that they should not live in terror, and they should not be troubled or shaken by this Let's consider this first phrase here. Be not afraid of their terror. This is a quotation from Isaiah chapter 8 and verse 12. It literally reads, don't fear their fear. The term that's translated fear in this verse is the source of our English word phobia. We know that word well, don't we? We have phobias. Do we have anybody here that has irrational fears? Yes, we have a whole room full of them. You know, people's irrational fears are very humorous to those who don't share those fears. I could go through and and and uh talk to you, give you examples of this, but you know, some people are terrified. of all sorts of things. I remember once I was with a group of people and we came to a footbridge where on the sidewalk there was a little bridge that went over a little tiny creek and it was about as wide as this pulpit. And this lady couldn't pass over it because it was a bridge. She goes, I can't do bridges, but it's one step. I can't do it. She was terrified. She was shaking because she couldn't take that one step over the bridge. That's an extreme example, but there are many others. Some of you are terrified by Certain spiders they might be incredibly tiny, much smaller than your finger. But they will terrify you and send you out of a room and change the color of your face and your entire countenance is changed by a tiny little creature. If you hate spiders, I want you to know you're in good company because Jonathan Edwards despised spiders There are all kinds of irrational fears, and they grip people's lives, and it's not my purpose to make light of them just to say that they are part of our fallen human condition Jesus said, fear not them which kill the body, but rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. That is, that our ultimate fear is our fear of God, not our fear of anything that human beings can do to us. Peter concludes verse 14 by saying, Neither be ye troubled. And as I mentioned earlier, the word there has the idea of being shaken. The Greek word translated as troubled originally was used to describe the turbulent sea, when the churning of the waves just never ceased, and this is a apt picture. Of a fearful and anxious soul. This is the same word that Jesus used with his disciples on the night before his crucifixion when he said, Let not your heart be troubled. Neither let it be afraid. But so often the circumstances of our lives make us restless and distraught. We so easily become shaken up. Let me just quickly say that fear is not a mistake. God designed us with a sense of fear It's like a warning signal that tells us what you're doing may be dangerous and destructive to you. So maybe you shouldn't do that. Maybe you should think about this. And so fear is a natural, God given human emotion, but the fall has distorted it, and our experiences often distort it even further so that it can become a gripping part of our lives. That rather than serving us and helping us, become a hindrance to us and keep us from really serving the Lord as we ought We live in a nation of people who are fearful and who are anxious. Anxiety is a huge problem in our nation, and I am not going to suggest that it's a very simple thing, and if you follow these two steps, you'll be just fine. But it's not God's will that his people be fearful and anxious and live their lives hiding and wringing their hands and worrying what's around the corner. I mentioned this word troubled means shaken. You ever been in a car accident? And they say you're a little shaken up? You go to exchange insurance information, you're writing your things down, and you can hardly hold your hand straight, because the adrenaline is going through you. God gave us these natural responses which have their place in our lives. But God has given us answers in his word to help us deal with these matters. Just imagine that you were living in the first century How difficult it would be because there wasn't just the threat that by standing up for Christ you might lose your job , that someone might slander you, but really bad things might happen to you. I think it's fascinating that Peter brings this up because Peter knew what it was to be intimidated by the forces of evil. We see Peter giving into fear several times in his life, right? There was the time when he stepped out of the boat and walked on the waves. For an instant, but then he took his eye off of the Lord and he looked at the waves churning around him and he went down because he became fearful And then there was that time at that great crisis when the Lord Jesus Christ was being tried and he went by the fire there and he crumbled at the accusations of a little servant girl because he was afraid that they had identified him as a follower of Jesus Christ. He was intimidated by her insinuations. Peter knew what it was to be afraid. from firsthand experience. The fact is the Christian churches often face the threats of terrorism In the early church, the first persecution came from Judaism, from the Jews. And they cast Christians out of the synagogue. It hunted them down, as we see in the example of Saul of Tarsus. Then we had persecution from the Romans. Who believed that Christians were unpatriotic and not really loyal to the emperor. And then we had persecution coming also from the pagan worlds. Throughout history, we've seen persecution come from other secular states and totalitarian dictators and communism And most recently from Islam. Christians throughout history have been persecuted and terrorized for their faith. But the church has had a strong testimony of not being silenced. I mentioned Peter's example of caving few times, but Peter, we see him in the books of Acts after the day of Pentecost. standing up and Acts chapter 4 verses 17 and 18 we read that the Jewish leaders warned Peter and the apostles not to speak anymore in the name of Jesus. And remember, not long ago, they crucified the Lord Jesus Christ. So it was very clear that they were willing to kill those who defied their orders. But Peter and John were not intimidated and said we cannot but speak the things that we have seen and heard. And in the next chapter we read that they were arrested again and brought before the Sanhedrin. And Peter answered, We ought to obey God rather than man. You see, when Peter wrote these words, be not afraid of their terror, he was not giving a hypothetical scenario, but he was recording how the Holy Spirit enabled him to respond. Fear is a very powerful force in our lives. This is why it's probably the most common command given scripture. It's the word fear not. I was glad to hear our young lady sing about that this morning. I didn't plan it, but it ties in perfectly with this message There's a million different things that we can fear. So many things that we can be anxious about in the future. When does fear no longer serve us but becomes sinful? The answer is when it keeps us from obeying and following God's will. When does anxiety or worry or concern for the future become sinful? When it drives out the peace of God that is to rule in our hearts. We are to be people who are controlled by the Lord and by trusting in Him and not to be dismayed by difficulties and problems that we are facing. Just imagine you were living in the first century. You were growing in your faith, but opposition was all around you. Government officials were threatening you and intimidating you. Perhaps the worship service was broken up by a group of thugs. Some of your Christian friends lost their jobs and homes. Others were imprisoned while others fled into exile to remote locations. What would be your natural response In such a circumstance, it would be to be terrified. It would to be worried. It would be anxious. It were to live. In a cocoon of misery and fear over what might happen next. But that's not the way many Christians responded. Another response would be for you naturally just to say, I know what I'm going to do. I'm going to follow the Lord, but I'm going to be an undercover Christian. I'm not going to tell my co-workers. I'm not going to tell my family. I'm not going to tell my neighbors. I'm not going to say a thing that would give anybody the slightest indication that I was a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ because if they find out, really bad things might happen to me. That would be the temptation, would it not? But that's not what Peter recommends. That's not the path of the Lord. In verse 15, which we're not going to cover today, but let me just mention It says, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness. And fear. You see, when we suffer for Christ, when we suffer for doing the right thing because we're followers of Him, that's not a time to retreat, but a time to advance. It's not a time to be silent, but a time to speak clearly and boldly for Christ And there are many, many people in the early centuries of the church and still today who have come to know Christ because of the testimony of those who suffered for righteousness' sake. Because they were not frightened into silence. They were not shaken to their core, but they stood up. With peace and with joy and with boldness. And people took note that there is something that they possess that I don't have. And they came to be followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, I don't s suppose there's anybody here this morning right now that is facing great intense Persecution because you say that you're a Christian. But I know that there are many people here who have suffering in their life. And I want to say to you that your suffering is an opportunity for you to speak for Christ. To demonstrate in a powerful way that He is your treasure. That despite your pain and your disappointment And the unexpected twists in your life, you can still stand up with peace and joy in your heart that come as a result of the supernatural power of the Holy Spirit. And when people see that, it's an opportunity for you to be a vibrant testimony just like the martyrs of old. May God help us to be willing to suffer well for his sake. Let's close in prayer. Father , We thank you for your word. We thank you that it is profitable, that it is relevant, that it is sufficient and authoritative. I pray that you would help us. to be a people who would suffer according to the will of God, and that we would come and learn to rest in you. And not to be shaken by the difficulties that we face. We pray, Father, that you would use these words to comfort, to strengthen, and encourage your people. And Father, for those here who are not your people, who have never put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, I pray, Lord, that they would seek you while you may be found. That they would not leave here without finding the assurance that their sins have been forgiven. For it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen.