Join me in John chapter 6. We've been out of this book for a couple weeks. I'm eager to get back in the Gospel of John. In the late 1600s, Roman Catholic missionaries entered some impoverished areas of China. These French missionaries discovered that many people were willing to be baptized and convert to their religion because they received rice and other necessities. An English explorer named William Dampier, who came and visited that time, wrote in this journal that these missionaries made many more converts through their bags of rice than they ever did by their sermons. In time these converts became known as rice Christians. It would become a common description of those who convert to Christianity because of the material benefits. But Rice Christians didn't begin in China. We read of the same response by the multitude who were fed by Jesus here in John chapter 6. We come today to the beginning of what is known as the Bread of Life Discourse. It's the fifth section of instruction in the Gospel of John. Verses 22 through 25 provide the setting for this event. These verses explain why the crowd was confused about how Jesus got back to the western side of the Sea of Galilee. You may recall that Jesus, after the feeding of the 5,000, went up on the mountain to pray. He sent his disciples in their boat to go to the other side, to their home region. The crowd sees the disciples leave in their boat without Jesus. But in the morning, when the crowd awakes in the local village , They can't find Jesus. He's not up on the mountain. He's not down by the seashore. Where did he go? They can't figure it out We also read that apparently boats from the western side from Tiberias came over to rescue them Perhaps there were some boat taxis hoping to make some money. Perhaps they had arranged with friends to come and get them in the morning. But when they return to their home region, the western shores of the Sea of Galilee They can't figure out how Jesus got there because when they arrived, he is already there. How did he beat them back home? They saw the disciples leave without him. The reality is, of course, they don't understand that Jesus came to the disciples by night walking on the water. And he entered their boat and he stilled the storm and they went immediately to the western side. And so in verse 25, they asked Jesus, Rabbi, when did you come here? But Jesus does not answer their question. This famous sermon begins with a rebuke and will conclude with this multitude walking away. What we have in this passage before us is a model of how Jesus responds to superficial disciples. A superficial disciple is a disciple who is following Jesus not truly by faith, but because of the benefits that they assume they will receive by following them. And we have many such disciples today in this nation and around the world. We even have a term for the gospel that they trust in. We call it the prosperity gospel. It is the most embarrassing export that's ever come from our country. And it has dominated now South America, the African continent, and it's making great strides in Asia. This false gospel teaches that if you come to Jesus, he will provide healing , fix all of your physical problems, provide prosperity and happiness. What would Jesus say to the millions of people today who don't want Him, but they want what they assume that He offers? I think this passage answers that question. What we're going to see, especially in this section that we read together a moment ago, is there's some dialogue between the crowd and Jesus. And what we see here is how Jesus responds to superficial followers. The first way he responds is this. Jesus rebukes superficial followers for seeking him only for material blessings. Look with me please now at verses 25 and 26 When they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, Rabbi, when did you come here? Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, you are seeking me not because you saw signs. but because you ate your fill of the loaves, Jesus has no time to answer their curious question. He begins by saying truly, truly, or verily, verily, something that you often see in the Gospel of John. He had something very significant to say to them. He exposes the motives of their hearts. I could never say this infallibly to a crowd of people because I can't see into people's hearts. But in John chapter 2, we read that Jesus knew what was in the heart of every individual so he can make this kind of declaration. And here we have an example of his penetrating gaze into the hearts of humanity. Now at first glance, verse 26 sounds a little odd. He says, you are seeking me not because you saw the signs. Well, you might say, well, the word signs is a reference to miracles. He was seeking them because they were seeking him because of the miracles. What John is indicating is that they saw the miracles. But they didn't get the point of the miracle. They only saw the sign. They only saw the external, amazing miracle of Christ, but they didn't think about the meaning of the miracle. What they got were full bellies. But they did not spiritually discern the meaning of it. Now for us as 21st century Americans, the prospect of a meal doesn't seem like a powerful incentive to follow a religious leader around the region of Galilee. But we are so spoiled. For most people in human history, one of their greatest fears that they faced on a daily basis was the fear of starvation. And it was not an irrational fear. Because all of them in the ancient world would have known people who starved to death. There were no safety nets. There were no government programs. And when a famine would hit a region, when weather patterns would change, Or when there might be a blight upon the crop, or there might be war that would displace people, people would starve to death. Slow, agonizing deaths. And so for most people in the ancient world, one of the things they were always thinking about is how am I going to feed my family tomorrow? Because they didn't have great food stores. They didn't have refrigerators. They lived hand to mouth. And so the idea that a man could produce food out of thin air was like the greatest news in the world to them. They would solve a problem. We have a term for this today. Sociologists call it food insecurity. Food insecurity. That would be solved by Jesus because this man just fed like probably 20,000 people. He could do that every day. He could feed the whole nation. And this is like all of their worries and their fears about starving to death would be gone. But Jesus responds them in a different manner. Look with me at verse 27. He says, do not work for the food that perishes. This phrase could be easily misunderstood. He's not saying don't work. Don't work to provide food for your family or yourself. Because we read in 2 Thessalonians chapter 3 and verse 10, if anyone is not willing to work, let him not eat. The Bible condemns laziness. Pastor Aaron and I have conversations about this sometime. Of course, he was a missionary for many years in Africa, and he always tells me when we see people who in America don't work. He says, well, if they were living in Africa, they would be working or else they would starve to death. It's a very powerful incentive to get people to work, amazingly. He's not saying don't work to provide food or other material provisions He's saying that we should not give our lives to the accumulation of material things. That completely cuts across the grain of our society. Because the American way is to live, to accumulate more and more things That make our lives comfortable and easy and reflect our status in society. Why is it that we are not to labor for meat or for material provision? He says, for it perishes. It doesn't last. This is exactly what Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount. He says, Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth. Why not? Where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. Material provisions will not last. They will rust, they will rot, they will be stolen, and even if they last your whole lifetime, you're not going to take it with you. You will leave it all behind. Let me make this real practical. You know all that stuff that you have in your garage and in your shed and in your outbuildings and your storage containers and in your basement that I mentioned miss a few things. All of that stuff is going to stay right here. In fact, most of it's going to end up in the local landfill, if you want to know the truth. Those things that you think are so precious and so wonderful. Your relatives and grandchildren probably don't think that about them. And they're going to be gone when you're gone. So if we're not to give our lives to the accumulation of material things, what are we to do? Look at verse 27. For the food that endures to eternal life. which the Son of Man will give you. If you're here this morning and you don't have the full assurance that your sins have been forgiven, this must be your quest, that you would seek the Lord until he may be found. And once you notice that eternal life is not something that you work for or earn, it's a gift that you must receive. And there's only one person who can give you that gift. Notice what it says. It says, the Son of Man. This is a title of deity that comes from Daniel chapter 7. Why only Jesus? Why is he the only one who can give eternal life? Look at the last phrase in verse 27. For in him God the Father has set his seal. In the ancient world, a wax seal authenticated a document. It had the imprint of the king's ring or some other person in authority. And it can it contained the idea of ownership and approval and of authorization It's as if Jesus is saying, My son, the Lord Jesus Christ, is my authorized agent to give eternal life. No one else can do it. There is no other way to God because Jesus is the only Savior that God has provided So how does Jesus respond to superficial followers? Well, first of all, he rebukes them for seeking him with superficial motives. And secondly, he corrects superficial followers for thinking they can earn God's favor. Look with me now at verse 28. Then they said to him, What must we do to be doing the works of God? The people fixated on one word that Jesus said in verse 27. Remember, he said, to labor. labor not for the meat that perishes. And so they're thinking of labor, work, and they say, so what must we do to do the works of God? The works that will impress God, that will gain us the approval of God. This is the way Lost people invariably think they are confident that with a little bit of effort they can earn God's favor and have a home in heaven. Perhaps you're here this morning, and that's what you think. You would say, I'm not that bad of a person. And God's standard for entry can't be that demanding. And so if I just try a little harder, if I reform some of my bad habits, if I turn over a new leaf. Surely God will be impressed with my effort and he will receive me. It sounds really reasonable, doesn't it? In fact, this is what most people think. It's absolutely condemned in Scripture. You're wrong on both counts. You're not a little bit bad. You're really bad. You're really wicked. If you could understand the holiness of God, you wouldn't recognize how selfish And wicked and self-focused, your thinking and your actions, and your affections truly are. And the other problem is that God's standard is not that you'd be just like above average or a little bit good or a little bit religious. You know what his standard is? Perfection. And you know what? You've already blown it because you would all already admit that you're not perfect. And you can't go back and change that. So you say to think that you can earn your way to heaven by working a little harder is not only impossible, it's insulting to gods. Because think about it, if you could earn your way to heaven by just trying a little bit harder, then there was no point for him to send his son to die on an old record cross for you. Because you could do it yourself. You could be your own savior, but you can't. You can never meet his standard of perfection. You can never atone for your sins of the past. You are absolutely hopeless and helpless, and you must rest in Christ alone and his atoning sacrifice. I want you to notice how Jesus answers their question about working to please God. Look at verse 29. Jesus answered them, this is the work of God that you believe in him whom he has. sense. When Jesus said that this is the work of God, he's not suggesting that faith is a work of God. He's saying that this, since you use this term work, this is what God requires, that an individual believe in Jesus The Savior who has been sent by the Father. Now when Jesus speaks of believing here He's not talking about a nebulous faith. A lot of people today in our society, it's still popular to talk about believing. You gotta believe. That's not Christianity. A lot of what people mean when they talk about faith or believing is that they have faith in their faith. They're trusting in their faith. There's a term for it, it's called Fideism. It's nonsense. It's like What are you resting in? I'm resting in my rest. What are you depending on? I'm depending on what I'm depending on. That's not an answer. That doesn't mean anything. There has to be a foundation that you're trusting in Faith in and of itself is not impressive or helpful. It must have an object that it's resting upon, that it's leaning upon. And the only person that you can trust in is the Lord Jesus Christ. Upon whom you can rest. This is the message that we've seen repeatedly in this Gospel of John. This is known as the Gospel of Belief because the word to believe, that verb is used like 98 times in this Gospel. I want you to just listen to a few verses about this that demonstrates this point. John chapter 3, verse 15, it says that whoever believes in him May have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son. Whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned. But whoever does not believe is condemned already because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. John 3. 36, whoever believes And the Son has eternal life. Whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. John chapter 5 and verse 24 says, Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but is passed from death. unto life. And then in chapter 6 we read, this is the work of God that you believe in him. And chapter 6 and verse 40 we read, For this is the will of my Father that everyone who looks in the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. And then verse 47, Jesus says, Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life. These are all statements that Jesus himself made. And did you get the point? It's believing in Christ that provides eternal life. Now, not long ago I read these same verses that I just read now at a funeral service. And a lady came up to me after the service. She was a little unhappy. And she said to me, you know, she goes, all that stuff about how you get to heaven by trusting in Jesus and everything. She goes, that's just your spin on things She goes, all of you pastors, you just say whatever you want to say and everything, and you make the scripture mean whatever you want it to mean. And I said, ma'am, I I just read what Jesus said. It's as plain as can be. You must believe or you will perish. This is not some weird interpretation. This is what the text plainly says. You either accept it as the Word of God or you don't. The Bible is remarkably consistent. So let me ask you, have you placed your trust in Christ? Or are you a superficial follower that has a type of faith, but it's a faith that's just interested in getting God to solve some of your problems? But you're not really interested in God's. But now we encounter a third way that Jesus responds to superficial followers. And that is that Jesus rejects their request for a new sign or more evidence. Look with me at verse 30, please. So they said to him, Then what sign do you do that we may see and believe you? What work do you perform? This is an audacious request. Just 24 hours earlier, these same people witnessed one of the greatest miracles the world has ever seen. Jesus took a little boy's lunch. You remember it consisted of five loaves and two fish. The five loaves would have been like the size of a biscuit, not a big loaf of bread. And the fish would have been like mennows or sardines. They were small fish, not like a big trout or something. And he took that small lunch And as the creator of the world, he multiplied that so that it was able to feed probably of around 20,000 people. Remember, the 5,000 just refers to the men who were heads of household. And they had all these leftovers. And the Bible says they ate as much as they wanted. The people who are asking for another miracle are the people who experienced that miracle. And it's not just that they saw it taking like in a distance. They partook of it. They ate that bread. They ate that fish. And may I suggest that like The wedding feast at Cana. This was the best bread and fish they'd ever tasted in their lives. And they ate as much as they possibly could, and there were 12 baskets left over. It was to be a divine picture that the bread of life, Jesus, can satisfy the human heart. But they're not satisfied. They want another miracle. They even make a specific request. of the kind of miracle they want to see. Look with me at verse 31. Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness as it is written. He gave them bread from heaven to eat. They even have a Bible verse to back up their demand. They're quoting probably Psalm 78 verse 24 with some parts of Nehemiah 9. 15. We know the rabbis taught the people that when the Messiah would come, he would rain down manna from heaven like a second Moses. And they want to see another miracle. They want to see bread not come from a little boy's lunch, but come from the sky. They want Jesus to provide for them more food. But Jesus does not cave in to their fleshly demands. He's not like some megachurch pastors who desperately want to gather a following and they will give the people whatever they want. No, he refuses to do that Their request for more evidence reminds me of a comment made by Bertrand Russell. He's acknowledged as one of the great minds of the 20th century, a great philosopher, mathematician, an outspoken agnostic and enemy. of Christianity. He was once asked by an interviewer, if you were to meet God after you die, what would you say to him? to justify your unbelief. And he said, I would tell him that he did not give me enough evidence. But that simply isn't true. The Bible teaches that God has revealed Himself to all people through His creation. People from the beginning of time have been able to reason that there is a being greater than themselves that has made the stars and the sun And the earth and all of these cycles of nature that sustain life, they can reason, there is a creature, there is a being greater than me. And Romans chapter 1 says that they are without excuse. This was certainly true for these people of Galilee who saw the miracles of Jesus again. And again. And Jesus says elsewhere in the gospel record that on the day of judgment They, the people of Capernaum, will be judged more harshly than those of Sodom and Gomorrah. Because they saw the wonderful works of God. They saw the miracles. They heard the teaching of Jesus. And yet they in large part responded in unbelief. You see, maybe you're here this morning and you would say, I would believe in Jesus if I just had more evidence. I want you to know there is ample evidence for you to believe. The problem is not the evidence. The problem is the hardness of your heart. This is true of everyone who's here this morning. Everyone here has access to a Bible. You probably have one with you, or you have it on your phone, or you have it in the pew in front of you. No one in our nation can say, I just had no access to the gospel or to the truth. You can find it so easily. And you're here in a church and you're hearing the preaching of the gospel that is exhorting you to repent of your sins and believe. You can never say, if only I had more evidence, if only I had more truth, then I would believe And look with me now at verse 32. Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you It was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven, but my father gives you, notice this, the true bread from heaven. The people were thinking that Moses was this mighty man of God and he was who performed this miracle, but Jesus says, no, it really wasn't Moses, it was God who sent you that man, huh? And then he's going to make a contrast between the manna of the past and himself in the present. Notice these words carefully. My father gives you the true bread from heaven. He doesn't say God gave you the true bread of heaven, referring to the manna, but God gives you present tense right now, the Father is offering you the true bread of heaven right here in your midst. This word true is a favorite word of John. It refers to what is genuine or authentic. You see, the manna that was given in the Old Testament to sustain the people of Israel in the wilderness did sustain their lives, but it had a higher purpose. It was to serve as a type pointing to the true bread of life, who is Jesus. And yet these people don't want what the manna was pointing to. They just want the manna. They want the bread to fill up their bellies. So how does Jesus respond to this? He rebukes their materialism He corrects the idea that they can earn God's favor, and he rejects the request for more evidence And those are all negative responses, responses of judgment, but there's a positive one. Jesus is revealed as gracious and merciful, and so he is still going to present himself as the true bread from heaven. Look with me at verse 33. For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. In this exchange, there are three parallel designations. We read of the bread of life, the bread of heaven. And the bread of God. And they all refer to Jesus. He is not only the one who sustains and gives eternal life, But he is the bread that comes down from God that is from heaven, and he is the bread that is God, the God man Jesus Christ Now there is an intended contrast in this paragraph between the type which is manna and the fulfillment of the type Jesus. And we're going to see that Jesus here is superior to the manna in three ways that are brought out in our text. Number one, the manna was something that God provided in the past. But Jesus is available right now in the future. This is the bread of life that the Father gives. And he's still offered today. It's not like, you know, if you weren't living in the time of Christ to hear this, then it's too late. You can't trust in him. No, you can trust in him today because he's still holding forth Jesus as the bread of life, nourishment for your starving soul. There's a second contrast. That manna that was given in the wilderness fed the people for a day. But you know what? The next day They were hungry again, and they had to go out and gather that manna. But it doesn't work that way with Jesus. He Fills our souls for eternity. Notice what he's going to say in the very next verse, verse 35. Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger. And whoever believes in me shall never thirst. He's so superior to that manna And then the man of the Old Testament sustained the people of Israel in the wilderness. But Jesus gives life not just to the Jewish people. but to the world. Look at the end of verse 33. For the bread of God as he who comes down from heaven gives life to the world. This does not mean that everyone in the world will be saved or accept this gift of eternal life This is very much in line with what we read in that famous verse, John 3. 16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whoever believes in him will not perish, but have eternal life. So the big question is, how did these people respond to this clear message? Look at verse 34. They said to him, sir, give us this bread always. You see, they were still thinking in material terms. Oh, a bread that will satisfy my hunger? Yeah, this sounds like a great deal. This is just like the woman at the well in chapter 4 who misunderstood Jesus' offer of eternal life and said, Sir, give me this water so that I will never grow thirsty or need to come here and draw water. They're still thinking in a materialistic way. They were like the child. Have you experienced this? Is given a very expensive special gift by their parents And the child rips open the package and takes it out, but spends the rest of Christmas morning playing with the box that it came in. Even though the parents spent over $100 on that gift, they're more interested in the box. This is the way it was with these people. Christ is offering himself as the bread of life that will forever satisfy their souls. And they're saying, if only we had that manna that people had in the Old Testament, that was probably really good bread. They didn't understand the value of Christ. They wanted a meal, but not Jesus. They wanted temporary satisfaction but not eternal life. What about you? Have you come? Have you come in true faith, or do you just have a cultural Christianity? This is a real danger in our part of the world. It doesn't cost a great deal to become a Christian. You're not going to be persecuted. You're not going to be thrown in prison. In fact, maybe your family, your friends, a lot of people in the community, it's cool to be a Christian. You say you follow God and they they think that's a really good thing. But a large part of our nation has a cultural Christianity. They can quote John 3. 16 for you. They know a few facts. They go to church perhaps on Easter or Christmas, but they have no relationship with God. Their lifestyle is not really different from those who are lost. They have no faith that directs the course of their life. So have you tasted the bread of life by faith? Verse 35, Jesus says, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never hunger This was recorded by John. He says at the end of this gospel These are written that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you might have life through his name. John included this story because he wanted the reader to see That Jesus is who he claimed to be, the Son of God, the bread of life, the only Savior that God has provided. I would like to make three quick points of application as we conclude. Number one, we as 21st century Americans Who claim to follow Christ must be very careful that we do not labor for the meat that perishes He was speaking Jesus to people who were very concerned about starving. We're not concerned about starving. We're more concerned with eating too much. So how would he put it today to us? I think he'd say something like this. Stop working and pouring all of your life into achieving the American dream. That's not what life is all about. You have been made in the image of God The purpose of your life is not to just gather more and more things and to feather your nest. more and more so that you're more and more comfortable and more and more concerned for yourself and your family and no one else This seems countercultural because it is. Everything in our society says you need more. We live in a commercial society. We are bombarded with advertisements every day that are intended to make you discontent with what you have, even though it works just fine. They want you to think that you need more and you've got to have more and you've got to have a nicer car and a better house. So you have to have the American dream. That's what everyone's striving for. You've got to put money away for your retirement, and you've got to try to retire early, and you've got to put away a million or two dollars. Because you could have catastrophic health issues that could just drain your bank account. So you never, ever have the sense, I have more than enough. I can never lose it all. And it's very easy for even true-born-again Christians because we swim in this We live in this environment to be so influenced by that that it robs us of our joy, and we live all of our lives just trying To maintain a certain lifestyle and gather more money. My friends, you were made for better things than this. Number two, we should examine our hearts to be certain that we're not following the Lord with false motives. The prosperity gospel is very popular today. It even infiltrates evangelical churches. People come to church. Because they want a better marriage or they want to God to work in the lives of their unruly child. Or they have a loved one who's dying of cancer and they want God to do something, and so they they come to God and they want to use Him for their own selfish ends, but when the crisis is over They leave, they go away, they go back to where they were. Because they had a superficial faith. They didn't really want Jesus. They wanted Jesus' help. And the third thing I want to say is this, we must be patient with people that we know that only have a superficial faith. What's remarkable to me in this passage is Jesus knew these people had only a superficial selfish interest in him. And yet he still speaks to them, he still exhorts them, he still says, I'm the bread of life. He still preaches to them. He still pleads with them to follow him and to trust in him, even though he knows That in a short time they're going to walk away and abandon him. And so as we witness to people and as we have family members and friends that have some vague form of Christianity, but they don't really know God. We need to continue to be patient with them and plead with them and offer the gospel to them and seek to live out the gospel before them. Just like Jesus did. We need to patiently remind them of who Jesus is and what he has promised to do, and we should give and testify. That Jesus has satisfied the longings of my heart, and I am content in him. This is a powerful testimony that we can give in a world that is filled with discontentment. Let's close in prayer.