Well, good evening and happy Thanksgiving. It's a delight to be able to stand before you tonight and to be able to open the Word of God. If you have your Bibles, just turn to Psalm 69. It's a brief devotional to encourage our hearts. Tonight is more of an opportunity for you to give testimony, for you to speak and to give praise to God and thanksgiving to God. For what he has done. But just to prepare our hearts for that, I'd like us to read a few verses out of Psalm 69, beginning in verse 29 of Psalm 69. The Psalmist writes, But I am afflicted and in pain. Let your salvation, O God, set me on high. I will praise the name of God with a song. I will magnify him with thanksgiving. This will please the Lord more than an ox or a bull with horns and hoofs. When the humble see it, they will be glad. You who seek God, let your hearts revive, for the Lord hears the needy, and does not despise his own people who are prisoners. Sometimes when we come to the Thanksgiving holiday, the temptation or maybe it's even easy for us to give thanks to God and to praise and to stand up and give a testimony because things are going well for us. It may be that you've gotten a new promotion or you've you've Got the ring on the girl's finger and you're finally engaged, or there's there's something exciting that's happened in your life, and it's very easy to give thanks However, there are other seasons where it is much more difficult to give thanks. Things aren't going so well at work, or maybe there is no work The relationships aren't panning out like you wanted to. Finances aren't the way you were hoping they would be But the amazing thing is that the Bible teaches us that we can still give thanks and we ought to give thanks, even in times like this. The passage we just read is one example of this where we are encouraged. To give thanks in time of pain and affliction. This means that in times of abundance or when we're facing need in our lives, in times of blessing, or when we're going through trials in our lives, Or when we have health and everything seems to be going our way, or when we have sickness and our body is weak, we are to give thanks to God. Remember what Paul said in 1 Thessalonians that in everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. And the truth is, the Bible teaches us that all Christians Even those who are going through trials should and can give thanks to God. I want us to see this evening just a few reasons why we can give thanks to God. even in times of pain. And first of all, this Psalm says we can give thanks to God in times of pain because it magnifies his name. Did you notice when I was reading this in Psalm 69 verse 29 he says, But I am afflicted and in pain. Let your salvation, O God, set me on high. I will praise the name of God with a song. I will magnify him with thanksgiving. And he makes the choice in the midst of pain, in the midst of affliction, to praise God with a song, to magnify the Lord. And it is a choice for us to magnify God in times of pain. He says, I will praise the name of God with a song, I will magnify him with thanksgiving. I don't know what you think of when you think of something being magnified. When we magnify God, it doesn't mean that we are increasing God. Or we're making him bigger, or we're adding anything to God in any way. He is perfect in his being. He cannot be added to in any way. Our praise does not give him anything. But that is kind of the same way we use the word magnify. When you think of magnifying something, whether it's through a telescope or a magnifying glass. Or a microscope, what we're actually doing is we don't change that object in any way. We bring it into clearer focus. We allow ourselves to be able to see it with better eyes. The microscope or the telescope simply allows it to be seen for what it actually is. So, in a similar way, when we come and we give thanks to God and we sing praise to his name, we're not making God bigger. We are exposing who God really is. We are bringing into focus the nature of God. When we praise God and give Him thanks, we are like a microscope or a telescope that brings into clearer focus the glory of God. We allow others to see his awesome glory of the salvation that he has provided for us. And we allow that to be known and spread abroad. Well, what better way to magnify the Lord and help others see and appreciate his worth and the magnitude, the glory of his salvation than by praising him in the midst of pain? The psalmist here writes from a place of pain and affliction. And he says, But I will sing praise to him. I will magnify him with thanksgiving. We can think of the prophet Job, who, when he came through all those great trials, he said, The Lord gives, and the Lord is taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And in that simple statement there, he magnified God by saying, God is the source of every good gift. And God is sovereign over my life. He has right to do with me as he pleases. The Lord has given, the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. He is worthy of being honored and glorified and magnified. The fact is, anybody can praise God in good times, but only those who have truly seen and known the goodness of God can exalt him. In times of trial. Psalm 96 says, O sing to the Lord a new song. Sing to the Lord all the earth Sing to the Lord, bless his name, tell of his salvation from day to day. And if you study this psalm, Psalm 69, it's a messianic psalm. It's a psalm that is one of the most quoted psalms in the New Testament about Jesus. And it tells us about his salvation. But because Christ conquered And has provided salvation for us, we too can praise God in the midst of pain. Because we know that God uses all things and he works all things together for good to those who love him. That we know that this light momentary affliction works for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. We know that God sanctifies and he purifies our faith in times of trial. And so we can exalt God. We can magnify Him even in times of trial. So if you're here tonight and you say, this has not been a good year. This is a good time to magnify God. It is a good time to show forth, to tell of his salvation, even If it hasn't been an easy year. Second thing we learn in this Psalm is that giving thanks to God in times of pain is pleasing to him. He says in verse 31, This will please the Lord. More than an ox or bull with horns and hoofs. Do you realize that your giving thanks to God in a public way is pleasing to him? You You please God by your thanksgiving, just as a a husband who praises his wife publicly pleases her. So too when you stand and you give testimony to God and you proclaim his goodness, it's pleasing to him. The comparison here is is between offering of a sacrifice when he says, this will please the Lord more than an ox or a bull with horns and hooves. He's talking about offering a burnt offering, offering a sacrifice to God. And he's saying, a sacrifice As a sacrifice is not as pleasing to God as true thanksgiving from our hearts. The reality is that a ritualistic offering of a sacrifice of a bull or a ram, though very costly, doesn't please God if it doesn't come from a heart Of love and devotion for him. But words of praise from our lips that are from a genuine heart of love to God and thanksgiving for what he has done for us truly do please him. Remember David's prayer of repentance after he sinned with Bathsheba in Psalm fifty-one. At the end of that Psalm he says, For you will not delight in sacrifice, or I would give it. You will not be pleased with a burnt offering. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, and a broken and contrite heart you will not despise. David isn't saying that sacrifices are bad. But David is saying a sacrifice that is devoid of a broken and contrite heart is not pleasing to God. God desires our hearts to be humble before Him. To recognize that he is the giver of every good gift. And to return praise and worship to him for what he has done. In Hebrews 13, verses 14 and 15, he says, For here we have no lasting city, but we seek the city that is to come. Through him, then, let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God, that is the fruit of lips that acknowledge his name. And he describes this sacrifice of praise as words. That when we give praise to God, when we publicly testify to others of God's goodness. It is a sacrifice that pleases him. But he described it as a continual sacrifice. It ought to be continual praise. It's not just for the fourth Thursday, or in this case, the fourth Wednesday of the month of November. But For a daily, moment-by-moment reality, that we ought to be a people that continually offer Him praise The last thing that we learn about praise in this passage this evening is that we can give thanks to God in our pain and thereby encourage The faithful. He says in verses 32 and following, when the humble see it, they will be glad. You who seek God, let your hearts revive. For the Lord hears the needy and does not despise his own people who are prisoners. Your thanksgiving not only pleases God. But specifically it pleases others. It pleases other believers. He describes them as those who are humble, those who acknowledge the fact that they are but a creature and God is the creator and that they are receiving everything from him. It makes the humble glad and it revives their heart. The truth is when you stand up today and you take the microphone and you Publicly testify to God's goodness, maybe even in the time of trial. There are others here who will be rejoicing with you But there's others here who will be revived. Their faith will be strengthened. They will be encouraged to trust God in times of difficulty as well. Verse 33 says, For the Lord hears the needy, and does not despise his own people who are prisoners. When the need Of others is weighing heavy on their heart, and they hear you testify to God's thanksgiving or to God's goodness to you in this time, it encourages them to trust the Lord To believe that he is faithful, to pray, and to continue to cling fast to him. My encouragement to you this evening, if you're here, is you don't just have to give thanks if things are going well. But even in the midst of trial, do not be ashamed to publicly testify to the goodness of God, to what God is doing in your life through trials. And I am confident not only will it please God, but it will strengthen others who are here this evening by that. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for the truth of your word. I pray for those who are struggling this evening. I pray that they would be encouraged. Their hearts would be gladdened By the testimonies of others. And I pray that you would embolden those who are facing difficulties to give testimony to you and to give thanks to you for your faithfulness. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen