In nearly every religious system in the ancient world, there was a figure who served as the intermediary between God and man. He might be called a witch doctor or a medicine man or shaman or priest. I think this is because people instinctively seem to realize that they cannot approach God directly. He's too high, too powerful for them to speak to. And so even pagan people sense the need of a mediator that could bridge the gap between God and man But the reality is only the God-man can span this great chasm. 1 Timothy 2. 5 says, For there is one God and one mediator between God and men. the man Christ Jesus. When we think of Christ as our mediator or our high priest, our minds should turn to the book of Hebrews. Because there's more teaching about the priestly work of Christ in the book of Hebrews than all other New Testament books combined. This evening, as we prepare our hearts to receive the Lord's table, I want us to consider a passage and A title that is found in Hebrews 4. 14. It says, seeing then that we have a great high priest. That has passed into the heavens. Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession. I'm referring to that title, a great high priest. This is the only time in Scripture that we find that specific title. Before we consider that text, I want to remind you of the background of this book. The book of Hebrews was written to persecuted Jewish believers who at least were in part considering going back to their old way of life because of the persecution that they were facing. Many were shunned by their families, other lost their jobs. Some were imprisoned for their faith. And so there were some that were tempted to go back to their traditional Judaism and abandon Christ. This epistle which is very much in a sermonic form, exhorts these early believers not to go back, because Christ is far superior to the symbolism and shadows of Judaism. The unknown writer of this book also warns them in very direct language not to turn back. I want you to turn with me to Hebrews 3. In verse 8, we have one of these warnings. Hebrews 3 and verse 8 says, harden not your heart as in the provocation. In the day of temptation in the wilderness, when your fathers tempted me, proved me and saw my works forty years Wherefore I was grieved with that generation and said, They do always err in their hearts, they have not known my ways, so I swear in my wrath, they shall not enter into my rest. Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief and departing from the living God, but exhort one another daily while it is called today. lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. This is the warning passage that precedes This mention of Christ as our great high priest, it continues into chapter 4. Look with me at verse 11 of chapter 4. He says something that in some ways is a paradox. Let us labor therefore to enter into that rest. Lest any man fall after the same example of unbelief. For the word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. Piercing even of the biting asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and morrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight, but all things are naked and open unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. Now, what is your response to that very solemn warning passage when you learn about The seriousness of following Christ and the fact that he knows everything about us. He peers into the very depths of our soul. Well, I would think that our natural response is to draw back. And so to counterbalance that natural reaction in verse 14, he concludes this chapter by exhorting his hearers not to go away, but to come close, to draw near to God's. And this encouragement flows from the reality that Christ is our great high priest. So what difference should it make that we have a great high priest? Well there are two exhortations embedded in this passage. Notice in verse 14 we have this exhortation, let us hold fast our profession. And then in verse 16, let us come boldly to the throne of grace. And there is a strong connection between these two exhortations. The only way to deal with trials and temptations that weaken our faith and cause us to consider even the unthinkable of walking away from Christ is to come boldly to God's throne of grace in prayer. We should not presume to neglect that avenue that is so vital. To us remaining steadfast and faithful. Tonight, as we prepare our hearts and minds to celebrate the Lord's table, let us turn our attention to Christ as our high priest. And I want us to consider from this text this evening, what kind of high priest are we coming before tonight? I want you to notice our text tells us three things about our high priest. And I want us to consider this truth that because Christ is our high priest, we can come boldly before God. First of all, we can come boldly to God because we have a great high priest. Verse 14 It may seem difficult to see the connection between verse 14 and what is immediately before it. I just mentioned that it's kind of like a counterbalance. because of the severe warning, our our reaction, our natural reaction is to turn away, but instead he calls us to draw near. But he says, seeing then we have a great high priest And what is sometimes confusing to the reader is that the preacher here was not talking about Christ as our high priest immediately before this. You have to go back to chapter 3 and verse 1. Look with me at chapter 3 and verse 1. He says, wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and high priest of our profession, Christ Jesus. who was faithful to him that appointed him, also as Moses was faithful in all his house. And he's going to continue down through verse 6. To expound that wonderful truth about Christ as our high priest. But then in verse 7 of chapter 3 He does what many preachers do, and that is he goes a little bit on a digression. Now it's a Holy Spirit-imprompted digression, but it is a digression. And now he's coming back to where he left off his leading thought here at the end of chapter four. And so he's tying it way back into chapter three, that first paragraph, saying, remember we were talking about Christ as our high priest, seeing that we have this kind, this great high priest, let me make these exhortations. The contrast here is again with Judaism. Israel's priestly system was started by the high priest Aaron. And as we all know, Aaron was far from perfect. He made a golden calf while Moses was up on the mountain, and he failed in other ways as well. In fact, the writer of Hebrews will take the next six chapters to demonstrate that Christ's priesthood is superior to that of Aaron 's. And I want to mention just briefly four ways in which it is superior to the high priest of Aaron. Number one, notice what he says in verse 14, that is passed into the heavens. Aaron passed through the curtain into the Holy of Holies, but Christ has passed into heaven. In chapter 1 and verse 3, a passage that Dave read for us this morning, it says, who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the majesty on high. There's a second way it was superior. Arian's priestly work was never done, but Christ sat down because his atoning work was finished Did you know that there was no chair mentioned among the furniture of the tabernacle? Why is that? Because the priests were always busy, because people were always sinning. They never got a moment's rest. They were always working. But as we read in chapter 1 and verse 3, and as it's mentioned in chapter 9, Jesus sat down because his work was complete. in Hebrews chapter 9 verse 24. We read this, for Christ is not entered into the holy place made with hands. which are the figures of the true, but into heaven itself now to appear in the presence of God for us Nor yet that he should offer himself often as the high priest entered into the holy place every year with the blood of others. For then must he have often suffered since the foundation of the world. But now once In the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. Aaron had to make a sacrifice for his own sins. and then for the sins of the people. But our mediator, our great high priest, is not a frail sinner like Aaron in need of forgiveness. He is the sinless son of God. And chapter 7 and verse 26 we read, for such a high priest became us who is holy, harmless. undefiled, separate from sinners, and made higher than the heavens, who needeth not daily as those high priests to offer up sacrifices first for his own sins and then for the peoples, for this he did once when he offered up himself. Let me mention another way that he is far better. Aaron offered the blood of bulls and goats But Christ offered up his own blood for the remission of our sins. We see this in chapter 9. And verse 12. Chapter 9, verse 12 says, Neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered in once. into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. And what difference should that truth make to us that he is a great high priest? Turn with me to Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 19. Hebrews 1019 Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, which he hath consecrated for us through the veil that is to say his flesh And having a high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience. and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. Now that should seem familiar to you because this is essentially the same application that we have back in chapter 4 and verse 14 where we began. We are to hold fast our profession. We are to cling to Christ and to his gospel. This is what we are called to do. And this truth is intended to be an anchor for our souls. Hebrews chapter 6 And verse 19, this wonderful comforting passage after a very sobering warning passage in chapter 6. It says, which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and steadfast, and which entereth into into that within the veil, whither the forerunner is for us, entered even Jesus. made a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. These are the truths that should stabilize our souls Because there will come a time into all of our lives when we need an anchor for our souls. When there will come great howling winds of doubt and despair into our lives. It may be in the form of a strong temptation to go back to the old life. It may come as a result of some painful circumstance. It could come from many different situations. The fact is that in a moment of time your life can change forever. Where do we turn into such a time? Well, we might turn to a friend, to our brother and sister in Christ. We certainly would speak to our parents, but we must primarily turn to Christ, our great high priest. who was always available to intercede on behalf of his people. So we can come boldly to God because we have a great high priest. And would you notice with me in chapter 4 and verse 15, we can come bold to God because we have a sympathetic high priest. He says, For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted, like as we are, yet without Sin. Our high priest is the Son of God, but he is also human. And that is important for us to remember and consider. We should not think that since our high priest is God, he is unable to sympathize with us. The Bible teaches. that Jesus is theanthropic being, that he is 100% God and 100% man. As conservative Christians, we tend to really emphasize his deity. But we must also defend his humanity because this is part of God's revelation. This is part of his qualification as our great high priest. The Bible doesn't teach that Jesus was a man, but that he is a man. That's a distinction that I find many Christians don't understand. They think of Jesus as just now as a spirit being in heaven. That is not what the Bible teaches. He was resurrected. from the grave, bodily, in his glorified body. And he is in that glorified body today in heaven. 1 Timothy 2. 5, a verse I quoted earlier, says, there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man. Christ Jesus. He is still today a man. He is still today human. He is still in bodily form as our great high priest. Now verse 15 is worded a little awkwardly for us because we find double negative. We don't generally like to use double negatives in English. You're exhorted by English teachers that it's not the most effective way to communicate. And so what is being said here is that we have a sympathetic high priest. He is exhorting the believer, the reader, not to think that because Jesus is the Son of God. He is somehow above it all and oblivious to our our sorrows, our temptations, our difficulties, our weaknesses. No, he is saying, remember. that he is the God man. Now the Greek word that's translated touched with the feeling is the origin of our English word sympathy. It was a word used to describe the sympathy of a mother for her children. And it is a sympathy that responds with help. It doesn't just feel bad for someone. It does something. This was an essential part. of our Lord's high priestly qualification. In Hebrews chapter 2 and verse 17 it says, Wherefore in all things it behooved him to be made like unto his brethren. Why? That he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God to make reconciliation for the sins of the people. When it says here in verse 15 that he's touched with the feeling of our infirmities, it means that he knows the weaknesses that we face. That's the idea of infirmities, there are weaknesses. And he is merciful because he suffered like us. This is human nature. When you find someone who is going through a very difficult time, perhaps with the loss of a spouse, or perhaps they're dealing with cancer, and you have come through that, you have a natural connection with that person because you can say, I know what you're going through. I know how you're you're feeling right now. I know the thoughts that are going through your hearts. And that is what the scriptures are teaching us about our sympathetic high priest. Now we have this expression, but he was in all points tempted like as we are. This raises an age-old theological problem. Could Jesus have sinned? I'm not going to unpack all of this and talk about all the different views and the reasons for and the reasons against. I will simply say that most Orthodox theologians down through the years have answered no, because Jesus is God and God cannot sin. But then others will respond, well if he could not have sinned, then he could not have been truly tempted. So is this a contradiction? Absolutely not. This is part of the mystery of the incarnation. I'm going to be honest with you. I've read many, many explanations over the years by the greatest theological minds of the ages about how to completely understand this conundrum. And I have never found an explanation that clearly explains everything to my satisfaction. There's always still, but yeah, but what about this? So I want you to know that I believe that Jesus could not have sinned because he is God, but that he was truly tempted because he is man. That is plain and apparent from our passage this evening. In fact, his temptation was stronger than any temptation that you and I have ever faced. We read of his testing in the wilderness at the beginning of his ministry. We know that the wicked one tempted him to meet his physical needs by performing miracles. You and I have never been tempted that way. We've never been tempted to perform a miracle for our convenience, for a very simple fact that we cannot perform miracles. And Christ, of course, never yielded to this temptation. And you and I have only endured temptation until the point where we either took the way of escape or we gave in to the temptation. But Christ was in all points tempted, like as we are yet without sin. This means that Jesus can sympathize with us. He knows how it feels to be rejected by people. He knows how it feels to be tired, hungry, and thirsty. He knows how it feels to be betrayed by a close friend. He knows how it feels to be sorrowful. He knows how it what it means to face extreme pain and suffering is. and even death. And I think the point that the author has in mind here is the temptation to avoid suffering by turning from the truth. Remember, the people who first heard these words were tempted to quit on the Christian life because they were suffering for Christ. And so the writer reminds them that their great high priest is not oblivious to their suffering, their hardship, their temptation, the strong pull of their family and friends in the old life, trying to draw them back. He is very aware of that. And so they are exhorted to turn in prayer to their great high priest. The fact is that suffering often brings temptation. We're tempted to become bitter at God. We are tempted to disobey God's will in order to get out of the suffering. We're tempted to question God's goodness. It's in the furnace of affliction that our faith is tried, and it is then that we must pour out our hearts to God in prayer. We come to our third description of our great high priest. And I want you to see in verse 16 that we can come boldly to God because we not only have a great high priest, We don't only have a sympathetic high priest, but we have a gracious high priest, verse 16. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace. that we might obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. This is the natural application. Of all that has been said, let us draw near to God. And the Greek tense indicates that we should draw near, we should come again and again and again. Christians don't worship and pray occasionally. They don't come and ask for help every once in a while in the midst of a great crisis, but we must come every day asking for God's grace. It also says that we are to come boldly. What does that mean? Sometimes I think when we think of boldly, we think of someone who's obnoxious and disrespectful. But that's not at all, of course, what is in mind here. It means that we come with full assurance that he will cure us, that he is available. We must remember that we're still coming to a throne. We come and we bow before his throne. We come submitted to his will. We come with great reverence. And there's probably a reference here still to the high priest coming into the Holy of Holies. We might think of this throne as the throne of a king, and indeed our Savior is a king. But the picture here is of the high priest coming to the Holy of Holies. He came with trembling hands because this was literally a matter of life and death. The mercy seat was a place of restricted access to say the least, but that has all changed through the atonement. of Christ, our high priest. Turn with me again, if you would, to Hebrews chapter 10, verse 19. Let these words sink into your hearts, having therefore, brethren, boldness. To enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus. We come boldly not because of who we are, but because we come in the name and the merits of Christ. by a new and living way, which he hath consecrated for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh, and having a high priest over the house of God. Let us draw near with a true heart and full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed. with pure water. Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. So what does this mean practically? For our prayer lives. It means that we should speak openly to God. The word boldly conveys the idea of free and open speech. The fact is the Lord already knows what's in your heart, what's going through your mind. So there's no point in trying to mask your struggles. You need to come openly before Him. And notice that it's described as a throne of grace. Why a throne of grace? Well, it said in contrast to what we normally think of as a throne. Usually a throne is a place of judgments. A place where people are declared to be guilty. But this is a throne of grace, because that is the nature of our great high priest. He is merciful and gracious. You see, this is exactly the kind of person you want to talk to when you have a real problem. Someone who is great, someone who is superior to all others and their ability. To bridge the gap between you and God, someone who is sympathetic, who knows what you're going through, who has a heart for you and cares for you And someone, as we see here, who is gracious, who is more than willing to help and to minister and to give strength This is the high priest that we have to come before. This is what our text means when it says to find grace. It means that he will give us the strength to endure whatever difficulties we face in life. And when is our great high priest available? It says, in time of need, when you need him most, he is there. He is always there. He is always available. He ever liveth to make intercession for us. He is our great high priest, and he is the one that we come boldly before tonight in remembrance of what he has done for us. Let's close in prayer. Our Father, we thank you that you have provided for us a great high priest. One who is sympathetic and gracious. One who has made atonement for us. And one who is eager to help and to strengthen us. I pray, Father, that you would use these words to encourage your people tonight. Help us, Father to reflect on this even as we celebrate this ordinance this evening, as we remember our Savior and what he has done for us and all of the wonderful ramifications. Of that great sacrifice, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen