Give your Bibles. You can turn if you would like to Matthew chapter 6. I know that's not the passage we read from, but we're going to be looking at some different uh passages this morning. Many of you know the name of Ian Bounds. He was devotional writer, preacher. He was a chaplain during the Civil War, and he would later pastor in Alabama, Tennessee, and Missouri. And wherever he pastored his ministry thrived. God sent revival on several occasions to his ministry. But he was best known as a man of prayer. Although he never talked much about it, those who had him stay with them would profess that he regularly rose at 4 a. m. and preached until 7, or prayed until 7 every morning. And so it's fitting that Pastor Bounds would write eight books on prayer. And in one of those books entitled The Essentials of Prayer, he says this. That which brings the praying soul near to God is humility of heart. That which gives wings to prayer is lowliness of mind. Pride, self-esteem, self-praise effectually shut out the door of prayer. He who would come to God must approach the Lord with self hidden from his eyes. Humility is a rare Christian grace of great price in the courts of heaven, an inseparable condition of effectual praying. It gives access to God when other qualities fail. Our prayers. Must be set low before they can ever rise high. This morning I want us to think about the connection between humility and our prayer life. For those of you who have not been with us this early part of the year, we have been looking at what the Scripture says about humility. Now we've been away from it for three weeks, but this morning I want us to return to this. In Psalm chapter 10 and verse 4, we read, the wicked through the pride. of his countenance will not seek after God. God is not in all his thoughts. The fact is that proud people don't pray because proud people do not believe. that they need God. And so they very rarely seek the Lord in prayer, perhaps in a moment of great crisis, but otherwise they live as if he does not exist. But the humble know that they need God and they seek Him often in prayer. They could say with the hymn writer, I need thee every hour. This is true. This should be true of every believer. That we have this sense of dependence, this sense that we truly need the Lord and we need his wisdom and we need his his cleansing, his forgiveness. We need God in our lives and therefore prayer is our lifeline. And we throughout the day seek the Lord. This is true individually as well as nationally 2 Chronicles 7. 14 is a familiar verse. I can remember as a small boy when the bicentennial rolled around in 1976 and Every preacher, I think, in America was preaching on this verse. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves. and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sins and will heal their land. There is a connection, you see, between humility and prayer. This is a pattern that we find throughout Scripture. We read a passage this morning from Exodus 34. You may have wondered why in the world are we reading this passage in Exodus 34? It's a wonderful passage of Scripture. Tells a story right after the golden calf incident. Remember when Moses was up on the mountain receiving the Ten Commandments? And the children of Israel were down in the valley worshiping the golden calf. Moses was profoundly discouraged and angered. Remember, he shattered the Ten Commandments and his wrath. And God said he was going to wipe them all out, but Moses would intercede for the people, and he spared them, but he did bring judgment upon them. And after this incident, the Lord says, All right, Moses, it's time to get moving again, but I want you to know that I am not going with you. I'm not going to go with this stubborn and rebellious people. And Moses rightfully was profoundly discouraged and he says, Lord, if you don't go with us, I'm not going to go either. And he pours out his heart to God in prayer, and he says, among other things, show me your glory. And that's exactly what God does in the passage that we read together this morning. He showed him a manifestation of his glory and his attributes. And Moses was humbled. He bowed to the ground and he sought the Lord in prayer. Because when we truly know God, when we depend on God , And we are humble before him, we will become a praying people that invariably goes together. Now let me remind you of our definition of humility. We've been away from this for three weeks, and we always have new people come in, so I don't want to assume things. It's very often misunderstood. Humility is not thinking poorly about yourself as some people suspect. No, that kind of humility that's that that people sometimes call humility going around and and and and feeling uh bad about yourself when wondering why no one gives you attention and and so forth. That is frustrated pride. That is not humility. Humility is not a game of pretense. God doesn't want us to put on an act and bow our heads and walk around like we're nobody when inside we're thinking I'm really doing a good job of acting humble. That is not what humility is either. And humility is not to be equated with a quiet and passive personality. We tend to think that people are quiet and reserved or more humble, and those who talk a lot are more proud, but that isn't necessary follow. So what is humility? Humility is an accurate view of who you are in light of who God is. You can only truly be humble in knowing God. And when you truly know God, you will be a humble person. One good indication in your life. That you are walking in humility before the Lord is your prayer life. Your prayer life says a great deal about you. It says what you value. It says what you fear and what you believe. It really is one of the best measures of your spiritual life. You want to know how you've grown spiritually or where you are spiritually in your walk with the Lord? Look at your prayer life. Do you pray often? Do you pray on a regular basis that you have a set time? and that very little ever interferes with that set time that you set aside to bring requests before the Lord and to intercede for others and to ask for his guidance and direction? Do you in your prayers tend to only pray about yourself and maybe a few family members, and that's the universe of your prayers? Do you ever confess your sin to God in prayer? You see, your prayer life says a lot about you for a lot of people, even professing Christians. They only ever really pray when they're facing a crisis and a difficulty. But when things are going pretty smoothly, when they've got some money in the bank, And their health is relatively well and their marriage is doing okay, then they really don't pray If that is indeed the situation with you, there's something seriously wrong with your spiritual life because this is one of the foundational elements of the Christian life. Our communication with God, our expression of humility and dependence on Him. But prayer is not only an indicator of our humility, but it's also a means by which we grow in our humility. It's like a cycle. The more we come and we depend on God and we know God and we commune with God in prayer and we put ourselves at his feet and acknowledge his glory and his greatness, the more humble we'll become, and the more humble we become, the more we will pray. So I'm going to speak to you this morning briefly under this truth that humble Christians pray. Humble Christians pray. And I want us to notice three elements of this. Three reasons why humble Christians pray. Number one, humble Christians pray because they recognize their dependence on the Lord. Now, about a year ago, we looked at what is commonly known as the Lord's Prayer and Matthew chapter 6. I'm going to begin at verse 9. After this manner, therefore, pray ye, our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. This is an expression. of humility and dependence on God. Especially I'm going to zero in on verse 11, which is to encapsulate all of our physical and material needs. Give us this day our daily breads. The idea is that every day we are dependent on the Lord's. Whether you recognize it or not, we all are dependent on God's provision for us. We need air to breathe, we need water to drink, we need food to eat, we need clothing to wear and keep us warm and we need some type of house to provide shelter. We need all of those things. And ultimately all of those things come from God. So often we fail to consider this. We think that we do it all ourselves. We think that we provide those needs. But the fact is, we may work and we may labor and take raw materials that God has provided and use them, but we cannot create air. We do not make water. We do not make the crops to grow and provide food for us. We are absolutely dependent on the Lord's. So every drink of water that we partake of, every bite of food, every breath of air, is a gift from our Heavenly Father. This is why Christians have traditionally, when they enjoy a meal, pray and thank the Lord for the food, because it's an expression of humble dependence that we acknowledge that this Food on this table ultimately came from our Heavenly Father. But I think there are many Christians who never think about this, and certainly most people in the world do not. They think that they supply their own needs. They think that they're entitled to it. This is very much more of a danger for us who live in a fluent society like the United States of America. I mean the idea of give us this day our daily bread. When was the last time you really worried That you were going to go hungry and you're going to go a day without food because there's nothing in the refrigerator, nothing in the pantry, there's no money in your checking account. You have no way of providing any food for yourself or your family. Now there may be some people like that in our community, but they're very few and far between. We have an abundance. If we run out of food, we can always put that on credit, or we can go and ask uh friends and relatives if things got really dire, or we could go to a food bank, or we could go to a soup kitchen. I mean we have all of these different nets. underneath of us that if we would fall, they're going to catch us and keep us from starvation. And so we tend not to think about this and feel that we really need the Lord, but the fact is we do need the Lord, and not just to provide our physical needs. We need the Lord to provide our spiritual needs. I'm not going to have us turn to it, but in John 15, in the upper room discourse, the Lord says this very arresting phrase. He said to his disciples, Without me, ye can do nothing. We can do nothing of lasting spiritual value without the Lord's help Oh, we can go through the motions. We can witness, we can teach a Sunday school class, we can preach a sermon. But unless the Lord blesses our efforts and empowers us to do so by his grace, it will accomplish nothing. We need the Lord. We are dependent on Him. And this dependence invariably will express itself in prayer. I mean you can't imagine a scenario where you're talking to someone out here in the LAP and they say, you know, I've really got all these problems and I'm I'm just I'm just trying to trust in the Lord. And the person asked you, Well, have you prayed about this? No, never pray about it. But I'm really trusting in the Lord. No, that scenario would never work because that trust would be revealed in prayer, in earnest prayer. And let me mention something else. It should express itself also. By you enlisting others to pray for your needs. I want to approach this for just a little bit. I want to be careful. I don't want to paint everything with a broad brush. I know that there are people who have very private requests that are very personal in nature and maybe they want one or two people or maybe they don't want anybody to know about it because it's just so personal. I understand that, and that is appropriate. And there are things that it's appropriate to keep private. Do not misunderstand me. But I was thinking, you know, often I find that Christians have huge burdens. in their lives and things they struggle with. And so often they talk to no one else about it. And they never ask anyone else to pray for them. They never call the church and say, you know, I just got this real huge problem and I just really I really want someone to pray with me about this or I want to put this on the prayer sheet. I want the whole whole church family. I want to enlist them in prayer for this because I need God's wisdom and help with this. Now, there are people, of course, who do that. And I'm not trying to solicit more business for a Wednesday night sheet. We get plenty of requests of all kinds of things. Do not misunderstand me. But there are many times, I think, where there are people that never ever ask a request and maybe they just don't want to bother people. But could it be that maybe the reason why they never enlist anyone else in prayer is because they're proud? And they don't want people to think they're weak, or there's some temptation they're struggling with, or there's some need that they just cannot meet financially, or that they have a family member who is really far, far from God and they don't want people to know about that. And so they never ever bring it. You know, in a perfect world If the church was functioning exactly the way God has designed it to function, we would actually be sharing, I think, a whole whole lot more about our lives than this whole facade of I'm a perfect Christian and I have no problems would evaporate. And there'd be people out here in the lobby and you'd see a brother or sister come by and you would say, could you please pray for me? I'm really struggling with temptation. I failed horribly this week and I want you to pray for me about this because I really need God's help. That's the way the church body should function. But I think what we tend to think is, I'm not going to tell anybody about my struggles or my problems or Or my failure certainly, because I don't want anybody to think that I'm less than sufficient, that I've got my act together. Can I say something? We all are weak. We all fail to have our act together. We all face situations where we have no idea what to do. We all face Circumstances where we do not have in any way, shape, or form the resources to meet the needs. And God puts us in situations like that. The Apostle Paul, if you read through his 13 epistles, you'll often find him, the great Apostle Paul who wrote. scripture who saw the glory of the risen Lord who was taken up into the third heaven, that man, he praised All the time for his people, but he also asked the people and the various churches to pray for him. That's an amazing thing to me. Over half dozen times he says, brethren. Pray for us. We need your help. This was an incredibly gifted and talented man of God, the great apostle to the Gentiles. May I suggest to you that if he felt he needed prayer and he expressed that weakness, then we need to do so as well. Even the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God, when he was facing temptation in the Garden of Gethsemane, he asked his three closest disciples if they would watch with him and pray. What an example set before us. I think that if we were more humble, we would be more dependent in prayer and we would express it to others. And we would ask and solicit their prayers on our behalf. We wouldn't seek to do it, go it alone, but we would recognize that we need God's help. And the Bible tells us there is power in Organized prayer when the people of God pray together. That's why we have a Wednesday night prayer meeting. That's why we have a prayer sheet. That's why we send out emails. They are not just to help you keep up with what's going on in the church family, but so that you will pray and intercede on behalf of others. The second thing I want you to notice is that humble Christians pray because they recognize their ignorance compared to the Lord. Would you turn with me now to the book of James? James Chapter One Before I really get into this text in James 1, I want to give you a two -minute primer on what the Bible teaches. about God and what he knows. We call this the omniscience of God. And that is that God is all knowing. Do you believe that? That is what the scripture teaches. I hope you believe it. Let me give you five truths about that. Number one, God knows all that has ever happened. He knows all that has ever happened. Did you know that there have been civilizations that have come and gone and left very little trace in the world? We have just a few artifacts, but we know virtually nothing about Civilizations that lasted for centuries, many thousands of years ago. God knows every single person and every single family and everything that happened with those groups of people. We know nothing about them. He knows all that is occurring right now, according to the best reports, there are about right about 7. 5 billion people living on the planet right now. God knows what's going on in every single one of those lives. He knows their thoughts. He knows their words. He knows their plans. He knows their spiritual state. He knows everything about them. The Bible teaches that God knows everything that will happen in the future. He knows what the price of gas will be next year at this time. He knows what the stock market will do in the coming year. He knows what will happen politically. in all throughout the world. And the Bible teaches fourthly that God even knows everything that can potentially happen. This is why the Lord said in Matthew 1121, that if the miracles he performed in the cities of Galilee were accomplished entire inside and they would have repented long ago. How can he know that? Because he knows everything that has actually happened and he knows everything hypothetically that could happen. That's incredible. And God knows the past, present, future, and hypothetical completely or exhaustively. He knows everything there is to know about everything. Now what do you know? That's right. It is a humorous thought. You don't even know yourself. See people all the time, especially young people, they do something, they say, I can't believe I did that. You don't know your heart very well We don't even know ourselves. We don't even know our own situations. You don't even know your spouse that well or your children that well We are completely ignorant. This is why we must humbly come to God for wisdom. James chapter 1 and verse 5 says, If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally and abradeth not, and it shall be given him. Context here, of course, is wisdom and facing trials or difficulties in life. Notice what he says right before this, verses 2 and 3, my brethren, counted all joy. when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, the trying of your faith worketh patience. You see, it's very easy when you're in the middle of a crisis to make a bad decision. Because you're relying on your own flesh, your own wisdom, and not on the Lord. That is why you desperately need God's wisdom. What exactly is biblical wisdom? The Hebrew word for wisdom, the most common word, is a word that means skill. A wise person Is a person who is skillful in making choices in life. When they come to a fork in a road, they make the right choice. Not because they're smarter than everyone else, but because they know the Lord's. And they're depending on Him and His wisdom and His revelation. And notice that this wisdom is available for all believers. He says, if any of you lack wisdom wisdom. That would be every single one of us. And it's in the continuous tense, the idea here of asking for wisdom. Keep on asking for wisdom. Most often when people say to me, Pastor, how can I pray for you? The first thing that usually enters my mind is, would you pray that God would give me wisdom? Because I face situations that people bring to me that are so complicated and so complex and so difficult that I just scratch my head. And I said, I'm not sure what should be done in this situation. And I find myself all the time asking the Lord for wisdom. Lord, I don't know what to do about this. We need wisdom. This is one way we express our dependence on our omniscient God. Psalm 15, verse 15 says, Call upon me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me. So why would a person, even a Christian, fail to seek God's help in a crisis? The answer is because of pride. We like to be in control. We like to think that we can do it ourselves, that we don't really need God's help or God's intervention. We think that when we've exhausted every other resource, then and only then will we seek the Lord in prayer. But that is foolishness. Prayer should be our first avenue, not our last resorts. Notice the incentives that James mentions to encourage us to seek God's wisdom here. They're all based on the character of God. If any of you lack wisdom, verse 5, let him ask of God, first of all, that giveth to all men liberally. All of his believers he gives to them. So it's not just the elites. This is a universal promise. This is available for all believers. And God gives generously. He gives to all men liberally. Now, of course, in the minds of many people, the word liberal is nearly a bad word. It means to be generous. Some uh one has once quipped that liberals are very generous with other people's money. But um the idea is that they're generous God is generous. He doesn't give us sparingly. He gives us much more than we need. He's not stingy in the way he doles out wisdom. And God gives graciously. It says he abradeth not. He's not going to make you feel like you are a horrible person for disturbing him and asking him for his help. You know, sometimes you don't want to go and ask your neighbor to borrow something because they're going to make you feel stupid. and unprepared and everything else. And so you say, I I just won't even ask. And then there are other people when you ask for their help or to borrow something, they make it sound feel make you feel like it's a great privilege for them to loan you something. God does not abrade us for asking for wisdom. He's gracious to us. And when we come and ask for his wisdom, it's not because we deserve it. God gives on the basis of who he is, not on the basis of who we are. And God gives, notice this, certainly. And it shall be given him. What a wonderful promise that is When we come, when we bring our situations to the Lord, when we are in a crisis and facing a painful trial, and we don't know what to do, and we lay our problem at the Lord's feet, it says that He will give us wisdom. This is His promise. How comforting that is. This should remove all hesitancy that would keep us from coming to him in prayer and seeking his wisdom. So what are you facing this morning that you need God's wisdom for? What problem is just there in the back of your mind It robs you of joy. It disturbs your peace. It's there. It won't go away. When you wake up in the morning, it's the first thing that you think about when you come back to conscious thoughts. And you don't know what to do, that's God 's prompting for you to come to Him in prayer. And to seek his wisdom. And he will give you wisdom if you do. And would you thirdly notice with me that humble Christians pray. Because they recognize their sinfulness before the Lord. Turn with me, please, to the book of 1 John. Towards the very, very end of our New Testaments, shortly before Revelation, the last book, 1 John chapter 1 and verse 9. Before I look at verse 9, I want to go to the context, verse 6. If we say that we have fellowship with Him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. But if we walk in light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. What a wonderful promise. This is of course written to believers. Notice in chapter 2 and verse 1, he addresses them as my little children. Now, 1 John 1. 9 is confusing to some people because they say this, if we as Christians are forgiven, then why do we still need to ask to be forgiven? It seems to be a contradiction. Well the Bible teaches that in a judicial sense, in our standing before God, all of our sins were taken care of at the cross. And when we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, we have been justified. We have been declared not guilty and all of our sins passed. present and future are atoned for and taken care of. That is a wonderful, wonderful, precious truth, the kernel of the gospel. That we must never surrender and we must cling to. However, the Bible reveals that our God is not only a judge But he is a father. He is our heavenly father. That is a personal relationship. And that means as with any personal relationship There can be problems that come in that cause estrangement and distance and rob a person of fellowship. So What this is saying here in the context of Christian fellowship is that we cannot really enjoy close fellowship with the Lord if we have unconfessed sin in our lives. If we continue on in sin and known rebellion against God's truth, we cannot enjoy that blessed communion with God's Just like you can't say to your parent, to your father, I love you, and I want to have a real close relationship with you, but I'm going to disobey everything that you tell me to do. Now that relationship is not severed, it's not ended because that child is rebellious. But the father is going to be grieved. And that close, sweet fellowship is broken. There's a barrier between the two. And that is why John gives us this instruction. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Now the Greek word for confess literally means to say the same thing. It means that you agree with God's assessment of your situation. Have you noticed how the word sin has almost been deleted from the English language? We talk about indiscretions, inappropriate behavior, mistaken judgment. But we don't talk about sin very much, but God caused this sin. And so when we confess our sin to God, when we go to the Lord in prayer , and we confess our sin, we must never minimize it and say it really wasn't that bad. We must not excuse it. We must not compare with other people's sin and say, well Lord, you know, it wasn't as bad as so-and-so 's sin. And we must not rename it. We must agree with God. And if you agree with God about your sin, you will despise it and turn from it. This is not just like at the end of every day we say, Lord, forgive me for all the things that I messed up on today. Amen. And we would just make that a standard phrase in our prayers before we go to bed. This is not something that rolls off your tongue. Proverbs 28, 13 says, He that covereth his sin shall not prosper, but whosoever confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy. The Christian life is a life of confession and repentance. There are some who have falsely taught That you get to a point where you really don't sin anymore, or very, very, very, very rarely, you know, maybe a couple times a year. But other than that, you do really well. That is not what the scripture teaches. This is why, in the Lord's Prayer, which is to be a regular prayer, we have this forgive us our sins. Why? Because we sin all the time. Even blood-washed saints. This is not excusing that, but as a reminder to us that we need regular confession and repentance in the is a part of our prayer life and not just some words that we say, but a true expression of our hearts. We must go and seek his confession and not just for horrible sins that embarrass us. There are no such things as just respectable sins that people look down at, but God wants us to feel confess our immoral thoughts and our judgmental spirit and our gossip and our sense of pride. He wants us to confess all of our sin to him. And notice the emphasis of this text. It says at the end of verse 7, the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. Not just the really small ones, but all sin. The blood of Christ cleanses us from all sins. And we see again at the end of verse 9 that He will cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Some people have the mistaken notion, you know, that there's sins like that lost people commit, and then there's sins that only uh Christians commit. And Christians sh uh there's a whole list of sins that Christians can never commit. That's not true. That's not true. I wish it were. I wish there was like a threshold, and you know, Christians, they they just are incapable of committing these sins. I wish it were so. It's not so. But this is to compel us to come to him, no matter how horrendous the sin may be, no matter how horribly we have messed up. We never come to the place where beyond the grace of God and we say, well, he's just, he's not ever going to give me a second chance. He's never going to forgive me, and so I just need to walk away. No, the blood of Christ cleanses us from all sins. There's two errors that Christians fall in this matter of confession. Some think that their sin is no big deal, and so they never confess their sin to God. And then there are others who think that they have failed God so horribly that they can't really confess their sin to God because they've gone to God repeatedly before, and if they had a good friend that kept sinning against them that way and kept coming and asking for forgiveness, they would tell them to get lost. And so they assume that God is like that as well. And so they stop coming to the Lord. In my talk to Christian people, I think it's very, very, very common. For Christians never to make this a regular part of their prayer life. Where they actually confess specific sins to God. Let me ask you, is it a regular part of your life? Did you pray and ask the Lord to forgive you for anything this morning or this week or this past month or this past year? Did you really go to the Lord and say, Father, forgive me. I failed you horribly in this matter. Cleanse me through the blood of Christ. Or did you say, I don't need to worry about that? I think this explains why many Christians, when I talk about that blessed fellowship with Christ, the Lord and the communion that we can have through the blood of Christ, they look at me like I have two heads because they don't know what that feels like. Because they go day after day after day with broken fellowship with the Lord, because they never get right with God, they never ask for forgiveness, they never repent of their sins. They just keep going on in the same vein. The Christian life, Matthew Henry said. is a life of continued repentance, humiliation for the mortification of sin. Now that may sound very old-fashioned, but it is biblical. The Puritans often said that believers should keep short accounts with gods, referring, of course, to like a ledger book. In the old days when they would go into the store and they would say, Put that on my tab, put that on my ledger But the store owner didn't like it when a person would go week after week after week without paying for it. And so in our relationship with the Lord, we need to keep short accounts with God again, not to save us, but to help us maintain that close fellowship. It's so essential that we remember that our forgiveness is based not on who we are, but on who our Savior is. Notice The encouragement here to do this that is given, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. He's not going to say, no, no, no, I'm not going to forgive that I'm fed up with you. Or that was just too horrible. That can't be forgiven. That's not going to happen. It says, first of all, that he is faithful. What does this mean? Most often in Scripture the idea of faithfulness is connected with God's promises. And here we have the promise that God will forgive us if we confess our sins. sins. Jeremiah 31, 34 says, I will forgive their iniquity and I will remember their sin no more. What a wonderful thing that is. If I can say this reverently, God doesn't have bad days. He doesn't have days where he's in a bad mood and he won't forgive you and he doesn't want to hear from you. God's not like that. He is always open to hear your prayers of confession and repentance and to restore that sweet fellowship. And the second basis that's mentioned here is that God is just. So how can a just God that demands perfection forgive people who sin again and again like us? If you know the gospel, you know that the answer is found in Christ. Christ took our place. He died in our stead. And the only way that God can forgive sinful people like us is due to the fact that a perfect substitute died in our place. This wonderful truth is brought out in our text. I love this wonderful fact that at the end of verse 7 where it says the blood of Jesus Christ his Son. cleanseth us from all sins. This is a present tense. The idea is that the blood of Christ keeps on cleansing us. Keeps on cleansing us And therefore we can come to him in prayer. Notice what it says in the very next chapter, chapter 2, verse 1, my little children, these things write I unto you. that ye sin not. And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous. Just as he was talking about him being just, speaks of him being righteous. What a wonderful truth this is. God accepts you not because you're acceptable, but because Christ is perfect. But only the humble are really forgiven. Only the humble who have come to a place in their life where they recognize that they do not have the answers, that they have no solution for their sin problem, that they can never be good enough to go to heaven. It's only for those who come to that place where they are broken over their sin and they see the glorious answer in Jesus Christ. It is only those who can claim these wonderful promises. and can enjoy the fellowship that is offered here. Could it be if you're here this morning And I've been speaking about prayer. Perhaps you've honestly assessed your life and you say, you know, come to think of it, I really never pray. I really never go to the Lord in prayer, oh I may bow my head with my parents when we're at a meal somewhere or something But I really don't pray to God. I really don't communicate with God. I really don't ever feel the need to take my burdens to Him in prayer. That's not the way I think. My friend, the answer could very well be that you're not a child of God. You may go through the motions. You may be well thought of by your peers. But Christians are people who pray. Christians are people who recognize that without Him they can do nothing. Christians are people who recognize that they desperately need God's wisdom, that they can't live life on their own terms. Christians are people who recognize that they need God's cleansing. They need to be forgiven. And that begins. When we turn to Christ and we trust in him and not ourselves. May you seek the Lord. If you do not know him today, let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father. We all come short. There is no one here this morning that has an adequate prayer life that can honestly say, I pray more than enough. We all are too proud, too self-sufficient, too self-reliant, and think that we can go ahead without you When in fact, the very breath in our lungs is a gift from you. Oh Father, keep us humble. Keep us on our knees Keep us dependent on you. Help us to be a people of prayer. And for those, Father, who do not pray, do not have that few, that true communion and fellowship, I pray that you are Would help them to seek the Lord today because He is faithful and just to forgive us of all of our sins. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen