If you have your Bible, you can turn with me to Matthew 27. I'd like to read verses 50 and 51. Jesus, when he had cried again with a loud voice, yielded up the ghost. And behold, the veil of the temple was rent in twain from the top to the bottom. And the earth did quake, and the rocks rent. One of the most amazing signs that followed the death of our Lord. was the rending of the veil in the great temple constructed by Herod This is certainly one symbol in the Passion narrative that is obviously meant to convey deeper meaning. It is recorded in all three of our synoptic gospels It's found in Matthew here and in Mark 15 verses 37 and 38 and also in Luke 23, 45. What's interesting to note is that the gospel writers do not interpret the meaning of this. They just state it as a fact. and leave it for the reader to meditate upon and to consider the meaning and significance of this. They simply report it as historic fact and it was an historic fact Just think about it. If indeed this did not occur, if that great curtain in the temple was not rent. Certainly, there would have been a multitude of witnesses come forward and say, I was in the temple on that Passover. And I'm here to say that this never happened. We need to remember, of course, that the Gospels were written in the lifetime of eyewitnesses within several decades of the crucifixion of our Lord, there were many people still alive. when the gospels were first distributed. And certainly if they heard some incredible inaccuracy that could be attacked and argued against They would have risen up as a great band of witnesses and say, this never happened. This is pure fabrication But nothing like that occurred because it did occur. In fact, there are historical records of this event even outside of the Bible. Historians like Tacitus and Josephus and even the Jewish Talmud all speak of this monumental event. Before we come to the spiritual significance of this event, I want to cover some other ground, some other questions that come to people's minds about this. Number one, what caused this to happen? In Matthew's gospel, he mentions the earthquake immediately after the report of the Rent Vale. And this has led some to speculate that this was not a miracle at all, but simply a result of a random earthquake. But if you really stop and consider this, it really does not add up. The earthquake is described as taking place after the rending of the veil. And so it would make one wonder why is it in the gospel record it's recorded as something that happened evil simultaneously or afterwards, but not before? And certainly the curtain was more flexible than that massive temple. You would assume that if there was enough movement As a result of this earthquake to cause that curtain to rip apart, there would also be considerable structural damage to the temple. But we don't read of any reports of this. Others have assumed that the curtain was simply dry rotted and finally broke apart by coincidence on this day. But the Jewish writers tell us that the curtain was very carefully inspected every year. It was well maintained. If there was any flaws, any rips that were found, they were immediately mended. And of course, you would not expect, due to simple deterioration, for it to rip in one seam from the top to the bottom. Others have suggested this may have been the work of Vandals, but a moment's reflection will demonstrate that this is impossible because this took place on the Passover. the busiest day of the year in the temple. All eyes would have been riveted in this area. There would be no way that someone could sneak in and somehow sever this mass of garments. I like what William Nicholson said in his classic book, The Six Miracles of Calvary. He said it was not ripped apart. From some vandal below, but clearly cut by an invisible hand from above. The only satisfactory explanation for this is that it was exactly a miracle of God. Now the veil was located in the temple That was constructed by Herod the Great. This was the third temple in Israel's history. The first, of course, was the Solomonic Temple. A temple of great glory. The second temple, built after the Babylonian exile, was much smaller. This construction is recorded in that little book of Haggai. You may recall that when that temple was dedicated and everyone saw it, that the old men who had faint memories of Solomon's temple wept. Because it was nothing compared to what Solomon had constructed. But this was a temple constructed by this very ambitious and driven man, Herod the Great. Construction began in 20 BC and it continued long after his death, even after the death of our Lord. It was still under construction. Parts of it were still being formed up during the ministry of our Lord. But it was very much being used. It was a grand temple with immense vaulted ceilings. It was the greatest building in Judea. It was the only building that they could point to with pride that was on the same plane as the great buildings in Rome or in Athens, Greece. It contained an outer court that was over 1,200 feet long and 600 feet wide. This was also known as the court of the Gentiles. Anyone could enter here. This was the great open space. It was here where the money changers would have set up their shop. Then there was the inner court, also known as the court of the Israelites. It was about 22 feet higher than the outer court and was reached by an entrance of some 14 steps. And along the corridor leading up to this second area, there were all of these warnings that Gentiles should not enter here. In the past, historians would read about this in ancient journals and they would wonder about the accuracy of this, but a number of years ago, archaeologists discovered one of these signs. And it did say that if any Gentile enters beyond this point, they will die. This was very, very serious. And this court, the court of the Israelites, was further subdivided between the men's court and the women's court. The men's court contained the great altar. And it was here in the men's court that the priest would also go up another level to what you might call the priest court. This was another raised platform, another 12 steps leading up to another restricted area. It contained the altar of incense, the table of showbread, the seven branch candlesticks All of these being brought back from the descriptions that we have in Scripture of the Tabernacle There were in this massive temple complex thirteen different curtains But the great curtain, the one that was most significant, was the one that was in that court where the priest would gather, and it separated the holy place from the holy of holies. It was a massive curtain. It was 60 feet tall and 30 feet wide. Dave mentioned that he was measuring things. It was much higher than this ceiling here. Perhaps another 15 or 20 feet. Just imagine facing that massive curtain. The records that we have of the day tell us that it was made up of 72 squares. And that it had several garments that were sewn together so that it was the thickness of a man's hand. It was not like one little piece of fabric. It was woven of blue, purple, and scarlet thread that had been imported from Babylon, and had on it the image of the cherub beam. Jewish tradition says that it did not contain a single black thread. It was so cumbersome and heavy that it took 300 priests to install this massive curtain and it was hung on golden hooks. After the curtain was hung, only the high priest would enter the Holy of Holies and only on the Day of Atonement. I want you to notice the timing of this event. If you carefully compare the three synoptic gospels you will find that this rent the rending of this massive curtain occurred when Jesus cried with a loud voice, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirits Let me read another quotation from this book I cited earlier. That roar of victory coincided with the tearing of the curtain as the Savior finished his work. As his note of triumph rose high and clear from his dying lips, then the concealment of the Holy of Holies came to an end. According to the chronology of Matthew and Mark, this would have taken place very shortly after 3 p. m. Do you know what was happening in the temple at 3 p. m. ? Well, this was the Passover. At 3 p. m. that's when they began the evening sacrifice. The court of the priests would have been crowded. This was a day that no priest wanted to miss This was the spiritual lead of Israel. Judea, they're gathered, there before that massive curtain. They were solemnly carrying out their duties. The high priest perhaps was just going in or was preparing to go in to the Holy of Holies when all of a sudden, just imagine this, they heard this massive sound and that silence of the tearing of that curtain. from the top to the bottom. And the light flooding in there for the first time in many, many decades. And that place that those men had never seen before because it was too sacred. With the cherub, with the uh Ark of the Covenant there, all of a sudden it was open to their gaze. There must have been audible gasp from that assembly of priests. But what did the rending of this curtain mean? What was God revealing? That's what I want to look at briefly tonight. I want you to notice with me first of all that the rending of the veil signaled the end of the Old Testament sacrificial system. The Old Testament system that we read of in books like Exodus and Leviticus and Numbers was based on the shedding of blood. When you read through the book of Leviticus, you find yourself encountering blood at every turn. It has made that book not especially beloved by many people. The Bible tells us that without the shedding of blood, there is no remission. In Hebrews chapter 9 , We read what in some ways could be considered a commentary on this aspect of this event. Hebrews chapter 9, I want to begin reading at verse 6 It says, now these things were thus ordained. The priest went always into the first tabernacle, accomplishing the service of God. But into the second went the high priest alone once every year, not without blood. which he offered for himself and for the heirs of the people. The Holy Ghost, this signifying that the way into the holiest of all was not yet made manifest while as the first tabernacle was yet standing. which was a figure for the time then present, and which were offered both gifts and sacrifices that could not make them that did the service perfect as pertaining to the conscience. which stood only in meats and drinks and diverse washings and carnal ordinances imposed on them until the time of Reformation. But Christ being common high priest of good things to come by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building. neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood, he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. Of course, the Day of Atonement, as is explained here, was the day when the high priest would enter in and sprinkle blood on the lid of the Ark of the Covenant, known as the Mercy Seat. And it's very clear in this passage that I read that he first had to make atonement for himself because he himself was a sinner And then he made atonement for the sins of the people in Hebrews chapter 10 In verse 11 we read, and every priest standeth daily ministering and offering oft times the same sacrifices which can never take away sins. But this man after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down on the right hand of God. Hebrews reminds us that those Old Testament sacrifices never did take away sin. They only pointed to the perfect sacrifice that was to come. But now the Lamb of God has come, and he has made atonement for the sins of his people. This was all part of God's perfect plan. plan of redemption before the foundation of the earth. You ever thought about how many animals from the time that the priesthood was instituted and these sacrifices were given How many animals perished? How much blood had been shed over the centuries? All pointing to the cross. But now this picture was obsolete. There was no more need for this bloodshed because Jesus, the spotless Lamb of God, had come and died for sinners, and thus the veil was rent. Another writer, Marcus Lone, says that the rent veil was like God's mighty amen to the finished nature of the sacrifice and the atonement wrought by the death of his son once and for all on the cross. It's important for me to add tonight that what we do here at this table is not a sacrifice. We are not, as it were, somehow crucifying the Son of God afresh. This is not some magical sacrifice. This is a reminder. and symbolic way of what took place in the final sacrifice that was made by our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. No more sacrifice is needed The second thing that I want us to note in this is the rent veil signified the end of the Old Testament priesthood. Moses established the priesthood under the direction of God. The priests were to serve as the mediators between sinful people and God. However, on that faithful day, When the veil was torn, it really signified that the priests were effectively out of a job Now they continued to offer sacrifices there until that temple was destroyed in A. D. 70. But for all intents and purposes, that was an empty ritual. Because the Savior had come and died to make atonement for sinners. Jewish tradition records that they sewed up that massive curtain. and continued on with business as usual. But I wonder if that day was not a turning point for many of the priests who witnessed that event. In Acts chapter 6, in the very early days of the church, we read this arresting sentence. A great company of the priests were obedient to the faith. You ever wonder how that happens? How could it be these people who were so naturally prejudiced To Jesus and his claims that were in essence a threat to their very way of life. How did a large number of them come to faith in Christ? Could it not be Could it not be that that day when they saw that massive curtain rip from the top to the bottom, that they said to themselves, something is happening. Something monumental is occurring here. And that was the beginning of their journey to the faith that would take place sometime after Pentecost. The great Jewish writer Alfred Aderschein suggests that it was the rending of the veil that made a tremendous impact upon them. The sad fact is that there are hundreds of millions of people throughout the world that follow various religions. that believe that they can come to God through some intermediary, some priest. It's very interesting to note. that if you study the religions of the world, whether they be primitive animism or whether they be more complex religious systems , That there seems to be almost this inevitable person who serves as a priest, a holy man who has a way to be a connection between the people and God. Someone who offers sacrifices, who offers prayers or incantations or spells or whatever it may be. Someone that they can go to to connect with God because they dare not go to Him directly. There are millions of people, many millions of people, who believe that they must come and confess their sins to such a person and perhaps receive a mass from them. And the fact of the matter is that people are naturally drawn to what is ancient, what is traditional, and what is mysterious. that has all these trappings that are attractive to the eye. People like ritual. They are impressed with that. But the Bible is very clear on this matter. It says in 1 Timothy 2. 5 that there is one God and one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. There is no need for an earthly priest. In fact, the Bible says that as New Testament believers, we are a royal priesthood, a kingdom of priest. We do have a great high priest and Lord Jesus Christ, but we don't have to go to some man, some person, and somehow come to them. And somehow they've got a connection with God that we could never have We must never fall into that trap because the rending of the veil signified that the Old Testament priesthood had come to an end I want you to know that when I come here and I administer this table, I am not acting as a priest. I am not doing something that is mysterious that only I, an ordained minister, can do. I am not doing something That is something that is unique and beyond what an average person can understand or participate in. No, we as New Testament believers can come boldly to the throne of grace. We are priests. We are people that can come to God through Christ. Thirdly, the rending of the veil signifies that we have access, that all men, all types of people, have access to God through Christ. I mentioned earlier that the holy place, or your way up there, was filled with these stern warnings not to enter. These individuals who wanted to become Gentile converts, they could not go on, no matter how often they attended the synagogue. No matter what they may have gone through, they could not enter into the court of the Israelites because of their birth. But the cross has obliated the separation. Dave read these verses this morning, Ephesians 2. 14, for he is our peace. who hath made both one and hath broken down the middle wall of partition. This temple complex Did not have a sign out front like many churches do today that says, all are welcome. There were segregated groups that could go to certain lengths We had, of course, the Jewish women that could go to the court of the women, but no further. No matter how godly they may be, no matter how observant they might be of the rituals and the regulations of the law, they could go no further. Jewish men could go as far as the inner court. And after that came the holy place where only the priests could enter. And then came the holy of holies, where only the high priest could enter, and only on one day a year. Every division of the temple was a reminder that man cannot come freely to God. A man named Klaus Schilder, a great Dutch writer, says that the furnishings of the temple were a delight to the eye, but they spelled out two terrible words. No admittance. The access to God's presence was very restricted. In Hebrews chapter 10, we read these wonderful verses. Verse 19, having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus. by a new and living way which he hath consecrated for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh. And have a high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water, let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. We have access to God through the veil. And the veil here is explained as a reference to the death of Christ. There's a sense in which the tearing of that curtain was symbolic of the tearing of his body and his death that took place at that precise moment. And because of his death on the cross, any sinner can come by faith through him and have access to God's. This is a wonderful truth that is signified even by the Lord's table tonight. But finally, and very briefly, the rent veil points to a time when we will enjoy endless communion with God. Hebrews chapter 6. Also speaks of the veil. Hebrews chapter 6, verses 19 and 20. It says, which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and steadfast, which entereth into that within the veil. Whether the forerunner is for us entered, even Jesus made a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. The reference here is to heaven itself and the reference here speaks of the fact that as Christ has gone before us and prepared a place for us and is entered into the veil, we can follow him. We can go into that holy place. Yes, we can experience access to God here But all of that is still limited to some degree. But someday we will experience the fullness of this When we are in the presence of the Lord, when we are with our Savior in that holy city, what a wonderful thing for us to consider. We see through a glass darkly. But then face to face. The time is coming when we will be forever with the Lord, and our communion with Him will be unbroken. The rending of the veil was pointing distantly to that. What a wonderful thing for us to consider. Our Savior. Has indeed made a way. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for all that our Lord has provided. We thank you that he was triumphant. And through his shout from the cross, the curtain was rent. The sacrifices were no longer needed. The priesthood was no longer operative. That there was a way made open for all. And it points to that final and eternal communion that we will have in your immediate presence. What a wonderful thing for us to consider. And we thank you again. for the cross and for our Savior who died there for us. Help us now, Father, to be able to meditate on this in a way that would change us And transform us and draw us closer to you. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.