Well, one of my favorite moments of the day is when I rock my daughter Eva to sleep. She lays her little head on my chest and wraps her tiny arms around me on either side, often clutching the fabric of my arms. It usually takes about five minutes or so, not more, for her to fall asleep in my arms. Just today, I almost clocked it, but I guarantee you it was under five minutes as I rocked her off to sleep. During those moments, I sometimes find it amusing to think of what she is and is not aware of. I know that she feels safe in my arms, and I know that she feels loved. But it humors me to think that she has essentially no knowledge of what I do for most of the day to provide for her. She has no knowledge of the mortgage bill. She has no knowledge of groceries or gas, house projects that I'm involved in, or car maintenance, and things that of course are necessary to provide a home. More than that, she has no knowledge of her need to be saved. Yet while she lays on my chest asleep, I plead to God that he might graciously save her at an early age It follows then that one of the joys of parenting is seeing your child mature and come to comprehend not only what you have done for them in the past. but what you are doing for them in the present. And as they grow and mature, they come to comprehend Your love for them, and consequently, their love and appreciation for you will grow as well. This is God's design. Well, in our spiritual infancy, we know that Jesus loves us and died for our sins. But we are often ignorant of all that he is presently doing for us before the Father to provide, sustain, protect. Descend and keep us saved. We are often ignorant of what he is doing now. There is so much love. There is so much assurance to be gained in comprehending what Christ is doing for us today before the throne. Not that we are any safer to have that knowledge, but oh what a comfort, what a strength. It is to comprehend something of the intercession of Christ. The doctrine of Christ's intercession Has received seemingly less attention in modern Christianity compared to other doctrines of Christ, such as his atonement sonship or his humanity. The nineteenth century Scottish minister William Symington observed this when he wrote There is a disposition in many to regard what Christ has done, speaking of his atonement, to the neglect of what he is doing, intercession. Not that we would have men to think less of the former, but more of the latter. Much is said in the scripture. Not a little is made of it by the inspired writers. The purpose for which the Savior lives in mediatorial glory cannot be of small importance He ever liveth to make intercession. If when we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. Let us then think highly and think much of the intercession as well as the death of Christ. My desire tonight is that our sense of assurance, our sense of security, and our joy in Christ would grow through a deeper understanding. of Christ's work of intercession on our behalf. So tonight we will continue with the fourth sermon on this subject. Our text for this series is Hebrews 7. 25. So if you have not turned there in your Bible, please do so. Hebrews 7 and verse 25. Of course, we're approaching this textually. The scripture says, consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him. since he always lives to make intercession for them. I want to remind you of two ministries of Christ Of ministries Christ performs in his priestly office. The first ministry of his priesthood is to make an atonement for sins. The second is to intercede on behalf of God's people. So we have atonement and intercession as the two primary ministries of a priest. The first of those two is already accomplished and complete. The atonement has been made. Christ died once for our sins. That act is unrepeatable. The second intercession, however, and in contrast to atonement is ongoing. And repeatable Christ ever lives to do this, to intercede for us. The term intercession in verse 25 here of Romans refers to approaching or appealing to one on the behalf of another. To act on someone else's behalf. As one scholar writes, it denotes mediating in every possible way in which the interests of another can be promoted. So my question for us tonight is this, what then is the nature of Christ's intercession? We've considered in the past three messages the statement that Christ ever lives or that Christ, excuse me, is able to save forever. And we've looked at What he, as it were, saves us from. But tonight I want to consider this question: what is the nature of his intercession? What are the essential aspects? of Christ's intercession. And I have tonight for us five aspects for us to consider, which will be my five points for this message. Number one, Christ's intercession is representational. It's representational. What do I mean by that? Christ appears before the throne of God to represent us in an official capacity. Please turn with me now to Romans chapter 9 and verse 24. We're going to be looking at several passages tonight. Hebrews chapter 9 and verse 24. It says, For Christ has entered not into holy places made with hands. Which are copies of the true things, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf. This verse compares and contrasts the activities of the Levitical priesthood to the priestly ministry of Christ. Once a year on the Day of Atonement, the high priest entered the inner sanctuary of the tabernacle, the Holy of Holies, taking with him the blood of a sacrifice to make atonement on behalf of the people. Several passages in Exodus and Leviticus make it clear that God intended for the high priest to represent The people in his presence, in God's presence. For instance, Aaron was commanded to wear the names of the twelve tribes. on the ephod bearing them on his shoulders as a stone of memorial. Before the Lord. Furthermore, he was to wear the breastplate with the names of the twelve tribes of Israel engraved on the twelve stones, so as to cover his heart. Hebrews 9. 24, the verse we just read, is teaching us that these images were just copies or shadows of a much greater reality. Jesus Christ, having shed his blood on the cross, has entered not an earthly tabernacle, he has passed into heaven itself to appear continually, because it says now, in the presence of God. As our priest, he appears in this official capacity on our behalf. By virtue of his incarnation, he is qualified to be our representative. And this representative aspect of Christ's ministry was foreshadowed here. In the wearing of these garments, bearing the names of the tribes of Israel on the priest. There is a mystery to this that the scriptures do not fully explain. Christ's appearing before God on our behalf seems to imply more than making requests for us, though it certainly does include that. Follow with me closely here. Paul tells the Ephesians that believers are so united with Christ. That Christians on earth are in a spiritual sense seated with Christ in the heavenlies We see something of this, or I should back up here and say that that union Is mystical in a sense, it is spiritual, but it communicates this solidarity that Christ has with his people. this oneness with his people. We see something of this when Stephen was being stoned, he lifted up his eyes and saw Christ appear. Standing at the right hand of power on his behalf. But even more astonishing, at Paul's conversion, Christ says To him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? Let me ask you, was Saul persecuting Christ? We might be tempted to say, no, he was he was persecuting Christians, right? No. Christ is so intimately joined to his people That Christ tells Saul at the time to persecute my people is to persecute me. Christ is so intimately joined to his people that he appears before God acting on their behalf. Representing all of their interests, feeling all of their sufferings, attending to all of their needs, bearing all of their sorrows as though they were his own. and providing every defense necessary to bring them safely into the presence of God. Christ represents us in a number of ways. There's a sense in which he represents us federally. Adam was banned from the presence of God. But the second Adam has appeared on our behalf, representing and reinstating us in the presence of God. Upon his resurrection and ascension. Christ represents us judicially Romans 8 tells us that when we are charged, be it that the charge of Satan, the charge of any man We will not be found condemned. Who will bring any charge to God's elect? It is Christ who died, and it is Christ who is interceding at the right hand of God. A Christian never needs to fear condemnation because of the advocacy of Christ. Thirdly, Christ represents us personally As Christ appeared on Satan's behalf, or excuse me, on Stephen's behalf, in his hour of need, so he does for every saint in the presence of God. So, what is the significance of this for us? This means that Christ undertakes all of my transactions with God on my behalf I am represented by Christ before God. He intercedes with compassion, with sympathy, with tender care, since he is representing me. He is a sympathetic high priest. And so it would be appropriate for me to ask tonight, in view of this, are you hurting Are you anxious? Are you downcast? I want you to know that before the face of God, Christ. is there representing you before the Father. What a great reality this is. Secondly, the intercession of Christ is petitional in nature. Petitional. Christ prays and makes requests on our behalf. What then is the content of those intercessory prayers? Wouldn't you love to know how Christ is praying for you? Well, the scriptures give us some indication of that. Turn with me to John 17, the Gospel of John chapter 17. Christ's high priestly prayer. This passage provides the clearest example of Christ's intercession for his people. I contemplated reading the entire chapter tonight, but in view of our time constraints, I just want to call to your attention verse 9. Verse 9. Jesus says, I am praying for them. I am not praying for the world, but for those Whom you have given me, for they are yours. Christ prays for those whom the Father has given to him, that is, the elect. He prays both for those who have believed in him and according to verse 20, for those who will in the future believe in him. But what specifically does Christ pray for? Well, I'm going to give you a list here. I've surveyed this chapter as well as other chapters in the scriptures that Would give us some indication of what Christ prays for on our behalf. Number one, Christ prays for our pre uh preservation and progress in the faith. This comes from verse 11. That we, he says, that we would be kept in the Father's name. Number two, Christ prays that we would be protected from Satan. This is verse 15. And of course we see this illustrated in Peter's life. We consider this in our in our third sermon in this series, where Christ intercedes on behalf of Of Peter in view of Satan's testing. Number three, Christ prays for our sanctification. Verse 17 Number four, Christ prays for our unity. Verse 21. Number five, Christ prays for the elect who have yet to believe the gospel. Do you know that before you were saved, Christ was interceding on behalf of your conversion? How wonderful a thing is that Number six, Christ pray Christ prays that we would be with him in glory, verse twenty-four. In this one prayer of chapter 17, Christ prays for the totality of our salvation. He prays for our conversion. He prays for our sanctification and progress in the faith. And for our final glorification, our final salvation. As we look beyond this chapter, we can see and be certain that Christ prays for our daily cleansing. From the pollution and effects of sin. He intercedes as our advocate, John, 1 John chapter 2. When we sin, there is Christ interceding for our forgiveness and our cleansing. Christ prays for the provision of the Holy Spirit for the elect, John 14. And we can be certain that Christ prays for the grace and aid That we require in our time of need. Hebrews chapter 4, verse 16. When we have a need and we go to the Lord in our time of need , There is Christ, our intercessor, interceding for us, praying for us. And thus we obtain grace and mercy to help Lastly, I want you to see that Christ's intercession perfects our prayers and our praise. Turn with me to Hebrews 13 Verse fifteen. Hebrews chapter thirteen, verse fifteen This is such a wonderful verse. It has so much in it, but I just want to make a brief observation. These two words that open up this verse so important, it says through him Let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of our lips that acknowledge his name. You see, it says through him, that is, through Jesus Christ, in his office of priest, that the writer of Hebrews has spent so much time developing earlier in this book. It is through him we offer up to God a sacrifice. What is that sacrifice according to verse 15? What is the sacrifice? It's the fruit of our what? Of our lips. That could be of course expressed in the singing Of our our hymns, the the verbally praising God with our lips to be expressed in our prayer. But that that praise is made acceptable to God through Jesus Christ, our high priest. I don't have time to go into all of the basis for this represented and depicted in the Old Testament and the function of the high priest and his offering of the sacrifices. But it is through Christ that we offer up our praise to God. The praise of the most glorious sounding choir in the most stunning cathedral will not be accepted to God. Before God, if it is not offered to him through Christ in truth. Yet the poorest saint who raises his feeble voice to the Father through the Son, His praise is an acceptable sacrifice to God. I love choral music. I love what you might call refined choral music, collegiate level choral music. music, you know. And cathedrals are a beautiful space to sing in with those acoustic But have you ever considered that the as for as beautiful as that music is, and much of it is sacred? If it is not being offered up to God, relying on Christ alone being offered up in truth, it is not an acceptable sacrifice. Sacrifice. But yet the smallest little church that doesn't even have a pianist Where you have every person in their own key offering up praise to God. Relying on Christ alone, worshiping in spirit and in truth, that praise is a sweet savor to our God. Because it's offered through Christ. It's in him Do you realize that Christ is petitioning the Father on your behalf today? Christ taught us how to pray. Have you ever considered that the way in which he taught us to pray, he surely apprays that way for us? Father, forgive. Father, grant them their daily bread. Father, lead him or her away from temptation. Christ's intercession is petitional. What is the significance of that? Well, it means that for us Everything that we need, Christ secures for us before the Father. He takes our requests and they become effectual because of the intercession of Christ. Thirdly, the third aspect, the intercession of Christ is regal in nature. What do I mean by this? Christ's intercession is regal. Christ intercedes as a king. As a king. Hebrews 5:7 says this. In the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears. It has been said before that we should not conceive of Christ's intercession as him trying to convince a begrudging Father to be gracious to us. Have you heard that said from this pulpit before? That we should not conceive of Christ trying to get something from a begrudging Heavenly Father. On our behalf. That is not the Father's disposition. That's a wrong view of God. God has appointed for us this great high priest. It is of his own love that he sent his son to die for us. For God so loved the world. That's a wrong view of God when we see him that way. But I want to argue before you tonight that it's a wrong view of Christ to see him as it were groping and pleading and begging. That is not our Savior in his state of glory. Yes, in his state of humiliation, he offered up prayers with loud cries and tears. But today Christ is interceding on a throne as the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, whom the Father has appointed. He is not begging. Hebrews eight one says, Now the point Of what we are saying is this. We have such a high priest, one who is seated at the right hand of the throne of the majesty in the heavens. Christ represents us from a position of power and authority Christ occupies both the office of priest and the office of king at the same time. He is a priest after the order of Melchizedek, the king of Salem. We should not envision Christ begging in this way before the throne. When Christ petitions the Father, he is expressing the divine will. Which is in perfect harmony with the Father. And we see this even in his high priestly prayer. He says, Father, I will. That they also whom you have given me may be with me where I am. He expresses his will to the Father as a king with authority. The point is this: the intercession of Christ is authoritative and effectual. The Father always answers the prayers of his son. What does this mean for you and me? It means that I can be certain that everything Christ asks the Father to do for me or to provide for me, he will do. Every request Christ brings, God answers. His intercession is effectual for me and for you. Can you imagine having a friend who prays for you every day? When I was 16 years old, I'll never forget there was a lady in my church. She was an elderly lady. Her name was Doris Huntsberger. And she used to sit on this side about three quarters of the way back, kind of where the Craigs are at right now. And um I remember one Sunday she told me, she said, Nathan, I was 16 years old, she says, Nathan, I pray for you every day. I cannot put into words the impact that that had on me. And she is now many years with the Lord. And I have wondered at times where I would be or where I wouldn't be without her daily prayers for me. Can you can you imagine someone praying for you daily And not only are they praying for you daily, but every one of those prayers are always answered affirmatively. That is the intercession of Christ for us. The Father will not turn away his Son Number four, the intercession of Christ is perpetual. It is perpetual. Christ continually intercedes for his people. And this comes right from our text back at Hebrews 7. 25. It says, consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives. To do this, to make intercession for them. The Greek word translated to make intercession is in the present tense, signifying that this is an ongoing activity of our Lord. This is possible because unlike the Levitical priests, Christ never dies. He holds his priesthood forever by virtue of an indestructible life This truth has a profound implication for us. Look carefully at verse 25. We see that there is a direct relationship. Between God saving us to the uttermost, that is, forever and completely, and Christ ever-living to intercede for us. The relationship between those two activities, Christ saving us forever, and him continually interceding, the relationship between those two is causal. He we will be saved forever, that is to the greatest extent, because of this, because Christ lives forever to intercede for us. Paul is reasoning this way. If while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his son, much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved future tense by his life? And in the greatest chapter on eternal security, Romans chapter 8, we are ensured that we will not be condemned because Christ died and he intercedes. The point is this. Christ's perpetual intercession ensures eternal salvation. Christ's perpetual intercession ensures eternal salvation. What further implications does the perpetual nature of Christ's intercession have for us? Let me just name four. Number one, it means That we have instant, unlimited, unhindered access to God. We may come boldly To the throne of grace to find mercy and help in our time of need, whenever that time arises. Number two, it means that Christ is interceding for us. When we are unaware of our need for it. Think of Christ's statement to Peter, I have prayed for you that your faith Will not fail. Until that moment, Peter didn't know how greatly he would need God's grace. Number three, it means that during our greatest trial, when we are suffering, struggling, fearful, hurting. Christ is interceding for us. Because that action is ongoing and continual You can look at a brother or sister, or you can counsel your own heart in your deepest hurt and say, I know this today. Christ is interceding for me. I may not be sure of anything else, but I know before the throne of God, Christ is there for me. What a comfort it should be to know that when you find it hard to pray, and have you ever been in this state? Where you find it hard to pray. Not just to find the words, but hard to even come to the Lord at times. What a comfort it is to know that Christ does not cease to pray for you. Finally, the perpetual nature of Christ's intercession means that Christ's intercession does not cease even when we sin In fact, it is for that very event that Christ intercedes for us. John, as I remind you, tells us that when we sin. We have an advocate with the Father. I'm just speculating here, but Maybe it is that even in that moment when we sin, there is Christ, all the more interceding on our behalf. What a humbling thought to consider that though I may turn away from the Lord in a moment of unbelief and rebellion, Christ does not turn away from the Father on my Behalf. And of course, brother, I need to say that this should not cause us to sin. We should not take this the wrong way. It should cause us to be grateful and worshipful. Christ ever lives to plead for me. Number five and finally tonight. The nature of Christ's intercession is representational. It is petitional It is regal. It is per uh perpetual. And finally, it is presentational. It is presentational. What do I mean by this term? Theologians identify an aspect of Christ's intercession that presents his finished work of atonement before the Father. This is going to take some careful thinking, and I'm really depending on the Lord here to communicate clearly and for you to grasp what I am saying and equally as important what I'm not saying. Hebrews chapter 9 verse 24 says, For Christ has entered not into holy places made with hands. Which are copies of the true, but into heaven itself, now, listen closely, to appear. In the presence of God on our behalf, we observe that Christ appears for us. But my question for us is this: In what manner does Christ appear? How is he appearing? Well, in Revelation chapter 5, John recounts a scene at the throne. Verse 6, I want you to listen carefully of how Christ is described by the Apostle John. Verse 6 says. And between the throne and the four living creatures, and among the elders, I saw a lamb standing as though it had been slain. Then they sung a new song. Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals, for you were slain, and by your blood you were ransomed You ransomed people for God from every tribe and tongue and people and nation, and you have made them a kingdom and priest to our God And they shall reign on the earth. Then I looked and I heard around the throne and the living creatures and the elders the voice of many angels, numbering myriads and myriads. and thousands and thousands, saying with a loud voice, listen to this, worthy is the Lamb who was slain. To receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing. The scripture indicates that Christ appears before the throne as a lamb that has been slain. In other words, Christ's finished sacrifice on the cross is in some way presented before the throne in the person of our Lord. He is the Lamb. Standing as though he had been slain. Now I want to be very clear here. I am not saying that Christ Is continuing to be sacrificed. That is a heretical teaching propagated by the Catholic Church. We do not believe that Christ's body is continuing to be sacrificed. Which is one of the primary reasons we reject the Mass and the position of transubstantiation. Hebrews 10:10 makes clear that Christ died once for all time. A sacrifice which is finished and never needs to be repeated. The appearing of Christ as a lamb slain. is the presentation of Christ's finished work. Some theologians have described it as a memorial of his sacrifice A memorial that is exhibited in the presence of God, Christ appearing as a lamb slain It is hard to illustrate this, but theologians have drawn a comparison here to the sign of the Noaiic Covenant. God said to Noah, when the bow is in the clouds, I will see it And remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is on the earth. Likewise God instructed Israel in Egypt to place the blood of a lamb on the lintel and the doorposts, and God said, When I see the blood, I will pass over you, and no plague will befall you to destroy you. So Christ appears before God as the lamb that has been slain, who in himself continually presents his finished atoning work on our behalf. Though his blood was shed once, the efficacy of his blood continues with power today. Hebrews tells us that Christ's blood is continually speaking better things than that of Abel. That's present tense. And the Apostle John says that the blood of Jesus continually cleanses us of all sin. Again, that's present tense. I think Charles Wesley captured these truths in the hymn we sang this evening. Arise, my soul, arise, shake off thy guilty fears, the bleeding sacrifice. In my behalf appears. Five bleeding wounds he bears received on Calvary They pour effectual prayers. They strongly speak for me. Forgive him, oh forgive, they cry. Forgive him, oh forgive, they cry. Nor let that ransomed sinner. You see, it's for the believer, that ransomed sinner die. What is the significance of this truth? The presentation of Christ Of his atonement is the basis for the petitions Christ makes on our behalf. When Christ intercedes as our advocate for our cleansing, when we sin, the legal grounds is provided in the Advocate Himself. 1 John 2 says that Christ is, interesting, again, present tense, not was, but is the propitiation for our sins. Again, Christ is not continually being sacrificed, but he is both the advocate and the propitiation in one person. And as he stands pleading and interceding for me, when I confess my sins as my advocate, he himself, in himself, is the grounds for my cleansing because he is the propitiation. He stands as a lamb slain, interceding on my behalf The advocate and the propitiation are the same. We can be sure that every plea of Christ will avail on the basis of his blood and his body that was slain for us. Every benefit of our salvation, every sustaining grace we receive from God, every blessing from heaven, everything needed to complete our sanctification and ultimately our glorification. All that we need is assured to us on the basis of Christ's shed blood. Represented in himself before the throne I began this sermon with a quote by William Symington, and so I thought it would be fitting for us to end with a quote by the same brother. He says this. One thing is certain that such is the efficacy of our Savior's blood, such the value of his death, such the merit of his sacrifice That the memorials of his atonement exhibited before God in heaven advocate our cause more powerfully than could ever be done by the language of men. No tongue of orator, no eloquence of angel can ever plead so effectually in favor of guilty sinners as the blood of sprinkling, which speaks better things. Than that of Abel. Let's pray. Father, you've given us much to consider tonight Lord, I pray that these truths, which are intended to be so comforting and so assuring to our hearts, Would not be nebulous or fuzzy in our thinking. I pray that you would give us clarity. And Lord, clearly there are things that you have not revealed to us. In your word about the nature of Christ's intercession, but there are things that you have revealed. And I pray that they would become clear in our minds and our hearts. And I pray that we would draw great comfort. An assurance from not only what Christ has done for us in the past, but what he is doing for us today. It's in his name we pray. Amen.