If you have your Bibles, you can turn with me to the very first Psalm. Psalm 1. In 1646, a group of English, Irish, and Scottish preachers. formulated one of the most famous theological documents of all time, the Westminster Shorter Catechism. This brief guide to Christian doctrine is structured in a question and answer format. And the most famous Part of that document is the answer to this question, what is the chief end or purpose of man? And the answer is this, man's chief end is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. Now no one's surprised about the first part of that answer to glorify God. You hear that all the time. It's found often in the pages of Scripture. But the second part, to enjoy him forever, I think strikes people as a little odd Often they think of religion or spiritual matters as not something that people enjoy, but something that people endure. One of the things that's fascinating about this is that the Puritans rightly understood that the believer's happiness is not only desirable , is required. God wants his people to be happy. Now perhaps that makes you nervous, that statement. Because there have been many people who have excused their sin with this premise. God wants me to be happy. And I'm not happy in this marriage. I'm not happy in this situation. So I can move out of the boundaries that God has established because God wants me to be happy. Of course, that is nonsense. But just because some truth is frequently distorted or misunderstood does not make it untrue I used to say in the early part of my pastorate, God's purpose for us is to be holy, not happy. And I heard that, of course, from many preachers, and I'm sure you've heard many preachers, and perhaps you would give a hearty amen to that. But I no longer say that you haven't heard me say that for many years, because I think it presents a false distinction. God does not have us make a choice between holiness and happiness. The fact is you cannot have real happiness without holiness. God is our Father, and like all fathers, he has a desire for his children to be happy. But he also understands, like parents of little children understand, that their children often do not know how to find happiness. If you let a little toddler do whatever they want Eat as much as they want, whatever they want, stay up as late as they want. They will be anything but happy Because they do not have the understanding to pursue that which will ultimately bring them happiness Now one passage of scripture that beautifully depicts this happen is the Psalm 1. We read it together this morning. I'm sure many of you have memorized it. It's a wonderful portion of God's Word. We don't know who wrote this Psalm. We didn't know exactly when it was written. It can be classified as a wisdom psalm. It's not like most psalms. The subject matters a little different. In many ways it's more like the book of Proverbs, which is the Bible's book of wisdom. It's not a prayer, it's not a praise. Does it recount a personal experience or survey Israel's history? It is intended by God to provide timeless instruction on how to live life. And one of the most effective ways of teaching is to present a contrast. And that's what we have very obviously in this Psalm. We have a contrast. We have two approaches to life. The way of the godly and the way of the wicked. This particular psalm has a very transparent structure. It's probably the easiest psalm in the world to outline. First of all, you have the blessed man described in verses 1 through 3. Look at this. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. First subpoint would be the blessed man described negatively. This is what he doesn't do. And then in verse 2 we have the blessed man described positively, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. And then in verse three we have him described figuratively. And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that bringeth forth fruit in his season. His leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. And then in verses four and five we have the ungodly man described. The ungodly are not so. but are like the chaff which the wind driveth away. And here we have the ungodly man described how? Figuratively. And now, in verse 5, he will be described negatively. Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. And then the third point of this poem is in verse 6 and God's response to both kinds of people. Here's the summary, here's the conclusion. The Lord knoweth the way of the righteous, but the way of the ungodly shall perish. This psalm has been providentially placed as the very first psalm. And let us not forget that the book of Psalms was intended to be used as a hymn book. This was the hymn book of the children of Israel. This is a book of worship. And its function here is almost like a gatekeeper. Because only those who truly know the Lord and whom the Lord knows can really come in and enter his gates with thanksgiving in their hearts This morning I want us to focus on just the first word of the psalm, but it's a very significant word. It's the word blessed. This Hebrew word is often translated in the Old Testament with another English word, and that is the word, believe it or not, happy. So I'm going to talk about this this morning. I'm going to ask you an important question. Are you a happy person? Not asking you if you have the kind of bubbly personality that God has given to some people. I'm not asking you if everything's going perfectly in your life. But is your life characterized by joy? I think in this psalm we find the only road to real happiness. And I want us to sequentially and logically go down a road that will give us the answer because everyone wants to know what is the path to happiness. And the scriptures answer that for us. The first thing I want to establish for you is that happiness is what everyone wants. One reason why this ancient poem still connects with people today is because everyone wants to be happy. Now the use of this concept of happiness is very broad today, and so I want to make sure that we understand what we are talking about. Let me mention some clarifications. First of all, real happiness is not primarily about how a person feels at a given moment. The biblical concept of happiness does include emotion, but that's not the key idea. Biblical happiness is more of an objective reality than a subjective feeling. A person can be a blessed person, but at a specific moment, they might not be filled with joy and gladness because of something that has occurred in their life. This psalm is not prescribing some secret way to enhance your mood. It's speaking of the totality of a person's life. And it's not just addressing life on this earth, because the last two verses of the psalm speak of the life after this life, of eternal life or eternal death. Let me secondly say that real happiness does not, excuse me, days of darkness Christian people, people who walk with the Lord, go through difficult times. They get discouraged and depressed. God doesn't expect us To walk around every day of our life with a silly grin on our face. Christians, the Bible says, suffer and mourn. In 1 Peter, a book about trials, we read this. If need be, you are in heaviness through manifold temptations. God understands that sometimes we are just slammed with all kinds of trials and difficulties that stretch our faith and break our spirits. So what is the essential meaning of this term blessed It's the Hebrew word ashray. It's used some 44 times in the Old Testament. It's always translated as either blessed or happy. And the root idea of this word may surprise you. It really has the root idea of envy. A person who is envied. A blessed person is literally someone who is in the enviable states. It is someone who we would say is fortunate or perhaps even lucky. Now the Bible does not teach this matter of luck. But it certainly does show us that some people have the blessing of God upon their lives. Let me talk about how this term is used in the Old Testament. It was used to describe Israel as the envy of the nations. In Deuteronomy 33, 29 it says, Happy art thou, O Israel. Who is like unto thee a people saved by the Lords? When the nations of the World heard about how they came out of Egypt and how they crossed the Red Sea and how God provided manna for them in the wilderness. They said, wow, it must be nice to be a people like that and to have a God like that. This is the term the Queen of Sheba used when she observed the wisdom of Solomon and said to him, Happy are thy men, and happy are These thy servants which stand continually before thee and hear thy wisdom. She said, Oh, what a privilege! How fortunate these men are to stand here day by day in the royal court and to hear your wise words. It's used of a man who has a number of grown, strong, healthy sons. Who would be able to defend his cause against all enemies? In Psalm 127 it says, happy is the man who hath his quiver full of them. And that's that word again. Now the Bible is not promoting envy, of course. But the fact of the matter is that if Christian people are living The way God intends that we live, there should be people who look at our lives and say, they 've got something figured out. It must be fortunate to have that kind of a family. It must be really nice to have that kind of a marriage. It must be wonderful to have that kind of stability in a crisis because I've been watching them and I see the way they're able to weather the storms of life This is a key part of our testimonies that people can look at us and can see that we have something they don't possess. That we have a joy that's not contingent on our immediate circumstances That we have a peace and a joy and a love that just exudes from us because we're walking with the Lord's. Now it could be that you question whether or not it's really true that everyone wants to be happy. I'm going to go back to the original point that I made. Everyone wants to be happy. Perhaps you would say, Well, Pastor, I know people Who are cantankerous and complaining, they gripe, they they everywhere they go they just exude a negative energy, a sour spirit, and they do that all the time. They don't seem like they want to be happy. There is a type of person who finds a perverse pleasure in making everyone miserable about them. But that's because that's what they find brings them happiness. It doesn't prove it wrong. You see, people approach and seek happiness in completely opposite ways. Let me give you a few examples. For one person, the way they approach happiness is by indulging their senses. And so they just love food, they overeat all the time, and they just eat and eat and eat and eat. And that's what they think is the route to happiness. Then there's someone else who isn't carefully very careful about what they eat, and there's more things they don't eat than things that they do eat. And they're very concerned about every ounce that they gain. But they find great happiness in being very fit and very thin. Both of those individuals are seeking happiness, but they're seeking it in exactly the opposite ways because they have a different outlook One of the keenest intellects the world has ever known was a man named Blaise Pascal, the great mathematician who was also a believer. He said, all men seek happiness. This is without exception. Whatever different means they employ, they all tend to this end. The cause of some going to war and others avoiding it is the same desire in both, attended with different views. No one ever takes the least step but to this object. This is the motive of every action of man, even those who hang themselves. The choices that we make are because we think that that path that we have chosen will bring us happiness. So often it does not But I want to establish that people make those choices because they think it will bring them happiness. That brings me to my second point, and that is that happiness is often elusive. If everyone is seeking happiness, they're not doing a very good job of finding it. And one reason for this Is that you can never find happiness by making happiness your pursuit, your goal. It's like a puppy chasing its tail. It never quite gets there The primary reason that people do not find happiness is because they are ignorant about God and how He has designed them They are seeking to find happiness apart from God. And God didn't make us so that that would ever work So where do people look for happiness? Well, the the list is endless. Let me mention some of the major ways. I touched on this even last week. People often look to possessions or money for happiness. This is the great lie behind the American dream. If I just have a larger home and nicer cars and better clothes and financial security, then I'll be happy all the rest of my days. And people keep trying that. And it doesn't work. And so they say, I must not have enough. And so they get more and more. And they still don't find happiness. Even secular psychologists have done multiple studies that have confirmed that one's wealth is not the determining factor in a person's happiness, but people still believe it. And Jesus said a man's life does not consist in the abundance of things that he possesses. The plain fact is we can look around and we can see that there are millions and millions of Americans that have ample wealth and resources, but they are not happy. Another way that people place that people look is to pleasure. This is technically called hedonism. The idea is that by indulging my senses, I can find happiness. This is especially a strong lure for young people. They look to the party lifestyle. They live for the weekend. But the party soon ends without bringing lasting happiness, and they're empty, and they continue on, but they never find ultimate satisfaction. People look to health for their happiness. This has become a huge part of our culture. People all the time I hear them say that if you have your health, you have everything. You ever heard that? It's not true. It's not true. That's completely contrary to the gospel. Living a healthy lifestyle is commendable, but it's a poor reason for living. It's like having a car. And you take it out and you wa wash it and wax it every week, but you never ever drive it. And someone says, what do you use a car for? Well I use it to wax. I wax it all the time, clean it all the time. Do you ever go anywhere with it? No But boy, does it look nice. God gave us a life to do something with, not just to maintain the life. It may shock you to know that Jesus and the apostles never present an exercise routine or an ultimate diet plan. It's not in the Bible. People look to personal achievement to find happiness. They want to be appreciated. For their talents, their gifts, their contributions. They want people to say, now that person's important. Now that person makes a difference. Now that person has touched my life and the lives of many others And there's nothing necessarily wicked or wrong for that. But if that's where you're seeking to find your happiness, it will not fulfill you. And finally, let me say that people look to other people for happiness. God made us social beings. He made us to connect and to interact with others. And of course, the basic unit of human society is the family. It's God's design. It's a beautiful thing. And the further we get away from God's design, the more problems we encounter in our society Because when a society abandons God's plan for the family, which is the basic building block of society, then it will crumble in time. But I want you to understand something. I often hear good Christian people, wonderful Christian people who are part of this church or part of other churches and walk with the Lord for years and they will say something like this. I live for my family. And they think they're saying something really, really good. Or I live for my kids. My life is my children. That's what I live for. That's where I find my joy. That's where all my happiness is found. You're building on a foundation of sand. Your children are people. Your spouse is a person, and people will always fail you. They are wonderful gifts. They are wonderful blessings from God. But they can never provide all that you need. They will never give you ultimate satisfaction and happiness and joy. No human being can do that. People will fail you and disappoint you. You dare not make them the foundation of your happiness. So you see, happiness is often elusive. And often people will spend decades of their adult lives seeking happiness, and they come to the end of their life and they just become cynical. As if life is kind of like a bad joke, you know, I've been pursuing happiness and it's been nothing but hardship and difficulty and disappointment. And that of course is because they've been looking in the wrong place. So how do we find happiness? My third point of the message is this happiness is a byproduct. Of who you are. It's all about who you are. Let me explain what I mean. This word blessed in our text is actually plural. If you were to literally translate it, it would be the blessednesses, but that's hard to say. And so our translators have wisely just rendered it blessed. In Hebrew, plural does more than just the note, more than one. It is here most likely expressing intensity. How very happy is the man! How very blessed is the man is the idea. The psalm is setting forth the ideal person. Of course, when it says man, you understand it's also referring to women. It's referring to man as mankind. This is a model for us to follow. Now, a superficial reading of the psalm may lead you to believe that there are just a few simple steps to utopia. And that is that all she have to do according to verse 1 is don't hang out with bad people. Alright? Remember, blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners. nor citizens see the scornful. So avoid really bad, wicked people. And number two, read your Bible a lot. Okay? So this is what the Bible says about happiness. This is the way some people might understand this, but that's not what the Psalm is teaching. Because happiness is not about following a few simple steps. It's about who you are. Let me try to illustrate this. To say that you came into my office for some counseling and you said, Pastor, I'm very unhappy. I'm miserable in life every day. I hate getting up. I got so many problems. I got no peace in my heart. There's no happiness there. Everything I've looked for happiness has failed me and I'm just at the end of my rope, can you help me? I understand that there's a psalm in the Bible that talks about the blessed man and the road to happiness. So could you help me with this? And I said, sure. You know, what you need to do is you need to avoid bad people. Number two, you need to read your Bible every day. Unless say that you would respond, but you know what? I don't really like reading the Bible. You see, it's not about doing certain things, it's about the kind of person that you are. And it doesn't say here that this guy reads his Bible, it says that he delights in the law of the Lord. That's more of who he is and the heart that he possesses than what he does. Now the Greek equivalent of this term blessed is used as well in the New Testament, and the Lord employed it at the very beginning. of the greatest sermon he ever preached, the Sermon on the Mount. I would invite you to turn with me, please, to Matthew chapter 5. Matthew chapter 5. I want to begin reading at verse 3. We call this section of Scripture the Beatitudes. We've gone through this verse by verse in the past. It's a wonderful portion of God's word. But the word that our Lord employed here is the exact equivalent of the Hebrew word translated, blessed or happy, in the Old Testament. Jesus said at the beginning of that sermon, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek. for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. I want you to notice that Jesus was not saying, do these things And you will be happy. He was saying that happy people or blessed people do these things. They have these characteristics. And what's fascinating, of course, about every one of these declarations is that they're exactly the opposites of what people naturally think. He speaks of being poor in spirit, of coming before the Lord as a beggar that has nothing to offer The world doesn't teach that's the path to happiness to be humble and broken Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. The world says, don't worry, be happy. It doesn't call us to mourn. It calls us to party and forget about your problems. Calls on us to be meek here, the third one. For they shall inherit the earth. But the world says it's a dog-eat-dog world. You've got to get what's yours. You have to fight and scrap and be assertive if you want to get ahead in life. It says, blessed are they that hunger and thirst after righteousness. And the world says, well, that may be a pious way of approaching things, but really what you want to hunger and thirst for is money and prestige and power and influence. And on and on it goes. The world says, don't be too merciful because people will take advantage of you. The point I'm trying to make is the reason why the world looks at this with a completely opposite viewpoint, it would never espouse what Jesus said, is because they have a different nature I've been laboring to make this point. It's not about all right making a few simple changes in your life It's not about adding a few things and reading your Bible and so forth. No, you have to have a different nature You have to be different from the inside out. You must fundamentally change who you are. But that raises the question of how does that occur? And that brings me to my last point, and that is that happiness can only be found through a relationship with God. I want you to turn back with me, please, to Psalm 1, where we started. Most of the uses of this word blessed are found in the book of Psalms. And I want to look through some of the other times it's used in this book, and I want you to see a recurring theme. In fact This is the most frequent thing the Bible says about being the blessed man or the blessed woman. You want to be this person that's in an enviable state? Not that they have no problems, but they have stability, they have joy, they have peace. How can I be that person? Let's see what the Bible says about it. Turn with me to the very next Psalm, Psalm chapter 2 and verse 12. I want you to look at the last phrase of this verse. It says, blessed are all they that put their trust in him. You see that? Blessed are all they that put their trust in Him. Now turn with me ahead to Psalm 34 and verse 8. Psalm 34, verse 8. Notice what David says. This is an experiential Psalm. He says, O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that Trusteth in him. Turn with me ahead to Psalm 40. Psalm 40 and verse 4. Notice what it says here. Sound familiar. Blessed is that man that maketh the Lord his trust. And now turn with me ahead to Psalm 84, please. I'll give you fingers of rest after this. This is going to say it a little bit differently, Psalm eighty-four verse four. Blessed, there's our word. Are they that dwell in thy house, they will be still praising thee. Speaks of a personal relationship of worship and joy. Verse 5. Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee, and whose heart are the ways of them, who passing through the valley of Baca maketh it a well, the rain also filleth the pools. Let me pause there talking about the blessed man that when he goes to the valley of suffering and difficulty and pain, he is still replenished And strengthened, it's as if he's digging a well and he finds moisture even in the driest desert because of his relationship with God. Look with me now at verse 12. How does he summarize all of this? O Lord of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth in thee. You see that? You see what the Bible is saying? Happiness. The state of being enviable. It comes from walking with the Lord, from having a relationship of trust in the Lord. Now perhaps you're here this morning and say, well, Pastor, I'm a believer. I got saved. I remember when I got saved. And I know the Lord, but I want you to know I don't have any joy or happiness in my life. Well, the question is Have you been walking in communion with the Lord? Have you really been trusting in Him? I didn't say do you believe there's a God Are you depending and relying on him? We have a hymn we're going to sing later. Don't turn to it now, but it says, trust and obey. For there's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. You see, those two things always go together. You want to know if you trust God or not? Do you obey God? If you don't obey God, then guess what? You're not really trusting God, at least not fully. How else is this man described? You don't need to turn to these passages, but listen carefully. The Bible describes him as a man who fears and obeys the Lord. Psalm 112, verse 1 says, Blessed is the man that feareth the Lord, that delighteth greatly in his commandments. The idea is that he stands in awe of God. He respects the Lord and he delights in his word. He's described as a man who worships the Lord. Psalm 65 and verse 4 says, Blessed is the man whom thou choosest and causes to approach unto thee that he may dwell in thy courts. We shall be satisfied with thy goodness of thy house, even of thy holy temple. The blessed man is a man who delights to worship. A blessed person doesn't come to church out of, uh view it as a chore, as a duty that they must fulfill and check off their list. But they come because they want to, because they want to be with the people of God, because they love the Lord and they delight in his word and they want to hear more of it. And believe it or not, the blessed man is the man who is corrected by the Lord. And Psalm 94 and verse 12, it says, Blessed is the man whom thou chasteneth, O Lord, and teacheth him out of thy law. Part of being a happy person is that God will chasten you, will correct you, will punish you when you go astray because you are his child. Sometimes when people go through difficulties, they instantly jump to the place, God must not love me. God must must be against me. But you know what? Even when your difficulty is a result of your sin because he's chastening you, it is still an evidence of his love. He's bringing that into your life not because he doesn't love you, but because he does love you. And he wants you to be right. So what do all these descriptions have in common of trusting in the Lord, fearing the Lord, being corrected by the Lord, worshiping the Lord? What do they all have in common? They all speak to a personal relationship with God. And this is reflected where we began in Psalm 1. Look with me if you would. It's Psalm 1 verse 6, the last verse that we read together. This is the conclusion, the summary. Where the Lord's going to address his response to these two roads of life, the way of the ungodly and the way of the blessed man. He says, The Lord knoweth the way of the righteous. But the way of the ungodly shall perish. You may say, well, doesn't God know everyone? Yes, he does. But the word know here is being used to convey a close, intimate relationship. Just like you know a lot of people But those who are your family members are in a different category. You see, everything about this blessed man makes him different due to his relationship with the Lord. The people he avoids, the counsel he rejects, the word that he delights in, the prosperity that he enjoys, all of it is related to his relationship with the Lord. That's the way to understand this. Listen to how commentator Alan Ross defines this concept of happiness. He says It is the joyful spiritual condition of those who are right with God and the pleasure and satisfaction that is derived from that. A Christian can find stability and happiness and satisfaction in the most distressing of times because they have a foundation that will not fail them, and that is their relationship with their Heavenly Father. Well, how does a person enter into a right relationship with the Lord? The Bible teaches that we have a big problem here. And that is that we are all sinners. We all come short of God's glory. We all do what is selfish and wicked We think of ourselves and not of others and certainly not of the Lord. The Bible teaches that we were born that way. We inherited that tendency from our parents and they from their parents. And we've also chosen that path. And our sin is very offensive to God, who is absolutely holy. So what is the solution? I want to keep it here in Psalms again. Turn with me to Psalm 32. Psalm 32. We're going to find this term blessed again. This is David. Writing after a very sinful episode in his life in Psalm 32 in verse 1, that's what he says, Blessed is he who whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile. This is the blessed man. This is the happy man, the man that knows that his sins have been forgiven. So let me ask you, do you know that your sins have been forgiven? Are you in a right relationship with the Lord? Now this particular passage is quoted in the New Testament, and it gives us further insights. on how our sins are forgiven. So I want to invite you to turn with me now from the New Testament to Romans chapter 4. Romans chapter four. I want to begin reading at verse four. I'll begin reading actually in verse 3. Now what set the scriptures? Abraham believed God And it was counted unto him for righteousness. Now to him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace, but of debt. But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness. Verse 6, even as David also describeth the blessedness of the man unto whom God imputeth righteousness without works, saying, Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord will not impute sin. So, two things we learn from the passage I just read about this forgiveness. Number one, it's not by works. And never has been by works. It never has been something that we earned. David certainly didn't earn God's forgiveness. But God put away his sin. And secondly, we learn that it's by faith. It says in verse 5, but to him that worketh not, but believeth on him. that justifieth the ungodly. His faith is counted for righteousness. This salvation, this forgiveness is found not by works, but by faith alone. And then I want you to look at the conclusion of this chapter, Romans chapter 4, verse 23. Now it was not written for his sake alone, but it was imputed to him. But for us also to whom it shall be imputed if we believe on him that raised up Jesus, our Lord, from the dead, who was delivered for our offenses, and was raised again for our justification. It 's not some nebulous belief in God. It's the belief that God sent his son Named Jesus who lived a perfect life on this earth and died in place of sinners and rose again the third day. It is those who put their faith and trust in Christ and Christ alone. That can be described as blessed. This is the only way to live. This is the only path of blessing. This is the only way to experience true joy. True stability, true satisfaction. C. S. Lewis was one of the greatest intellects of the 20th century. professor at Oxford, famous for his many novels and writings. And he said that if you want to get warm, you must stand near the fire. And if you want joy, peace, eternal life, you must get close to the person or thing that has them. Seems obvious, doesn't it, but it's profound. If you want true joy You have to get close to the one who is indeed the blessed, the happy, and that is God. There is no being in the universe that is more happy than God. And so the only way we can find that is by getting close to him. to be carefully understood this morning. This message is not trust in God so you can be happy. God will not be used. God is not a means to an end. He is the end. However, the only way to truly be happy is to trust in God and to know that your sins have been forgiven, that they were laid on Christ and that he bore God's just wrath. And that you can be accounted righteous, then you will be standing in his perfect righteousness. That's the only path. Happiness is found in walking with the Lord. So let me ask you this morning, do you know the Lord? Are you trusting in Him Do you know that your sins have been forgiven? That there was a time and a place as we sang together this morning, oh happy day that fixed my choice. Was there a happy day in your life? When you put your trust in Jesus Christ and you felt that wonderful sense of relief that that burden and load of sin had fallen off your back Do you know what it is to know that whatever the future holds, you know that you will eternally be with God and you will be happy evermore. We're going to sing hymn in just a moment. It begins this way, when we walk with the Lord in the light of his word, what a glory he sheds on our way. Do you know what that's talking about? Do you know what it is to walk with the Lord in the light of his word? This is the life of a Christian. This is the life of the blessed man. Let's close in prayer. Father, I pray that you would use these words not to discourage, but to encourage, not to repel, but to draw sinners. I pray, Father, that we would see again, that our happiness is not dependent on our circumstances or in what we possess or what we can do. But it's found in a living relationship with you, not in a vague belief that there is a God but in a close relationship of communion with our Heavenly Father, who has provided for us a Savior in Jesus. Father, use these words for your purposes, for your glory in our midst. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.