This evening I want to cover our Lord's entrance into Jerusalem that is commonly known as the Triumphal Entry. Today, of course, is traditionally known as Palm Sunday, the Sunday before Easter. And in the providence of God, as I have been preaching through this series on Lord's Day evenings of Christ on the road to Jerusalem. On the Sunday that he comes to Jerusalem, it's also Palm Sunday, which celebrates the Sunday when he came to Jerusalem. Luke, throughout his gospel, throughout most of his gospel, from chapter 9, the chapter we're going to consider this evening, 19. Luke tells us of Christ making his journey. It's essentially a travelogue, the majority of this gospel. Covers a time period of about six months. And I've stressed to you in this series that this journey to Jerusalem was heroic. Because Jesus was going there to die in the most shameful and degrading way imaginable. Luke skillfully reminds his readers. throughout his gospel that our Lord's story will conclude in Jerusalem. Let me remind you of where we've been. Turn with me to Luke chapter 9, please, and verse 51. Many scholars think of this as the pivotal verse that That uh transitions to the second half of the gospel. Luke 9, 51, and it came to pass when the time was come that he should be received up. He steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem. And now turn with me ahead to Luke chapter 13 and verse 22. We have this summary statement. And he went through the cities and villages teaching and journeying toward Jerusalem. And then a little later in this chapter, chapter thirteen, verse thirty-three, Jesus says, Nevertheless, I must walk today and tomorrow and the day following. For it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killeth the prophets, and stoneth them that are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered Thy children together as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings, and ye would not. And then in Luke chapter 17, please. Luke seventeen, verse eleven. Excuse me, it says, and it came to pass as he went to Jerusalem that he passed through the midst of Samaria. And Galilee. And then in Luke chapter 18, verse 31. And he took unto him the twelve, and said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all the things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished. For he shall be delivered unto the Gentiles, and shall be mocked on and spitefully entreated and spitted on, and they shall scourge him and put him to death, and the third day he shall rise again. And now in chapter 19, Jesus finally has made it to Jerusalem. Look with me at verse 11. And as they heard these things, he added and spake a parable, because he was nigh to Jerusalem, and because they thought that the kingdom of God should immediately appear. And then finally in New Luke 1928, he enters Jerusalem. It says, and when he had thus spoken, he went before ascending up. To Jerusalem. Palm Sunday marks the beginning of our Lord's final week on earth. This week is often known as Passion Week or Holy Week. The life of Christ is the most significant life ever lived on this earth. And so I would suggest to you that this final week of his life on earth was the most important week in the history of the world. Our Lord's triumphal entry is one of the few events that's recorded in all four Gospels. Look with me at Luke 19, verses 37. And thirty-eight. And when he was come nigh, even now at the descent of the Mount of Olives The whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen, saying, Blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in the heaven. In the highest. This week that would culminate in his death and resurrection was a day of joy and praise. In fact The trumpet duet that we heard was a perfect hymn for what I was preaching on tonight. Praise him, praise him. Jesus, our blessed redeemer. Now many preachers of the centuries have been somewhat critical of these expressions of joy on Palm Sunday. They have often pointed out that those who welcomed Jesus so joyfully did so for superficial reasons. Perhaps they were expecting some spectacular miracle or looking for a political leader who would defeat the pagan Romans. Undoubtedly, there were many who felt that way. This was a day of patriotic joy and celebration. For them, the coming of the Messiah meant the beginning of freedom and a return to the glorious reign of King David. But the most popular criticism of the praise that occurred on this day is that it was insincere or fickle. Many preachers have said over the years that the same people who cried Hosanna would in a few days cry, crucify him. It's a very powerful line, and it's probably true of at least a few individuals, but I don't think that was true for most of those present that week. If you look at the gospel record carefully, the people who were praising him and putting down their garments and putting palms in the streets were primarily Galilean pilgrims. And followers of Christ. And those who cried out, crucify him were primarily the proud people of Jerusalem. who throughout his ministry have rejected his claims. And I want you to notice an important thing for us to consider, and that is that Jesus not only received the praise of the people on this day, but he also defended it. It says in verse 39 of this chapter, and some of the Pharisees from among the multitude said unto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples. And he answered and said unto them, I tell you that if these hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out. In another gospel, it says, out of the mouth of babes thou hast perfected praise. In other words, Jesus didn't did not deflect their praise, but he received it. Because Jesus is worthy of our worship and praise. This evening As we look briefly at the events surrounding our Lord's triumphal entry, I want us to see that he is worthy of praise. Why is our heroic king worthy of praise? Let me bring out several attributes of this king. That are mentioned in this passage. First of all, he is a powerful king. Look with me at the beginning of this passage in Luke chapter 19 and verse 28. And when he had thus spoken, he went before ascending up to Jerusalem. And it came to pass when he was come nigh to Bethpage and to Bethany at the mount called the Mount of Olives. He sent two of his disciples, saying, Go ye into the village over against you, in the which at your entering ye shall find a colt tied, whereon yet never man sat. Loose him and bring him hither. And if any man asks you, why do you lose him? Thus shall you say unto him, Because the Lord hath need of him. And they that were sent went their way, and found even as he had said unto them, and as they were loosing the colt, the owners thereof said unto them, Why loose ye the colt? And they said, The Lord hath need of him. We see here a powerful example of our Lord's providential sovereignty. He comes to the outskirts of Jerusalem. And for a time he rests on the Mount of Olives. And then he sends two unnamed disciples into the village. This is most likely Beth Page, the last village one would encounter before the gates of the city. And Jesus tells the disciples what they will find. And when they came, they found things exactly as the Lord said they would be. Now some maintain that the Lord had arranged ahead of time. The securing of this animal with the owner. And I suppose that is possible But none of the accounts by the four gospel writers would give the reader that impression. What instead is at least inferred Is that this was an indication of our Lord's omniscience? Spurgeon put it this way: the Lord knows the position of every animal in the world, and he counts no circumstance. to be beneath his notice. One detail that is included in the narrative is that this young cult had never been ridden before. This is most likely a symbolic reference to the uniqueness of Christ. When he was buried, he was buried in an unused tomb, and so he would ride on an unbroken donkey. And when the owners asked why they are untying the donkey, the disciples respond , The Lord hath need of him. And the reference to the Lord there is a reference to Jesus himself. And they consent to them taking the stonky. It could be That they were followers of Christ, and they were honored to give this animal for the Lord's service. What we have here is a portrait of a powerful king who has authority over time, circumstances, and people. This fact should remind us that Jesus' death was not a monumental tragedy. Jesus was not a victim, but a powerful king who bravely and voluntarily laid down his life. Jesus is indeed worthy of our praise. We also see in our text that Jesus is a peaceful king. The securing of the stonkey may seem like an irrelevant detail, but it was not Both Matthew and John's gospel account of this event tell us that it was a fulfillment of prophecy. A fulfillment of Zechariah chapter 9 and verse 9. So I invite you to keep a finger here in Luke 19 and turn with me to Zechariah, please. Zechariah chapter 9 and verse 9. If you're having trouble finding it, it's just a short distance back from Matthew. Zechariah chapter 9 and verse 9 says, Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion, shout! O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, thy king cometh unto thee. He is just, and having salvation, lowly, and riding upon an ass, and upon the colt the foal. of Anas. Now I want you to notice several elements about the king in this prophecy. All the elements that are combined here Point to the fact that this is a peaceful king, a new kind of king, like the world has never seen before. First of all, this king will bring joy. It says, Rejoice, O daughters of Zion. People tended to rejoice in the ancient world when a king was born. But here the prophet himself calls on people to rejoice because this is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And this king would be the ultimate king. It says, Behold thy king. Israel had had many kings over the years. But this king would be the ultimate king, the one who would excel them all, the one to whom David pointed to figuratively. And this king, thirdly, would be just or righteous. Many rulers throughout the history of the world, and this was true certainly in the ancient world, that kings tended to be corrupts. They tended to use their positions to advance their family members and to become wealthy. And to not really care about their people. It is still the cynical suspicion of people today of their political rulers But this king would not be corrupt. He would be just and righteous. In fact, he would reign in righteousness. And this king would bring salvation. The idea of that word is deliverance. He would not enslave his people like many kings have done. But he would bring them ultimate deliverance from their ultimate capture, which is sin. And finally, this king will come in humility, lowly riding upon a donkey. What a contrast this is to the triumphal entry of ancient warriors. These processions were filled with impressive looking horses. In the Roman world, the conquering monarch would come in a chariot draped in garland. There would be profuse displays of power and wealth, all designed to promote human pride. But note the contrast here A man dressed in humble garments riding upon a borrowed donkey. And yet he is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. In Jesus, we see the beautiful blending of sovereignty and humility, the lion and the lamb. This prophecy of Jesus riding on a donkey conveys the fact that indeed Jesus would come in peace When the king would ride a war horse, it was clear that he was on a military campaign. But when he rode a donkey, it was an indication that he came in peace. Isaiah chapter 9 and verse 6 tells us that he is the prince of peace. A king that will not come to bring violence, but peace. But the Hebrew concept of peace is much broader than just a lack of violence. It's the Hebrew word that everybody knows. It's the word shalom. It describes wholeness, well-being. It was a person who was blessed of God when you shed said shalom to someone. You were essentially asking God to bless them, like we might say to someone as we depart from them, God bless you. The Bible speaks of two kinds of peace. There's an objective and a subjective aspect. First of all, objectively, we must have peace with God before we can experience the peace of God. Romans chapter 5 and verse 1 says, Being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Only through Christ can we be reconciled to God. And when we enjoy that objective peace of knowing that our sins have been blotted out, they have been washed away through the blood of Christ, then we can enjoy That peace that passes all understanding. That peace that fills our hearts. That legacy that Christ left. to his followers in the upper room when he said, Peace I give unto you, might not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. Jesus is not only a powerful king and a peaceful king, he is a pardoning king. Look with me now at Luke chapter 19. I want to begin reading at verse thirty-three. It says, And as they were loosing the colt, the owners thereof said unto them, Why loose ye the colt? And they said, The Lord hath need of him. And they brought him to Jesus, and they cast their garments upon the colt, and they set Jesus thereon. And as he went, they spread their clothes in the way. And when he must come nigh even now at the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice And praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen, saying, Blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord, peace in heaven, and glory in the highest. In the ancient world, kings had the power to forgive those condemned to die. They had the ability to rescue people who were facing death. And there is a symbolic allusion to this within this historic event recorded here in Luke 19. We read in verse 36 of them spreading their coats in the way. This was an ancient custom. We read of men spreading their garments at the coronation of Jehu in 2 Kings 9 and verse 13. We might say today that they were giving him the red carpet treatment. It was a way for the people to pledge allegiance to a sovereign. They are acknowledging that he is their king. Just imagine the scene which must have seemed to the disciples to be the culmination of three years of hard work. You had, first of all, the vista of their national capital with the perspective of the Messiah coming. Coming to reign, and people are starting to cry out, Hosanna. In the book of Psalms, Jerusalem is described as the joy of the whole earth. And at this moment in time, it certainly seemed that way. In John's account, we read that the Passover pilgrims inside the city walls heard this commotion and they came out to greet him. And then we had the people parading down towards Jerusalem. And so we had people coming out of the city and people coming into the city, and all of them are converging and crying out, Hosanna! This term comes from Psalm 118 in verse 25, and it means save now, deliver now. And in verse 38, we read that they said, Blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord. This is a quotation from that same Psalm, verse 26. This passage from Psalm 118 would have been fresh in their minds. Because as pilgrims traveled to Jerusalem for the Passover , They sang a section out of their hymn book known as the Halail, which means praise. Psalm 113 through 118. And on that final day when they entered the holy city, they were singing Psalm 118. And these two quotations come out of that psalm. But all of those centuries of pilgrimages, as people sang through that little section in the Psalter from Psalm 113 to 118, and all the times that people had pronounced that That benediction, and had cried out to other monarchs, save now. All of those pilgrimages pointed and were fulfilled on this day as Jesus was coming in. Because the king has truly come. And he has come to save. Yes, it is true. That the people did not have a full understanding. There's very much a sense in which the only person who really understood the significance of what was occurring that day was Jesus. The disciples didn't get it. The religious leaders certainly didn't get it. They were plotting to kill him. The common people who were crying out, Hosanna. May have had a faith in Christ, but they still did not understand that in a few days' time he would die. And that was the means for their salvation. Some scholars say that it was on this day of Holy Week, of Passover week, that people brought their lambs into the city by the thousands. And all of those lambs were but pictures of the Lamb of God who would take away the sin of the world. In verse 38, we read them speaking of peace in heaven and glory in the highest. That should sound familiar to you. It sounds very much like what the angels said at the birth of Jesus when they said, Glory to God in the highest and on earth, peace, goodwill toward men. This echo of nativity is reminder to the reader of Luke's gospel that Jesus was born to die and that he came to save. Some people consider Luke chapter 19 and verse 10 to be the theme verse of this book, and it very well may be, where it says, For the Son of Man. Has come to seek and to save that which was lost. You see, all of us need a savior. We need someone to deliver us from our bondage to sin and from our sentence of ultimate death. And the reason why we all desperately need a Savior is because we are all sinners. The greatest threat that we all face is not political instability. Or the war in Ukraine, or inflation, or even a new variant of COVID. No, sin is our biggest problem, and Christ is our greatest need. This is why Jesus heroically went to Jerusalem because we all desperately need a Savior. This is why Luke records In that very significant verse in Luke 9. 51, that Jesus steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem. Because it was not easy. He knew in exacting detail exactly what would occur there. But he went. To fulfill his Father's will. It says in Hebrews chapter 12, who for the joy that was set before him, Jesus endured the cross. And despising the shame and set down at the right hand of the throne of God. We usually think of communion as a solemn occasion. And that is indeed appropriate because we remember what Jesus has done for us But our tears must be mingled with joy because our heroic Savior went to Jerusalem and died the shameful death that we all deserve. And therefore he is worthy of our utmost praise. The psalms of the pilgrims sang on the way to the Passover were songs of praise, and so it's right and fitting for us to rejoice in the heroic redemption of our great Savior. In fact, in that first communion in the upper room, when it says they sang a hymn, That was undoubtedly probably Psalm 118, or certainly one of those Psalms in that section. And they were Psalms of praise. It's fitting. It's right for us to rejoice in our great Savior. Through his death, we gain life. Through his condemnation, we gain justification. By his stripes, we are healed. And someday all the redeemed of all the ages will sing with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain. To receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. And we will praise him forever. And ever, because our heroic king is worthy of endless praise. Hallelujah. What a savior. Let's pray. Father, I pray that you would meet with us tonight as we partake of these elements, as we gather As your church, I pray that you would meet with us in a special way. Help us to reflect on all that you have done for us and to rejoice. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.