We're continuing on, and the theme comes out clearly in this last section of Isaiah 66. Return and rest in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. And as we look at this last passage, this is the reminder that we are given again. I have even the the proposition here for this. This lesson is God calls all men to consider his glory and to return and rest in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. As we see the glory of the Lord, we are urged, we are commanded to come and receive him and return to him. As we come to this last chapter, we're looking at comfort through eschatology. And we saw the word comfort highlighted several times in last week's lesson in verse 13, and it's talking about as one whom his mother comforts. So I will comfort you. You shall be comforted in Jerusalem. And the Lord brings out this message of comfort, and this comfort is given in the fact that God is ultimately bringing about the culmination of the Jerusalem. of our salvation in Jesus Christ. When Christ not only comes as a lamb, but he comes as a lion, not only as the suffering servant. but he comes as the anointed warrior who establishes righteousness, a righteous kingdom that rules over all the earth. So the time is coming to gather all nations and tongues to see his glory. And we'll be looking at essentially Verses 15 to the end, and we're kind of zooming through this a bit just because of time constraints that we have for the summer. But we see here this last section is God's climactic answer to the prayer of Isaiah 63. Remember in Isaiah 62, The Messiah says that he will not keep silence, that he will continue to bring the plea of Jerusalem before the Lord. And then he establishes watchmen who will pray continually, night and day, and not give the Lord rest until he establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in all the earth. And that is really the command that we are given, and the the example that we are given to do as well is to pray to the Lord for the peace of Jerusalem, that he will establish Jerusalem to be a peace in the earth where Christ Himself will rule and reign as the capital to his worldwide kingdom. And in response to that prayer, we have God's climactic answer that comes in these verses. And we see here that God's glory is at the center of this answer to prayer. God is glorified as he remembers his promises to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. as he fulfills his word to his people and he establishes his kingdom on the earth. God's glory is central. And we see that brought out several times in this passage of Scripture. The first thing we see here is God's glory is revealed in judgment of all nations. In beginning in verse 14, really, at the last part of verse 14, it says, And the hand of the Lord shall be known to his servants, and he shall show his indignation against his enemies. For behold, the Lord will come in fire, and his chariots like the whirlwind, to render his anger in fury, and his rebuke with flames of fire. For by fire will the Lord enter into judgment, and by his sword with all flesh, and those slain by the Lord shall be many those who sanctify and purify themselves to go into the gardens, following one in the midst, eating pig's flesh and the abomination and mice. Shall come to an end together, declares the Lord. For I know their works and their thoughts, and the time is coming to gather all nations and tongues And they shall come and shall see my glory. So we see God's glory is revealed in the judgment that he Executes upon the nations. And God really wants us in this passage of Scripture and throughout all of Isaiah, essentially, to be aware of the two ultimate ends of mankind. We talked about this in this last section of Isaiah, the last chapter and a half. There's a rhythm of hope. and judgment. Hope and judgment. Swinging back and forth between these two realities. And when we think about it, it ultimately is The theme of the book of Isaiah. Remember the first half of the book of Isaiah? What is the one word that encapsulates the message of the first half of the book of Isaiah? Does anybody remember? It starts with an R. Ruin. Ruin. You can say judgment. Ruin. And the second half, sitting right here in bold redemption. Ruin and redemption. So these are the themes that come out in the book of Isaiah. The first half is is encapsulated in that one word, ruin. But even in that one one word, uh summarization of that entire first half of the book of Isaiah. Throughout the first half of the book of Isaiah, there are vignettes of hope. of redemption that find themselves peppered throughout the first half of the book of Isaiah to remind us that God's final word is not destruction. It is not judgment. He desires Redemption. He desires to restore. But even in this last half, when the section, the major word is redemption, there are vignettes of judgment. That God will judge, even though He desires to comfort, He will judge. And God wants us to be aware that these are the two ultimate ends of all mankind. You will either experience the judgment of God, the ruin that comes from the judgment of God, or you'll experience his redemption and his mercy. God wants us to realize there are only two types of people, those who return and rest in Yahweh and those who refuse to do so. Those who repent and receive the suffering Messiah, and those who reject the suffering Messiah. In fact, this juxtaposition is found even in the first lines that we are reading. Notice the last two lines of verse 14, he describes, and the hand of the Lord shall be known to his servants, meaning God's protection. will be known to his servants. God's redemption, the power of God, will be known to those who return and rest in the Lord. But then the next line says, and he shall show his indignation against his enemies. So right there within that That last half of verse 14, that juxtaposition is placed for us to see. There are only two destinies. There are only two ultimate ends of mankind. Either you will return and rest in Yahweh and find redemption, or you will refuse his offer of redemption and find judgment. When the Lord comes, he describes those who are slain by him as many. Verses 15 and 16 God's judgment is compared to fire. Three times in these two verses, the word fire is is given. For behold the Lord will come in fire. Then he says, and his rebuke with flames of fire, for by fire will the Lord enter into judgment. And that That the message of fire is throughout again the the entire book of Isaiah, God has been compared to a consuming Fire. Even when Isaiah was commissioned as a prophet, you have the Lord sitting upon a throne high and lifted up. And the angelic creatures that are around the throne of God crying out, holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts, are called Seraphim, which means burning ones. as they stand and worship in the presence of God's consuming holiness. And so even there we see the message That God is a consuming fire. And although God is slow to anger, the Old Testament tells us repeatedly, and that He is abundant in steadfast love and faithfulness. It would be extremely dangerous to think that God is not also a God who will and must judge. He must judge rebellion. His holiness demands it. When we think of passages of Scripture that speak of the coming judgment of the Lord, there are many eschatological passages that speak of God's judgment by fire. In Revelation Chapter 18, verses 8 and 9. We have this judgment describing the judgment of the city of Babylon. In the final battle, the final days of the tribulation. It says, For this reason her plagues will come in a single day, death and mourning and famine, and she will be burned up with fire. For mighty is the Lord God who has judged her, and the kings of the earth who committed sexual immorality and lived in luxury with her will weep and wail over her when they see the smoke of her burning The judgment on the city of Babylon is described as a judgment of fire, such a fire that the people see the smoke from a great distance. And they mourn because they realize that their trade has been damaged. But along with fire in this passage of scripture, we're told that his judgment is also by sword. And again, we see this in these eschatological passages in Revelation verse 19. The sword is mentioned as a form of judgment when Christ comes, when Christ comes riding on a white horse. And judging the nations. The Word of God tells us: in the armies of heaven, arrayed in fine linen, white and pure, were following him on white horses. That's the saints. are following him on white horses. From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. He will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty. And then just a few verses later, he says, the rest were slain by the sword that came from the mouth of him who was sitting on the horse. And so even in these judgments that are described in Revelation 18 and 19, there's judgment by fire, and there's judgment by sword when Christ returns. The final judgments that Christ brings bring about a great slaughter. The multitude of those who are slain is described by an angel in Revelation 19 as a great slaughter. Supper of God. And they are called, the animals are called to feast. A feast that includes the flesh of kings and the flesh of captains, the flesh of mighty men. the flesh of horses and their riders, and the flesh of all men, both free and slave, both small and great. The armies that come up against Jerusalem to destroy the city meet with The Lord of hosts, who comes on his white charger, and he defeats them with the sword that comes out of his mouth. When it says here that the flesh of all men, it doesn't mean the all human beings in totality, because we're told Very specifically in Zechariah 14, that there are those who survive that final judgment who are not combatants in that final battle. But there are those who who do survive of it. But what it's speaking about here is not that all human beings in totality are destroyed. But rather all types of people are destroyed, the rich and the poor, the small and the great, the slave and the free, the captains and the kings. All types of people that come in battle will be destroyed. And we see that God will reveal his glory when he brings an end to those who have rejected him and follow false religions. The reality is that that we are, by nature, we're inherently religious people. The reality is that that we will worship something. If you do not worship the one true God, you will worship something. It could be a career. It could be power. It could be wealth. It could be Pleasures, you could be riches, you you could it could be false gods of any variety, but we will worship something We are worshippers by nature. And that reality is brought out in verse 17 when we see this description. Those who sanctify and purify themselves. Now when you hear those two words, you're probably initially thinking a good thing. to sanctify, to purify, sounds like Christian religion. We want to be sanctified. We want to be purified. But he's talking about not not the the worship of God. but actually pagan worship and they cleanse themselves by pagan rituals as they enter into idolatrous practices. And he describes them going into the gardens. following one in the midst, eating pig's flesh and the abomination and mice, that these will all come to an end. And the idea there that word is they'll come suddenly to an end. The end of false religions will be sudden. One of the glorious aspects of The millennial kingdom, when Christ establishes his reign on the earth, is that there will no longer be false religions All the world will be brought under the worship of the one true God. All the world will have, will see Christ and worship him The earth will be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. False religions will be eradicated. He describes here them going into the gardens. And that actually going into gardens is described in chapter one. We've mentioned this several times, that the themes of the entire book of Isaiah are brought up in the first chapter of Isaiah. And one of the themes is the reality of false worship in the gardens. In Isaiah chapter 1, I think I have this in our slides here. Yeah, verses 27 through 29. It says, Zion shall be redeemed by justice, and those in her who repent by righteousness. But rebels and sinners shall be broken together. And those who forsake the Lord shall be consumed. Do you recognize these themes from Isaiah 66? The themes of Isaiah 66 were given to us in seed form in Isaiah chapter 1. For they shall be ashamed of the oaks that you desired, and you shall blush for the gardens that you have chosen. This is not a condemnation of gardening and of planting oak trees. It's referring to the oak trees of the Canaanite religions where they would worship the asherah and the poles in the garden that symbolize the fertility religions. Oaks and gardens were the fertility cults that were practiced in Canaan and often were practiced really in m many parts of the world. They rejected the worship of the one true God in place of worshiping and serving the creature. And the question to answer in verse 17 is, what does it mean when they're saying they are following one in their midst? It's a bit of an ambiguous statement even in the Hebrew, and it could refer to someone who leads them in worship. So like a priestess or a priest who would lead them in a particular practice. Or it could simply refer to a an idol that is in the center of their worship. And as they enter these gardens, these These uh idols would be set up and they would they would worship and follow uh the prescribed rituals of the pagan religion. The key in all of this is not to Not to uh focus too much on the the one religion that is mentioned here, but to recognize these details are symbolic of all false religions. All religions that reject the Lord, that reject the one true and living God, the Holy One of Israel, all religions that lead people to worship the creature rather than the Creator. These are the what are being described by this. This is just one example of many. When the Lord Jesus Christ returns, all of these false religions that literally are over the face of the world to this day. Will be eradicated. And anyone who refuses to worship the Lord will be judged. If you remember in Zechariah chapter 14, we're told that all the nations of the earth are required to come up to Jerusalem every year to participate in the the feast of booths. And those who do not will face judgment on their land. It is required of all who are a part of the millennial kingdom to worship the Lord, and he will rule with a rod of iron. And the glory of the Lord will be made manifest as he does so. We'll come back to this theme of judgment at the very end. But let's continue on here. The glory of the Lord is not only revealed in the judgment that God brings, but also in a worldwide proclamation of the gospel. This passage is Thrilling to consider. It has it has some interpretive challenges, but it is absolutely gorgeous when we consider what is being described here. He starts in verse 19 saying, And I will set a sign among them, and from them I will send survivors to the nations. to Tarshish, Poole, and Lud, who draw the bow, to Tubal and Javan, to the coastlands far away, that have not heard my fame or seen my glory, and they shall declare my glory among the nations. And they shall bring all your brothers from all the nations as an offering to the Lord, on horses and in chariots, and in litters, and on mules and on dromedaries, to my holy mountain Jerusalem. says the Lord, just as the Israelites bring their grain offerings in a clean vessel to the house of the Lord We start off in verse 19 describing a sign that will be set among them. The question we have to answer is, what is the sign? What is the sign that is set among the people? The word sign is a word that we found several times in the book of Isaiah. We found it throughout the Old Testament. If you study the Old Testament, it's it's It speaks largely of a miraculous work or a memorial to a miraculous work. For example, when Noah came out of the ark with his family. God said a sign in the heavens, the rainbow, the same word here being described. In Exodus chapter 10, the plagues that took place were signs, the same word is being used. In Isaiah 7, verse 14. The Lord says, Therefore the Lord Himself will give you a sign. Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and you shall call his name Emmanuel. So the virgin born God with us is a sign to the people. And in uh Isaiah 8, verse 18, Isaiah says, Behold, I and the children whom the Lord has given me are signs and portents in Israel from the Lord of hosts who dwells on Mount Zion. You remember when we were looking at this, I offered anyone $100. to name their child Meher Shalhal Hashbaz. And that offer is still standing. Anybody who wants to name their child that I even was said a middle name would be fine too. So I mean it's a little bit it's a little bit of a handle, but I think They'll be the only one. They'll be the only one in their class with that name. But Meher Shalhal Hashbaz was the name of one of Isaiah's sons, which means swift to the plunder, quick to the spoil. And it was a message to King Ahaz that before this child would be old enough to say, mommy and daddy, Assyria would have been plundered. would have plundered Damascus and Samaria, the both of those nations which Ahaz feared would be destroyed. She'er Jashub is another one of Isaiah's sons, and his name means a remnant shall return. Again, it's a it's a message to King Ahaz to know that because of your unbelief, you will your people will go into captivity. But A remnant shall return. And so Isaiah says, my son 's names, they're a sign. They're an indication that God is going to do something. So we have here this word here, he says, and I will set a sign among them. What is that sign? If you remember Isaiah chapter 11, if you look back in your Bible to Isaiah chapter 11 and verse 10 , That's Ecclesiastes 11. That won't be the right verse. Isaiah chapter 11, verse 10. The Lord says, in that day, the root of Jesse , Jesus is the root of Jesse. He says, the root of Jesse who shall stand as a signal for the peoples, of him shall the nations inquire, and his resting place shall be glorious. And then he describes how the Lord will extend his hand yet a second time to recover the remnant that remains of his people. And that's a very interesting phrase because at this point in time the remnant hadn't even been scattered the first time. But he says he will bring them back in a second time and they will be returned. So we have the signal that the The root of Jesse will stand as a signal for the people. Jesus Christ will be the signal when he comes in glory. It's interesting in the Olivet discourse in Matthew 24 and 25, when Jesus is answering the disciples' questions. Not only about the destruction of Jerusalem, but also of the signs of Christ's coming and of the end of the age. The Lord says this. Let me go back to that. There we are. It says, immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened And the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. Then will appear in heaven the sign of the Son of Man. And then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. So the sign seems to be what is described in Matthew 24 and also in Isaiah 11. to be referring to the coming of Christ in power and in great glory immediately following the events of the seven-year tribulation. And they're capped off by the sun and the moon and the stars not giving their light. There is a worldwide darkness that can be felt. It's a darkness that is both spiritual and physical. And Christ comes in power and in blazing glory And his presence is clearly understood, and he destroys the enemies that have come and gathered around Jerusalem. It's this overwhelming glory and power that will cause what we've read about many times as we study the book of Isaiah in Zechariah chapter 12. He says, I will pour out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and of pleas for mercy, so that when they look on me, on him whom they have pierced. They shall mourn for him as one mourns for an only child, and weep bitterly over him as one weeps over a firstborn On that day the morning in Jerusalem will be as great as the morning for Hadad Ramon in the plain of Megiddo. And that's describing the mourning that took place when Josiah was killed by Pharaoh Necho. There was a great mourning like had never happened before. And he says, it'll be like that when they see me, the one whom they have pierced, coming in power and in great glory. The one that they had rejected, the one that they had crucified, now stands before them as their Savior Notice the reference to mourning, very similar to what we read in Matthew 24, that all the nations of the earth, all the tribes of the earth will mourn. When they see him come in power, in great glory. And the reason they will mourn is because they will realize that they had rejected the one who was crucified for them. At this event, he says in verse 19, that I will set a sign among them, and from them I will send survivors to the nations. The question is, who are the them? He sends a sign among them, and from among them he will send survivors to the nations. Who does the them refer to? And the two most common answers, pretty obviously, are the Gentiles or the Jews. It is either the Gentiles or the Jews, is what most commentators would come to. The nearest antecedent is To that of all the nations and tongues. But here the ones sent are described as the survivors And it doesn't appear when we think of the judgment that Christ brings when he comes to the combatant army that is gathered around Jerusalem, there are no survivors of that army. There are none that are left of those who come up against the Lord. So it doesn't appear that there are any survivors of the Gentile armies that come and fight against the Lord at Jerusalem. Although there are many Gentiles who remain in their lands and do not go up to Jerusalem to fight, and they are the ones who are described at the end of Zechariah 14 that continue to come to Jerusalem to worship the Lord. There are, however, Jews who will be survivors of God's judgment on them. Remember, the tribulation is a seven-year judgment that is described to be for primarily the nation of Israel as a purifying work to the nation of Israel. And as they are newly converted Jewish believers They are so overwhelmed by the glory of the Lord that they take the message of the glory of Christ to the nations. And some of those who survive spread out with the message of God's redemption to the nations. We read about things like this in Zechariah chapter 8. Where it says, in those days, ten men from the nations of every tongue will take the hand take hold of the robe of the Jews and say, Come with me. To Jerusalem and teach of me of the Lord. Because we hear that the Lord is with you. One of the primary purposes for the nation of Israel was to be a witness to the nations. Remember in Exodus 19 when Moses brought the people out of Egypt? Verse 6 says, and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests, not a tribe of priests, a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. God had established the nation of Israel as a as a kingdom of priests that would be designed to draw the nations to the worship of the one true God. But they never fulfilled this purpose. But God will see to it that they do. When Christ returns, he sends them out as witnessing servants to the nations. In Isaiah 43, verse 10, he says, You are my witnesses, declares the Lord. and my servant whom I have chosen, that you may know and believe me and understand that I am He. Before me no God was formed, nor shall there be any after me. He's telling the nation of Israel, You will know me And you will be my witnesses and you will be my servants. You will be exhibit A, you might say, when all nations hear of what I have done and my faithfulness to you and how I have fulfilled my promises to you They will know that I am God. The one true and living God They are sent to the distant nations with a message of God's glory. He describes here the places that they go, and this is just an example of the places I will send survivors to the nations to Tarshish. To pool and lew, who draw the bow to Tubul and Javan, to the coastlands far away, that have not heard my fame or seen my glory And they shall declare my glory among the nations. You know, Jonah tried to get to Tarshish Not to share the gospel, but to flee from the gospel message. But in Isaiah 60, we already read this as we're going through Isaiah chapter 60 and verse 9. Let's see if we can get to it. Yeah, here we are. Isaiah 60, verse 9. He said, For the coastlands shall hope for me, speaking of the Messiah, the ships of Tarshus first, to bring your children from afar. Their silver and gold with them, for the name of the Lord your God and for the Holy One of Israel, because he has made you beautiful. Speaking of the nation of Israel and Jerusalem in particular. For the coastlands shall hope for me, the ships of Tarshish. So in that day they will go out with a message of God's glory and redemption, and they will come back to Jerusalem. And we'll see with what they return. Pool and Lud probably refers to North Africa. Tubal probably refers to the regions of Turkey, Armenia, Georgia, and Russia. Javan is another word for Greece along the Ionian Sea. And the coastlands basically means anything beyond what was known by Isaiah and his people. The coastlands, the far distant lands, he says, that they will go to the far corners of the earth with the message of the gospel. And the message of these missionaries is to declare the glory of the Lord. We've heard said missions exist because worship doesn't. And that won't change in the Millennial Kingdom. Missions will continue to exist because worship doesn't. We desire all nations to know and worship the one true God. To know the suffering servant has returned as the anointed warrior. To remember that the Lord has fulfilled his promises. And he has established here, he says, his throne in Jerusalem. You see, the glory of the Lord is described in this. But also, the glory of the Lord is not only seen in judgment and in the missionary work there, but the glory of the Lord is revealed in the regathering of Israel. It says in verse 20, and they shall bring all your brothers from all the nations as an offering to the Lord, on horses and in chariots, and in litters and on mules and on dromedaries to my holy mountain Jerusalem, says the Lord. Just as the Israelites bring their grain offerings in a clean vessel to the house of the Lord, and some of them also I will take for priests and for Levites, says the Lord. The nations of the world, when they receive the message of Christ through these missionaries, will respond. And they will return the scattered remnant of the people of God. The reality is that all through the world there are scattered pockets of Jewish people. And when these missionaries go out, they will be gathered and returned. One of the things that struck me when we lived in Tanzania, we moved to Tanzania and we moved to the city of Arusha, and we lived on the mountain of Meru. It's a 15,000 foot volcanic mountain that most people have never heard of. But what I discovered after several years living there is that there's a pocket of Jewish A Jewish community living up on Mount Meru. And I'll just, here's an example. So these are some of the members of the Bene Levi Diaspora that are in Arusha. There you can tell which ones are the are the African ones. These ones, yeah. They're part of the Bene Levi Jewish community. They were originally from Yemen. As they were kicked out of the Holy Land, they fled to Yemen from the city of Sana 'a. In the 1880s, they fled down through Ethiopia. Kenya and into Arusha. Others came from Poland during World War II. There's pockets of Polish Jews that came into Arusha. And there's graves of Polish children, orphans, Jewish and Christian, that are in Arusha. But they have adopted one of the tribal groups known as the Masa. They have adopted their tribal names, but they continue to practice Judaism. Here's an example of an old Hanukkiya, and this is one of their leaders, Yahuda Amir Kahalani. But these are just this is just one example of many throughout the world. And that centuries later are still following the faith of their fathers. And when these missionaries go out, then they the nations will bring back their people, the dispersed tribes. Some of them he describes will be priests and Levites in the temple service. It's interesting. What is their name? Bneh Levi, sons of Levi. They're Levites. So maybe these will be some of those that are brought back From the ships of Tarshish, and are restored back to the promised land and are made priests and Levites in that day. The obvious implication is that temple worship is resumed. We know that from the words of Jesus that temple worship will be resumed at the End as he describes the abomination of desolations that will take place and that also is mentioned in Revelation. But also Ezekiel 40 through 48 describes in great detail the temple and the temple worship. that will take place during the millennial kingdom. And of those, there will need to be workers in the temple. Some have assumed that what he's describing here, if you look, he says, and uh, and some of them also I will take for priests and Levites. There are a number of commentators that interpret the them to refer to some of the Gentiles. who have received Christ will be included as Levites and Priests. And it is true that New Testament Christians are called a holy priesthood And that we have been we are offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. And so that that is a possibility. However, the grammar here in this verse is inconclusive. It could refer to the Gentiles. Or it could refer to the Jews who are brought back. And what seems most likely to me is is referring to the Jewish remnant that are restored, especially since God had made a covenant with Phineas in Numbers twenty-five. describing his descendants after him as of a covenant of perpetual priesthood because of Phineas's ministry. Also in Isaiah 61, verses 5 and 6, A distinction is made between Gentiles and Jews with regard to the priesthood in the millennium, saying, strangers shall stand and tend your flocks. Foreigners shall be your ploughmen and vine dressers, but you shall be called the priests of the Lord, and they shall speak of you as the ministers of your God. You shall eat the wealth of the nations, and in their glory So there seems to be a distinction between who has the roles of priesthood and ministers in the temple between Jews and Gentiles. But it's exciting to think that God is going to fulfill his promise. And it's amazing how God has preserved these pockets and these communities around the world. What we see as well is that the Lord will establish perpetual worship. He says in verses 22 and 23, For as the new heavens and the new earth that I make , shall remain before me, says the Lord, so shall your offspring and your name remain. From new moon to new moon, and from Sabbath to Sabbath, all flesh shall come to worship before me, declares the Lord. Now, the reference here to the new heavens and the new earth does not mean that this is the eternal state. If you notice what he says here, he says, for as the new heavens and the new earth that I make shall remain. We can see he's making a comparison. He's not saying this is the new heavens and the new earth. We've already seen this is describing the millennial kingdom. But he says, as the new heavens and the new earth shall remain, so your name shall remain, so shall your offspring remain. Instruction, the comparison is saying that you will be preserved. And there will no longer be a scattering, a dispersion, a remnant, a diaspora. You will be preserved. You will be safe. And the beauty is that all the world, all the nations are given the opportunity to come and worship the Lord in Jerusalem and to participate. in that worship. He says, from new moon to new moon, and from Sabbath to Sabbath, all flesh shall come to worship before me, declares the Lord. Now he's not saying that every person, every Sabbath comes. But that all people are invited into this. All nations, all tribes, all languages can come and participate in the worship that takes place in Jerusalem We already saw this in Isaiah 55 or 56, I believe it is. Yeah. The foreigner who joins himself to the Lord to minister to him, to love the name of the Lord, and to be his servants. Every one who keeps the Sabbath and does not profane it, and holds fast my covenant, these I will bring to my holy mountain And make them joyful in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar. For my house shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples. The Lord God, who gathers the outcasts of Israel, declares, I will gather yet others to him beside those already gathered. What's interesting is he says, for my house shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples. For all peoples. Jesus quoted this, condemning the The pagan marketplace that was taking place in the temple. But God says, it shall be My house shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples. And as the book of Zechariah comes to a close, the very last verse of the book of Zechariah, it says this. And every pot in Jerusalem and Judah shall be holy to the Lord of hosts, so that all whose sacrifice may come and take of them, and boil the meat of the sacrifice in them. And there shall no longer be a traitor in the house of the Lord of hosts on that day. There will no longer be a marketplace, a business fair. The house of the Lord will be a house of prayer for all peoples. And all the nations will stream into it, as Isaiah has said many times. They will stream into Jerusalem. Why? Because Christ is there Christ Himself is there. As we finish up here, there's a lot more that can be said, and you may have. questions about things that we're we're reading here. We just don't have time to get into this evening. But the final word of this Book, this glorious book of Isaiah. He goes from judgment to hope, and he ends on a message of judgment But there's a message of hope in it. And they shall go out and look on the dead bodies of the men who have rebelled against me. For their worms shall not die, their fire shall not be quenched, and they shall be an abhorrence to all flesh. The glory of the Lord is revealed not only in worldwide judgment Not only in the missionary message going to all the world, not only in the returning of the nation of Israel to their home, but also in the ultimate destruction of Christ's enemies. And Isaiah ends on a note of judgment. I think the reason for that is lest we think that God's grace and mercy utterly eclipse God's judgment. and fail to take heed to the message, the warning that is found throughout this book. And Isaiah closes his masterpiece with this minor tone. So that we think about it. This final warning. Those who rebelled against the Lord and refused to return to repent. And rest in Yahweh, to put your faith in him, will find out that there is no hope of salvation in any other. This God, who is rich in mercy, is the holy one of Israel. He is a consuming fire. He is unapproachably holy. He is not a God to be trifled with. And when he judges, he judges fully. He describes a perpetual fire that is a reminder to all who see it that God will punish all rebels. You say, well, why do they need that reminder? Remember, at the end of the millennium, what happens? What does Isaiah or Revelation 20 tell us? That Satan is unleashed and there is one final rebellion. And people come from the four corners of the earth in that rebellion. But this fire, this pit with the dead bodies of the enemies who were defeated on that day is a perpetual reminder that burns with God's wrath. And he says here, the worms shall not die, and their fire shall not be quenched. Jesus quoted this verse to describe the reality of hell, describing it again as a place where their worm does not die and the fire is not quenched It's a fearful reality that all people should carefully consider. But at the same time, God repeatedly invites and calls all men, all women, to return and rest. In Yahweh, to return and rest in the suffering servant, Jesus Christ, the anointed warrior, for he alone is salvation. And I'd like to close this whole study. We're going to have one week of review next week, but I want to close this study by just reading a couple verses out of Isaiah 45, verses 21 through 23. It says, who declared it of old? Was it not I, the Lord? And there is no other God beside me. A righteous God and a Savior. There is none beside me. Turn to me and be saved, all the ends of the earth. For I am God and there is no other. By myself I have sworn. From my mouth is gone out in righteousness a word that shall not return. To me, every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear allegiance. And we know that is referenced to Jesus in Philippians. For all who will repent and trust in Christ, they will find that He is a righteous God and that He is salvation But to all who refuse, they will find that he is a righteous God and a judge. Can I call you If you've been here with us for these 87 lessons in the book of Isaiah, Isaiah gives this final warning. And he's calling all people to return and rest in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. If you have not trusted in him, would you do so today? Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your mighty word. We thank you for your mighty Savior, your Son. We thank you that He conquered death. He rose victorious over the grave, and that he is coming again. To establish his kingdom. And Lord, we pray your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Lord, we long for that day When all the tribes of the earth will look upon him and they will mourn. We long for that day when a spirit of grace and of pleas for mercy will be poured out on the inhabitants of Jerusalem and on the house of David And they will look upon him whom they have pierced and weep for him as one weeps for an only son. We long for that day when his throne will be established in Jerusalem and He will rule with a rod of iron. We long for that day when he will establish peace and righteousness on this earth. And Father, we pray that day will come soon We pray that we would be faithful witnesses of our Savior until he does. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.