Give your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Genesis chapter 44? Genesis 44. I know we read from 1 John 4, but we're going to be looking again at the life of Joseph this morning. Many of you know that during the 17th century England had an interruption in the royal reign. There was a man named Oliver Cromwell who was the Lord Protector of England. And it was during this time that a story comes from. There was a young man who was on the battlefield and apparently ran in fear. And so he was sentenced to be shot for his crimes. The execution was set to take place at the ringing of the evening curfew bell. However, the bells did not sound that night. The soldier's fiancé climbed up into the belfry and wrapped herself around the great clapper of that bell to prevent it from striking. When she was summoned to appear before Oliver Cromwell to explain herself His heart was touched, and he declared that because of her great sacrifice of love, indeed she was bruised and bloodied from her attempts to save his life. He declared that he would live, and the bells would not sound that evening This morning, as we continue our study of the life of Joseph, we encounter a beautiful picture of sacrificial love. Genesis 42 through 45 record the slow process of reconciliation between Joseph and his brothers. The story of the life of Joseph has several high points. One is that for several chapters the reader is being brought to the place. Where Joseph experienced these highs and lows, and then finally he's lifted up and exalted. That dream that God gave him long ago was fulfilled. And then we have several chapters that record and build to the reunion of Joseph with his brothers that takes place in Genesis chapter 45. Let me remind you that Joseph was promoted from a lowly slave to become the second highest ruler in the most prosperous country in the world at that time. And one of his responsibilities was to have oversight of famine relief. And God used this famine to bring these brothers back to Egypt to face their younger brother That they had betrayed some twenty years earlier. In the chapters 42, 43, and 44, we have the record of three journeys to Egypt, each one being a step. toward reconciliation. And during this time period, Joseph is testing his brothers to see If indeed they have changed, or if they're still the hateful, envious, dishonest brothers that he knew long ago. When he first meets them, he recognizes them instantly, but they do not know him. And so he uses that anonymity to test them, to see what is really taking place. You remember how he puts money in their grain sacks to see if indeed they would return the money and if they were honest. He tested to see if they would abandon their brother Simeon on their initial journey to Egypt. And now during the second journey, he wants to see how they will relate. To their younger brother Benjamin. Remember how he demands that if they are going to return and recover Simeon, they have to bring their youngest brother with them. This is the final test before Joseph will reveal himself to his brothers. In a sense, all three of these chapters, 42, 43, and 44, are building to this dramatic reunion. One of the most tender and touching scenes in all of Scripture that's recorded there at the beginning of Genesis chapter 45. Now, Genesis 44, which we come to this morning, to be honest with you, is a difficult chapter to preach by itself. Because it records much of what we have already covered. It seems redundant in some ways as Joseph continues to test his brothers In fact, Martin Luther, a man who often thought out loud, wrote, he wondered why this chapter was really in Scripture, because it could have been more concisely put. Again, something that we would never say out loud, but Martin Luther, as I said, very freely expressed himself. In this chapter, we see the continued evidence of their repentance. We discover how the Lord disciplines us so that we turn to Him. But I want us to look at this chapter as a picture of reconciliation after a serious breach in a relationship. This chapter is all about Joseph's investigation of his brother's relationship with Benjamin. Because Joseph believes that if his brothers are truly in a right relationship with Benjamin, if they can withstand these tests Then it will demonstrate that their hearts have truly changed, and now he can reveal his identity to them, and the family can be reconciled, which is what he dearly wants. Joseph and his brothers have been estranged for 23 years. But God was about to bring them back together. Now, forgiveness is something that the Bible commands us to do when someone has wronged us, but reconciliation requires a change on the part of the offender. Just as we commonly say it takes two to Tango for there to be a contention, so it takes two people Coming together for there to really be reconciliation. This is a reminder to us in this reunion that God desires that families be reconciled. people be reconciled. And so I what I see in this passage is a wonderful example of the the kind of relationship that we should have with our brothers and sisters in Christ. As I was studying this chapter this week and reading over it, I kept being reminded of things especially that we encounter in the book of 1 John. About the radical love that we are to have for our brother and sister in Christ, the very powerful and straightforward way that God calls us to love our brother and sister. And so the same sort of evidence that Joseph was looking for to see if his brothers truly loved Benjamin Become very powerful tests to see if we truly love our brother and sister in Christ. So I'm going to speak to you this morning on the test of brotherly love, biblical evidence. That you're in a right relationship with your brother or sister in Christ. And the first point I want to bring out of this chapter is this: that when you're in a right relationship with your brother or sister, you will be genuinely sorrowful when tragedy enters their life. Look with me, please, at the first paragraph in this chapter, the first thirteen verses. Look with me at verse 1, speaking of Joseph, and he commanded the steward of his house, saying, Fill the men's sacks with food. as much as they can carry, and put every man's money in his sack's mouth, and put my cup, the silver cup. in the sack's mouth of the youngest and his corn money, and he did according to the word that Joseph had spoken. If you were with us last week when we studied the previous chapter, you know that Joseph has been very kind to his brothers. He threw them this elaborate banquets But now he seems cruel by planting this evidence. But let me remind you that this is only a test Joseph is seeking to discern how deep his brothers have repented of their past transgressions The next morning after this wonderful feast must have seemed like the dawning of a great day. That's the way verse 3 reads. And as soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away, they and their asses. So these men get up. They're refreshed. This trip has been an absolute success. They've enjoyed an unexpected banquet, and they are now headed back home with all the provisions they could carry. But everything was about to change in an instant of time. Look with me at verses 4 through 6. And when they were gone out of the city, Not yet far off, Joseph said unto his steward, Up, follow after the men. And when thou dost overtake them, say unto them, Wherefore have ye rewarded evil for good? Is not this it in which my Lord drinketh, and whereby indeed he divineth? Ye have done evil in doing so. And he overtook them, and he spake unto them these same words. Just imagine the setting of these brothers. They leave, they're in good spirits, they have plenty of provisions, their father will be pleased. Benjamin is yet with them. And they look behind them when they see a cloud of dust, and they recognize that the steward is returning with Egyptian soldiers. Their hearts must have been pounding. They must have thought, here we go again. Notice their response. And they said unto him, Verse 7, Wherefore saith my Lord these words, God forbid that thy servant should do according to this thing. Behold, the money which we found in our sacks mouths we brought again unto thee out of the land of Canaan. How then should we steal out of thy Lord's house silver or gold? These brothers deny the claim. There's a categorical denial. Then they take an oath before God and the proclamation of their innocence. And then they appeal to logic. They said, let's think about this. If we were really going to steal from you, would we have brought back the money that you gave to us last time? Does that sound like the actions of a thief? That's completely illogical. It doesn't make sense. We simply would have kept what you gave to us the first time. And notice how their innocence is demonstrated In two ways. First of all, in their desire for justice. They say in verse 9, with whomsoever of thy servants that be found, Both let him die, and we also will be our Lord's bondmen. And he said, Now also let it be according to your word, he with whom it is found shall be my servant. and ye shall be blameless. Then they speedily took down every man his sack to the ground and opened every man his sack. Notice first of all the desire for justice. Pretty extreme in what they say. If you find the money with anyone, let them be put to death, and the rest of us will be your slaves for life. This reveals how much they trusted in each other's integrity. I mean, if you're going to offer up your life as a servant, you must have the trust that your brothers haven't done anything wrong. And then we see their great desire to clear their names. They quickly and voluntarily get down. They open their sacks. They're not trying to hide anything. They're trying to expose everything. And that's what we read in verse 11. These brothers were no longer seeking to hide the truth that they have done for so many years, but instead seeking to find the truth. By the way, this is the only way to live. I've counseled so many people over the years who have lived with great regret and great unrest in their souls because they are hiding secrets. They keep things and they cover things. And yet their covering of their sin has cost them far more than confession would ever cost them. This is what your flesh and what the devil will always say. You must keep this a secret. You must not tell anyone of these wicked things that you have done. And so often people carry that with that gnawing sense of guilt and shame with them for many, many years. It's a horrible way to live. A lifestyle of honesty and integrity is so much easier way to live Years ago the great Baptist preacher Charles Spurgeon, someone attempted to blackmail him. They said, We have all kinds of evidence about you and uh things that you were you have been doing that would ruin. Your ministry, if your people knew, please send money to this address. And he said to them, You may write anything you want about me. And you may, and I'll give you turn over whatever evidence you want, because there is nothing I am hiding in my life. There's nothing I am afraid of for you to publish in the front page of the paper. He had a clear conscience, and therefore he had boldness in his preaching. Verse 12 records a time of great suspense as they began the search. They started with the Eldis. They opened Rubin Sack. And the cup was not there, and then Simeon, and then Levi's and Judah's, and on down the list they went, and the sack was not there. Or excuse me, the the the cup. Joseph's silver cup was not there. And finally they came to the youngest brother Benjamin, and there was Joseph's silver cup right on top. This cup was valuable for several reasons. Number one, it was made of silver, and it's thought that this would remind the reader of the silver coins that the brothers took as payment for Joseph years earlier. It was Joseph's personal cup. You know, the artifacts of powerful and famous people have a value in themselves because of who they're connected with. We have all kinds of memorabilia that people will spend great sums of money for because this cup, this book, this walking stick was owned by a famous person. But it's also described as a cup of divination. In ancient times, people believed that you could predict the future through all manner of means and one of them was by mixing different liquids together in a special cup. They might mix oil and water or wine and water and as they would move around they would try to make sense out of those irregular patterns. I'm not for a moment suggesting that this is what Joseph actually did, but it was all part of his ruse to demonstrate the seriousness of the crime of taking this special cup. Everything that I've said so far has been leading up to this response to the discovery of the silver cup. And Benjamin's sack. So if you've been sleeping on me, please wake up now, okay? Look with me at verse 13. It says at the end of verse 12, the cup was found in Benjamin's sack. Then they rent their clothes and laid every man his ass and returned to the city. They rent their clothes. This was a sign of grief, expressed strong emotion. And this is again intended to remind the reader of an earlier incident in the life of Joseph where there was the rending of a garment. Turn with me, please, back to Genesis chapter 37. Genesis chapter 37. I want to begin reading at verse 31. Genesis 37, verse 31. It says of his brothers and they took Joseph's coat and killed a kid of the goats and dipped the coat in the blood, and they sent the coat of many colors, and they brought it to their father, and said, This have we found. Now Know now whether it be thy son's coat or no, and he knew it, and he said, It is my son's coat, and evil beast hath devoured him Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces, and Jacob rent his clothes and put sackcloth upon his loins and mourned for his son many days. Now, what is telling about that incident is that his brothers did not rent their clothes. And how could they? They were the ones who had sold him into slavery. They could hardly sorrow over something that they wanted to happen. But now they all, as one man, rent their garments, showing their sorrow. Because they know that their lives are going to change. They think of their father And the great sorrow, how can they face him again and say, I know you didn't want to send Benjamin down to Egypt, but let me tell you what happened. And they are grieving for their brother Benjamin. They're not certain if Joseph will take them up on their offer and perhaps have him put to death, or perhaps he will just have him enslaved for life. But either case it's going to be a horrible disaster in their family. And they love their brother. They have sincere affection for him and they don't want this to happen to him. This is the kind of affection that we must have for our brothers and sisters in Christ when something horrible occurs in their lives. Sometimes we hear of tragedy, in fact, we hear of it all the time. In our prayer sheet, we have record of grave concerns that people have. And sometimes things on there are very upsetting and are very serious. And I wonder if if it ever really touches our hearts as we see the huge burdens that people carry, as we see them come to church. And you can sense that they're not really themselves. Does your heart go out to your brother and sister? The Bible says that one of the demonstrations of Christian love is that we weep with those who weep. We truly are sorrowful. Their burden becomes our burden. In our isolated and insulated culture, we so often wall ourselves off. from the burdens of other people and we live as individuals. But God has called us to live as a family where we carry one another's burdens. And so this becomes one of the tests of whether or not we love our brother and sister in Christ. Do we mourn? Are we moved at the needs of others? Or do we think to ourselves, well, you know? Maybe he had it coming. He should have made better preparation, should have taken better care of himself if he didn't want that to happen. Do we justify things like that? Are our hearts really touched by the needs of others? Secondly, would you notice with me that when you're in a right relationship with your brother or sister, you will refuse to abandon them in their time of need. Look with me now please at Genesis 44 and verse 14. And Judah and his brethren came to Joseph's house, for he was yet there, and they fell before him on the ground. I'm going to stop reading there for a moment. This is the fourth time that we read of Joseph's brothers bowing before him in Genesis 42. Verse 6, it says that they bowed themselves down before him. And then in Genesis 43 and verse 26, it says they bowed themselves to the earth. And just a few verses later, in verse 28, it says they bowed down their heads. And now in Genesis 44 and verse 14, it says they fell before him on the ground. This last expression of submission is a desperate plea for mercy. They're not just going through the typical posture of someone coming before a powerful individual. No, they are pleading for their lives. Their faces are on the ground. Joseph says essentially, did you really think you could get away with the crime? Look with me at verse 15. And Joseph said unto them, What deed is this that ye have done? Know ye not that such a man as I can certainly divine? And then Joda speaks for the brothers And it's very interesting that he offers no defense. In fact, he assumes and resigns himself to the fact that they will be slaves Forever in Egypt. Verse 16, and Judah said, What shall we say unto my Lord? What shall we speak, or how shall we clear ourselves? God hath found out the iniquity of thy servants Behold, we are my Lord's servants. Behold, we, and he also with whom the cup is found. Now the most interesting aspect of Judah's comments are the words, God hath found out the iniquity of thy servants. What does Judah mean by this? Is he offering up a false confession, saying, yeah, we did steal back our money in that cup? Or is he referring to their crimes against Joseph 23 years earlier? I think it's the latter. Remember that when The brothers said when they were being held in prison during the first trip to Egypt, they said, We are barely guilty concerning our brother. I think that Judah is signaling to his brothers, listen, we may not have stolen the silver cup, but we still deserve a life of enslavement because of what we did to Joseph. God has caused us to pay for our sin. The guilt was still there after all these years. And notice the solidarity. They say, you can hold Benjamin as a slave, and all the rest of us will be slaves together. We will serve together as brothers in this foreign land. But then notice the offer that Joseph makes in verse 17. And he said, God forbid that I that I should do so. But the man in whose hand the cup is found, he shall be my servant. And as for you, get you up out of the place unto your father. Joseph says, I don't want to keep all of you as slaves, just Benjamin. The rest of you can go back home and live life as you did before. This was a tempting offer. It appealed to their self-interest. If there was any hatred or envy in their hearts for Benjamin, They would have quickly agreed to this deal. But that's not what they did because they had been changed by the grace. Of God. They were not going to leave their brother in Egypt. And this is what Christ has called all his followers to do. We are to love one another. As we were reading this passage this morning from 1 John chapter 4, I reminded again that this is the most common command that Christ has given to his followers. He tells us again and again that we are to love one another. Romans chapter 12 and verse 10 says, be kindly affectionate to one another and honor preferring one another. Humility is to characterize our relationships. Philippians chapter 2, verses 4 and 5 essentially say that we are to have the mind of Christ and not look to our own interests but to the concerns of others. James says, if a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, we are not just to offer up kind words and platitudes, but we are to give to them what they need. John says, Whosoever hath this world's goods and seeth his brother have need, and sheddeth up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God. 1 Peter 3 and verse 8 says, Be of one mind, having compassion one of another. Love as brethren, be pitiful, be courteous. We must never abandon a brother and sister in Christ in their time of need. We are to band together. We are to help them. We are to minister to them. This is tangible evidence that we have been changed by the grace of God. And thirdly When you are in a right relationship with your brother or sister, you will earnestly intercede on their behalf. In verse 18, we come to the longest speech in the book of Genesis. Judah now speaks before Joseph on behalf of his brothers. This has been called one of the most eloquent speeches recorded in the Bible. Judah addresses Joseph with great respect and dignity. Look how he begins in verse 18. Then Judah came near unto him and said, O my Lord, let thy servant, I pray thee, speak a word in my Lord's ears. And let not thine anger burn against thy servant, for thou art even as Pharaoh. Judah then begins by reminding Joseph of their recent history. I'm not going to read through this section because we have been studying these events in recent weeks and most of you know them well. But I want you to notice is that Judah is focusing his argument. for m on mercy for Benjamin on the effect that his enslavement would have on their father Jacob. In fact, the key word in this speech is the word father. It's mentioned 14 times in this speech. Notice in verse 22, he says And we said unto my Lord, the lad cannot leave his father, for if he should leave his father, his father would die. Look with me now at verse 27. And thy servant, my father, said unto us, Ye know that my wife bare me two sons. The one went out from me, and I said, Surely he is torn in pieces, and I saw him not since. And if ye take this also from me, and mischief befall him, ye shall bring down my grey hairs with sorrow to the grave. Now therefore, when I come to thy s servant my father and the lad be not with us, seeing that his life is bound up in the lad 's life, it shall come to pass when he seeth That the lad is not with us, that he will die, and thy servant shall bring down the gray hairs of thy servant our father with sorrow to the grave. Judah respectfully appeals to Joseph's respect for their aged father in ancient cultures and still today in many eastern cultures. The family member who has the most respect is the father. I'm tempted to go off on a tangent, but I won't. But in the Western countries, In Europe and in the Americas, the father has the least level of respect in the family. The exact opposite. So Judah appeals to what he would be certain would be this ruler's sense of decorum and respect for honoring the agent. Judas is appealing to Joseph's sense of cultural propriety. He has no idea that it just happens to be the prime minister's father as well. Judah is interceding for Benjamin, as it were, on behalf of his father. He is begging for mercy because he loves his brother and his father. This must have been a very moving speech for Joseph to listen to as he heard Judah's earnest and respectful arguments. And the obvious concern that he had for his father and that he had for his brother, he must have had trouble containing himself because this was clear evidence. that his brothers had changed. Remember, Judah is speaking on behalf of the brothers. And he must have Wish that one of his brothers would have spoken up for him twenty-three years earlier and would have thought about his life and the life Of their fathers. This is a beautiful model of intercession. Before the Lord for someone else. It is done respectfully, logically, and earnestly One of the most powerful demonstrations of Christian love is prayer for one another God has called us to pray for our brothers and sisters in Christ. Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 18 says, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit For all saints. And James chapter 5 and verse 16, we're exhorted to pray for one another In Paul's epistles, he usually prays for the people he is writing to, and also he makes a request that they would pray for him, the great apostle. The point is that we are interdependent on one another. I need your prayers. And you need my prayers. And that's true of every one of us. It's part of what links us together and knits our hearts together that when there is a need, when there is a burden on our hearts, We can call up people. We can gather with people, and we can pray together for the needs of one another. We can intercede for our brother and sister. before the throne of grace. This is what God has called us to do. This is why we publish a prayer sheet and we send it out electronically This is why we have a group of people we call our prayer warriors who receive even more regular updates several times a week usually. This is why we have a Wednesday night prayer meeting where we gather here. Yes, we have Bible study time, but we always have a time of prayer to follow. Because this is an important aspect of Christian family life that we pray for one another. One of the true tests Of whether or not you're in a right relationship with a brother or sister is whether or not you can earnestly pray for God to bless them. It's really hard to be at odds with someone and pray for God's goodness to be manifest in their life. I always think of this verse that comes at the conclusion of the book of Job. You remember Job, that man who went through all that suffering, and he had some friends who tried to be of help to him, but they end up not being a help. They kept pointing out and saying that the reason that Job was suffering the way he was and enduring the circumstances that he did was because of sin in his life And it wasn't true. But we read this interesting phrase at the end of the book of Job and Job 42 and verse 10. It says, And the Lord turned the captivity of Job when he prayed. for his friends. You see, we must pray even for brothers and sisters who have heard us and misjudged us. And so this becomes a real test of whether or not we are in a right relationship. When you're in a right relationship with your brother and sister in Christ, You will have compassion for them. You will not abandon them in their hour of need. And you will pray for them. And finally, I want you to see in this passage. That when you're in a right relationship with your brother and sister, you will be willing to make great personal sacrifices on their behalf. Look with me at verse 32. This is the conclusion of Judah's famous speech. He says, for thy servant became surety. for the lad unto my father, saying, If I bring him not unto thee, then I shall bear the blame to my father forever. Now therefore I pray thee, let thy servant abide instead of the lad a bondman to my Lord, and let the lad go up with his brethren. For how shall I go to my father and the lad be not with me, lest peradventure I see the evil that shall come? On my father. Judah continues the speech by making a shocking proposal. He knows that just asking this Egyptian ruler for mercy may not be enough to secure his release, and so he asked for justice by offering to take his place as a servant forever. He tells Joseph that he already promised his father that he would be responsible for Benjamin, and now he is showing incredible integrity. Those were not just words. He is willing to give up the rest of his life to fulfill his promise to his father. We see here that he is more concerned for others than himself. He is determined to rescue his brother Benjamin and spare his father one more crushing blow of grief. This, by the way, is proof positive that a person can change. I want you to turn back with me, if you would, to Genesis 37, the beginning of our story. We hear Another proposal from Judah, some 23 years earlier, Genesis 37. Look with me at verse 26. Genesis 37 verse 26 it says, And Judah said unto his brethren, What prophet is it if we slay our brother and conceal his blood? Come, and let us sell him to the Ishmaelites, and let not our hand be upon him, for he is our brother and our flesh. And his brethren were content. Now it is true that in that case, Judah again asserts leadership and he intercedes on behalf of his brother and he makes sure that his life is spared. But he still has sold him into a life of hard labor that would probably result in a very short lifespan. But now Judah is not just proposing that his brother get a little better treatment. He's proposing that he take the place of his brother, that he make that sacrifice as a substitute. He offers to remain in Egypt so that his brother might go free. This is the kind of radical sacrifice That God has called us to make for our brothers and sisters in Christ. I want to ask you to turn back with me to the book of 1 John that we read Together earlier this morning. Turn with me to 1 John chapter 3, please. 1 John chapter 3. Verse 14, John says things in a very black and white way so that there's no room for you to wiggle or find the middle ground. Notice what he says here. Verse 14, 1 John 3. We know that we have passed from death unto life because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death. Whoso hateth his brother is a murderer, and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him. Hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his life for us And we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. But whoso hath his this world's good, and seeth his brother have need, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God. In him. My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed and in truth. God has called us to love our brothers and sisters in a radically sacrificial way. That we, in essence, lay down our lives even as Christ laid down his life for us. Turn with me to the next chapter, chapter 4. Let me remind you of the verses that we read together. Look with me at 1 John 4, verse 7. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. And this was manifest the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him. Hear in his love, not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one. another. Loving to this level is very costly, but it is well worth it It is the path of our Savior. This is the kind of love that God has called us to. He doesn't call us in the church of Christ to have some to tolerate one another. and to have a peaceful coexistence. No, he calls us to love one another in a sacrificial way. This is the high calling that we have in Christ Jesus. Now, I want to make some concluding applications this morning. I know that many of you have already seen in Judah's example a faint picture of our great Savior. In case you're not aware of it, Judah was the ancestor of our Lord Jesus Christ. In Genesis chapter 49 and verse 10, we have this prophecy about Judah and his descendants. It says The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor lawgiver from between his feet until Shiloh come, and unto him shall the gathering of the people be. And that was a reference to the coming Messiah. And in Revelation chapter 5 and verse 5, Jesus is called the Lion of the tribe of Judah. Judah's amazing speech reminds us of our Savior in two key respects. First of all, we are reminded that our great Savior intercedes for us In Romans chapter 8 and verse 34 it says, Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea, rather that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who maketh intercession for us. Hebrews chapter 7 and verse 25 says, Wherefore he is able to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them. In John chapter 17, we have the longest recorded prayer of our Lord, and in that prayer, the Lord intercedes. For his disciples. And he even prays for those who would believe on him through their word, that is, through the writings of the apostles. That would be us What a difference it would make in our lives if in our times of testing and trials we would remember that we have a heavenly intercessor in our Lord Jesus Christ. That he is at the right hand of the Father. What a wonderful, comforting thought that is. This truth should bring joy and confidence to our hearts as believers. But secondly, we see in Judah's speech a faint reminder of our great Savior as our substitute. This is the essence of the gospel, Christ. took our place. Judah took the place for Benjamin. He offered to serve as a slave so that his brother could go free. But a greater than Judah is here. He died in our place He dialed even while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Jesus bore the wrath of God that we deserve. On the cross, he died in our place. He was the only substitute that could secure our salvation because he is the only perfectly righteous man who ever lived. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Hereby perceive we the love of God because he laid down his life for us. Greater love hath no man than this, than a man lay down his life for his friends. Christ. has died for us. He took our place. This is what Judah's offer reminds us of the beauty. Of the gospel. Years ago, there was a little boy who had a sister Who desperately needed a blood transfusion. They tested relatives and others, and they found that only her little brother, only her little brother, had exactly the kind of blood that she needed. to save her life. And so the doctors came and said to her, little brother, would you give your blood for your sister Mary? And Johnny hesitated for a while. His lower lip began to tremble, but finally he said, Yes, for my sister, sure, I will give her some blood. And so they began the procedure. And after the nurse had inserted the needle into his arm, he said to the doctor, How long until I die? And then the doctor realized that the reason why he hesitated is because he thought that he would have to give up his life that his sister might live And he was willing to do that. This is what God has called us to do for our brother and sister in Christ. That we would lay down our life for them because we love them with the kind of love that Christ has demonstrated to us. May God help us to do this. Let's close in a word of prayer this morning. Father, these truths are challenging to us. They remind us, Father, that we do not love you or our brother and sister as we ought. Pray, Father, that you would help us to be a body of believers who strive to fulfill this high calling that we would love one another as Christ has loved us. That we would be ready, quick to forgive, and desperately desire to seek reconciliation with those That we have difficulties with. Father, we pray that you would use these truths to accomplish your purposes. And Father, for those who might be here this morning, but are yet lost in their sins, we pray that today they would see the beauty of the gospel, of a Savior that would come and die and intercede On our behalf, and I pray that they would be saved. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen