If you have your Bibles, please would you turn with me to Matthew chapter 27? Matthew 27, verse 45. It says, now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour. Just imagine what that would have been like. Say that you were a peasant farmer on a hillside in Bethlehem, which is just a few miles away. It's in early April, and so you're sowing seed in hopes of a good harvest in the fall. And all of a sudden at noon, when the sun is high in the sky , becomes dark. It would be a fearful event. It would be unprecedented. It would seek you looking for answers and talking to other people about it and perhaps alarming your family and friends. I'm sure that scene played itself out in thousands of times on this fateful day. I think we often don't think about the effect that this must have had on people when there was, as it's been called, midnight at midday. And therefore, it should not surprise us that there are historical references to this event even outside of the Bible. There was a first century Greek historian named Thallus. We know that he wrote a three-volume history of the Mediterranean world. We don't possess that today. Many ancient works, as you probably know, are no longer existent, but we have other ancient works that do refer to them. And that was the case here. This man Tallis wrote the third volume of his history in A. D. 52 And he relates something that had happened several decades earlier when he says, without reason there was an eclipse of the sun. In other words, he was saying, I don't know how you can logically say there was an eclipse of the sun. But the effects were alike the eclipse of the sun. Writing in A. D. 221 Julius Africanus refers to an event that historians made reference about in earlier centuries. He says that they wrote, out of the whole world there passed a most fearful darkness. And in the late second century, there was an early Christian theologian by the name of Tertullian. He was a former scholar and I should say lawyer. And he used his keen mind to defend Christianity against the attacks of the pagan world. His chief antagonist was a Greek philosopher by the name of Celsus. And Tetrolean writes to him, and he says, at the moment of Christ's death, the light departed from the sun, and the land was darkened at noonday. which wonder is related in your own annals and is preserved in your own archives unto this day. Now, the one thing that we read about in connection with the darkness at Calvary is the timing of it This event is referred to in all three of the synoptic gospels. It's found in Matthew 27, 45, in Mark 15, 33, and in Luke 23, 44, and in all three of the times that it is recorded. They speak of the timing of it, when it began, which it says it was about the sixth hour, and when it ended, which was the ninth hour. This, of course, the Lord went to the cross by our reckoning at about 9 a. m. The darkness came on at 12 o'clock at noon. And it continued until about 3 p. m. Now it's interesting as to why to think about and speculate about why they would have recorded the timing of this. I think one reason is that the gospel writers wanted their readers to know that this was not a normal darkness. Unless you're living in a polar region, it never gets dark during the middle of the day. And this darkness was not for a brief period of time, but for three hours , which would rule out there being an eclipse. I think a second reason the timing of this darkness is recorded is that it kind of conveniently divides our Lord's time on the cross. Jesus was on the cross for about six hours. For three of those hours, it was a time of light. For three hours it was a time of darkness. And so it reminds us of the fact that this time was split in two It would be easy to pass over this and not to consider what this means, but I want us tonight to consider the meaning of this darkness at Calvary. This is one of at least six miracles that took place at Calvary. And perhaps this one was the most astounding to those who were there at that time. So as we prepare for the observance of the Lord's table, we want us to consider tonight the darkness at Calvary. Let's look first of all what was the cause of this darkness. Many unbelievers have tried to dismiss this event as simply an eclipse. It is true that the ancient people were frightened of an eclipse and they often attribute it to it to it that the gods were angry But we know scientifically that it is impossible that this was an eclipse. Why? Because the Passover always took place at a full moon. And you can't have an eclipse when you have a full moon. And so it's impossible that that is the explanation here. And of course, as I hinted to earlier, no eclipse lasts anywhere close to three hours. Another explanation is a dust storm. It is true in the Middle East that they often have dust storms, especially at this time of year in April. They have a hot wind, kind of like the Santa Ana winds that take place in Southern California. They call theirs a Soraco, and they can cause intense dust storms. This was one explanation that some of the early church fathers, such as Origen, favored. But this certainly cannot be right. These dust storms are very obviously dust storms. People who live in this part of the world would not say, what is this mysterious darkness? You can see it coming from far away, and it engulfs everything, and there's a strong blowing of wind and uh dust covers everything. To say that that is the explanation would mean almost that the apostles who record this event were complicit in some sort of a hoax because they certainly would have known it was not a miraculous darkness Another explanation that people seek is that it was a volcanic dust cloud. It is true that huge volcanic eruptions can obscure the light of the sun In the late 1800s, there was an enormous eruption that took place on a remote island in Indonesia known as Krakotoa. This eruption spewed so much volcanic ash into the atmosphere. That it darkened skies all over the world for many months following that. So altered weather patterns that it snowed in Boston in July. But there is no historical record of a huge volcanic eruption during this time period. And of course, if this were the explanation, the darkness would have lasted. for much longer than three hours it would have lasted for many days. Turning from the naturalistic explanations, there are some scholars who have thought this darkness was the work of Satan. Unless a scholar than G. Campbell Morgan makes this suggestion. It is, of course, true that Satan is the head of the powers of darkness. And in the garden, when Jesus was arrested, he said in Luke 22, 53, This is your hour and the power of darkness. A great scholar named Klaus Schilder writes, In Bethlehem there are many angels whose light dispel the darkness. On Golgotha, there are many devils who, as it seems, gain a triumph in the conquest of darkness over light. However, the Bible never provides this explanation for the darkness. Satan is indeed a powerful being, but we should not give him more credit than he deserves. We are left with only one possible explanation, and that is that it is God who brought the darkness. This darkness was from the hand of the Creator. And we do have biblical precedent for this. You remember the darkness that came during the ten plagues in Egypt. God sent darkness that day. He also, we read, lengthened today so that Joshua could defeat his enemies. Isaiah chapter 15, verse 3 says, God says, I clothe the heavens with blackness and I make sackcloth their covering. And so I think that we should view this darkness as the work of God's. and not seek some naturalistic explanation. But now I want to move to what is more important, and that is what is the significance. of this darkness. There have been several suggestions that have been made over the years. Some say that this darkness was an expression of the sympathy of nature. Many writers from ancient times took this view. They would speak poetically of nature refusing to gaze upon the pain of the Creator. There's even kind of an allusion to this. In the hymn at the cross, it says, Well might the sun and darkness hide and shut his glories in when Christ, the mighty maker, died for man, the creature's sin. In the classic movie Ben Hur, there's a memorable scene when Christ is being whipped, and the Norse the horses who are nearby wince in sympathetic pain with the Savior. As attractive and as dramatic as this idea may be, the fact is that nature has no consciousness apart from God. And so I don't think that we should view this as the sympathy of nature because the common expression about mother nature is untrue and unbiblical. Mother nature does not exist. Others have suggested the darkness was a God-given veil to conceal the Savior. In the first three hours of the Lord's crucifixion, we read of a constant stream of insults. that are hurled at him from the crowd, from the religious leaders, from soldiers, from all types of people that surrounded the cross. But when the darkness came, it seems that the atmosphere changed around the cross, and we hear no more reports of any insults. And so some scholars, and perhaps with warrant, have suggested that there was like a shadow of silence that the Lord brought down to shield his son from any further mocking. Spurgeon writes, it was too terrible a sight. The pain of the victim was grievous enough, but the abominable wickedness of the mockers, who could bear it? Let us thank God that in the middle of the crime there came down a darkness which rendered it impossible for them to go further with it. It is as if God Himself said, I cannot bear it, I will not see this infamy descend, O veil of darkness. But I think the primary explanation that we should see in this is twofold. First of all, the darkness is an indication that Christ was making atonement for sinners. We all know about the symbolic significance of the Day of Atonement that's described in the book of Leviticus. The high priest would take blood from the altar, and he would enter into the Holy of Holies This cubicle room that was only to be entered one day a year on the Day of Atonement, the Yom Kippur. And only one man could enter that room. It was the high priest. And he would bring that blood in and he would sprinkle it on the lid of the Ark of the Covenant, known as the mercy seat. And there he would pray and make atonement for the sins of the people. Now we know from the details of the construction of the tabernacle. That the temple and the tabernacle where the Holy of Holies was would have been a dark place. There were no windows. There was nothing really to let the light in. So when the high priest went in there, he was in the darkness. Perhaps he took some type of a light with him, but it was a dark place. And so I think that the darkness at Calvary is suggesting that this is a place when Christ was making atonement for sinners. And it is to remind us of the darkness of the Holy of Holies on the Day of Atonement. But I think the primary way that we can interpret this event from the lens of Scripture is that the darkness symbolized the abandonment of the Father that the Father had turned his face away from the death of his son. I mentioned earlier that Christ was silent during these three hours. We do know what the Lord said immediately after the darkness was lifted. He said, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? I would submit to you that this darkness symbolized the separation of the Father from the Son as he bore the sins of mankind. It is symbolic of him experiencing the wrath of a holy God. And the ancient world criminals were often placed in a dark dungeon This punishment over time would break a person mentally and emotionally to remain day after day in the darkness This darkness was a picture of the Father's hidden face as he turned his holy gaze away from the wickedness of the world. Listen to the words of Spurgeon again. He said it was not the crown of thorns or the scourge or the cross which made him cry, but the darkness, the awful darkness of desertion. This was the bitter cup that Christ so intently asked to be removed in the garden the night before his death. Throughout the Old Testament we read that darkness was symbolic of judgment. It was darkness that covered Egypt. And it was a darkness of judgment. In Isaiah chapter 5 and verse 30 we read, And in that day light is darkened in the heavens, speaking of the day of judgment. Isaiah chapter 13. Verses 9 through 11, Behold, the day of the Lord cometh, cruel both with wrath and fierce anger. The sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall not cause her light to shine. Joel chapter 2 and verse 10, the earth shall quake before them, the heavens shall tremble, the sun and the moon shall be dark. Joel chapter 3, verses 14 and 15. The day of the Lord is near, the sun and the moon shall be darkened. And Amos chapter 8 and verse 9, and it shall come to pass in that day, saith the Lord, that I will cause the sun to go down at noon, and I will darken the earth in the clear day. And the fact is that in this very book of Matthew, on several occasions, the Lord described hell as a place of darkness. Matthew chapter 8. And verse 12. He says, The children of the kingdom shall be cast out into outer darkness. There shall be weeping. and gnashing of teeth, a reference to the children of the kingdom there, he was speaking to these pious Jewish religious leaders who assumed because They were descendants of Abraham, that they would go to heaven. But he says, No, you who call yourselves children of the kingdom, you will be cast into outer darkness. In Matthew chapter 22 and verse 13 It says, then said the king to the servants, bind him hand and foot, and take him away, and cast him into outer darkness. There shall be weeping. and gnashing of teeth. And then in Matthew chapter 25 and verse 30 We'll read again of this expression. And cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness. There shall be weeping. And gnashing of teeth. Outer darkness is a reference to absolute darkness, the darkness of separation. The deep darkness symbolized the hell that Christ was enduring for sinners. Because the worst part of hell is not the flames or the worm or even the regret. It is that people are forever cut off from the presence of the Lord. But I want us to end on a more positive note this evening. I want you to know that the lifting of the darkness at Christ's crucifixion symbolized his victory over death. Christ did not die in the darkness of separation. The clouds of darkness lifted and Jesus said, It is finished. He said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. The fellowship was restored and the work was done. The light of the world was once again enjoying the radiance of his Father. What a wonderful thing this is to know. And of course, we see this as a foretaste of that resurrection morning when Christ would arise at the rising of the sun. Because Christ died in the darkness. Because Christ was willing to taste The Father's cup of wrath. No Christian need die in the darkness. This is why Paul would say death is swallowed up in victory, O death. Where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? For the believer, death is our transition into that city of light that never knows the night. Christ faced the deepest darkness of any soul so that we can enjoy forever the light of his presence. What a wonderful thing for us to consider tonight. Christ spent those three hours in the darkness so that we can spend an eternity in the light with him Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for our wonderful Savior. We thank you that he was willing to face the darkness, the desertion, the wrath of God that we have earned. We thank you, Father, that He is a wonderful Savior. And we thank you, Father, that it's at the cross where we see the light. And the burden of our hearts rolls away. We thank you for the joy and the gladness that we have Because of what a Savior, our Savior has done for us, we thank you for giving us a wonderful Savior. I pray that you would help us to worship him and to follow him with all of our hearts. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.