Turn to your Bibles, please, to John chapter 1. This morning we'll be looking at verse 14, John 1. 14. Legend has it that there was once a good king in Persia. He lived a life of luxury, but he always wondered how His people lived. And so from time to time he would put on the garments of a beggar and he would go out in the streets and he would go into their homes and he would eat with them and talk with them and hear their problems. Even though they had no idea who he was. One day he went to a very poor man's house, and they had a simple meal, and then they talked for several hours. And then he left. But sometime later he returned in his royal garb, and he said to the man, I am your king. And the king expected the man to ask for money and for favors and for gifts, but he did not. Instead, he said, I don't want any gift from you because you have given me the best gift of all. You have given to me yourself. This morning in our study of John , we come to a verse that tells us about the incarnation of Jesus Christ. Now I have no desire to prolong this series, and I hope to go along at a much better pace when we go to narrative portions. But this morning we're just looking at verse 14, and we're doing it because it is the most concise theological explanation of the incarnation of Jesus Christ. found in the Bible. It is densely packed with heavy theology that is very significant. This is one of the great verses of the Bible. And it's the heart of this magnificent prologue that opens John's Gospel. It behooves us to study this carefully to understand what is said here. There are scholars who have said that the entire rest of the Gospel of John, all 21 chapters, are in a sense an outworking and an explanation of this one verse. Now let me remind you of the context of this verse for just a moment. The first five verses of this book introduce the reader to the word. We're not told exactly who this word is, but we are told some very momentous things. The word is God's own self-expression. And he's described in the first verse where this term is used three times that says, in the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. We see that he is eternal, personal, and divine. He is God and He is with God, which is a reference to the Trinity. Remember, when we started our study, we looked at these incredible theological concepts in the opening verse. And then in verses 3 through 5, we learn that the Word is also the creator and sustainer of all life and light in the world. In verses 6 through 8, we are introduced to the first witness to the word that is John the Baptist. And then in verses 9 through 13, we have the word described as the light of the world. And we see that people must respond to him in one of two ways. This is still true today. Everyone here, everyone in the world will either reject the light or they will receive the light by faith. And now finally in verse 14 we have the identification of the word. Notice from verse 1 we have the word word used three times. And now in verse 14, he's going to come back to that. And explain who this is. He says, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace. And truth. John the author is going to reveal that the word is not an ethereal concept But a personal being, God who took on human flesh and came to earth to redeem hopeless humanity. I'm going to preach to you this morning on the meaning of the incarnation. The incarnation of the Son of God should remind us of three essential truths The first truth is this. The incarnation of the word reminds us that the Son of God became one of us. That is, he became fully human. I take this from that opening phrase, the word became flesh. The doctrine of the incarnation is a unique Christian doctrine. It separates Christianity from all of the religions of the world. We believe that God took on flesh. But what does it mean? Well, we could simply say that it teaches that the second person of the Trinity, God the Son, became a man. But there's a lot more that we need to say in defining this. Sometimes the best way to define something is by saying what it isn't. And so I want to give you five things that this does not mean, which will help us clarify what it does mean. First of all, when it says that the word became flesh, it doesn't mean that Jesus became sinful when he became a human being. A person might come to this conclusion because the Apostle Paul often uses the term flesh to refer to our sinful nature. But John is not using this term this way. He is not saying that the Son of God became sinful, but that he was and is a man. We have many, many scriptures that tell us that Jesus is the sinless Son of God. But perhaps you would object and say, well, to be human. is to be sinful. And so if Jesus is fully human, he must have become sinful. I can understand how you would come to that conclusion because every human being that you have ever met Is flawed. They are sinful. And you've heard many preachers tell you over the years that we have all sinned. And so if Jesus is a human, then Jesus must be sinful. But let me remind you, that's not how mankind began. Adam and Eve were born sinless They were born without a sin nature. They fell in the garden, yes, but they were born in innocence. And so it's true humanity. is sinless. Every human being that we have ever known is a distortion of humanity. But Jesus Christ, the second Adam, is completely man. Now, the second thing I want to mention under this heading is that the word became flesh does not mean that the Son of God exchanged his deity for humanity. The deity of the Son of God was not replaced by his humanity in the incarnation. It's not that he gave up this and took on this. No, now the Son of God is both God and man. That is part of the great mystery that is revealed to us in Scripture of the Incarnation. He is the God man Thirdly, this phrase, the word became flesh, does not mean that Jesus only appeared to have a body. He only appeared to be human. John probably intentionally uses this term flesh. rather than just like say body, because there were false teachers in the first century who were saying that Jesus only appeared to have a body And they came to that conclusion not from scripture, but from philosophy, which was very common at the time, that all matter was evil, was corrupt But that spirit was good. And so to think of Jesus as having a body was abhorrent to them. And so they said, it only looked like he had a body. He had some type of ethereal body, but he didn't really have a human form. But that is not what the scripture teaches. John says the word became flesh. Fourth, this phrase the word became flesh. does not mean that he did not have a human nature. Now we're going a little deeper into the weeds here. The Orthodox doctrine of Christ teaches that Jesus, the Son of God, has two natures in one person. He has a human nature and a divine nature. This is known theologically as the hypostatic union. Pay close attention. I'm going to give a quiz later. Just kidding. We're getting into some deep theology here, but a text warrants that. Alright? Jesus was fully man. He had a human nature. The word flesh in this phrase doesn't just refer to his body, but to his entire personhood. Fifthly, and finally, this expression the word became flesh does not mean that Jesus was only human during his 33 years on earth. I found over the years that a lot of Christians think of it this way. Maybe you think of it this way. I'm not going to call you out, I'm not going to call you a heretic, but it's incorrect. This is a question, by the way, Nick, that I often ask in ordination councils. Might want to take note of that. And that is that It's not that Jesus became a human for 33 years and then he reverted back to where he was before a spirit being. No, at the incarnation, Jesus took on humanity. The second person of the Trinity took on humanity and will be a human forever. Alright? The Bible teaches he had a bodily resurrection, they had a bodily ascension, that is the right hand of the throne of God. He is the God man forevermore. Okay? So, what does the incarnation mean? It means that the Son of God left the glories of heaven to become one of us. We see this at the very beginning, born in a manger. Born in humility, born in poverty. I think of this verse, 2 Corinthians 8-9. which is not speaking about finances, that said, For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, so that you by his poverty might be rich. Jesus left the glories of heaven, the riches of eternity to come to the sin-cursed earth so that we might have the spiritual riches in Christ. This brings me to my second point. The incarnation of the word reminds us that the Son of God came to dwell with us. We have this next phrase, and dwelt among us. This is John's testimony. Notice he includes himself in this. He was an eyewitness. The word for dwelt in this verse speaks of dwelling in a tent or a tabernacle. It could be rendered he tabernacled among us or he pitched his tent among us. Now why would John describe Jesus' life on earth in this unusual way? It's because he wanted to make a point of comparison between the Old Testament tabernacle and the life of Christ. The tabernacle in the Old Testament was simply a tent. That God had given them specific instructions on how to make, how big it was to be And in that tent, the people of Israel met with God. They brought their sacrifices. They came and they worshiped the Lord. Now, not that God was confined to that space, but that's where the place where he designated for them to meet with him. In the incarnation, God came to dwell with humanity. Throughout the Old Testament, we find this principle known as the Emmanuel principle. You know what the word Emmanuel means, right? God with us. And we find it throughout the Old Testament in dozens of passages as the anecdote to our fear. You ever heard this verse, Isaiah 41, 10? Fear thou not, for I am with thee. Alright? Or how about this from Psalm 23? Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. Why? For thou art with me. Do you know that verse? I hope you do. It's really famous. And we could go through many, many scriptures like this. The solution to our fear is recognizing the presence of the Lord. the Emmanuel principle. But in the incarnation, that became personified. and truth in that God actually came to dwell with men. It was not just his spiritual presence, but he was there in the flesh, pitching his tent among his people. The only way that an Israelite could really worship his God was to go to the tabernacle. In the same way, you can only truly know God through the Lord Jesus Christ. This brings us to a very politically incorrect assertion. Everything in our culture and our society , virtually all of our political leaders, educational leaders, tell us that we must adopt and we must assent to pluralism. And that is that's Everyone worships essentially the same God just in different ways according to their culture. And you've seen undoubtedly the bumper sticker that says coexist, right? And the idea is that if we just accept everyone and their differences of faith, then there would be no more violence and no more turmoil in the world because there's been a lot of wars that have been fought over religious matters. And it is true there have been a lot of wars fault over religious matters. And of course, the scriptures do not condone that. But it is incorrect to say. That we all worship the same God just with different names. Because the scriptures are absolutely crystal clear. that there's only one way to God, and that is through Jesus Christ. This is a major emphasis in the Gospel of John. Jesus will say in chapter 14 and verse 6, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Jesus is the only Savior that God has provided. There is no other way. There is no other path. There was no other place for the Israelites to meet with God. There is no other way for man to come. to God except through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. There is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself a ransom for all. And then John goes on to say something truly fascinating about our Lord's time on earth here in verse 14. He says, and we beheld his glory. Remember, John, who wrote these words, the beloved disciple, was with the Lord for over three years. And he describes that time of ministry, that time of interaction as beholding his glory. The word beheld here speaks of physical sight. John is saying that he was an eyewitness of his glory. He describes this entire time in that way. Let me ask you an important question. What exactly is glory? We find it all the time in Scripture. Do you really know what it means? If someone were to ask you right now, define for me what biblical glory is. It's a little complicated because there's different nuances of meaning to this. Let me pause here just for a second. The Old Testament word that is commonly translated glory. is the Hebrew word kaboth, which means to be weighty. It's also often translated honorable. Alright? I'm tempted to go off and explain the derivation of this word. You can't really say that without explaining it, can you? So in the ancient world, people who had money and were honorable were weighty, literally. All right? I know everyone in our culture wants to be skinny and thin and everything. In the ancient world and in most places in the world, it's exactly the opposite, as Pastor Aaron could tell you. A person of stature was a big person. They were important. They were a person who was to be honored because They had to have some skills and a good job to get that size. And that was the idea. It also has someone who is, it came to mean someone who is worthy of honor and respect. We also see it used in scripture of what is radiance. Or bright. We read of the glory of the Lord shone round about them at the birth of Christ. Turn glory means radiance there in context. The Bible speaks of the glory of a star. The term is also used to describe the excellence of something, such as The fact that Mount Glory, the glory of Mount Everest is that it's the highest mountain in the world. And it's used often in Scripture as a virtual synonym for praise. To glory in the Lord is essentially the same as to praise the Lord. So In what way did John see the glory of God in Jesus? Notice how the next phrase in verse 14 further explains the term glory. Look at this. He says, glory as of the only Son from the Father. Now here we come to a very significant theological term. In our version, it's translated as only son. In some other versions, it's translated as only begotten. This Greek word is used four times in John's gospel here in verse 14, again in verse 18 of this chapter, and then again in chapter 3, and John 3. 16, that very famous verse, and again in John 3. 18. And there's been a lot of ink spilt on this one Greek word, monogenase. What does it mean? Let me mention two things. It means one of a kind or unique. We read earlier in verse 12 that when we believe, we become the children of God. But that doesn't mean that we are exactly the same status as Jesus, the only begotten Son of God. He's in a category by himself. Alright? This idea of being one of a kind and unique is also connected with this designation of being the beloved son. Which comes from Genesis 22 and the way Abraham spoke of his son Isaac. He did have another son named Ishmael, but Isaac there is described as his only son, his beloved son. But another sense of this, I think, that is brought out by the term only begotten is that his sonship was an eternal sonship. Again, I'm going to delve into a little bit of theology here. Have you always thought that the second person of the Trinity was just, you know, God? And then when he was born in Bethlehem, he became the son of God. Maybe a lot of people think that way. That's not true. Orthodox theology teaches that from eternity past He has always been in a relationship with the Father as the Son. Not that he was ever born, ever came into existence, but that eternally There was the relationship of father-son. In other words, he was the Son of God before he was ever born. That is what biblical theology teaches. about this eternal sonship of Christ. And we find it, I think, reflected in this term here. But I think that John, in speaking of this glory, is referring back to the Old Testament tabernacle. We read in Exodus 40 that the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. In fact, even Moses couldn't enter because the radiance of God was so strong, he couldn't walk in there. And John is saying that in a similar way, as that tent of animal skins veiled the glory that was within So the body, the flesh of Christ, veiled the glory that dwelt within. But at times in his ministry, John saw glimpses of that glory. He saw this in the miracles of Christ. If you'll look with me at chapter 2, just turn one page over to John chapter 2 and verse 11. We have the very first miracle recorded in Scripture, the wedding at Cana. And it says in verse 11, this, the first of his signs, Jesus did at Cana and Galilee and manifested his glory and his disciples believed in him. People often, I think, think that the primary reason of our Lord's miracles was to relieve suffering. It was an expression of his compassion and humanity. Indeed, that is true, but it's not the primary reason that he performed miracles. The primary reason that Jesus performed miracles was to bring glory to God and to reveal his identity as the Son of God. But there's another way that John saw the Lord's glory, and that is in the transfiguration. Remember, he was one of three disciples that was invited by the Lord to go up on that mount. Peter was one of those, and he says that he was an eyewitness of his majesty. During the transfiguration of Christ, his essential glory Shone out of him. It wasn't like a light projected on him. There was a light coming out of him. And it's described as as bright as the noonday sun. Do you ever notice the sun is really bright? We had an eclipse recently. We had all these warnings, you know, don't try to look at the sun unless you've got eye protection because it will blind you. And maybe some of you took a gander up there without anything, and then you saw spots and everything. The sun is really, really bright. And John says, that's how bright Jesus was shining on the mountain. It was a demonstration of his glory. But I believe that John saw even a greater glory of Christ at the cross. Remember, he was one of the disciples that witnessed The cross was a horrible scene, but it was also a spectacular demonstration of the glory of God, because the glory of God is demonstrated in the attributes of God. And nowhere were the attributes of God more fully displayed than at the cross. It was a demonstration both of the wrath of God and of the love of God. It revealed the righteousness of God. and the mercy of God. At the cross we see the greatness of God and the goodness of God in one glorious glimpse. You see, this is the ultimate reason that the word became flesh and dwelt among us. He was born to die that we might live. And that brings me to my third point. The incarnation of the word reminds us that the Son of God came to save us. We have this last little phrase at the end of verse 14, full of grace and truth. Now what do you think about that? What does that mean to you? Does it mean anything? Important theological concepts that we just kind of glaze over First of all, this is a reference describing Jesus, not the Father. It'd be easy to think it's the Father because it's the word right before this phrase, but it actually goes back to Jesus. Jesus and his incarnation came full of truth and grace. And I think John is once again referring to the Old Testament. Do you remember what happened in Exodus chapter 32? We have the golden calf incidents, one of the darkest chapters in Israel's history. Moses is up on the mountain. This face is shining with the glory of God and they're down in the valley worshiping this golden calf Well, in Exodus chapter 33, Moses is profoundly discouraged. He doesn't want to go on. He doesn't want to continue to leave the people. And he makes this incredible request of the Lord. Do you know what it was? He says, show me your glory. Perhaps the most audacious request that anyone's ever made of God. Show me your glory. And God grants his request. He hides him behind a rock. He first of all says, you can't really see my full glory and live. But you can shadow and you can see the Shekinah glory. And so in Exodus 34 and verse 6 we read this, the Lord passed before him and proclaimed the Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. Those last two attributes, abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness, are what's reflected in our text full of grace and truth. Steadfast love here is that famous Hebrew word Hesed, which speaks of God's loyal covenantal love for his people. And faithfulness is referred to as truth because someone who is faithful is what someone who is truthful. And that Hebrew word is often translated as one or the other. So the glory that Moses saw hiding behind the rock was the same glory that John witnessed in the person of Jesus Christ. The incarnation of the Son of God is the greatest demonstration of God's steadfast love and faithfulness to his promises that we will ever find. I believe that what he's essentially saying here is that Jesus would come as the Savior of the world. And we know that because the same expression, grace and truth, is used. One other time by John, and that's three verses later in verse 17. Look with me, please. It says, For the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. Moses brought the law, but Christ brought redemption. He brought salvation. And so essentially what we are told here is with the incarnation of Christ came Redemption for fallen man, salvation. He came as the savior of the world. Now I want to briefly turn to some applications and implications for us. The first one here is that no one can earn God's favor. We come to this monumental term grace in John's gospel, which is so significant in Scripture and such an essential part of Christian teaching. All man-made religion invariably teaches in one way or another that God can be manipulated. That you can obligate God and leverage God to do what you want Him to do People from ancient times and every civilization and every culture of the world have thought this way. We can offer sacrifices Animals, plant sacrifice, sometimes even child sacrifice. Why did they do these horrible things Because they believed by doing this, God would be obligated to do certain things for them, by giving them good crops and good weather and fertility. And they were desperate to gain his favor. And although it may be refined in some ways, people still think the same way today. There are hundreds of millions of people today doing different rituals and different things in hopes that God will smile upon them. They may attend a service where they have absolutely no heart for worship, where they don't listen to anything that's being said. But they participate in some ritual and they think that now God will treat me well because I did my spiritual, my religious obligation. And he's now obligated to help these things work out in my life that are troubling me so much. And so people will make donations, they will make rash vows, they will give much time to charity and relief work. They will do things that seem highly commendable, all in hopes that perhaps God will forgive their sins or that God will heal their ailing daughter or fix their broken marriage. Because they don't know what else to do. But grace means unmerited favor. I've said this again and again, but the way we think, you have to keep saying it to correct our natural way of thinking. You cannot obligate God to do anything for you. Coming to church here today doesn't mean that he has a scorecard somewhere where he's checking it off. Okay, so-and-so went to church. All right, good for them. That's four weeks in a row. I guess I'm gonna have to start really treating them right now. Doesn't work like that. Doesn't work like that at all. You cannot earn God's favor. Good works do not impress the Lord. When they're done without saving faith, when they're done without an expression that God has given me the ability to do this and I'm doing it for his glory. When they're done in attempts to earn favor with God, God views it as righteous, as as un as as filthy racks. He views it as insulting because you're saying, I don't really need your savior. I can be my own savior. I can work my own way to you. The Bible says that's by grace we have been saved through faith And not of yourselves, it's the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. You see, the gospel humbles It takes all bragging and all boasting and all pride for earning our way to God out of our hearts and our minds because we understand we can't do anything. To make God like us or favorable to us. He must do it all. He must be gracious. And we respond in faith. Our faith and hope for salvation must not be in what we have done, but in what Christ has done for us. It's so essential that you get that and you understand that. But I run into people all the time who even profess to know Christ who don't really get that. Number two, Jesus is worthy of our trust because he is the ultimate truth. He says it's full of grace and truth, and this word truth is a favorite word of John. It refers to what is objective, real, authentic, genuine. We encountered this word up in verse 9. Where he calls himself the true light, as opposed to the deceptive lights of the world In the world today, there are many people who question if there is any objective truth. They cynically believe that truth is just your spin on things. It's your way of manipulating others. And the commercialized world in which we live helps to enforce this idea. Politicians and advertisers constantly slant the truth to manipulate customers and constituents. They pick out certain facts that form a narrative, but they leave out all these other facts that would argue against that narrative. because they're trying to deceive you. And maybe it's something simple like buying a product. Or maybe it's something far more serious than that. And because of this, and because of postmodernism and so forth, you can witness to some people, and they will say things like, Well that may be your truth, but it's not my truth. This is philosophical nonsense. Gravity works whether you believe it or not. Death comes to all individuals, even if they deny that it is real. And hell is the home of unrepentant sinners, even though they may laugh at the biblical teaching. Jesus is the only Savior that God has provided. He is the ultimate truth in a world of deception. And if we are going to know God, we must know God through him, the way, the truth, and the life. Thirdly and finally, those who know the Savior have seen his glory John here speaking as a disciple who followed Jesus for three years says, and we beheld his glory. But there is a sense we find in Scripture that every child of God has, in a spiritual way, come to see the glory of Christ. In 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 6 we read, For God who said, Let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of the Of Jesus Christ. One thing that's true of every believer is that they have come to see that Christ is glorious, that he is precious. That he is their treasure. You see, when a person is truly born again, a lot of things happen including there is a change in their affections, in their desires. The things that they once craved for and longed for are no longer like that. They are transformed sometimes instantaneously, sometimes for in different areas will take people more time, but more and more they long for Christ. They long to be holy They long to be with their Savior. Jesus becomes precious in their sights. And so my question to you this morning is, is that true of you? Do you love the Savior? Does the exaltation of His name warm your hearts? And encourage you. Do you find something inside of you that says, yes, that's exactly the way I feel? That's exactly the way I believe. I'm with you. I love the Savior. He is precious to me. When we sing hymns that speak of him, speak of his glory. Is your heart refreshed and renewed? Or do you say yourself, this is just religious nonsense? I don't believe this stuff. Reminds me the story of a lady who was visiting a country where she was a foreigner. And she went to the service, a Christian service where she knew the gospel would be preached, but she did not know the language in which the sermon was preached. She couldn't make heads or tails of it. And one of her relatives asked her, why in the world did you go to a service where you couldn't understand what the preacher was saying? And she said, there was one word that I could understand. And that was the word Jesus. And he said it again and again. And that thrilled my heart to hear his name proclaimed, and I wanted to be with those people. And let me ask you, is that the way your heart feels? Do you love the Savior? The incarnate Son of God? Is He your only hope of redemption? Or are you trusting in yourself and your good deeds? May God help you to have your eyes opened to see the King in his beauty Let's close in prayer. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you that it reminds us of our great Savior and all that he has done for us. I pray, Lord, for those who are here today. That there would be no one who would leave here, who is yet a stranger to your grace , who have never had their eyes opened Who do not know what it is to love the Savior, I pray that you would convict them, trouble them, until they come to you In repentance and faith. May you do this for your glory. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.