If you have your Bibles, please, you can turn to one of the opening chapters of the Bible, Genesis chapter 3. On June the 13th, 1525, a former monk named Martin Luther married a runaway nun named Catherine von Bora. Their marriage was an interesting collision of two very strong-willed individuals. They had intense affection for one another, but also intense arguments. Martin called his wife by the affectionate name my rib. And from their union would come six children. Martin Luther loved to invite people to his dinners, and so at the Luther household their table, a very large table, was filled with seminary students, visiting dignitaries and other pastors. And when she would put the food on the table, he would begin to pontificate about some theological topic and After a few moments, she would grow restless and remind him that the food was getting cold and that they needed to eat. On one such occasion He said this, what a lot of trouble there is in marriage. Adam has made a mess of our nature. And then he said, think of all the squabbles that Adam and Eve must have had in the course of their 900 years. Eve would say, You ate the apple. And Adam would retort, but you gave it to me. This morning, as we continue our topical study of humility, I want us to consider the importance of humility in marriage. And about everything that I've ever read about marriage or every seminar that I've ever attended, I don't think I've ever heard this really addressed But it's really, really important. Sometimes young people will talk to me about what to look for in a prospective spouse. And I say to them often, if you see in your prospective spouse that they are self-absorbed, that they talk about themselves all the time. But they are arrogant and self-focused. Run away from them as fast as you can. That's the last person in the world that anyone wants to be married to, man or woman. The fact is, everyone wants to be married to a humble spouse. Now I'm well aware that there are many people here this morning under the sound of my voice who are not married. Perhaps you're young or just single or formerly married. I hope that you do not tune me out Because all of Scripture is profitable. And the Scripture's teaching on marriage is profitable even for those who are not married. Because it is the Word of God, and because these truths work in other human relationships as well, and because many of you who are unmarried will someday be married. And everyone should have an interest in marriage because it is the basic building block of human society. And it's an institution given by God. The fact is that a husband and wife can never really have a strong and vibrant marriage apart. From humility. This is something that they both need to pursue intentionally and grow in Young couples are often shocked at the problems that they face in marriage life. I mean, especially Christians. They think, you know, we both love each other and we love the Lord. Our marriage should be smooth sailing. We've got the basics. We have all that we need to know. We should have a harmonious relationship, but Often it doesn't work out like that because marriage is the union of two selfish sinners And it's the collision of two wills that want to have things their own way. And so conflict is inevitable. Having said that, I want you to know that the institution of marriage is not a cruel joke. I run into more than a few cynics in my time. Including Christians who don't really believe, I think, that it was a good plan and that God really knew what he was doing when he instituted marriage. Because unfortunately, they're viewing God's truth through the lens of their experience, which in many cases is very problematic. But I want you to know that the Lord designed the marriage of a man and a woman as a blessing. And the problems that they encounter due to their sinful nature are intended to be a catalyst for spiritual change. You see, in marriage, we see our inherent pride and selfishness revealed like in no other relationship. When you're in that close of a relationship with another human being, You find out things about yourself that you would not find out otherwise. In a sense, our spouse holds up a mirror that reveals the ugliness of her heart. And it 's God's desire that this experience would humble us and drive us to our knees begging for his transforming grace. So I'm going to speak to you this morning on this truth that a Christian marriage requires humility. It requires humility. The first point that I have comes from Genesis chapter 3, and it's because a Christian marriage requires us to humbly face our pride and selfishness. Even in the very first marriage, where Adam and Eve were found in a perfect environment, they encountered difficulties. Genesis chapter 3 is one of the most significant chapters in the Bible. It records the fall of man. It's right after the creation accounts. And this is where all of our problems got started. In the previous chapter, we read of the creation of Adam and Eve and the institution of marriage. Look with me at chapter 2 and verse 18, this famous verse. And the Lord God said, It is not good that the man should be alone. I will make him and help meet for him. Skip ahead to verse 21. And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept, and he took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh instead thereof. The rib which the Lord God had taken from man made he a woman and brought her unto the man. And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh. But sin is about to enter into the world, and marriage is going to get a whole lot more complicated. Because that's what sin does. And specifically, it's our pride and selfishness. That makes marriage often so difficult. I want to show you four ways in chapter three. That pride complicates marriage. First of all, pride stifles openness in marriage. Look with me at chapter 3 I want to begin reading at verse 7. This is right after the famous account of the fall. It says, And the eyes of them both were open, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons. And they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and Adam and Eve hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God amongst the trees of the garden. And the Lord God called unto Adam and said unto him, Where art thou? And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself. And he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree Whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldst not eat. This passage, this rather cryptic paragraph that I just read Says that their eyes were opened, but not in a good way. I want you to notice that this passage of the fall comes right after the final verse Chapter 2, which I did not read earlier, but I'm going to now. Look with me at verse 25. It says, And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and they were not ashamed. That's the end, that's the climactic verse of the innocence of mankind And then we read of the fall, and then we read of the facts in verse 7 that their eyes are open, they realize they're naked, and they they sew these garments to cover themselves. This is saying more. Than the obvious. It's saying that there was a self-awareness, a self-consciousness, a sense of guilt That they did not possess. Now this is this is very hard for us to imagine because we've never been in an unfallen state. No one here can say, I know exactly what that's like. No, you don't, because none of us have ever been like Adam and Eve were when they were created. We can only imagine what it was like. But in verse 25, it's reflecting the fact that there was an openness, an honesty, a transparency in their marriage. That is the way it's intended to be. There were no masks. There was no facade. There were no secrets between the two of them. There was absolute transparency and honesty that they could share with one another. But when the fall came, that all went away. And now it was a matter of cloaking and hiding and perhaps lying to one another. And justify often on the grounds of trying to maintain the relationship. Everything changed with the fall. Mistrust and alienation replaced the security and intimacy that they had enjoyed previously. This is one of the great problems that people have in marriage. There's no openness. There 's no real heart intimacy or real transparency. So often when people come for marriage counseling, you can count on it. One of the things they're going to say is that we have problems. communicating. I've never had people come to me with marriage problems and say, oh, we communicate great. I've never had that said. They always say we have real problems communicating. But the thing is, when they talk to me about their problems and they describe and explain their problems, I find that they're very effective at communicating. Often they're very articulate. And they describe it in great detail. And so I'm starting to think to myself, in my early years as a pastor, it seems to me that they're really good communicators. But they're saying our problem is we can't communicate. So what is the problem? What they're trying to say is there's no openness in our relationship. And one problem leads to another. They don't really feel that they can open up to their spouse because often of painful events in the past that have never been dealt with. So if they really come clean and they're really honest and they admit like something that they failed in today, their spouse is going to punish them for them. And they're going to bring it up to them and use that failure, that confession as a weapon for years and years to come. And so they shut down and say, I'm just not going to share how I have failed in our m marriage relationship. And that leads to anger and frustration on the other person's part because they say, this person just won't open up to me and tell me what's really going on. And so they never really have a substantive conversation. If they do open up and express how they really feel. It always ends with an argument, and it always ends with them having the exact same conversation. where things from the past are brought up again and then they're defended with the same explanations again. And I've heard so many married couples tell me that whenever they have a substantive conversation about their marriage They have the exact same conversation and they know what the other person is going to say before they ever say it. And it ends with angered silence. Because there's no openness. And because they're both proud and they're trying to defend their position And not really be honest and open. And therefore there's no trust. This is where some people here this morning are in their marriages. And your problem is problem Pride. Pride secondly leads to blame shifting in marriage. Look with me at chapter 3 and verse 12. And the man said, The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat. When God confronts Adam about his sin, Adam quickly blames his wife, and then Eve blames the serpents. I've mentioned to you before, almost in a humorous way, that when a couple comes to me for counseling, usually there's only one thing they agree about. And that is that their spouse is the problem. And they will begin to point out the flaws of their spouse and the various and sundry ways that they have failed them And they often I'm thinking about what I want to say and how much trouble I'm going to get into. Usually women have a much more detailed and accurate account of this. They have dates and places and a chronological sequence. With witnesses and evidence. They make a very strong case And it becomes a game of one one upmanship. Where after one has finished, the other one says, You think that's bad? Let me tell you what they did here. And then they're finished, and the other one says, you think that's awful? Listen to this. It's a horrible thing Rather than acknowledge their own guilt, they use the sin of their spouse to excuse their own sinful responses. And so many marriages live in a virtual stalemate because they are playing the blame game. Thirdly, we see in Genesis chapter 3 here that pride will leave both husband and wife to fail in their obligations to one another. Look with me at verse 16. We have a verse that's elicited a great deal of comments. Under the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow. And thy conception and sorrow thou shalt bring forth children, and thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee. Now that last phrase has been debated by biblical scholars for centuries. There are four primary interpretations of what that means. That is the phrase, and thy desire shall be to thy husband. It could be saying that women will desire to have children despite the pain. It could be saying that women will have a psychological desire to be ruled by their husbands, although I don't think that's true. It could be that women will be cruelly dominated by their husbands. That is certainly true in many cases, unfortunately. But most Bible scholars think it means that women will have a sinful temptation to rule over, or that is, manipulate their husbands. It will be something they have to struggle with. Because they will be tempted time and time again to take over, and they know how to manipulate their husbands and how to get what they want. And it will be difficult for them to restrain themselves from doing that. There's also mention of the husband in this verse as well, and he shall rule over thee. The idea is that God gave Adam the loving responsibility to lead his wife, but so often men would use that inherent responsibility to dominate and to intimidate their wives In a way that does not reflect the love of Christ at all. They will use their position of leadership to serve self And the result becomes an all-out war with each other claiming the other is not treating them right as God has commanded. So often you will hear the husband say, My wife will not yield to my leadership, and the wife will say, Well, he doesn't love me the way he should And they both suggest that they would do what they're supposed to do if the other would do what they're supposed to do. And they come to an impasse. And we see that pride will make even their God-given roles to be difficult and unfulfilling. This passage goes on. He says unto Adam, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife that hast eaten of the tree which I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it. Cursed is the ground for thy sake, and sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days about thy thorns and thistles shall it bring forth to thee, and thou shalt eat the herb of the field, and the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou return unto the ground, for out of it wast thou taken, for dost thou art, and unto dust. Thou shalt return. Because of sin, because of the fall, even these wonderful God-ordained roles will not be filled with unmixed joy. The wife's role will generally be in the home and taking care of the children, but even this wonderful calling will be filled with difficulty and sorrow and disappointments. And the man's role to work for his family will be unfulfilling and draining. This is not just saying it'll be difficult for farmers. But by extension, it will be difficult for all men. They will find that their careers will not offer them the fulfillment perhaps they thought it would. It will drain them and sap them of their energy. And so each, the man and the woman will feel stressed out and will look for sympathy and help from the other and will often not find it. And the wife will think he has no idea all that I do for him, and the husband will say, She has no appreciation for how hard I work for her. And that is often the struggles that we see in marriage. Why is there so much problems between two people who love each other and have committed themselves to each other? Because they're both selfish sinners. And apart from God's transforming grace, there will be incessant friction and a conflict of wills. This is why we desperately need God's grace in our marriages. Now I want you to turn with me to the New Testament. to the passage that we read together at Ephesians chapter 5. This brings me to my second point. Another reason that we need humility in marriage is because a Christian marriage requires us to humbly die to self. This is of course the most important passage on marriage in the New Testament. And the Lord has one key word of instruction for both the husband and wife. And both of these duties require humility and grace to obey. They are both a call to die to self. We begin where Paul begins, that wives must die to self by submissively yielding to the leadership of their husbands. Look with me. At verse 22, wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands as unto the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, and he is the Savior of the body. Therefore, as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in everything. In case you're not aware, the verses that I just read are not very popular today. In fact, most progressive educated people would consider these One reason, exhibit A, why they do not believe the Bible and why they do not consider it the Word of God, because they would consider these words to be oppressive and repressive of women. I'm here to say that they are not. Let me mention seven things that this does not mean. It does not mean that the wife or women in general are inferior to men. The Bible does not teach that. There are some religions that teach that. Christianity is not one of them. Wherever Christianity has gone in the world through the spread of missionaries and evangelists, the role and status of women has risen, not fallen. This does not mean that women are called to submit to all men. It says here that you're to submit to your own husband. This does not mean that wives are domestic servants. That is not the biblical picture of marriage. This does not mean that wives should have no authority or leadership in the home or in the community. That is not true. A wise husband will delegate a great deal to his wife. And he will give her things to take care of and to manage that he has virtually no knowledge of if he's wise. And he will listen carefully to her advice about things. Because men, have you ever noticed your wife perceives things differently than you do? And a helpful wife will say, honey, you know, you didn't really come across so well in that conversation. Did you see how uncomfortable that person was? And they'll say, She was? Yeah, she was. Men made God made men and women different to complement one another. And so men, if you're smart, you will listen carefully. to the perceptions and the opinions of your wife. This does not mean that husbands have any right to abuse or intimidate their wives. The scripture does not teach that, does not advocate that at all. Number six, this does not mean that a wife should always submit to her husband without exception. The Bible does not teach that Wives, if your husband says, I want you to go out and rob me a bank and bring some money back, that you should say, Yes, sir. There have been some Bible teachers. In the history of the world, who have taught that erroneously. The Bible never teaches that you are excused from sin because your superior told you to do it. Number seven, this does not mean that only women submit. The Bible mentions that there are many relationships of submission that everyone has to submit to someone. No one is a law unto themselves. We all answer to God. We all are to submit to his truth, to his words. So I've talked about what it doesn't mean. So what does it mean? This word submit literally means in the Greek to arrange yourself underneath. It means that the wife yields to the loving leadership of her husband and she arranges her life around him. This is based on the creation account, Paul says. Eve was made to complete Adam, not vice versa. Obviously, to follow this biblical instruction requires supernatural humility. Ladies, obedience to this biblical directive is something that you can never do in the flesh. You need the Spirit of God to enable you to do this. I can't tell you how many times I've had wives tell me, I think I could do a better job of leading this household than my husband. And usually inside of me there's little voice that's saying, she probably could. But you know what I have found? And I've talked to other pastors about this. I have never found a woman who was the true head of the household, who dominated everything, who was a happy person. They're always miserable leaders. So what does it mean, this idea of submission? What does that look like in real life? It means that the husband is to be the loving leader and that by leading the home, he is actually showing his love to his wife. That means when they have difficult decisions to make, and after thorough discussion of that decision, He makes the decision. That is both a privilege and a responsibility. You know, often when someone Is not in a position of leadership and authority. They think, oh, it must be great to be a leader. Not so much. Because when things go wrong, it comes back on your head. It's difficult to be a leader and to make those tough decisions. Now, there are many evangelical marriage books that I have read who say that there should be co-leadership in the home. The husband and wife should be on the exact same leadership level and that they should never make a decision without the other one agreeing. That is a recipe for disaster, and it's not biblical. I had an old preacher who used to say, a two-headed anything is a monstrosity. You can't have two heads. You know a country that has two presidents? You don't. You know why? It would never work. Do you know of a company that has two CEOs with equal power? No, you don't, because it cannot work You have to have somebody who ultimately makes the difficult decisions and guides the affairs of any organization. And for the home, that is what God has called the man to do. This is not God's punishment toward women. It's intended to be a blessing. If you don't have a clearly defined role in the household, there will be consent tension and fighting over supremacy. And that is not a recipe for a happy household. But this can only happen as the wife yields herself to the God-given leadership of her loving husband. And when she dies to self and is determined to live for Christ. But the men also have their instruction. The women come first, but notice the Lord has a lot more to say to the husbands. He goes from verse 25 to the very end of the chapter. Look at verse 25. Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. If you were with us last week, we looked at 1 Corinthians chapter 13. And there we saw that in order to really love someone, you have to be humble. And the love that is commanded here is not so much a feeling, although that certainly should be the case, but it's an action. It is a love that gives The most famous verse in the Bible, for God so loved the world that he gave true love, true agape, sacrificial love, gives and gives and gives. But what kind of giving is mentioned in our text? Well, it's nothing less than the giving of our lives. Now, when we think of this expression, we often think of chivalry. I remember a man who used to always tell his wife, thinking he was expressing his love for her, honey, you know, I'd be willing to give my life for you. And he said this again and again. And finally one day she says, I'm glad you'd give your life for me. I just wish you would help me with the dishes. You see, we can say these impressive things, but they need to be backed up by actions The idea here is that a husband should make daily sacrifices that demonstrate his love for her. What does that look like in real life? I can remember years ago in our former church building in the back there, talking to a man and his wife. They'd been married for three months. And I ask him to tell me about himself and he says, oh man, I love dirt track racing. That's what I'm all into. He says, when I'm not working , I'm either racing a car or I'm working on a car that I'm about to race. That's what I do with my free time. And I looked over at his new wife and she had this sullen look on her face. And I said to him, young man, do you want to have a marriage that lasts a long time? And he says, yes. And I said, you're going to have to change. That can't be what you do with all of your free time. You have a wife now. That has to take a secondary role So what are you going to have to do to be a loving husband? Let me give you some practical instructions. It means that your hobbies cannot take precedent over your wife It means that you must sacrificially spend time with your wife. What does every woman who comes into my office with a marriage problem say? I have no time with my husband. I just wish I had his attention. It means that you're going to need to set aside time to talk with her This is a huge problem. You know, when a husband's courting his wife, he goes out with her and they go for walks and they talk and they talk and they talk and they talk for hours and hours. And then so often when they get married, the communication stops. And so often the husband will have a job that requires him to talk a lot. And to communicate a lot, and when he comes home, he's all talked out. He doesn't want to talk to anybody else And the wife, perhaps, who's been at home with the children, she hasn't had anybody to talk to. And so finally her husband's home and she says, now, just like in our courting days, we're going to sit down, we're going to talk for two hours. And he has no desire to talk He needs some stress relief. He doesn't want to talk about his day. This is often a rude awakening. to the young couple. But a husband who is going to love his wife sacrificially is going to have to intentionally set aside times and plan times where he's going to talk to his wife about his life, about what he's thinking, about what's going on, about things that really matter. So often I hear people say , That the only thing they ever talk about are superficial things like who's picking up the kids and what's for dinner. That's the extent of their communication. In order for a marriage to thrive, there needs to be much more conversation than that. Getting married is not the end of the relationship, man. It's not the end of the game. It's only the beginning. And one of the great laws of the universe is that you reap what you sow. Man, if you ignore your wife, your marriage will suffer, and you will suffer. That is biblical. Turn with me to Ephesians chapter 5 if you're not already there. I want you to notice the unusual way that Paul appeals to men at the end of this chapter. He says in verse 28, so ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself. For no man ever yet hateth his own flesh, but nourisheth and cherisheth it, even as the Lord the Church. For we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones. For this cause shall man leave his father and mother and shall be joined unto his wife, and they two shall be one flesh. This is a great mystery. But I speak concerning Christ in the church. Nevertheless Let every one of you in particular so love his wife even as himself, and the wife see that she reverence or respect her husband. Now let me pause and explain something at the beginning here in verses 28 and following. You might object and say, you know, it says I'm supposed to treat my wife like my own body, but you know, if I treated my wife like my own body, I wouldn't be being very loving to her. I mean, I don't go to doctors, I don't eat right, I don't exercise like I should. The body here is being used to refer to the whole person. Notice how it is summarized in verse 33. Nevertheless, let every one of you in particular so love his wife even as himself. What it's saying is this, man , if you treated your wife with the same attention and same devotion that you give to yourself, she would feel like a queen. The fact is, we are all naturally self-focused. And it's saying this: if you thought about her as much as you think about yourself, she would be overwhelmed with your love. If you defended her interests like you do your own, she would feel very secure. If you spent your money on her like you do yourself, she would feel treasured And if you gave her the time that you give to yourself, she would feel valued indeed. Man, this is what God has called us to do. This is sacrificial love, giving of ourselves. to meet the needs of our wife. A Christian marriage requires humility because. . It requires us to humbly face our pride and selfishness . because it requires us to die to self, and thirdly, and finally, because a Christian marriage requires us to humbly forgive one another. Turn with me to the book of Colossians. Colossians chapter 3. Colossians 3, 18 and 19. Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands As it is fit in the Lord. Husbands, love your wives and be not bitter against them. Where there is no forgiveness in marriage, there will be bitterness. Because we are flawed, sinful creatures. It is impossible for us to live together in that close union without sinning against one another on a somewhat regular basis. This is true of the very best marriage that you've ever known. We're so fallen and so selfish that two people cannot live like that without there being friction and problems. And often they are never resolved. They just begin to pile up as the marriage goes on until they overwhelm the marriage and bitterness begins to grow in the hearts of both the husband and wife as they meditate on all of the ways they have been mistreated and sinned against, and it stifles communication. And eventually, if left unchecked, that bitterness will destroy the marriage and it will be ended. This is why so many people come into my office and say their marriage is over. They say things like this. We are two strangers who live under the same roof. And whenever we actually talk about an issue, we have the same conversation, the same angry words, we refer to the same incidents in the past, and nothing is ever resolved. So many Christian people have learned over the years very bad habits about dealing with their conflicts. And they don't go about it in a biblical way. Very quickly, I'm going to give you seven biblical instructions for conflict resolution. Number one, if your spouse has truly sinned against you and you cannot get past it, it is affecting the way you respond to them. You cannot Love them as you ought because of that that that hindrance, that wall that's come between you, then you must talk to them about it. The Bible says there's a time for us to forbear that because we love them, and it says that love covers a multitude of sin, there's some smaller transgressions that we can just kind of pass over and not make a capital case out of it. because of our love for the individual and we're able to move past it and deal with them as we did before. But sometimes things come up that we can't get past. And in that case, there needs to be loving confrontation. Luke 17 says verses 3 and 4, if thy brother trespass against thee. Rebuke him. The idea there is not that you yell at them, but that you bring it to their attention. And if he repent, forgive him This is the biblical motto. I think far too often we tend to err on the side of just, I'm not going to bring it up. I don't want to make matters worse. And then there's one sinful episode after another, after another, after another, and they begin to pile up, and bitterness and anger and resentment grow. Until finally the day comes when one says to the other, you know what? I'm done. I'm finished here. Because they've never dealt with this and it's piled up in their married life. This is why we must often confront our brother and sister in Christ with the truth. The second point about conflict resolution, and I say this in all of my premarital counseling, is that you must not allow anger to fester in your hearts. Ephesians chapter 4 says Be ye angry and sin not. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath, neither give place to the devil. And I tell young couples, no matter how inconvenient it is, you need to settle matters before you go to bed. Don't go to sleep enraged and furious with the other person because what happens if you go one night like that? You might go two, you might go three, and before you know it, you haven't talked to that person in two weeks. No, settle things quickly. Whatever you do, you must not shut out your spouse with the silent treatment. This is a very common tactic. This is the one way that sometimes people deal with conflict. I'm just going to pretend they don't exist and give them the cold shoulder. That is arrogant and sinful and destructive to your marriage. Thirdly, you must not attack each other personally. Ephesians chapter 4 says, let no Corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto the hearers, and grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of bitterness. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. Yelling and screaming have no place in a Christian home. One angry exchange can cause problems for years. I cannot tell you how many times I've had people in my office And they'll say, this is what my spouse said to me 12 years ago. This is what my spouse said to me 27 years ago. And they remember it word for word and they think about it all the time. and they were so devastated by it, and that spouse can say again and again, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but it's still in their head. This is what we must avoid doing, attacking one another personally. When you know someone, when you've been married to them for a while, you know the areas where they are very sensitive about Where they are very vulnerable. And if you use that information to attack them and wound them, you will do damage to your marriage that you may never ever be able to repair because there will be no trust. And then you must be ready and eager to forgive your spouse, verse 32 of Ephesians 4 says, and be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. A good marriage is made up of two people who know how to forgive one another. And I'm not just saying words. They really mean it. They don't hold that against them. And every single squabble they have, they don't resurrect. That little little bag of transgressions and pull them out one at a time and say, let's review the facts, shall we? We need to forgive. A failure to forgive is a manifestation of pride. It is saying, I want to hurt you more than I want healing. I want revenge more than I want reconciliation. Number five, seek help from other Christians if you come to an impasse So often, this is the norm. When people finally get to the place where they're seeking marriage counseling, it's almost too late if it's not already too late. I can't tell you how many times I've had people come into my office for marriage counseling and they say, we decided to split up. What? I didn't even know you had a problem. Neither did anybody else. And I always say, why didn't you come like three years ago and start talking about this? Well, you know, we didn't want people know we had problems. We don't know people to know that we're struggling. Sometimes when two people who are married to one another know each other so well that they come to an impasse and they need a third party to help them out. To show them the way. It doesn't have to be a pastor, doesn't have to be a licensed counselor. They need a Christian brother or sister with discernment to say, listen, this is what I hear from you, and this is what I hear from you, and you're both wrong. Or this is what I hear. And there's hope for this. Listen to this. Listen to what you're saying to one another. A third party can make a huge difference, but the reason why so often we never seek help is because we're too proud to seek help. Number six, regular confess your faults to each other. James 5. 16 tells us this. In a healthy marriage The two people can really share without fear of reprisal how they have failed one another. And the other person will not use it as a weapon against them, but they will accept it as the other person trying to strengthen the marriage and to heal any wounds that might be there. And this builds trust and intimacy. And then number seven, I'll conclude with this. You need to pray together. James 5. 16 says we should pray with one another. An important verse for this in reference to marriage is found in the book of 1 Peter. You can turn there if you would like. This will be the last passage that I mentioned this morning. 1 Peter chapter 3 and verse 7 Says, likewise ye husbands dwell with them according to knowledge, giving honor unto the wife as under the weaker vessel, and as being heirs together of the grace of life. that your prayers be not hindered. And let me just say when he says weaker vessel, he's not saying that she's inferior. He's saying that she's like a delicate work of art, something that you treasure and protect with your life. And why is he, why is the husband tasked here with dwelling with his wife according to knowledge and loving her in this way? That your prayers be not hindered. Now that may be a reference to just the husband's prayers, but many scholars think it's talking about their time of prayers together, the husband and wife. wife. You see, it'd be very hard to pray with your spouse if you're really angry at them. It becomes a barometer of where your marriage is. One of the things I ask married couples when they come into me and they're having problems, I ask them this question, do you guys pray together? Almost always I hear silence. Staring at the floor. I think that probably the vast majority of Christian marriages that the husband and wife don't pray together. Maybe every once in a blue moon when there's a huge crisis involving the kids, but generally they don't pray together. And I asked myself, how can this be? You both love the Lord. That's supposed to be the most significant relationship in the world to you. And second is your relationship with one another. It says here in this passage that your heirs together of the grace of God, what you have in common, is incredible. You're not only husband and wife, but you're children of the king. How incredibly sad that most Christian couples, it seems, do not pray together. You've probably heard before that the family that prays together stays together. This is not just a sentimental slogan. truth. Praying. If a husband and wife would do two things, if they would pray for one another in your own private time of prayer. One of the very first things on your list, men should be praying for your wife. And women, one of the very first things on your list that you pray about should be your husband. So you pray for each other and then you pray together. It makes such a difference. If you would have that strong spiritual bond of open communication when you both bow your knees before the throne of grace and you come both as sinners who have been saved by grace, And you pour out your your common request and concerns about your life together and about your children and your family. How that would strengthen the bond and open up avenues of communication. But it takes humility. On the part of both to do this. A man named Keith Miller wrote a book on marriage in which he makes this perceptive comment. He says, the soul of marriage can be a tristing place where two people come together quietly from the struggles of the world and feel safe, accepted, and loved. Or it can be a battleground where two egos are locked in a lifelong struggle for supremacy, a battle for the most part invisible to the rest of the world. May God help us to take the better path and to establish marriages that are full of honesty and humility and love. Let's close in prayer. Father, we cannot do what you've called us to do apart from your grace. To die to self, to put others before ourselves is unnatural and difficult. But Father, it's the only way to have strong, vibrant Christian homes. I pray that you would grant us that grace. I pray that you would help us To obey what you have said, use something that's been said today to strengthen our marriages in this assembly, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.