In civil government. And actually we have passages like Romans 13 where we find government officials called servants. Of God, that they are the servants of God for good for us. The first Gentile convert in Acts chapter 10 was a government governmental official. He was a centurion. We have Cornelius the the centurion. We have an interesting passage of scripture in Luke chapter 3 where John the Baptist is questioned first of all by tax collectors and then by soldiers. Now that we've repented, what should we do? And he says, they said, teachers, what shall we do? And he said to them, collect no more than you are authorized to do. He doesn't say, You shouldn't be a government worker. You should not be involved in civil government. He says, collect no more than you're authorized to do. Don't scam people Soldiers also asked him, and we, what shall we do? And he said to them, Do not extort money from anyone by threats or by false accusation, and be content with your wages. So if Christians shouldn't have been involved in civil government, that would have been the place for John to address that issue. You should not have any involvement in civil government, but he doesn't. The command here doesn't prohibit Christians from involvement in civil government, but rather from you might say it would prohibit Christians from being Agitators, political agitators, provocateurs, people that are known for stirring up trouble in politics or civil government, causing dissent for the sake of dissent. especially in the pursuit of selfishness and vanity and making a name for oneself. It would prohibit Christians from being classified as what would be political agitators who enjoy simply agitating for selfish reasons. Christians here are described as people that should be known for living Quiet lives in obedience to civil authority. And obedience to authority in general. They are known for living Quietly in obedience. Christians should not be known for political agitation, but rather for respectful obedience to authority as ordained by God. We can see a couple examples of this in 1 Peter chapter 2. We have this long passage of Scripture detailing the responsibilities of believers to be submissive to various forms of authority. And he begins in verse 12, saying, Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable, so that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. Be subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution, whether it be to the Emperor as supreme or to governors as sent by him to punish those who do evil and to praise those who do good. For this is the will of God, that by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people. Christians are commanded to live in subjection to authority, to be known as those who are quick to obey civil authority. in every place that civil authority is rightly being used. He says, keep your conduct among the general Gentiles honorable. So they may accuse you of all sorts of things, but when they look at your life as lived out in the public sphere, they have nothing to say because you're living in a way that is honorable, that is submissive, that is a benefit. And he says at the very end, for this is the will of God that by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people. So Christians above all people should be known for our willingness to obey all forms of civil government. That is legitimately being used, meaning not being used against the direct commands of Scripture. Related to this, in this idea of living quietly, we see that Christians are to be known for their prayer for and promotion of stable civil government that allows for freedom of worship. We should be the people that are promoting stable government so that churches can effectively do the work of evangelism, so that we can effectively disciple believers. You can look at 1 Timothy chapter 2. And Paul instructs the believers, first of all, then I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people, for kings, and for all who are in high positions. that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life. There's that word. Godly and dignified in every way We are to be a people that are not only living in obedience to authority, but that we're also praying for those that are in authority over us for the purpose of we want freedom to do the work of evangelism. Now, when you think of the Apostle Paul, the Apostle Paul seemed to be everywhere he went into, every time he went to a new town. There was problems. There were problems. He was brought before civil magistrates, but not for the disobedience of right laws But for preaching the gospel. So there may be times when preaching the gospel brings you before civil magistrates and you've done nothing wrong. And you've actually been glorifying to God in your proclamation of the gospel. But we should never be those that are called in before civil magistrates, before civil government, because we have been disobedient. And we've been living wicked lives, and we have done that which is not pleasing to God and not pleasing to man. We're to be praying for our government, governmental leaders. On a regular basis, we need to be praying for our governor, the mayors, the city councilmen, the school board officials, for our president, our senators, our congressmen. We are to be praying for them to have wisdom to make right laws, just laws. So that we can lead peaceful and quiet lives, godly and dignified in every way So that the laws don't interfere with our call and our responsibility before God. We ought to be praying for their salvation. We ought to be praying for God to work in their lives to draw them to Christ. But we are to be known for this. Tertullian, who was a second-century believer and author, he wrote, We pray for all the emperors that God may grant them long life. This is what Christians do. A secure government, a prosperous family, vigorous troops. A faithful Senate, an obedient people, that the whole world may be in peace, and that God may grant both to Caesar and to every man the accomplishment of their just desires. This is how Christians respond to civil government. We want to promote the just outworking of civil government so that we can live peacefully and quietly in obedience to what God has called us to do. And so we ought to be prayerful about that. This is what Christians have historically done. Another aspect that we see by this term quietless is that Christians are to be known for living quiet and peaceful domestic lives. A quiet life also means a life that is free from what we might say drama, free from contention and drama. So I think about this in the way that you're known in the community. If you live in a neighborhood, what do your neighbors think about your marriage? What do they think about you and your family? Do they think that your family is a peaceful, harmonious family? Or do they think that you're known for arguments and cursing and fighting? What do your children think about your marriage? What type of testimony do you give? Are you known as being quiet and peaceful? In the home? Is your home a home of peace or is it full of arguments and contention? That doesn't mean there can't be boisterous, joyful communication, but is it peaceful? Joyful communication? Or are there explosive outbursts and Cold War style truths where Verbal weapons are prepared for mutually assured destruction. What is the home like? What is the testimony of your marriage in the community? We already looked at 1 Peter chapter 2. We see these different relationships to authority. And the same word that we have here, quiet, is found again in chapter 3 of 1 Peter. 1 Peter chapter 3. Speaking of the wife's responsibility to live a quiet life. So it's not it's all Christians that are live quietly. But also the wife has a unique responsibility to have a gentle and quiet spirit, especially talking about here before an unbelieving husband. And the power Of a gentle and quiet spirit. Not only is that a wife's opportunity to win her husband through that, but as you see, that this is a command for believers, male or female, to live this way in the community, there is a power In a quiet life, in a peaceful, harmonious, joyful He says in 1 Peter 3, verse 3, do not let your adorning be the external, the braiding of hair and the putting on of gold jewelry. or the clothing you wear, but let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious. So this is the encouragement that Peter gives to the women who are married to unbelieving husbands, or husbands who are who are not spiritually mature. You don't win them by irritability or a nagging domineering. You win them by a gentle and quiet spirit that follows Christ in humility and in joy and in love. The quiet words of thankfulness and praise instead of harsh words of complaint. The power of a gentle and quiet spirit. We find here that those are not only pleasing to God, but they're pleasing to all people. There's a powerful testimony in a gentle and quiet spirit. What is that testimony? Confidence in God. Confidence in God. A gentle and quiet spirit is exhibiting my God is in control. And I can rest in his authority. My God is in control in my marriage, and I can rest in him. My God is in control in the government. He rules in the affairs of men, and I can rest in him. It's a confidence in God. And so what Paul is addressing and what Peter is addressing is, do you hope in God? Do you have a confidence in the sovereign control of God in your life that allows you to live quietly? Or are you agitating Because you aren't resting in the sovereign control of God. You can think of this in the office. In the office, are you the center of conflict? Or are you a peacemaker Are you a gossip that stirs up strife, or are you one that seeks to put out strife? Do you de-escalate? Or do you always find yourself in the center of conflict? Christians should be known as peacemakers. Blessed are the peacemakers. We are called to this. We are called to be doing this wherever we are. So he says to the Christians, aspire to live quietly. Make it your ambition to live quietly. Secondly. Brotherly Christian love means that we mind our own affairs. In verse 11, the latter part, he says, Aspire to live quietly and to mind your own affairs. You might say to mind your own business. Paul says, live quietly, mind your own business. And he rebukes what is commonly known as busybodiness. We all know a busybody when we see it, and it usually is something that drives us crazy. But idleness is frequently Behind someone who is a busybody. You've all heard the phrase that an idle mind is the devil's workshop, and that's true in a variety of areas. But the New Testament equates frequently idleness with being idle. A busybody being involved in other people's affairs. And what we're seeing here in this passage, I believe, is a result of idleness. In Second Thessalonians chapter three, if you were to look at I don't think I have it in our notes. No, I don't. 2 Thessalonians chapter 3, just over a few pages from where we are. We're going to look at this passage in a few moments. But in verse 11 of 2 Thessalonians chapter 3, this is written just after 1 Thessalonians, still on the heels of the report that Timothy gave to Paul. And he says, For we hear that some among you walk in idleness, not busy at work, but busybodies. You're not working. You're putting your finger in other people's affairs. You're putting your nose in where it doesn't belong. And he says, we see this as a serious problem. In 1 Timothy, we have an interesting passage of scripture. Paul instructs young widows not to seek to be put on the care of the church. Meaning, if you're a young widow, Of marriageable age, you should not be brought under the dole of the church, being financially provided for by the church. Rather, you should seek to remarry. And he says, because if you are at that age, you are going to find yourself with tempted with idleness to become a busybody. He says in 1 Timothy 5, besides that They learn to be idlers, going about from house to house, and not only idlers, but also gossips and bid busybodies saying what they should not. So I would have younger widows marry, bear children, manage their households, and give the adversary no occasion for slander. Young widows were cared for by the church financially. But they were not allowed to be on the roll of the care of the church until they were at least 60 years of age. And so they were encouraged, if they were younger widows of marriageable age, that they were to pursue that and not be brought under the financial care of the church, because the danger is too much time. An idle mind is the devil's workshop. And it causes problems. And the evidence of that is seen by the instruction that is given there. So Paul is urging the believers to take responsibility for their own life, take responsibility for their work, their duties. He tells them very clearly, mind your own business. Take responsibility for your own work. Don't worry about the work that others are doing Be focused on managing your work, not the work of others. Be focused on managing your household, not the management of the household or households of others. Be focused on raising your children, not how other people should be raising their children. Be focused on having a Christ-exalting marriage, not the problems that you think need to be addressed in other people's marriages. Be focused on your matters. It says, live quietly, mind your own affairs. So what this command is a pretty straightforward command, but there's some ways that we could maybe misinterpret this. So I think it's important to address what this command doesn't mean. It doesn't mean that we are to ignore sin in the life of other believers. Well, you know, Paul said to mind my own business, so I'm not even going to Approach my brother who I know is in sin. Well, no, that's not right either. Galatians 6. 1 says, brothers, if anyone is Caught in any transgression. You who are spiritual, restore him in a spirit of gentleness. The difference here is one of a busybody who isn't really concerned about restoring, but maybe uses spiritual terminology to gossip about that person to the rest of the congregation, but and then the person who is spiritual says, No, I want to help my brother. You ever wondered though How do I know if I'm the right person to do this? Or is this something that I need to just cover over? The Bible says that that love covers the multitude of sins. So maybe this is something I need to cover over and I don't need to approach. Well you should ask yourself, first of all, am I the right person to address this? Am I a spiritual person? Jesus talks about this reality in Matthew chapter 7. Have I removed the log from my own eye first, so that I can see clearly to help my brother? Is there an area of sin in my life that I'm refusing to deal with? Well, if there is, then I need to deal with my own sin first Before I try to help someone else with their sin. Is this the right way? Am I doing this privately? Am I doing it gently? Am I doing it humbly? Is it the right time to do it? You can look at this and think as well , Is this something I should cover over, or is this something I should address? Is this a serious sin that will have serious ramifications on their life Does this demonstrate a pattern of sinfulness in their lives that I fear is beginning to control them? Are others being harmed by their sin? Not just myself, are others being harmed by it? Is it possible that they're self-deceived and they don't realize what's going on? And do I have a relational responsibility? Maybe I am a close friend and I need to address this. Or I'm a father and I need to address this in my children. Do I have a relational responsibility to deal with this? So, first of all, it doesn't mean we ignore sin in the life of a believer. It also doesn't mean that we refuse to help those in need. This could be another False application of this. Mind your own business. This brother has a need. I'm not going to help him because I'm minding my own business. I'm not going to step in and help where I can. We have clear instruction about that in 1 Timothy as well. He says, As for the rich in this present age, charge them not to be haughty, nor to set their hopes on the uncertainty of riches, but on God. who richly provides us with everything to enjoy. They are to do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous and ready to share. So we do have this this balancing reality of this command. I'm to mind my own business, but I'm also to recognize that I have a responsibility to care for those who have needs, but I'm to take greater responsibility. The thrust of this command is that I am to work in my life and be focused on my responsibility so I'm not pawning them off on someone else. It also doesn't mean that we withdraw from community. Hebrews 10, 24 is pretty clear. Let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another. And all the more as we see the day approaching. So this command doesn't mean we ignore sin in the life of an of a believer. Doesn't mean we refuse to help those in need. And it doesn't mean that we withdraw from community. This is a temptation, I think, that probably wasn't as big of a temptation in first century Cecilon Ica. The idea of withdrawing from community. But in America, we have an independent streak that's a mile wide. And we have this tendency to like, I can do it on my own, and I don't need anybody. That's not the way we've been created to live. We have been created by God to be a part of a family, a body of believers. We are interdependent in our relationship one to another. And the independence freak is has positives, but it also has negatives. And so we need to be careful not to allow this independence streak to cause us to withdraw from community and put ourselves in a place where we can be helped by our brothers and sisters in Christ. We continue on in this verse, verse 11. The next point, brotherly Christian love. means that we should work with our hands. He says that specifically, and to work with your hands as we instructed you. Now, I don't believe that this is saying White collar work is somehow invalid. That if you work a desk job, you're not pleasing to God, you have to be working with your hands. That's not the the thrust of this passage of scripture. It's commanding Christians to work. to provide for their own needs, to not be a drain on society, to not be a drain on the church but to work with your own hands to provide for your own needs. And the thrust of this is that all legitimate work is honorable. All legitimate work is honorable. That means there is some work that's illegitimate, that's contrary to God's commands, but all legitimate work is honorable. And it seems pretty clear that there were Thessalonians who were living in idleness that had maybe for one of a couple reasons Abandoned work. Perhaps they took the teaching about the imminent return of Christ as an excuse to quit working. You know, we've seen this in the past where people put dates on the return of Christ. 8888. You know, we've we've seen this even in more recent times. Where people said, you know, Christ is coming back on this date, and so people quit their jobs, they sold their houses, they did all sorts of crazy things. And he said, no, that is not how you are to live. We don't know the day or the hour. You are to live faithfully until Christ returns. And we we s we see this as a as a serious reality with the Thessalonian church. Perhaps They also took advantage of the fact that they are commanded to show brotherly love. This happens in every generation in the church. People take advantage of the generosity of believers, and they refuse to work, and they Fall on the kindness of the church. Paul and his missionary team, however, set an example of self-sufficiency. Look back at chapter 2 and verse 9. And he brings us out multiple times through this epistle. He says, For you remember, brothers, our labor and toil We worked night and day that we might not be a burden to any of you while we proclaim to you the gospel of God. He said, this is our example. The example we're setting we set for you is what we expect of you to do as well, to work hard, to provide for your own needs. to not be a burden on anyone. If you are able to, you are to provide for your own needs. This flies in the face, really, of Of what the Greek mindset, the Roman and Greek mindset was at this time. We actually have a quote from Plutarch who was born right around the time of the writing of 1 Thessalonians. So he is really clear. This is an AI generated picture from a uh from a s uh carving of Plutarch, but I think the picture looks a little bit better than the the the carving. So I said, make me a picture with brown hair. And that's that's what uh Chat GPT did But um Plutarch was it reflects the mindset of the Greco-Roman world at this time And he describes it this way: while we delight in the work, meaning the product, not the actual working, but the product of the work, we despise the workmen. As for instance, in the case of perfumes and dyes, we take a delight in them, but dyers and perfumers we regard as illiberal and vulgar folk. That's the mindset of the Greco-Roman aristocracy. The workers. Ooh. Working with your hands, how gross, how below us. But we like the work that they do, and we appreciate the labor that they give us, but that's not something to be valued. The Christian mindset is entirely different than that. It flips that idea on its head and says, work is honorable. Working with your hands is good. Manual labor is glorifying to God. Or at least it can be. The Jewish people upheld the dignity of all forms of labor and regarded work as an obligation. In fact, every Jewish boy, even those from wealthy families, was taught a trade. Not just a profession, but a trade. The Jewish rabbis also worked at a trade to earn their livelihood. That's why we find the example of Jesus being a carpenter or Paul, being a tent maker, they had a trade that they would use. They could work with their hands. Christianity took the Jewish idea and made work a holy endeavor. It is a good thing. Colossians 3. 17 says, and whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. So Christianity says, work is good. Working with your hands is an honorable profession, and it is a it's a way to glorify God The Protestant Reformation expanded this again. Martin Luther in particular raised the dignity and honor of legitimate work. Martin Luther taught That the farmer shoveling manure and the maid milking her cow please God as much as the minister preaching or praying. As we work in our God-given station in life, we become agents of his providential care. God is milking the cows through the vocation of the milkmaid. Through our hands, God answers the prayer of his children. We pray for daily bread at night, and bakers rise in the morning to bake it. The same holds for clothing. God gives the wool, but not without our labor. If it is on the sheep, it makes no garment. I like that line. If it's on the sheep, it makes no garment. We have to work to provide for the prayers. Give us this day our daily bread. Well, that means the baker has a noble task. Because the baker is at work in that God-glorifying task of making bread, our daily bread. And so we see that this is something that is pleasing to God. And Paul addresses this with the Thessalonian believers. You ought to be working. You ought not to be sitting at home or going from house to house, living off the dole of the church or believers, but you ought to be working and working hard. There is nobility, there is goodness in work. It seems that at this point Timothy had brought back a report of this problem when he returned from Thessalonica in 2 Thessalonians chapter 3. Just go forward a few pages. We already looked at one verse from this passage of scripture But in 2 Thessalonians chapter 3, beginning in verse 6, there's this warning against idleness. And many commentators have seen this down through the ages as a result of their eschatology leaving them an excuse. Leaving an excuse to not work. Christ is coming back, so I'm just going to live off the generosity of church people until he does. But he says, Now we command you, brothers, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that you keep away from any brother who is walking in idleness, and not in accord with the tradition that you receive from us. For you yourselves know how you ought to imitate us. Because we were not idle when we were with you, nor did we eat anyone's bread without paying for it. But with toil and labor we worked night and day, that we might not be a burden to any of you. It was not because we did not have that right But to give you in ourselves an example to imitate. For even when we were with you, we would give you this command: if any one is not willing to work, let him not eat. For we hear that some among you walk in idleness, not busy at work, but busybodies. Now, such persons we command and encourage in the Lord Jesus Christ to do their work quietly. And to earn their own living. You see again this this idea of quietness, minding your own affairs, working with your own hands, providing for your own needs, not being out in the community agitating. But being busy with the work that God has called you to do. And he gives this command, if anyone is not willing to work, let him not eat. There's a powerful motivation to work that God has provided for us in our stomachs. Proverbs talks about this. A worker's appetite works for him. His mouth urges him on. I love that proverb. You know Let someone not have food for a little while and they'll find the motivation to go to work. God has designed it that way. Now, this is obviously not saying the people who are unable because of certain handicaps or difficulties that we shouldn't be generous to them. But an able-bodied person should be at work. They should be diligent in their labors. They should be providing for their own needs and the needs of their family. It is the Christian way. It is the example that Christ set for us. It is the example that Paul set for us. And this really is in the form of a command. Because this word here is actually a command that we are, if we go back to 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. He says, aspire to live quietly, to mind your own affairs, to work with your own hands, as we instructed you. That word instructed is a word that means to command or to give an order. As we ordered you. This is the instruction that we gave you when we were with you. It's interesting, the gospel changes. One of the joys of being involved in ministry in Tanzania was watching the gospel come in and change lives. And how do you know when a thief is no longer a thief? It's not when they stop stealing, but it's when they start giving to other people, working with their own hands to give to the needs of others In Ephesians 4. 28 it says, Let the thief no longer steal, but rather let him labor, doing honest work with his own hands, so that he may have something to share with anyone in need. There's a young man that used to be a thief and came into our house on a regular basis and I had to kick him out on multiple occasions because I caught him stealing. But when he came to know Christ, he learned a trade. And he became generous with the money that he earned from his labors. And he gives to the work of the ministry now. There's the complete transformation of a life. Christians are to be known for their hard work and their generosity because the gospel has transformed us. And the last thing we see here is that the reason for this behavior, and it's found in verse 12 of 1 Thessalonians 4. He says, so that you may walk properly before outsiders and be dependent on no one. In order to have a proper testimony towards the unbelieving world. We need to be living quietly, minding our own business, working with our own hands, being diligent in the work that God has called us to. Few things harden a person to the message of the gospel that we preach, like laziness. You try to preach the gospel to someone and you're lazy and they're hardworking. Don't talk to me until you learn how to work. It hardens people to the message of the gospel. John MacArthur said, when believers display diligent work, attitudes and habits and live in a loving and tranquil manner that respect others' privacy. and does not intrude or gossip. It constitutes a powerful testimony to unbelievers and makes the gospel credible. That's a beautiful thing. The gospel is beautified by the lives that we live. Believers who sacrificially love other people and exhibit this tranquil living. Actually have the opportunity to proclaim the gospel in a powerful way. He says, so that you may walk properly before outsiders. The fact is that the world observes our lives. They observe our families. They they observe our our work, they observe our attitudes, they observe how we respond to government. We ought not be known as people who are constantly agitating in the government, but people who are faithful to pay our taxes. Faithful to obey just laws, faithful in serving in the community, that we add benefit to the community. And as we add benefit to the community, We gain an opportunity to proclaim the gospel. But if we are a drag on the community, then the gospel is profaned by our lives. So like Jesus said, let your light shine before men, so they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Not we're not supposed to be living in an ostentatious way. Look at me, but we're supposed to live our lives in such a way that as people observe it, they say, That's a transformed life. That's a beautiful life. That is a harmonious marriage. That is a glorifying work ethic. That is something that I want. And it draws people to the gospel. And lastly, he says a Christian should strive not to be dependent on the generosity of others. And it goes back to the first point. If you're living upon the generosity of others. We are adding an unnecessary burden on the church and diminishing the attractiveness of the gospel. That doesn't mean that a Christian can't fall on hard times, can't have difficulties that happen, and need the assistance of the body of believers. We 're commanded to do that. We're encouraged to do that, to bear one another's burdens. This happens. But this should not be the pattern of our living that we are living on the dole of others. And a Christian should not be dependent on the church or others, but should work hard to provide for his own needs. The unsaved in our community should think of us Independent, hardworking, no drama people. I hope that's the testimony that that we have in our in our workforces, in our community, that we are independent. hardworking, no drama people. The government should see the benefit of Christianity in our community. And they should see that when people come to know Christ, They leave the dole of the government and become producing people that benefit society And it's that type of testimony that makes the Christian faith attractive to the world. I just want to close with this one verse out of Titus chapter 2. Where Paul is addressing bondservants. He's addressing those who are under bondage to their masters. He said, bondservants are to be submissive to their own masters in everything. They are to be well-pleasing, not argumentative, not pilfering, but showing all good faith, so that in everything they may adorn the doctrine of God our Savior. That's the focus behind all of this, is that we do these things so that we adorn the doctrine of God our Savior. to give the greatest opportunity for the gospel to flourish in the community because they have nothing that they can lay a charge against us. I know a Christian who. You know, I know those Christians that do whatever. We don't want that. We want to lay leave them no charge. They can say Christians are a benefit to the community. Christians have great marriages. Christians work hard. Christians don't stick their noses in other people's business. Christians are a blessing. I wonder what their faith teaches that's so powerful. We need to be adorning the gospel of God through our lives. Let's pray. Father, thank you. for your instruction to us. I pray you'd help us to take this to heart and apply it in ways that only you know how they need to be applied. I pray that we would live quiet lives. That we would mind our own affairs, that we would work with our hands, that we would give no offense to the gospel. And Lord, that you would use us as a powerful testimony in the community for the glory of Christ our Savior. It's in his name we pray. Amen.