Have your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to Romans chapter three? One of the things that we so easily take for granted is the fact that we have the Bible in our own language. I think The vast majority of you here this morning have a Bible in your hands. If not, you probably have it on your phone. And if not, you have it in the pew in front of you. We have ready access to the Word of God. But it has not always been that way for believers. Before the age of the printing press, during periods of persecution. The Bible was a great treasure. It was rare, and it was not unusual for Christians in some part of the world, at least for a time. to maybe only have a portion of the Word of God, perhaps only a book that they had hand copied from someone else's copy. I wonder what book you would want if you could only have one. I suspect That there are many here that would choose the book of Psalms because it's so comforting. A lot of people enjoy having their devotions from the book of Psalms. Maybe you would choose the Gospel of John because of its beautiful, majestic description of our Lord? Or perhaps you would choose the book of Revelation. And its glorious climax of the return of Christ. But if you wanted to evangelize, if you wanted a book that explained the gospel , In a more detailed and theological way than any other, you would want the book of Romans. The Book of Romans. And if you could only have one page in the book of Romans that in a condensed way explained the gospel and how it functions, that page would be the end of Romans chapter 3. The passage that we come to today, Romans chapter 3, verses 21 through 26, which has been called by many the most significant paragraph in the Bible. This morning, I want to continue what I've been doing this month, and that is to preach the gospel. I preached about the wonderful truth, first of all, that you must be born again from John chapter 3. And then we looked at the necessity of repentance. And then we looked last week at the wonderful offer of forgiveness of sins. And now today I want us to come to the very heart of the gospel, which is the doctrine of justification. Now, when I was a boy, preachers would always say that justification means that God deals with us just as if we had never sinned. And perhaps you have heard that, and that is true. It is a wonderful but mind-baffling conception that God can deal with us in a judicial way as if we have never sinned. Justification is much greater than that. I often use this illustration, so pardon me if you've heard it before, but you know if you were a billion dollars in debt, And you had obviously no means of ever paying that off, and a wealthy benefactor came up to you and he wrote you out a check. for one billion dollars. I ask people, how much money do you have now? The answer would be zero. You're not in the hole anymore, but you have nothing. Justification is more than just that we have been declared not guilty. It is that But it's that we are righteous in Christ. It's like that same wealthy man took out his checkbook once more and now wrote your check for one billion dollars again. And now you have that credited to your account. Through the great doctrine of imputation, we have been imputed with the perfect righteousness of Christ. You see, saying just as it's I've never sinned, only tells half the story. It is really mind-blowing to consider this facet of the gospel. Now, the book of Romans It's all about righteousness. Everyone agrees, no matter what commentator or what theological perspective they come from, the key word of the book of Romans is righteousness. And many different forms of that word. Now, what does this mean, righteousness? It means conformity to a standard. The Bible talks about in the Old Testament. about a righteous scale, a scale that a merchant would use to weigh items Does that scale possess some type of holiness or moral virtue? No, it does not. It simply means that it's accurate that it's not skewed in favor of the merchant, that it reads things the way they truly are Righteousness means conformity to a standard. And the answer, the question that that Paul is answering in the first eleven chapters of this book of Romans is how can people who are inherently unrighteous be right with God And he begins in chapter 1 by saying that all Gentiles are condemned before God. They their lifestyle, their culture was filled with idolatry and immorality And I always remember this one preacher telling me that as that this book was first read, as it was first given, the very scrupulous and orthodox Jews, as they heard this first chapter, were saying, Amen, Paul. You tell them they're guilty. Those Gentiles, they are really, really far from God. They are condemned. But then he comes to chapter 2. And he shows that the Jews and all who seek to trust in their own obedience to the law of God and whatever moral uh uh standard they set are also condemned. Because they always come up short. So often they end up playing a game of hypocrisy. He says, where they tell people you should not steal, but they steal. Where they tell people, you should not commit adultery, but they commit adultery in their hearts. They play a game of hypocrisy as if God doesn't know what's really going on inside of them. And so in chapter 3 and verse 19, he comes to this conclusion. Romans 3 19. Now we know that what things soever the law saith, and saith to them who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped. And all the world may become guilty before God. Verse 20, conclusion. Therefore By the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. He says it's as if you have before God's judgment throne all of humanity. And as God is pronouncing them to be guilty, there are some people who want to protest and say, no, but wait a minute. But their mouth is shut. They are silenced because there's nothing they really can say in their defense. They are all justly condemned by the judge of all the earth. And then in verse 21, we come to this grand announcement. But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested, being witnessed. by the law and the prophets, that is referring to the Old Testament. The first thing that Paul states is that this righteous standing is available to all who believe. Look at verse 22. even the righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ, unto all, and upon all them that believe, for there is no difference. And when he says there is no difference, he means it doesn't matter if you are a religious Jew or if you're a pagan Gentile, this offer of salvation, this gospel of grace works for all. And the reason is, in verse 23, this famous verse, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. You see, whether we're Jew or Gentile, rich or poor, young or old, we all have the same problem. We all have the same disease. And it's sin. And so the same cure Works for all. That is the context of that famous verse that we use in a presentation of the gospel. The logic is that we all have the same problem. So how is it that sinful people can be justified or saved? How can sinful people be accepted by a holy God? This is the most important question in the world. And the answer is found in verses 24 and 25, which are the epicenter. of this gospel presentation, you might say the very heart of the gospel. Look at these verses. Being justified freely By his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God has set forth to be a propitiation Through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remissions of sins that are passed through the forbearance of God. Now there's an awful lot of theology in those two verses. But the unmistakable conclusion that we arrive at from the verses that I have just explained to you is this. That everyone here this morning, in fact, everyone in the world has a legal standing before God. You are either justified You are either guilty or not guilty. You either have the sentence of death upon you or the sentence of life You are either on your way to heaven or on your way to hell. There is no third status. There is no middle ground. The gospel divides humanity. Now we like a third option. We like many options so that it's not a binary, in or out, up or down kind of proposition. But this is the way the gospel is. This is the reality of the situation. And so this morning I want us to understand what justification is and three essential truths that you must know. Concerning this. These are overarching pillars of the gospel. The first one is found in verse 24, and it's this: that justification is by grace justice. Alone. And let me make sure you understand what justification is. If you were looking at a Greek Bible like many early believers, you would see that the term righteous, righteousness, and justification are all closely related. They have the same roots. Justification has to do with our righteous standing before God. This word comes from the law court The courts of law. It refers to the declaration of a judge. And it's exactly the opposite of the term condemnation. A judge in the ancient world and in many places still today had the authority to condemn someone to the death penalty. Or he had the authority to declare them to be not guilty. Justification, of course, is the latter. Justification means that God, the judge of all the earth, has declared us to be not guilty, but righteous because Of the death of the righteous one Jesus Christ in our behalf, and we have now been imputed with his righteousness. Now, I want to clarify what justification means by mentioning to you three things that it does not mean that often people get confused in their minds. First of all, justification is not amnesty. Amnesty means to pardon a group of people For past offenses simply by the decree of someone in authority. This is a power and authority that our founders gave to the office of the President of the United States. The President has the power, as you know , to acquit someone of a crime that they have committed. And it's a pretty far-reaching power. He doesn't have to make sure that justice was satisfied. He doesn't have to explain that this was actually a technicality, a miscarriage of justice. He can simply pardon that individual because he wants to. This is often controversial. It often makes many people angry. especially those who have been perhaps the victims of this person's crime, or those of the other political party who's uh the of the president at that time. But this is not biblical justification or forgiveness is not simply the matter of a decree because justice has been served Jesus Christ died in our place. This is how, this is how God can be righteous or just And yet justify sinful people like us. This is what verse 26 says. Says that he might be just and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus. How can he do that? Because the justice has been satisfied through the sacrifice of Christ That is the beauty of the gospel. It all fits together logically. Secondly, justification does not mean that we are made righteous. It means that we are declared righteously. You might think that's just a matter of semantics, splitting of hairs, that it doesn't matter, but that is not the case. It does matter a great deal. Christians, when they are justified, do not suddenly become sinless and perfect. There's a part of me that wishes that was the case. But God doesn't eradicate the sin from our being the moment we are However, at conversion, we are declared by God to be righteous. That is now our legal status before Him. And we at that moment begin the lifelong process of becoming righteous. Theologians call this progressive sanctification. It's our growth and grace is what we are to do the rest of our Christian lives on this earth. We are to die more and more to our sin and become more and more like Christ. We're all a work in progress. But our growth and grace, whether it stumbles and falls, and it's generally never a straight line going up like this That growth in grace does not affect our standing before our holy gods But so often Christians get that confused in their minds, and because they fail, because they stumble, because they come short They say and and they often have despair in their hearts, I must not really be a Christian, or I I'm just not sure I can really live this Christian life because you know I thought I was just going to become a mature godly, solid, stable, Christian and no time, and it hasn't happened. It's a growth in Grace. It's a work in progress. And there are ups and downs. But so often when we base our sense of closeness to God on our performance , We think he must really, really be disappointed with me. So there's no point in me going to church. There's no point in me reading my Bible. There's no point in me praying or trying to walk with him anymore because he has probably has his back turned to me and his arms folded and he wants nothing to do with me because he can't believe I did what I did. I want you to know that when he saved you, he knew all the things you were going to do. And your status before him. has not changed. It is still based in the merits of the death of Christ. And if you don't understand that, you won't have any stability in your Christian wall. Thirdly, justification does not mean that God is being unjust in declaring us to be not guilty. We all know that sometimes in our law courts, criminals get off the hook by technicality or because they have a really effective lawyer. God's declaration, however, is not like that. It is the reality of the situation. God is not pretending we are righteous. No, he sees us wrapped in the righteous robes of his perfect son. That is his view of us. And so we are, in this sense, in this judicial sense, we are righteous. He's not pretending, he's not turning a blind eye, but he sees us in Christ. We are not guilty because the demands of the law have been satisfied. And this righteous standing is due entirely to the grace of God. This is what we find in our text this morning. It says being justified freely by his Grace. This is not due in any way to our righteous achievements, to our keeping of God's law, to our Christian discipline. Let me show you how Paul pounds this truth. into the minds of his readers. Look with me at verse 20. Therefore, by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh. And what he means by that is no human being. Be justified in his sight. Look at verse 23. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Look with me at verse 28. Therefore we conclude That a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law. Look with me at the next chapter, Romans chapter 4, verse 4. Now to him that worketh is the reward not record of grace but of debt. But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted. For righteousness. You see, salvation has never been by works, it has always been by the grace of God through faith Now I want you to notice two positive expressions. We've talked about what justification is not. But he's going to say two positive things about what it is in verse 24. He says, first of all, it is freely. Notice this, we have been justified freely. That word freely means in the manner of a gift. I hope you've never given a gift, wrapped it up, given it to somebody, and they open it up And he said, you know, it's kind of expensive. I was wondering if you could uh you know help me out a little bit with that They would be really offended because the very nature of your giving it to them is that it's a gift. It is freely given. That's the way the gospel is. It's freely given. Justification is not earned, it's received like a gift. And then we read that we that this justification is given, it says, by his grace. Grace is God's favor bestowed upon undeserving people. We have done nothing to earn this standing. We have done nothing to merit his favor. In fact, we have done the exact opposite. We have earned the just condemnation of a holy God because we are all sinners, as it says in verse 23. We have all sinned and come short of the glory of God. And it's not like, you know, we just, we just missed it. I use this illustration sometimes. If you take a group of people and you were to take a bus trip to the Grand Canyon. And at its widest point, I'm told it's about seven miles from one rim to the other. And you were line them all up there and you say, now listen folks, this is kind of a field trip. We're going to see if we can jump from one side to the other. So everyone take a take a running start, go as far as you can. And you know there might be somebody there who's like um uh in in very infirm condition and and and and they just drop right off the edge. It's a horrible thing to think of. There's somebody there that might be a great athlete. And they they they run and they set the world's record and they jump over thirty feet out But whether they're an elderly person who's infirmed and went one foot out or thirty feet out, they both went the same place. We all come short of the glory of God. It's not close. No one's biting the oil's hat. Wonder if they're going to make it. No, it's not even close. We don't come close to fulfilling the glory of God because we are all sinners. By nature and by choice. This is a very unpopular message. Most people think that people are essentially good Now may ask you a question. Do you think that you deserve to go to heaven because you have lived a decent life? If you do, you're not alone. This is what most people instinctively believe. If you talk to them, ask them, do you think you're going to go to heaven? Let's say I think so. You know , lived a pretty decent life. You know, I've I've made some bad choices here and there. I've got some problems. Some issues in my life as we all do, but I I think I'm a good person. I'm a decent person. I think I'll make it. I think God will receive me I'm sure there are people here this morning that if I were to walk down and come over to your pew and talk to you casually about this, you would say something like this. You know, I hope so. I mean I've tried to do my best. I think I would make it. I want you to know that that is the wrong answer. That is a delusion from Satan. It's one of his most effective lies, and the Bible says he is the father of lies. It doesn't matter how many people believe it or how often you say it, it's not true. It will not sustain you in the day of judgment. The Bible says, For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. You can never earn your own way. You can never meet God halfway. You can never do your part when God does his part. Because even your righteousness is tainted with your sinful, selfish motives. They are filthy rags in the eyes of God. Before you can ever receive the gift of salvation, before you can ever Be saved. You have to come to grips with the fact that you cannot possibly save yourself You must realize that you are hopelessly lost and justly condemned for your unrighteous deeds. Ironically, it's only those Who become convinced of their unrighteousness, who will ever be declared righteous by God. Justification is by grace alone. That's the first great pillar of the gospel. The second is this, that justification is through Christ alone. Look at what it says in verse 24. Through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. How can a holy God acquit sinners? That is what Paul is going to answer next. And he'll do so with two significant theological terms intrinsic to Christ's saving work. The first one is redemption It says, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Redemption, of course, essentially means to buy back. And this term tells us two things about justification. First of all, our salvation is deliverance from slavery. The Greek term that is used in this verse was used to describe the release of a captive from slavery. It was used to describe also a release of a prisoner of war. Of a man who was sentenced to death, but it was most often used to depict a slave who was freed by his purchase from the slave market This is something that is very despicable, something that's not part of our modern culture, but it's taken place in most of the history of the world. And it's something that Paul's readers would have known well because about a third of the people in the Roman Empire either were or were at one time slaves. This word was used to describe Israel's release as a nation from the slavery of Egypt. Did you know that if you have not been justified by Christ, by God, you are a slave to sin? In John chapter 8 and verse 34 it says, Whosoever committeth sin is the servant or slave of sin. Often people object to this and they say, I'm not a slave to sin. And I will say to them, why don't you stop? The fact is, you are a slave to sin. As a lost person, you are in bondage to sin. Turn with me just a few chapters ahead to Romans chapter 6. I want you to see this for yourself. Romans chapter 6, verse 16. Paul says this, know ye not that to whom ye yield yourself servants to obey His servants you are, to whom you obey, whether of sin unto death or of obedience unto righteousness But God be thanked that ye were the servants of sin, but ye have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine which was delivered you, being made Free from sin, ye became the servants of righteousness. This doesn't mean that believers will never sin again, but we are not in bondage to sin. In fact, we are now the servants of Christ. This verse is telling us this amazing truth that everyone here Under the sound of my voice, everyone in the world is either a servant of God or a servant of sin. And ironically, to serve Christ is the only way to be free. The second truth that springs from this term redemption is the cost of our salvation. The specific term that's used And translated redemption here speaks of redemption by means of a ransom. A ransom is a course when some criminal holds someone hostage and demands a ransom, perhaps a payment. This is not as common today as it once was. But have you ever noticed that whenever a person gives their ransom demands It is never inexpensive. No one kidnaps the child of a celebrity and demands a $10 ransom. No, a ransom is a large number. It's something very costly. And in first Peter chapter one Verses 18 and 919, it says that we have been redeemed with the precious blood of Christ. That was the cost of our redemption. Salvation is free to us. It's freely given, it says in verse 24. But it required the brutal murder of the Son of God. But what exactly have we been freed from? Preachers have found it convenient in trying to clearly and in a concise way to answer this, have spoken of the three tenses of our salvation. First of all, we have been redeemed from the penalty of our sin. This as it were as in the past, if you're a believer, sometime in the past. We call this justification. Galatians 3. 13 says, Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law being made a curse for us. Secondly, we are being redeemed from the power of sin. This is what we call doctrinally as sanctification. Titus 2. 14 says, who gave himself for us that he might redeem us from all iniquity and purify unto himself a people zealous of good works. And thirdly, we will be redeemed from the presence of sin. This is known as glorification. 1 John 3 2 says, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. You see, Jesus came to save his people from their sins. And as the hymn writer put it, we will be saved to sin no more. That is the destiny of all the children of God. What a glorious redemption we have. And then we come to the second term. Which is even less well known, and that is propitiation. I want you to follow the logic of this passage. Paul says that we have been justified, that is declared righteous or not guilty. And someone asks, well how did that happen? And so Paul responds, We have been redeemed by the blood of Christ. And then someone asks, well, how did that secure our justification? And so Paul goes further and says that Christ was set forth to be A propitiation. Now what does this word mean, this term that we rarely use anymore? Well, it was an Old Testament term originally used to describe the Ark of the Covenants. Once a year on the Day of Atonement, the high priest would enter and sprinkle blood on that lid known as the mercy seat. to picture the concept of atonements. The theological word describes the satisfaction or absorption of God 's wrath against sinners. Many years ago I believe it was in Scotland a man was working on the roof of a very steep roof of a of a church, and he lost his balance and he fell off. fearing of course that he would indeed be killed, but he landed on a sheep. A shepherd was leading his flock by and he landed on top of this real fluffy lamb, the sheep that was on its way to be sheared, it was at its peak of softness, and that softened his blow. It killed the lamb, but it saved his life. And that is a picture of the cross. Jesus Christ absorbed the wrath of God that we have earned. And saved us by his death. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquity. And Jesus didn't just remove our guilt, this is technically known as expiation, but he removed the just wrath of God against us, that is, propitiation. Now when we think of someone filled with wrath, we might think of someone who's out of control. We all know people. Who have bad tempers, who can erupt any moment like a deadly volcano. God 's wrath is not at all like that His anger is rational, restrained, and completely under his control. Let me remind you that the Father sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. He sent his son to satisfy his just wrath. His wrath is the necessary response of a holy and righteous God to sinful people. So let me ask you this morning, are you under the just wrath of Almighty God? Sometimes people will respond to this question by saying, Well, I believe in a God of love. That's wonderful. I do as well. But God has more than just one attribute. John 3. 16 is perhaps the most famous verse. In the Bible, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. It's a wonderful verse that reveals the heart of God for lost perishing sinners and God's provision in his son. But in that same passage at the end of that chapter in verse 36, it says, He that believeth not in the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. The same loving Father who sent his son is also a God of wrath, and those who reject his son in unbelief will experience that wrath. But those who fail to trust in Jesus Christ are doomed to eternal destruction because they turned away from the only Savior that God has provided. This is the only way to escape the wrath of God. Justification is first of all by grace alone. It's through Christ alone. And the third pillar that I want you to see is this. The justification is through faith alone. This passage is very clear on this matter. In verse 22, notice what it says here in chapter 3, verse 22, it says, by the righteousness of God, which is by In verse 25 it says, whom God has set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, that is, faith in his atoning. sacrifice. In verse 26 it says, him which believeth in Jesus. And verse 27 it speaks of the law of faith. And in verse twenty eight it says, Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law. Salvation has always been by faith alone. What does this practically mean? Let me say that it doesn't mean as long as you believe in something you're okay. In our pluralistic culture, this is where we've come. People will say, well, you know, he's a man of faith. She's a woman of faith. Faith in what? Sometimes people will say it doesn't really matter what you believe as long as you are sincere. Or as long as you believe in God, that's all that matters. That is ridiculous. We could use illustration after illustration. It's not the sincerity or intensity of your faith that saves it is the object of your faith. And the only object of your faith that will save you is the Lord Jesus Christ. This is secondly not saying that if you simply agree that there was a Jewish carpenter named Jesus who died on a Roman cross about 2,000 years ago, then you're okay. I think most Americans know of that element of the gospel that sometime, somewhere, whether through a television program, through a Sunday school class, through a radio program, they have heard something of the gospel. Fortunately, and we thank the Lord for this, it is kind of woven into the fabric of our nation. And a lot of times people think that all that you have to do is nod your head to that truth, and you're good to go. You're a Christian. That is not what the Bible teaches. In James chapter 2 and verse 19, we read that the demons believe and tremble. And the same word that's found here in this passage for believe is the same word that's found there. There's not a distinction. The devils believe that Jesus is the Son of God. They know that He died on the cross But they have not committed themselves to him. They're not trusting in him. They're not obeying with him. They are against him. And intellectual assent is not enough. Saving faith is personal trust or commitment to Christ. It's receiving Him as your personal Lord and Savior. It is a supernatural response that can only be explained by the work of the Spirit of God. It is described as the opening of the eyes, as turning from darkness to light, as passing from death unto life. Salvation is a work of God. Now let me just say something carefully here. Sometimes it's very confusing to people. For some people, it happens in a very dramatic way in a moment of crisis. Like the Apostle Paul, who had that incredible vision on his road to Damascus. And for some people, it is as clear as day the moment they were saved. They can tell you when it happened, what time it was, and everything about it. And it was very dramatic in their life. But there are others who are true disciples of Christ, who came to Christ in a more gradual way through over a period of time. Now there was a moment When they passed from death unto life, but they may not know exactly, they may not be able to pinpoint when exactly that occurred. What is important Is where you are today. What are you trusting in right now? What are you resting in right now? What are you relying on right now as your hope of eternal life? Whether you were saved in a dramatic way, or whether you were saved in a gradual way, you have to have come to these elements of saving faith. Number one, at some time you have come to recognize that you have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Now that doesn't just mean that you recognize that you're not perfect because everybody knows they're not perfect. But it means that you realize that it's not just that you've wronged your mom and your dad or your co-worker or your spouse, but you have wronged God. David said, Against thee and thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight. And you have at some time come under the sense, you've come to the understanding that you're under the wrath of God, that you're in a perilous position, and that at that moment you are headed to hell. You realize that, that you're in a bad place. And thirdly, you recognize that your problem is your sin. That no matter how hard you have tried, you can't seem to stop sinning. And you have your besetting sin and your pet sins and the sin that you so easily fall into again and again, and you recognize that you are a slave to sin, and perhaps to some percent you hate your sin. You want to turn from your sin, but you feel powerless to do so But you have to come to the place where you're willing to turn from that sin. And you must come to trust In Christ and in Christ alone, that he died in your place, that he absorbed the wrath of God for you, that he is who he claimed to be, the Son of God, God in flesh. Who lived a perfect life and therefore was indeed the righteous one, and he died a substitutionary death. And if you come to him in faith, knowing that you are helpless to save yourself, and place your faith and hope in Christ alone, You will be saved. You will be justified. You will be declared righteous by the judge of all the earth. You will be declared not guilty, but righteous in Christ. That is the gospel. That is the gospel that God has revealed in his word and that is found written so clearly. And so technically and theologically here in Romans chapter 3, one of the greatest poets in the 18th century was a man named William Cooper. He was a very wealthy, aristocratic man from a prominent family, but he was very unstable emotionally. He tried to commit suicide on four occasions. He was put into an asylum for the mentally ill. And one day, while he was restlessly walking in the open courtyard of that asylum, with a troubled soul. He came to a table there in the outer garden where there was a Bible that was open to the verses that I've read for you today. Romans chapter 3. There was a Christian man who worked there, and he opened up Bibles to gospel texts and laid them there so that people would read them. And Calper Cooper, excuse me, sat down and he ri read verse 25, whom God has set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood. to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are past through the forbearance of God. And that troubled man was gloriously converted. And he would go on to write the great hymn, There is a fountain filled with blood. In many ways this hymn is autobiographical. He says in the final verse, Ere since by faith I saw the stream, thy flowing wounds supply. Redeeming love has been my theme and shall be till I die. Now for the last four weeks. I have preached the gospel to the best of my abilities. I've spoken to you about regeneration, about repentance , about forgiveness, and today The great doctrine of justification by faith. So my question to you this morning is: are you converted? Have you been saved? Are you right now Under the standing before God of condemned or justified, have you been born again? Let's close in prayer this eat this morning. Father, we know that we're dependent on you. We know that the hearts of sinners are incredibly stubborn in heart. And only the hammer of your word can break it. And so we ask that you would. We pray that the Spirit of God would do his work, would bring people to the conviction of their need of a Savior. and their other utter hopelessness to save themselves. I pray, Lord, that for someone today the light would have gone on. The gospel that has been regarded by them always in the past as nonsense would all of a sudden make sense. And they would see it as their only hope of salvation. I pray, Lord, that today you would draw sinners to the Savior. That your people might rejoice and that you might be glorified. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.