Give your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to Matthew chapter 18? Matthew chapter 18. If you're visiting with us, we started three weeks ago a study of the larger parables of our Lord. And this morning we come to a parable in Matthew 18. A mother once approached the Emperor Napoleon seeking pardon for her son. But Napoleon replied that her son was a criminal. He had twice committed a grave offense, and that justice demanded death. But the woman, the mother, would not be deterred. She said, But I don't ask for justice, I plead for mercy. And Napoleon said, But your son doesn't deserve mercy. And she said, Well, if he deserved it, it wouldn't be mercy at all. And the Emperor was so impressed that he said to her, I will have mercy on your son. and pardon him. I wonder if anyone would consider you to be a merciful person. I think we tend to think of mercy like extra credits. It's not something that is required of us, but it's nice if every once in a while you extend a little bit of mercy. But Jesus taught that the mercy of forgiveness is required of all his disciples. The next full-length parable that we encounter in the Gospel of Matthew is commonly known as the parable of the unmerciful servant. It was a parable given to the disciples. If you look with me at the beginning of this chapter, chapter 18, verse 1, it says, At the same time came the disciples unto Jesus, saying, Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? And then we have some extended teaching, but I read that verse to let you know that this was given exclusively to the disciples. This parable is the most extended teaching that the Lord ever gave on the issue of forgiveness, which is a topic that he touched on quite frequently. So this is an important passage for us to consider. And this parable was elicited by a question. Peter. Look with me at verse 21 of Matthew 18. Then came Peter to him and said, Lord, how oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Till seven times. Notice that Peter speaks here of his brothers saying against him. And this is because the Lord has been talking about Church discipline and a few verses earlier, if you look with me at verses 15 through 17, he gives a procedure for this. He says, Moreover, if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone, and if he shall hear thee, thou hast gain thy brother. But if he will not hear thee, then thou shalt take with thee one or two more, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. And if he neglect to hear thee, tell it to the church, but if he neglect to hear the church, let him be unto thee as a heathen man and a publican. Now the Lord went on to say some more things But Peter didn't really hear anything else because he began to have the wheels turn in his mind. He began to think there's got to be some sort of statute of limitations. I mean, if a guy keeps singing against you and you go to him and he says, Yeah, you're right. I I shouldn't have done that. And he repents of it and you extend forgiveness to him, and then that happens again, and then it happens again, and then it happens again. I mean, there's gotta be a limit somewhere, or else People could very easily take advantage of you. Have you ever thought about that? This was indeed a question that the rabbis debated. They said that a good Jew should forgive another. two or perhaps even three times, but on the fourth offense, you should refuse to forgive because he is going to take advantage of you. So Three is the outer limit. This was sort of like a three strikes and you're out policy that had been established. Now Peter knew that his master was very gracious and compassionate, and so he more than doubles. What was the standard number of forgiving offenses? Three. He goes all the way to seven. And certainly he expected that Jesus would pat him on the back and say, Peter, you're really learning. You're absolutely right. I mean you you you would be willing to forgive someone seven times? That's very commendable, Peter. That's the kind of response I feel certain that Peter thought he would hear from our Lord, but that's not what he's heard. Verse twenty two, Jesus said unto him, I say not unto thee until seven times, but until seventy times seven. Now there's some debate about whether or not the Greek text says 70 plus 7 or 70 times 7 But it makes no difference because these numbers are both symbolic of an unlimited forgiveness. You see, when you're keeping count of the number of times that others offend you, you're on the wrong track. I'm sure that Peter and the other disciples were stunned with our Lord's answers. They must have thought to themselves, How can that be? How can anyone offer unlimited forgiveness? And so the Lord explains to them. With one of his extended parables, this parable of the unmerciful servant. Now, this is a negative example parable. In other words, the point of this parable is: don't be like this guy. Sometimes you can learn a lot about people about how not to do things, right? That's one part of learning. And so it's a very effective way of teaching. And that is exactly what our Lord is doing here in this parable. In this parable, we see that Christians are called to forgive again and again without any statute of limitation. Now, I wonder how you feel about that statement. I suspect that for many of you, this teaching is hard to swallow. The fact is that there are many, many Christians who struggle with forgiveness. Especially with their brother and sister in Christ, because our thinking is they should know better. They should not sin against me this way because they're followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. In so many cases, we have children who are estranged from their parents, wives, from their husbands. And Christians from other followers of Christ. The worst testimony that the church can present to the world is a group of bitter people who just can't seem to get along. And the reason why our homes and our families and our churches are divided is because we have not followed what the Lord taught about forgiveness. Forgiveness is the key to healthy relationships. Let me ask you about your relationships. Do you have good relationships with family members, with church people? Or do you find that one of the great struggles you have in life is getting along with other people and you have in your own soul a list of grievances with others. And when you see that person, that's the first thing that pops into your mind. That's the person who did that or said that or snubbed me in this way. Forgiveness is the only way that you can have healthy, strong relationships with others. It's not just helpful, it's vital. But there's even a more significant ramification of this than that, and that is that how we forgive others reflects how well we understand the gospel. Can I just be real blunt? If you're here this morning and you really know this is an area of struggle, you really, really struggle with forgiving people and letting go of things. It could be that you are struggling to understand the very essence of the gospel. Because at the very core of the gospel is the grace of forgiveness. Christian disciples must forgive others. Three reasons are given in this parable. First of all, because we all owe an enormous debt. to God. Look with me at the beginning of this parable in verse 23. Therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened unto a certain king. which would take account of his servants. And when he had begun to reckon, one was brought unto him which owed him ten thousand talents. But for as much as he had not to pay, his Lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife and children, and all that he had, and payment to be made. And the servant therefore fell down and worshipped him, saying, Lord, Have patience with me, and I will forgive thee all. And the Lord of that servant was moved with compassion and loosed him and forgave him the debts. This is the first act of the parable, and we read this together a moment ago. In this parable, the king calls in a servant to give an account. But this servant was not someone who worked in the kitchen or the grounds. He was probably a royal governor. Someone who was in charge of managing the affairs of his king for a vast region. This was a man of great responsibility. He would collect taxes over a large area. And as they were going through the books, they discovered a great deficit. of 10,000 talents. We don't know how he accrued this debt. We don't know if there was a great famine in the land, and so there were no taxes that came in. We don't know if it was because this man was an embezzler and he had been stealing money for some time. Or if it was just complete incompetence and mismanagement. We're not told how he got into this incredible debt. But the point is that he was in a hole that he could never hope to get out of. Now, how enormous was his debt? It's hard to say because we don't use talents today. Talent was not a a unit of value, it was a unit of weight. It could be anywhere between 58 and and 83 pounds and the value of it depended on was it 58 or 83 pounds of silver or gold or copper or bronze? What was it? And we get some idea of how much money this is from contemporary records in the first century. We know that the Roman government collected from all of the land of Palestine in one year 900. Talents. This man owed ten thousand talents, more than ten times that amount. It may be that the Lord has in mind what's called an addict talent, which was a precise measure of money. It consisted of 6,000 denarii. It would take a laboring man 17 years to earn one talent, and this man owed 10,000 talents. The Lord has picked a really large round number. And so I'm going to pick a really large round number. Let's think of a billion dollars. Can you imagine being in debt? One billion dollars. There are a lot of people And I think it's a good thing that are very much into paying off debt and not accruing debt. That's a wonderful thing to do. Not being in bondage liberates you. And a lot of uh financial companies there have plans for paying down your debt. I don't know anybody has a plan for paying down a billion dollars It's not going to happen in your lifetime unless you're already a billionaire. Now, today, if you include great debts The penalties tend to be this. You might get a lot of annoying phone calls from collection agencies. And your credit score is going to be really, really low, which means you can't borrow more money or you're going to borrow it at a very high interest rate. But in the ancient world, they had more drastic measures. They would throw you into prison and not just you. But your family members. Now in verse 25, you might get the impression that, you know, they're going to stay in there in prison until they pay it off. But there was no way they were ever going to pay that off. It was a way of saying, for the rest of your life, you and your family members will be in prison. Just imagine that. This was a very bleak situation with no hope. And this man in verse 26 has nothing to say. He falls down and worships him, that is, he bows down before this king. His face is down on the ground, and he says, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. This was what everyone says when they're in debt, right? Just give me a little more time. But this was an absolute lie. What is he going to do? What is he going to sell to get a billion dollars? There's no way he can pay this off. This was a very insincere promise. And this is the situation of us all spiritually. We are all, in one regard, like this man, we are all in incredible debt that we can never, ever hope to pay off. We all tend to have a better perspective of this than we should. Perhaps you would say to yourself, I hardly think I'm in that kind of debt to God. I mean I have my faults, but I have good things, and I think it kind of weighs it out. You might have been raised in a Christian home and kept away from many scandalous sins, but let me tell you, you have still racked up a mountain of debt before a holy God You ever thought about how many times in a day you sin? I think there's an illustration in the evangelistic program, Evangelism Explosion. That talks about the fact that if you were to sin three times a day and you were to live to be 70 years old, that means in round numbers you have committed like 70,000 sins in your life. And the fact is that's probably a very optimistic number. Because every selfish action, every unkind word, every wicked thought, everything contrary to the character of God is sin that plunges you deeper into debts. My friend, this is the situation of all of us. We owe a debt that we can never hope to pay. And the fact is that this is a truth we must never forget because we will never understand forgiveness. Until we understand how helplessly in debt we are before a holy God, Christians must forgive others Because we all once owed an incredible debt. Now we come to the second act of the story And I want you to notice, I'll begin reading with the last verse of this first section, verse 27. Then the Lord of that servant was moved with compassion and loosed him and forgave him the debt. But the same servant went out and found one of his fellow servants which owed him a hundred pence. And he laid hands on him and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest. And his fellow servant fell down at his feet and besought him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all And he would not, but went and cast him into prison till he should pay the debts. I want you to notice several things about this forgiveness. Second reason why we should forgive is because we all have been graciously forgiven of an enormous debt by God. This man contributed nothing to the payment of his debts. He didn't come out with some money to put down. He didn't say, let me pay you part of it. He didn't offer him any land or properties. He didn't even have compelling logical reasons as to why this king should forgive him. He simply was dishonest and said, give me more time. My point is that he did not deserve to be forgiven. This man's forgiveness was not based on what he did, but on who the king was. What kind of king was this? Well, he was a compassionate king, a merciful king. It says he was moved with compassion. This precise Greek word is only used in the Bible to describe the Lord Jesus Christ, or it's used like here in a parable that he taught the importance of this virtue. This is the emotional reaction most often ascribed to Jesus. We often read that when he saw the multitude, he was moved with compassion. And we read about his compassion towards individuals like a woman who had just lost her son, her only son at Nane. Jesus was compassionate, and he was reflecting the nature of his heavenly father. Early in this gospel, Jesus said, blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Do you want to experience the mercy of God? Then you must forgive people who don't deserve to be forgiven. This man did not deserve to be forgiven. One of the reasons we don't forgive people is we feel they don't deserve to be forgiven. And you know what? You're absolutely right. I've heard from people who have been grievously hurt by other people, and maybe that person comes to the place of repentance and they say, I was wrong. Please forgive me. And that person will say, you mean just a few words that take like ten seconds to repeat are supposed to make up for all the grief and pain and suffering that that individual has caused me It doesn't seem fair. Doesn't seem right. But you must remember that you didn't deserve to be forgiven either. And let me just say that God was not unjust when he forgave us because there was someone who paid the penalty for all your sins, 70,000 and more. And that was Christ when he took our transgressions and they were nailed to the cross. Now verse 28 takes an abrupt and unexpected turn. This beginning of the second movement here, he says, but the same servant went out, that servant that had just been forgiven. and found one of his fellow servants which owed him. Now what is missing in this story is we don't see the reaction that you would expect from this one who has been forgiven a billion dollars, right? What should he have done? He should have fallen down and with tears in his eyes thanked this king for giving him a new life. Because now he and his family would not be thrown hopelessly into prison. All of that was waived Because of the king's compassion, he should have been giddy with gratitude and with gladness. He could have been running home to tell his family that this great burden of debt was lifted from his shoulders because the king forgave him. But we don't read of anything like that. It's like his debt is reminds him of somebody who owes him. And that's what he wants to settle when he leaves. Now this man owed him a hundred denarii. This was not an insignificant amount of money. Because a denarii was a day's wage, and this would be like what a person would earn in a hundred days of work, about a third in some respects of what you make in a year. We're talking about thousands of dollars. But compared to a billion dollars, it's like a drop in the bucket You see, the whole power of the story is in the power of comparison. Tiny little debt, comparatively speaking, and an enormous mountain of debts. And the point is this the debt that others owe to us Because of the way they have sinned against us is nothing compared to the debt that we owed to God. This man had just been forgiven a debt of over a billion dollars, and yet he will not forgive the several thousand dollars that is owed to him. But something else I want you to notice in this story that you may have never thought about, and that is everything that this unmerciful servant does is perfectly legal. In verse 28, we read that he took the man who owed him this money by the throat. Literally, it means he began to choke him. And believe it or not, in Roman and Jewish law, this was allowable for those who owed you money. You could physically intimidate them into paying you back. Now today you would be charged with assaults, but in that day you could serve as your own collection agency. What he did was legal. In verse 29, we read that this indebted man has the exact response that the servant had before the king in verse 26. Jesus intends that the reader, as he reads these words, says to himself, I've heard that somewhere before. Yeah, in verse 26, he is saying the same words. There's an echo here. But this man will not forget, will not forgive. In verse 33, this unforgiving man has him thrown into debtor 's prison where he would work for years to come. And let me also say that this unmerciful servant had the legal right to throw his debtor into prison. And he is prepared to demand that right. And this is often where people are when they are filled with bitterness. They demand their rights. This person has to make things right. This person needs to pay for what they have done. I have the right to seek revenge. I have the right to cut them off and no longer speak to them. I have the right to make them pay their debt to me. I have the right to hurt them In the way they have hurt me. This is the way we think. We demand our rights And perhaps in a legal sense, you do have the right to demand justice. But this is not how the Lord has dealt with us. As long as you remain stuck on your rights, you will never move to the place of forgiveness. You must desire reconciliation more than you desire revenge. And if you cannot forgive others, it reveals that you have not fully understood the enormity of your debt to God. And the grace that was extended to you. But there's a third reason that Christian disciples must forgive. And that is found at the conclusion of this parable. And it is because if we fail to forgive others, we will experience God 's judgment. Look with me at verse 31. So when his fellow servants saw what was done, they were very sorry and came and told unto their Lord all that was done. Then his Lord, after he had called him, said unto him, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that debt because thou desirest me. Shouldst not thou also have had compassion on thy fellow servant? Even as I had pity on thee, and his Lord was wroth, and delivered him to the tormentors, till he should pay all that was due unto him. These are disturbing words. In verse 31 we read that the peers of these two men, other royal magistrates who were working in this king's kingdom Find out what's happened. And it doesn't seem right to them that this man who had been forgiven a billion dollars throws this man into prison who owes them a few thousand dollars. And so they go to the king and they tell him what has happened. And I want you to notice how the king describes this unforgiving servant in verse 32. He says, O thou wicked servant. This is the same word that's translated evil in Matthew 623 So the conclusion is this, when you refuse to forgive others, what you are doing is wicked and evil. We tend to put an unforgiving spirit in that classification of what Jerry Bridges calls respectable sins. You can be a Sunday school teacher and have an unforgiving spirit. You can be a deacon and have an unforgiving spirit. No one's going to challenge your right to Hold that office. You can be a pastor and have an unforgiving spirit. But the Lord calls this wicked. Having a spirit that holds on to wrongs and offenses is wicked in the eyes of God because It is, in a sense, an affront against the gospel itself, the gospel of grace. So, what are the consequences of those who refuse to forgive others? Well, are you ready for this? Jesus taught that those who do not forgive will not be forgiven. In verse 32, it says here, then the Lord, after he had called him, said unto him, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that thou that because thou desirest me to. But then we see him throwing this man who was once forgiven to the tormentors. Now we should not extrapolate from this parable that somehow God Will sometimes forgive us of our sins, and then he will cast us away because the scripture tells us otherwise. We have to be careful that in parables we don't interpret into details things that were not intended. But I do want to have you turn with me back to the Sermon on the Mount, a few chapters back to Matthew chapter 6, please. Matthew chapter 6, and we have this petition in the Lord's Prayer. And Matthew chapter 6 in verse 12 it says And forgive us our debts, how? As we forgive our debtors. How many millions of Christians have uttered these words over the centuries But have you ever really thought about the meaning of that? Lord, forgive me in the way that I forgive others, I think we, if we really thought about, would say, I'm not sure I want to say that. And this is the only phrase in the Lord's Prayer that the Lord is going to further explain, kind of like with a footnote. Look with me down at verses 14 and 15. He says to the reader, in case you were wondering, if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your father forgive your trespasses. So, how do we understand this rightful warning? Well, a person who steadfastly refuses to forgive others calls into question their claim to be forgiven. One of the finest expositors of the 20th century was the Welsh preacher Martin Lloyd Jones. And he says this about this parable. It means that the proof that you and I are forgiven is that we forgive others. If we think that our sins are forgiven by God and we refuse to forgive somebody else, we are making a mistake. We have never been forgiven. But these warnings may be referring also to the daily confession and forgiveness that enables us to remain in close fellowship with the Lord. First John chapter 1 talks about this. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And if I have dealt with before, it doesn't mean that if you die before you confess your sins of that day, that you will go to hell because they weren't forgiven. Because when you were saved All of your sins that you would ever commit were forgiven in a legal sense. But God is not just our judge, he's also our father that we have a filial relationship with. And the way things work in relationships is When you injure that relationship, you must seek to make it right so that that fellowship is restored. And let's remember that Peter here is asking about our situation with forgiving other believers. You see, we cannot go to the Lord in prayer and ask him to forgive our sins while still clinging to animosity and bitterness towards others. We can't be selective in our repentance. So what does a believer feel like in this situation who holds on to this wrong that someone has done to them? Well, they may begin to feel that God is distant. They don't have that sense of fellowship that they once enjoyed. Perhaps they don't come to church as often as they used to because They just don't feel close to the Lord. A Christian at war with a brother or sister in Christ often feels like their prayers are hindered. And the fact is that when you're not right with your spouse, because there is something you have not forgiven. you will not be right with God. This is why in 1 Peter 3. 7, Peter exhorts husbands to dwell with them according to knowledge. As co-heirs of the grace of God, that your prayers be not hindered. If you're not right with your spouse, you're not going to have close relationship and fellowship with the Lord. In 1 John 4. 20, John writes, If a man says, I love God and hates his brother, he is a liar. For he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? You can't really be right with God unless you're right with others. You can't enjoy the presence of the Lord and hold a grudge against another person. You can't be spiritual and filled with hates. And we see in this passage the second consequence is that those who refuse to forgive others will be miserable. The word that's translated tormentors in the authorized version reflects a Greek word that is used just as once in the Bible. And it's a word that means torturer. In the ancient world, kings did not subscribe to the Geneva Convention. A king who would not torture his enemies was considered to be a weak ruler. But what is this saying about our God? Does God torture his people? I think not I believe what this is saying is that God lovingly allows us to experience the consequences of our unforgiving spirit until we repent. There are severe consequences that come with bitterness. Newsweek magazine reported in 2004 that bitterness has been linked by researchers to high blood pressure, impaired immune function, depression, and a greater risk of heart attacks. And there are of course all the emotional problems that come with bitterness, such as anger, a negative, pessimistic spirit, and a cynical view of life. Those who carry a grudge bear a heavy burden. And the only cure, the only anecdote to this disease Is to forgive. So often people think when they're bitter that somehow their bitterness and their animosity is really making this other person suffer. But so often they're the ones who are suffering Not the person they hate. Now there's a difficult question that always arises when this matter of forgiveness comes up. And I don't have time to deal with this thoroughly because it's a very complex and involved issue. But what do you do when a person who has sinned against you, who has hurt you, will not admit that they are wrong? What if they never ask for forgiveness? What if they never show any repentance? That reminds you earlier that in Matthew chapter 18, Jesus spoke of confronting the sinning brother and expelling him from the church if he would not repent of his sin. Now, I want you to know that the parable that he said just a few minutes later does not negate what he said earlier. They are compatible with one another. There's no contradiction here. God's message for those who sin against others is to repent. That is your responsibility. And if you sense that your brother is hurt, that he seems distant from you, you are obligated to go and try to make things right. The Lord speaks to this in Matthew chapter 5. But God's message to those who have been wronged is to forgive Often there are circumstances where you must confront them, serious matters where their sin is not just something that affects you, but affects others. and the testimony of Christ. And you may need to follow the procedure there in Matthew chapter 18 that ultimately may lead to them being disciplined out of the church. But that doesn't mean that every little offense you should make a federal case of Because that would be an impossible kind of relationship to have with someone. The Bible has another principle. It says that love covers a multitude of sin. 1 Peter chapter 4 and verse 8, a quotation from Proverbs 10. And the word cover there is being used as a synonym for forgiveness. It often is in Scripture. When you truly love your brother and sister, they may do things that annoy you, they may do things that hurt you But you come to a place where you can cover that over and and you can continue on in relationship with you. Because you leave the matter with the Lord and you don't harbor bitterness in your heart towards them. But when you cannot get past the transgression, Because it is so serious and you cannot civilly deal with that person again, then you do need help and you do need to confront and you may need to involve other believers to try to bring about restoration. These are difficult matters. I believe that the Bible does in a perfect world Every time we wrong someone, especially a brother or sister in Christ, there would be confrontation. If there was necessary, there would be repentance and there would be forgiveness. That is the methodology that's outlined in, for instance, Luke chapter 17, verses 3 and 4. But in human fallen relationships, things are messy and complex, and sometimes people can do things that are very painful to us, and yet they're oblivious to it. And they will not confess it. What do we do? Are we just left holding this bag of bitterness the rest of our life? I would say no. There is such a thing as unilateral forgiveness where you let loose, that's what it means to forgive, to let go of, and you leave that matter with the Lord. In Mark chapter 11 and verse 25, Jesus said, When you stand praying, forgive if you have aught against any. My point is, we never have an excuse. We never have a right to harbor bitterness in our heart. Oh, the pain might be real, the transgression was there, but we must reflect not on what that person has done to us. But we must turn our minds to what Christ has done for us at the cross. And how many of our sins and our transgressions have been forgiven by the grace of God. Recently we studied the life of Joseph, and his response to his brothers revealed that before they ever came to Egypt He had already dealt with the horrible things they had done to him, and he had unilaterally forgiven them in his heart Now, he did test them because he wanted something more than just to be right with God. He wanted to be reconciled to them. You see, forgiveness is one thing, reconciliation is another. Joseph wanted reconciliation, so he tested them until it was clear to him that they truly hated what they had done. They had turned from that, and they would never do anything like that again. And then he revealed his identity to them. There was reconciliation. Forgiveness is always possible, but reconciliation requires both parties to come to an agreement. So let me ask you this morning, do you have the reputation of being a forgiving person? Or are you like the kind of person that people would say, listen, whatever you do, don't ever cross that guy. Because I tell you, he never forgets anything and he never forgives people. He'll hold on to that offense to the day he dies. No Christian should ever have that reputation. William Arthur Ward said, We are most like beasts when we kill. We are most like men when we judge. But we are most like God when we forgive. And let me conclude with this. Have you truly been forgiven? Do you know the joy, the relief that it is to know that your sins, that great weight of death, is no longer on your shoulders? That it's no longer crushing your spirit, that you're no longer under the just wrath of God, but you have been forgiven, that your sins have been taken from you, they have been atoned for. The Bible says, blessed is the man whose transgressions are forgiven. Do you know that blessing? Do you know that all of your sins have been paid for by the blood of Christ? That is the most wonderful thing in the world to know. that you're free. Free of all that sin debt. That you have been found in Christ. Do you know with certainty that you have a home in heaven because your sins have been forgiven? Let's close in prayer. Father We thank you for your word. We thank you that it's always relevant. It's always powerful. It always touches us where we live. It changes how we think and how we behave. Father, I pray that you would be with your people here today. Who are struggling to forgive some grave offense that they've experienced in years past. There may not be the possibility of reconciliation, Father, but I pray that they would be able to. To leave this grave offense with you, the God who will always do what is right I pray that they will not seek revenge, that they will not hate in their heart, but that they will forgive as they have been forgiven, and that is that they will give graciously. And Father, for those here today, under the sound of my voice who are yet lost in their sins, I pray that they would recognize The great joy that would come if they knew that their sins were forgiven. I pray that today they would come and bow before your holy throne. And plead only for the blood of Christ to wash away their sins, and that today they would have that great joy of knowing they have been forgiven. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.