If you have a Bible with you tonight, would you turn with me to Revelation chapter five? Revelation chapter 5. In August of 1736, Jonathan Edwards preached one of his most remarkable sermons in Northampton, Massachusetts. It was entitled The Excellency of Christ. It was preached during a period of revival that was sweeping through the Connecticut River Valley. We know that it was a sermon that Edwards treasured because he published it and repreached it often. Scholars today consider it to be one of his finest. The text for this remarkable sermon is found in Revelation chapter 5. I'm not going to preach to you Edward's sermon. It will be my own. I want to begin by reading the first four verses. And I saw on the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within, and on the backside sealed with seven seals. And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book and to loose the seals thereof? And no man in heaven nor in earth, neither under the earth, was able to open the book, neither to look thereon. And I wept much, because no man was found worthy to open and to read the book, neither to look thereon. This is a remarkable vision. Here John refers to a book in the hand, or literally on the hand of God. The context. And the historical background makes it clear that this is what we would call a scroll. It was written on both sides of the parchment. And sealed in seven different places. The idea is that as you would read it, you would come to various seals that divided the contents of the scroll. The scroll reveals God's purposes in human history and as a book of destiny. And verse 2, we read of a strong angel making a loud proclamation that sets the tone for this chapter. Who is worthy to open the book and loose the seals thereof? And in verse 3, we find the answer to this question: there is no one anywhere who is worthy to open this book. No great prophet is found who can do this task. No priest is worthy. No saint or apostle is qualified to do this sacred event. No angel, no seraphim, no cherubim is worthy of this great honor. In fact, no one is even worthy to look upon this holy writing. And in verse four, we read John's response to this dilemma. It says, And I wept much. Not referring to a quiet tearing up in the eyes, but to a wailing in desperation. John was distressed because he wanted to see God's will fulfilled in the earth. He's eager to hear the contents of the scroll. And then we read one of those wonderful brief statements in Scripture in verse five: Weep not. Look with me at verse 5. And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, hath prevailed. to open the book and to loose the seven seals thereof. In verse five, our Lord is identified with two descriptions, the Lion of the tribe of Judah. Which we will consider tonight. And then the root of David, we're not going to consider that title because we have in a previous message a month ago that is Really parallel to that famous expression, that famous title, The Branch, that we traced a month ago on our Lord's Table meditation. This worthy one has prevailed to open the scroll. is often rendered in this book as overcome. It has the idea of to conquer But when John looks to see this worthy one, this lion of the tribe of Judah He does not see a line. Instead, he sees a lamb. Look with me at verse 6 And I beheld, and lo, in the midst of the throne, and of the forebeast, and in the midst of the elders stood a lamb As it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God set forth into all the earth. It is the juxtaposition of these two symbolic descriptions of Christ. that I want us to consider this evening and that Edwards considered in that remarkable sermon so many years ago I want us to consider the fact that our Lord has revealed here to be both a lion and a lamb. Before we do so, I want you to notice the key word that dominates this chapter. In verse 2, we read of this mighty angel crying, Who is worthy? And in verse 4, John weeps because no one was found to be worthy. To open and read the scroll. And then in verse 9, we read of the elders in heaven singing, Thou art worthy to take the book. and to open the seals thereof. And in verse 12 we read that these elders are joined by a myriad of angels, saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the lamb that was slain. to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing And then in verses thirteen and fourteen we have the remarkable conclusion, the climax of this chapter that rises ha higher than perhaps any chapter in Scripture. And every creature which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them, heard I saying, Blessing and honor and glory and power be unto him that sitteth upon the throne and unto the Lamb for ever and ever. And the four beasts said, Amen. And the four and twenty elders fell down and worshipped him that liveth forever and ever. In case you didn't grasp it, the key idea in this chapter is found in that word worthy. And when we contemplate And we understand how worthy our Savior is, it will naturally lead to what? Verse 14, it will lead to worship. I've mentioned to you before that our English word worship comes from a word that means worthy. When we worship the Lord, we ascribe to him the quality that he is worthy of our adoration and submission. And so in Revelation chapter 5, we find this definite connection. When we contemplate that our Savior is worthy, it will inevitably lead us to worship Him. So I'm going to speak to you briefly tonight on this truth that Christ is worthy of all worship. Would you notice with me first of all that Christ is worthy of all worship because he is the Lion of the tribe of Judah? Look with me at verse 5. And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not. Behold the lion of the tribe of Judah. Let me briefly mention some things that I think are alluded to or conveyed in this wonderful title. And we're going to move to the more obscure, to the more definite, to the more contextually obvious. I want to say first of all that our Savior is courageous. Proverbs 28 and verse 1 says, the wicked flee when no man pursueth, but the righteous are bold as a lion. And since our Savior is repeatedly called in Scripture the righteous one or the just one, he is the epitome of boldness or courage. He did not flinch from the cross. In one of the servant songs in Isaiah chapter 50, one of the most beautiful chapters of the Old Testament, we read. These insightful and inspiring words. Isaiah 50, verses 6 and 7, I gave my back to the smiters. And my cheeks to them that plucked off the hair, I did not hide my face from shame and spitting For the Lord will help me. Therefore I shall not be confounded. Therefore have I set my face like a flint, and I know that I shall not be ashamed. We read in Luke chapter 9 and verse 51 these words, and it came to pass when the time was come that he should be received up. He steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem. He knew that he was going to Jerusalem to die. And he steadfastly set his face with determination like a flint to go and do that. There he would be rejected by his own people. He would be betrayed by one of his own disciples. He would be illegally tried by the religious leaders and crucified on an old rugged cross. But he did not turn back. He did not hesitate. He was obedient unto death, even the death. I would submit to you that Jesus is the most courageous, the most heroic human being who has ever lived. And so many of our novels and movies and entertainments from ancient times until now, the world is always looking for a heroic figure Who can stand up to the greatest obstacles and enemies and pressures? And I want to say to you, the greatest hero the world has ever known is the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the ultimate picture of courage in the face of adversity. Our Savior is courageous. He is also powerful. Lions are powerful predators. They are what is known as an apex predator. This means that in their environment, they are at the top of the food chain in their habitat. There is no other animal that hunts down lions. They hunt, but they are not hunted, except perhaps by human beings. Lions have historically been a symbol of power. Nations of the world put lions on their flags and on their palaces. People put lions in front of their homes. It's a symbol of power. And our Savior is the omnipotent creator of the universe. He is all powerful. But in context and most obviously, what is intended by the words that are recorded here in Revelation chapter 5 is that our Savior is King. This phrase, the line of the tribe of Judah, comes from Genesis chapter 49, verses 9 and 10. I would invite you to turn with me there if you can easily. Genesis 49. The context here is that Jacob is blessing his twelve sons. He says, Judah Is like a lion's whelp. From the prey, my son, thou art going up. He stooped down, he couched as a lion, and as an old lion who shall rouse him up. The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor lawgiver from between his feet until Shiloh come, and unto him shall the gathering of the people be. This is one of the great messianic promise prophecies of Christ that have progressively unfolded in the book of Genesis, in Genesis chapter 3. We have what's known as the proto -evangelum, the first good news. And this is a revelation that a Savior would come not from angelic beings, but from mankind. It is narrowed further in Genesis 9. 27, where we read this arresting phrase, He shall dwell in the tents of Shem, a reference that he would come from the Semitic peoples. In Genesis chapter 12 and verse 3, it's narrowed further to the descendants of Abraham. And now in Genesis 49, 10, we find that it will come that the Messiah will come from the tribe of Judah. And he will be a king. We read here of a scepter, the symbol of power From ancient times, kings have used the lion as the ultimate symbol of royalty. But this king would be different from all the kings that have come before We read later the book of Revelation that he will be a king of kings and lord of lords. Jesus said All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Those are the words of the king. Our Savior is heroic, omnipotence. And the ultimate monarch. He is worthy of our worship. Turning back with me to Revelation chapter 5, please, I want you to notice that Christ is worthy. of our worship because he is the Lamb slain for sinners. Look with me at verse six. And I beheld, and lo, in the midst of the throne of the four beasts, and in the midst of the elders stood a lamb. as it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent forth into all the earth. I'm not going to explain and expound every phrase in this wonderful verse. John looks for a line, but he sees a lamb. And the idea here in this description is that he is in the center of everything. there at the throne. All these angelic beings surround him. He is the center of it all. John uses an unusual and interesting word for lamb here. There are different Greek terms John's favorite term to use is a word that is a diminutive expression. Well, you might even think of a pet lamb that is kept in the home. And some scholars believe that he may have used this term to remind the reader of the Passover lamb. That according to Exodus chapter 12 was kept in the home for four days before it was slaughtered. Turn with me, if you would, please, to Exodus chapter 12. We won't stay here long. We will be coming back to Revelation 5. But there's something here for us to consider. Exodus chapter 12. I want to begin reading at verse 3. Speak he unto all the congregation of Israel, saying, In the tenth day of this month They shall take to them every man a lamb according to the house of their fathers, a lamb for a house, and if the household be too little for the lamb, let him and his neighbor next unto his house take it according to the number of the souls, every man according to his eating. shall make your count for the lamb. Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male of the first year. Ye shall take it out from the sheep or from the goats, and ye shall keep it until the fourteenth day of the same month. And the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it in the evening. Some scholars think this is conjecture, that the reason why he wanted them to keep it in the home for four days is because what happens when you take a little woolly animal into your home for any period of time? You start forming attachments to it. Maybe you name it. The kids are playing with this little lamb. And then after four days It is killed. Its blood is spilt. And it was to reveal to that family the cost of their redemption, the horror of their sin. There's an interesting progression in this passage. In verse 3, it's called a lamb. In verse 4, the lamb. And in verse five, your lamb. This would suggest a personal appropriation. What is emphasized in this passage is that the lamb had to be without blemish, not just any lamb would do. Their obedience to this specific instruction was the evidence of their faith. And once again we see a lamb dying to save others. Look with me at verses 22 and 23 in this same chapter, Exodus chapter 12. We read, and you shall take a bunch of hyssop hyssop and dip it in the blood that is in the basin and strike the lento and the two sideposts with the blood that is in the basin, and none of you shall go out. at the door of his house until the morning. The Lord will pass through to smite the Egyptians, and when he seeth the blood upon the lentil and on the two sideposts, the Lord will pass over the door and will not suffer the destroyer to come in unto your houses to smite you. The lamb's blood was smeared on the doorpost to ensure that the death angel did not visit. The household and kill the firstborn son. How precious that blood must have been to those Hebrew families because their sons were very precious to them. This blood preserved the life of their firstborn, who was the hope of a better future. But we have been redeemed with something much more precious than the blood of the Lamb. We read in 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 18, for as much as you know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ as of a lamb without blemish and without spots. We read something else of Lamb in the Old Testament. Turn with me now to Isaiah 53. Turn with me to Isaiah 53. And verse 4. These are some of the most familiar verses in the Old Testament. And verses 4 through 6 especially highlight the substitutionary nature of the servant's atonement. Verse 4, surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. But look with me now at verse 7. He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shears is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. Four times in the gospel record, we read of Jesus' silence during his trials, the fulfillment of this prophecy of Isaiah. He was silent like a lamb. What is revealed in his silence? His silence demonstrated, first of all, the voluntary nature of his death. The fact that Jesus did not defend himself shows that his death was not a horrible miscarriage of justice. In John 10, 18 He says, No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself, I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it up again. His death was no accident It was the ultimate expression of submission to the Father's perfect will. He said, I delight to do thy will, O my God. His silence demonstrated also his complete trust in his Father. In 1 Peter 2, verses 23 and 24 we read. that he says that he committed or entrusted himself to him that judgeth righteously. That is, he left the matter with God. This is how we should respond to those who persecute us. I've mentioned to you before one of my favorite Puritan titles. Was written by Thomas Brooks entitled The New Christian Under the Smarting Rod. And he says, there, no man honors God as he who lays his hand upon his mouth. when the rod of God is upon his back. And his silence demonstrated his meekness. A proud man is quick to defend his honor. He aggressively demands his rights. But a humble man holds his peace. One of the greatest preachers in America in the early 19th century was a man named Edward Payson of Portland, Maine. He said this in a sermon on this text, silent, meek, and unrepining, he stood before butchers, at once innocent. And patient as a lamb, no murmurs, no complaints, no angry recriminations escape from his lips If they were opened, it was but to express the most perfect submission to his father's will and to breathe out prayers for his murderers. But the clearest thing that's revealed about the fact that he is the Lamb Is that he is our sacrificial substitute. Turn with me back now to Isaiah, excuse me, to Revelation chapter 5, where we started. Revelation chapter five and verse six. Notice carefully what it says There stood a lamb as it had been slain. The words, the wounds, excuse me, of Jesus' crucifixion are in view here. They are still visible. We have in this wonderful hymn crown him with many crowns. We have these this wording in that hymn, rich wounds yet visible above, and beauty glorified. This is what we find in his post-resurrection appearances. Remember how Jesus invited Thomas to touch the nail prints in his hands and to thrust his hand in his side. The tense of the verb that's used here in Revelation 5. 6 speaks of something that happened once in the past, but has continuing results. Christ's sacrifice has purged us from our sins once for all. He is indeed the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. But notice in this vision that the Lamb is no longer dead. He's standing in the midst of the throne of God. Yes, he has these wounds, but he is alive. He is standing. He has died for our sins, and he has also conquered death, so that we might say, O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? And one sense this lamb is pictured as a small, vulnerable animal. But notice the rest of the scripture here in verse 6. having seven horns and seven eyes. This is intended to be symbolic We're not to picture what this would look like because a land with seven horns and seven eyes would be grotesque, and our Savior is not grotesque. Horns have always been a symbol of power. Seven is the number of completion. This speaks of omnipotence. And the seven eyes speak of omniscience that he knows all And this lamb is full and controlled by the Spirit of God This is the Lamb of God in the flesh. Yes, he is our sacrificial lamb. Yes, he came meekly and mildly. And submissively to his father's will, but make no mistake, he is God in the flesh. He is the omnipotent and omniscient creator of the universe Now thirdly tonight, I want us to consider the truth that Christ is worthy of our worship because he is both the lion and the lamb. There's a sense in which everything I've said so far has been by way of introduction. The combination of these two symbols reveals the unique greatness of our Savior. This, by the way, was the main point of Edward's sermon in 1736. He said, in the person of Christ do meet together infinite majesty and transcendent meekness. Jesus is indeed the God man. He is the God who reigns, that is the Lion of the tribe of Judah, but He is also the God who redeems, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world. He is the omnipotent creator of the universe and the God who binds up our wounds and carries us in his arms. He is the God who is great and mighty, but he is also the man who is meek and lowly. He is the humblest human being who has ever lived, but he is also the man who said, I am, and a legion of soldiers fell to the ground. He is the man who took up the children in his arms and blessed them, but he is also the God who filled the troubled waters with his rebuke. He is both the lion and the lamb. How should this truth impact our lives? Well, we should come to Him for cleansing. Jesus is a friend of sinners. He is the anointed one who preached the gospel to the poor. He heals the brokenhearted, he delivers captives, he r recovers sight to the blind and heals the broken and bruised. He said, A bruised reed shall he not break, and the smoking flax shall he not quench. As the lion, he has the authority to forgive sin, and as the lamb, he died in place of sinners. He is the one who said, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest for your souls. And to him we come in prayer. I don't have time to really develop this point, but let me just say that he is our sympathetic high priest. Because of his humanity, because of his life on this earth. He is our great high priest who listens to us and understands the weakness of our humanity. But he is also our great God who sits on the throne and has the power to answer our prayers and do the impossible. But the primary application that we see in our text this evening is that because he is both The lion and the lamb. He is worthy of our worship. And to him we give our praise. When man conceives of deity, it is always distorted. Sometimes people conceive of a deity that would be powerful, but often they would conceive of a deity that was also capricious and wicked and evil. And could change his mind on a dime on how he's going to deal with you. This is what we find in many of the gods of mythology. In modern times, people have a kinder, gentler God. A God who's often thought of as a buddy. Or senile grandfather, who just wants makes sure that his children have a good time and turns a blind eye to their indiscretions. But the God who exists, the God who is revealed in Scripture, is the ultimate man. He's the ultimate obedient one. He is a one who is sympathetic and compassionate Who has a heart for sinners, for those who are broken and cast down, but he is also the great creator and architect of the universe, who has all power at his disposal. He is both the lion and the lamb. He is both God and man. He is the God man And he is worthy of our praise. Verse 9 says, and they sung a new song saying, Thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals thereof For thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation, and hast made us unto our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. And I beheld and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne and the beast and the elders, and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand and thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice Worthy is the lamb that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. And every creature which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth and such as are in the sea and all that are in them heard I saying, blessing and honor and glory and power. Be unto him that sitteth upon the throne and unto the Lamb for ever and ever. And the four beasts said, Amen. And the four and twenty elders fell down and worshipped him that liveth forever. And ever. Let us pray. Father. We thank you That our Savior is worthy. We thank you that indeed He is excellent He has these combined qualities that we all instinctively desire to have in God of And we thank you, Father, that our scriptures reveal that we have a wonderful Savior. I pray that as we remember what He has done for us tonight, That we would worship him and we would proclaim in our hearts that he is worthy. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.