Give your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to John chapter 12? John chapter 12. The history of the world is a history of conquerors seeking to rule the world. Names like Napoleon, Hitler, Alexander the Great come immediately to mind. But the man who ruled the largest empire in the history of the world was Genghis Khan. In the early 13th century, he ruled nearly five million square miles. The Mongol Empire that he established stretched from Eastern Europe all the way to the Sea of Japan. He accomplished this amazing feat by military power and by instilling fear in those he conquered. The Mongol people were known for their skill in riding horses, and so Khan developed them into a swift striking force that would quickly overwhelm their enemies. And those who did not submit to the rule were brutally massacred so that other people would think twice about offering any resistance. But in 1227, Genghis Khan died, and his empire was soon divided and eventually disappeared from the world stage. This morning I want us to consider a conqueror who is infinitely superior to any king the world has ever seen. His name is the Lord Jesus Christ. As Pastor Nick mentioned, today is Palm Sunday. We call it Palm Sunday because we read in John's Gospel that people gathered palms when Jesus entered Jerusalem for the last time. If it was not for John's accounts, we would not call it Palm Sunday. The triumphal entry of Jesus into Jerusalem is one of the only events that's recorded in all four Gospels. This would suggest that it's a vital part of the life of Christ and the history of redemption. Because anyone reading one of the Gospels will read this account. The triumphal entry of Christ into Jerusalem is the beginning of what has traditionally been known as Passion Week, the week that Jesus would die and then rise again. Each of the four Gospels has a slightly different emphasis on the triumphal entry. These inspired writers do not contradict one another, but they complement one another. Though the details are mentioned, and those that are left out, you can see the emphasis of each gospel writer. And they all point, of course, to the identity of the Lord Jesus Christ. This morning I want us to consider John 's account of our Lord's entry into Jerusalem. It's the first time that I've ever preached this passage. And I found it intriguing this week. It's perhaps the least well-known of the four accounts of the triumphal entry. Let me remind you that John is writing long after Matthew, Mark, and Luke have penned their accounts, probably several decades later. I want you to notice something that's very interesting and unique in John's accounts. Perhaps you noticed it when we read this earlier. Look with me at John chapter 12 and verse 16. These things understood not his disciples at the first. But when Jesus was glorified, then remember they that these things were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him. Now, why does John include this parenthetical statement? I think he's alerting the reader that something more is taking place in this account. Then appears on the surface. Notice he mentions two things that the disciples would remember after the resurrection and ascension of our Lord. They would remember the things that were written of him, that is, those prophecies that were fulfilled. And that these things had done unto him, a reference to the actions that occurred that day. John likes to make such comments in his gospel. For instance, in John chapter 2 and verse 19, we read Jesus saying, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. Jesus was speaking of the resurrection of his body, but neither the people nor the disciples understood it at that time. But then we read in John 2. 22, when therefore he was risen from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this unto them, and they believed the scripture and the word which Jesus had said. In fact, Jesus in this gospel predicts that this phenomenon would occur in John 14, verse 26. Jesus said these words to his disciples in the upper room the night before his crucifixion. But the comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name He shall teach you all things and bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever I have said unto you. So John, after decades of reflection and thought and prayer and through the guidance of the Holy Spirit, records the final account of the triumphal entry. That helps us to understand the significance of our Lord's entrance into Jerusalem. I want us to see this morning that Christ's triumphal entry reveals that he is the ultimate conquering king. Would you notice with me, first of all, that Jesus is a conqueror who is worthy of praise. Look with me at verse 12. When the next day much people that were come to the feast when they heard that Jesus was come to Jerusalem. Took branches and went forth to meet him and cried, Hosanna, blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. Verse 12 provides the setting for this event. First of all, it gives us the timing on the next day. This is a reference to the day after the Sabbath and means that this took place. on Sunday, that first day of Passion Week. Then we read that much people were come to the feast. The normal population of G of Jerusalem during the time of Jesus was about a hundred thousand people. It was by far the largest city in Israel. Israel. But on the day of Passover, that week of Passover, as people came in to prepare for it, the population increased by at least ten times. At least a million pilgrims would come into the city. Some estimates are twice that large. So just imagine the city where all the streets are jam-packed with people, where every room is filled with lodgers, and others are out. in the parks and in the areas sleeping and spending that week there. Much people were coming to the feast. And then we read that there may have been even more people coming this year than normal because they were coming to see Jesus. It says they when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. This course follows on the heels of the resurrection of Lazarus. People like the spectacular. And so the idea that Jesus was coming into Jerusalem drew more people to come. But why did they do this? Why did they take branches off of the palm trees and wave them? Well, there's two ideas scholars talk about behind this. First of all, we know that the palm was a nationalistic symbol, that is a symbol of Israel itself It was used in the Feast of Tabernacles, according to Leviticus 23 and verse 40. To wave a palm branch was like waving a flag. It's true that the Passover feast was a religious festival, but it was also a day of national pride. It was sort of like the 4th of July. But the palm branch was also a universal sign of victory in the ancient world That went much further than Israel. We know on ancient coins and ancient relief sculptures we see conquering generals and kings with a palm branch signifying victory and triumph. When Simon Maccabees, two centuries earlier, defeated the Syrians and pushed them out of Jerusalem, the people waved palm branches. And so it appears that many who lined the route to Jerusalem that day believed that this was the moment when Jesus, the Messiah, would rise up to conquer Rome and cast the pagans out of their holy city like Simon Maccabees had done to foreigners two centuries earlier. They were mistaken. And some of them in a few days would be disillusioned. And undoubtedly there were some pilgrims who waved palms on this Sunday who would cry, crucify him on Friday. You should not think that the triumphal entry of Christ was an indication that the people loved Jesus and accepted him as their Savior. This was not a mass conversion event Look with me a little later in John chapter 12, where John summarizes the end of our Lord's public ministry. Look with me at John 12, verse 36. Jesus says, While ye have the light, believe in the light that ye may be the children of light. These things fake Jesus and departed and did hide himself from them. But though he had done so many miracles before them, yet they believed not on him. The saying of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spake, Lord, who hath believed our report? And to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed. So we see here That this was not a time where people were fully receiving and embracing the gospel But there is something that may cause you to scratch your head. Well then why did Jesus ride on this donkey into the city? And why did he receive their praise? Because obviously, at least for many, it was a shallow praise. It was a misinformed praise. It was a nationalistic praise. Let me invite you to turn over to Luke's account of this, Luke chapter 19, verses 37 through 40. Luke 19, verse 37. And when he was come nigh, even now, at the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice. and praised God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen, saying, Blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord. peace in heaven and glory in the highest. And some of the Pharisees from among the multitudes said unto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples. And he answered and said unto them, I tell you that if these stones, if they should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out. Jesus is saying that their praise was appropriate because what they were saying was true, even though they may not fully understand the meaning of it. He knew that the praise of many of the people that day was selfish and superficial, but accepted it because he is worthy of praise. All of the conquerors in the history of the world are really disappointing when you study their lives. They were flawed men with serious issues. Most of them were cruel and egotistical and tyrannical. But this man, this conqueror who entered Jerusalem that day, was worthy of praise. And I believe that John sees in the waving of these palm branches a symbolic reminder that Jesus will triumph and that someday people of every tribe, tongue, and nation will cry out. Worthy is the Lamb. Let me remind you that the same John who wrote and gave us this gospel through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit also wrote the last book of the Bible, the book of Revelation, that says In Revelation 7 and verse 9, after this I beheld and lo, a great multitude, which no man could number of all nations and kindreds and people and tongues. stood before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes and palms in their hands. So we see here that John indeed sees this as symbolic of the ultimate triumph of Christ, and as it were, pointing to that day when people from all parts of the world will praise his name and say, worthy is the Lamb. Jesus is a conqueror who is worthy of our praise. And secondly, we see that Jesus is a conqueror who came to save. It says that the people cried out in verse 13, it says, Hosanna. This word comes from Psalm 118 and verse 25, and it means something to the effect of save now. Now, I don't think they really understood the significance of what they were saying. It was kind of like us saying today the word hallelujah. We often forget that it means praise the Lord. Just something that you say. And I don't think the people were thinking of the significance. We're calling on him to save his people now. But through the fulfillment of prophecy, Jesus was indeed about to do that. Remember, he was born to save his people from their sins. And the next verse in Psalm 118 and verse 26, it says, Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the Lord. And notice they have modified this. to say, blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord. Originally this was understood as a blessing for pilgrims. who were journeying to Jerusalem. But here the people have changed the quote to mean that Jesus is the King, the Messiah, the ultimate man who has come in the name of the Lord. And it's not surprising or unusual that they quote these words at this time. Psalm 113 through 118 were like a section in the hymn book. of Israel. Kind of like we have a section in our hymn book of Christmas carols that we sing at a particular time of the year. It was the same with them about this section of Psalms that were known as the Halail, which means praise. We know that pilgrims would sing these psalms. as they were journeying together in large caravans of people to Jerusalem. And on that day when they entered Jerusalem, they would sing the last of those, Psalm 118. It was their favorite because it meant that their journey was now complete. And we know that the temple choir every day And the temple would sing the section of the Psalter 113 through 118. This psalm, Psalm 118, had sort of become like a national anthem that spoke of their nationalistic pride and heritage. But all of those centuries of Jewish pilgrims singing this psalm pointed to this day because this man was going to save his people. The king has come, and he has come to save. Now the people that morning were looking for a political liberator This is what mankind often thinks he needs more than anything else. He needs the right man in office. He needs the right king. He needs the right president. He needs the right official who will clean things up and do things right and establish righteousness. It's never worked. And it never will work. Because no man can bring true salvation apart from Jesus Christ. God did not send them a political liberator, he sent them a savior to redeem them from the bondage of sin. Some scholars say that it was on Sunday of Passion Week in the normal week of the Passover. That people would bring in their lambs. That as the multitudes were pouring into the city, there would also be the sounds of the lambs and the sheep coming in by the thousands. into the city of Jerusalem. So just picture thousands and thousands of pilgrims pouring into the city with thousands of lambs that were to be sacrificed on the Passover. And all of these lambs were pictures of the fact that indeed Jesus was about to save his people because he was the Lamb of God who would take away the sin of the world. Thirdly, we see in this passage that Jesus is a conqueror who has come to bring peace. We read in verse 14, and Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereon as it is written. In Luke's account, we read a detailed record of how it is that Jesus procured the donkey. But John is not interested in those details. He is streamlining his description here because he wants to get to the Old Testament prophecy, which is mentioned in verse 15. Fear not, daughter of Zion. Behold, thy king cometh sitting on an ass 's colt. Now I want to invite you, if you can, please, to turn back with me to the book of Zechariah. Let's look at this original. Just go back past Matthew and keep going a little ways into the minor prophets Zechariah chapter nine, please, and verse nine The prophet writes, Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion, shouts, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, thy king cometh unto thee. He is just And having salvation lowly, and riding upon an ass, and upon a colt the fall of an ass. I want you to know several elements about the king in this prophecy. I will not take time to elaborate on these, but notice this is a king who will bring joy. Rejoice, O daughter of Zion. He has come not to oppress the people, but to bless the people. Notice this king would be the ultimate king. It says, behold thy king. And the structure of the language indicates that this one is unique. He's different from all the other kings. And this king would be just or righteous. Many rulers in the history of the world have been corrupted by their power, but this king will reign in righteousness. Fourthly, this king will bring salvation or deliverance. He will not enslave the people like many monarchs have done. No, he will bring them ultimate deliverance. from their sins. And notice finally, this king will come in humility. He will be riding upon a donkey. This is what the gospel writers are emphasizing by quoting from Zechariah 9:9. What a contrast it is to the triumphal entry of ancient warriors, of conquering kings. They had very impressive processions with beautiful horses. In the Roman world the conquering monarch would come in a chariot draped and garland, there would be profuse displays of power and wealth, all designed to promote human pride. But note the contrast here, a man dressed in humble garments riding upon a borrowed donkey. In Jesus we see The beautiful blending of authority and humility. He is indeed the lion and the lamb. The prophecy of Jesus on a donkey also conveys the fact that Jesus would come in peace. When the king would ride a war horse, it was a clear indication that he was on a military campaign. But when he rode a donkey, It was an indication that he came in peace. Jesus did not come to bring revolution, but redemption. Notice The next verse in Zechariah 9, verse 10, it says, I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim and the horse from Jerusalem, and the battle bow shall be cut off. And he shall speak peace unto the heathen, and his dominion shall be from sea even to sea, and from the river even to the ends of the earth. He would come to bring global peace. The Bible describes the essence of peace. The Hebrew word for peace, of course, is shalom. It describes a person's wholeness or well-being. It was a person who was blessed of God. The Bible speaks of objective and subjective peace. We must have peace with God before we can experience the peace of God. Romans 5. 1 says, being justified by faith, we have peace with God. Only through Christ can we be reconciled to a holy God. So let me ask you this morning, are you at peace? With God. The only way that you can be at peace with God is to receive his beloved Son as your Savior and Sovereign. You can never be at peace with God until you bow your heart. to this conqueror. And would you notice with me that Jesus is a conqueror who has defeated death. Turn with me back please to John 12. John chapter 12. Would you notice what it says in verses seventeen and eighteen The people therefore that was with him when he called Lazarus out of the grave and raised him from the dead bear record For this cause the people also met him, for they had heard that he had done this miracle. I want you to notice that John has set his account of Palm Sunday deliberately in the context of the raising of Lazarus from the dead. Look with me at John chapter 12 and verse 1. It says, then Jesus, six days before the Passover, came to Bethany where Lazarus was, which had been dead, whom he raised from the dead. Now look with me down to verse 9. Much people, the Jews, therefore, went knew that he was there, and they came not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might see Lazarus also, whom he had raised from the dead. But the chief priest consulted that they might put Lazarus also to death, because that by reason of him many of the Jews went away and believed on Jesus. And then in verse seventeen John makes another reference. To Lazarus' presence and his recent resurrection from the dead. The people mentioned in verse 17 are the people of Bethany who had witnessed Lazarus rising from the dead after being dead for four days. They went telling everyone that would listen that Jesus, the miracle worker, was coming this day into Jerusalem. And the people mentioned in verse 18 are people from Jerusalem who had heard the reports of a man. who was recently dead and now alive. And out of curiosity and the search for sensational acts of God's power, they have come out to see Jerusalem. Now, why is John emphasizing Lazarus in this account? I believe it's because John is foreshadowing the fact. that in just one week Jesus would rise from the dead and conquer death. Let me remind you, as I have before, that the Gospel of John is structured around seven signs. seven miracles that point to the identity of Jesus Christ as the Son of God. We have, first of all, the turning of water into wine in John 2. or the cure of the nobleman's son in John 4, the cure of the man paralyzed in John 5, the feeding of the 5,000 in John 6. The walking on the water in John chapter six, the giving of sight to the blind in John 11, and finally The ultimate miracle, the raising of Lazarus from the dead in John chapter 11. Look with me, just turn one page back to John chapter 11. I want you to look with me at verse 39. Jesus said, Take ye away the stone. Martha, the sister of him that was dead, saith unto him, Lord, by this time he sticketh, for he hath been dead four days Jesus said unto her, Said I not unto thee that if thou wouldst believe, thou shouldst see the glory of God Then they took away the stone from the place where the dead was laid, and Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me, and I knew that thou hearest me always, but because of the people would stand by, I said it, that they might believe that thou hast sent me. And when he had thus spoken, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth And he that was dead came forth, bound hand and foot with grave clothes, and his face was bound about with a napkin. Jesus saith unto them, loose him. And let him go. But Jesus didn't just raise a dead man. And earlier in this chapter, we read Jesus making this astounding claim. And John chapter 11 and verse 25, where he says, I am the resurrection and the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Jesus conquered death both as a miracle worker and as one who raised himself from the dead by the Father's power. All the great kings and generals and conquerors in the history of the world have perished, and their bodies have turned to dust. But this conqueror rose from the dead and showed that he is the ultimate conqueror. And then finally, I want you to see that Jesus is a conqueror who has overcome the world. Look with me, please, at John chapter 12 and verse 19. The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Perceive ye how ye prevail nothing? Behold, the world is gone after him This is a very interesting verse. Why has John included this brief account? Why has he recorded the concern of the Pharisees, their jealousy that his popularity was rising and all these people were praising him. This really bothered the Pharisees. Why does he include this? Let me remind you that according to verse 16, there is more here than meets the eye. I believe that John includes their fears because this is an example of them saying more than they knew. When the Pharisees said, the whole world has gone after him, they were speaking hyperbolically of Jesus' apparent popularity after the resurrection of Lazarus. But they were unknowingly uttering a prophecy. John has already pointed out this phenomenon in his gospel. Turn with me back again to John chapter 11. I want to begin reading at verse forty-seven. Then gathered the chief priests and the Pharisees a council and said, What do we? For this man doeth many miracles. If we let him thus alone, all men will believe on him, and the Romans shall come and take away both our place and nation And one of them, named Caiaphas, being the high priest that same year, said unto them, Ye know nothing at all, nor consider it that it is expedient for us that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not This spake he not of himself, but being the high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die. for that nation, and not for that nation only, but that also he should gather together in one the children of God that were scattered abroad. So when John records that the Pharisees said, the whole world has gone after him, John perceived the providential hand of God at work in their choice of words. John has already spoken about God's provision for the whole world. Earlier in this gospel, he says, for God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. Now these words do not mean that all people will be saved, but it does indicate that indeed he is the savior of the world. The very next event in John chapter 12 is the coming of the Greeks to see Jesus. Look with me. At verse 20, right after the triumphal entry. Then were certain Greeks among them that came to worship at the feast. The same came therefore to Philip, which was from of the Seda of Galilee, and desired him, saying, Sir, we would see Jesus. John has included this here because it follows up on what the Pharisees just said. This is an indication That indeed there's a sense in which the whole world would come after him. Because not just Jews, but even Gentiles, Greeks would come to see the Savior. And a little bit later John interprets what he means by this. Look at John 12, verse 32. Jesus says, and if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me. This he said, signifying what death he should die. Jesus is not here saying that all men will come to him and be saved, but he's saying that all kinds of men, both Jews and Gentiles, both Greeks and Hebrews, will come from the ends of the earth. And be saved. And let me remind you that Jesus, the night before he died, his parting words to the disciples in the upper room were these words. These things have I spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. And so now I would like to move to some brief application. This is an application that I have made several times in recent months. And that is that we must keep always in mind as we observe the world's news and what's happening in our nation and around the world, and the things that discourage us and make us think that everything is falling apart. And that all the forces of evil will prevail, we need to remember that our Bible tells a different final chapter. It tells us that every knee will bow and that every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. Not that everyone will be saved, but that everyone will submit to his authority. It tells us the knowledge of the glory of the Lord will cover the earth as the waters cover the sea. It tells us that people of every tribe Tongue and nation will someday in heaven gather around the throne of God and sing, worthy is the Lamb We must always use that as a counterbalance to the discouraging circumstances that we see in the world. Jesus will reign. He will conquer. And we must not walk around like we have been defeated and like the world has won the war because it's not what our Bible tells us. But then I want to make this application. Beware of having a superficial interest in Christ. That comes short of genuine conversion. Many of the thousands of people that cried Hosanna that day and weighed palm branches experienced the judgment of God in time and eternity. This is something that Luke brings out in his account. of the triumphal entry in Luke chapter 19. You don't need to turn here. I'll read it for you. But in verse 41, the Lord says, it says, and when he had come near Speaking of Jesus and beheld the city he wept over it, saying, If thou hadst known even thou, at least in this day, the things which belong unto thy peace, and now they are hid from their eyes For the day shall come upon thee that thine enemies shall cast a trench about thee, encompass thee round, and keep thee on every side. And shall lay even thee even with the ground and thy children within thee, and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another, because thou knew not the time of thy visitation. We see here that this is a reference, first of all, to the judgment of God that would come upon this city in A. D. 20 through the Roman general Titus. But Christ wasn't just weeping because in about 40 years those people would be killed. The fact is that many of them would die before that time. Because life expectancies were not that long. No, Jesus is weeping because they had rejected their Savior, and therefore they would experience the judgment of God for eternity. The people on this day of the triumphal entry had a great emotional response to Jesus And let me just say that just because at some time in your life you've had an emotional response to the gospel does not mean that you have been born again. It's easy to be swayed by the emotions of others, but that does not guarantee that a real work of regeneration has occurred in your heart. The people at the triumphal entry wanted a Jesus who would provide prosperity and political freedom, but they didn't want a Savior for their sins. And so many today supposedly come to Christ to fix their marriages or to help them through a crisis or provide financial security. But Jesus will not be used. He's not our servant, but our master. Jesus said that to follow him one must first deny himself and take up his cross. And follow him. Beware of trusting in a cultural, superficial faith that will fail you in the day of judgment. And finally, let me just say that only those who believe in Christ will have eternal life. John is known as the Gospel of Belief, and that is because a form of the verb to believe is used nearly 100 times in this gospel. And John tells us at the very end of this gospel that that is the whole purpose that he has written us. the people might believe that Jesus is the Son of God. His whole gospel is to present this identity of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. John often speaks of believing literally into Jesus or believing on his name John uses this to speak of a genuine faith that is in the person of Christ, that is a reliance upon Christ, not upon self. Not upon anything else, not upon Christ and self, but only upon Christ. This is a faith that will not fail. must turn from our sense and turn to the Savior. You must come as a helpless, desperate soul who has no help apart from Christ. And if you do follow him and you do trust him and you have been truly converted, someday you will praise him You will live your life for his glory, because he is a king who is worthy of your praise. And someday you will be with that assembled host in heaven that's saying, With all the redeemed of all the ages, worthy is the Lamb. Because Jesus Christ is worthy of our praise. Let's close in prayer. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for our Savior. Thank you that we can learn so much from this account, and we thank you, Father, that He is worthy of our worship, of our trust, and of our I pray that if there's any here this morning who have only a superficial nominal faith, a faith that's Come that is compliant with the faith of their parents or the faith of their loved ones or their spouse, but is not really a personal trust in Christ. I pray that today you would show them their need. need of a savior, and they would come to trust in him and him alone, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen