One morning, Spurgeon woke up to find that his front porch had been painted blue. You see, this was right before a general election, and blue was the color of the Tory party, a party that Spurgeon did not support. Solomon tells us that there is nothing new under the sun. And this is certainly true in the realm of politics. There were red and blue parties in 19th century England, just like we have in the 21st century of our nation. I'm sure you've heard people say that two topics that you should not discuss in polite society are religion and politics. And the reason that these topics are generally avoided is because people have very strong and divergent views on these issues, as I'm sure you are well aware. Now, if you have attended our church for very long, you realize that I do not bring up politics in our services. In fact, there have been people that have been upset that I don't bring up politics more. We've had visitors come and and go because I'm not more political than they would like me to be in our services. And it's not because I don't have any opinions of my own, but because I've been called to preach the word, not to share my opinions. As you well know, we are only a little over two weeks away from an election. And so I thought it might be helpful for us to consider what God's Word says about the Christian and political elections. We believe that the Bible has foundational truths that affect every area of our lives. We should never think that like the Bible speaks to three or four spiritual truths, but the rest of everything else and all the decisions we make. Bible has nothing to say about that. That is not true. If you know the Word of God well, you will know that it at least in principle form, addresses every conceivable circumstance and situation and issue that we might encounter in our lives. Now I want you to know I'm not going to mention the names of the presidential candidates, nor am I going to try to persuade you to vote for a particular candidate. What I want us to do is to try to think biblically about this issue. I mentioned to someone today at lunch what I was going to be speaking on. He said to me, you're going to have to thread the needle. And I said, you're absolutely right. Now, the Bible does not have any verses on voting in a presidential election. And that is because in ancient times people did not have a say in the choice of their government. Kings ruled virtually over every country and territory. And the king might be an effective leader or he might be a horrible leader. And unless you were a person of great status and power, you had no influence over your political leaders. But in recent centuries this has all changed in all but a few nations in the world. There are still few nations that have a monarchy. And of course, there are many nations that have a totalitarian dictator. But with the age of enlightenment and modernity , came a renewed interest in the rights of the individual and democracy. Now, as you probably know, in the United States we have a representative democracy We don't have a pure democracy. We do not vote on most issues. Instead, we vote for representatives who in turn vote on this issue. But tonight I want us to narrow our focus. This is not going to be a general rambling discourse on governments. But we're going to think specifically about elections. So I'm going to address three questions. Number one, should Christians vote in a political election? Number two, what should Christians look for in a political leader? Number three, how should Christians respond to the results of an election? So let's look at these three essential questions. Number one, should Christians vote in political elections? Now this might seem to you to be a no-brainer, an obvious answer. But the fact is that there are millions of Christians who would answer, no, they should not. There is a branch that came out of, even though they don't believe this, that came out of the Protestant Reformation known as the Anabaptists. And it has been their tradition for over 400 years to abstain from anything political. So we have the Mennonites and the Amish and some brethren groups and many, many other groups. that have nothing to do with politics. And they would base their position on several verses. Probably the key text is Philippians chapter 3. And you can turn there if you would like. Philippians chapter 3, verse 18 says, For many of whom I have often told you and now tell you even with tears, walk as enemies of the cross of Christ. Their end is destruction. Their God is their belly. They glory in their shame with mind set on earthly things. Then verse 20 in contrast. But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And the key phrase there is our citizenship is in heaven. And so they would say, we are not to be citizens of nations on this earth. We are to be citizens of heaven. And so they would make this verse an absolute propositional reason as to why we should not vote. And they would say that politics is a dirty game, it's corrupt, so Christians should stay out of it. That's what people of the world do And so people who hold this view tend to be pacifists, that is, that they will not serve in the military, they do not vote in elections, and they do not believe that any of their members should run for public office. They would emphasize that we are just pilgrims passing through this world, and therefore we should not be involved in political affairs. And there is no doubt that our primary allegiance must be to God and not to men. Especially when what man says in the form of government is contradicted by what God says in his word. But unlike so many issues, we have to look at the whole of Scripture. We can't just take some verse and say that's it. That's the answer to everything. We have to look at the whole of Scripture. And the fact is, the very man who wrote these words to the Philippians was the Apostle Paul, and he was a Roman citizen. And in fact, he used this position to his advantage. You can read about that in Acts 22 through 26. I could go through many more things and passages, but my point is the Bible seems to teach that we can be both citizens of earth and citizens of heaven. That we set our affections on things above, but that doesn't mean that we have no care and no concern for anything that happens here on earth. So what are some of the biblical reasons that we should vote? Number one, voting is a way that we can select leaders. who will allow us to lead a peaceful and quiet life that is godly and dignified in every way. If you know your Bible well, you know I just quoted the end of 1 Timothy chapter 2 and verse 2. This is how we are instructed as Christians to pray for government officials. And certainly if this is the way we should pray, this is also the way we should vote. We should vote for leaders that will allow us to continue to live as Christians that will not persecute us and hinder us from doing what God has called us to do. A second reason that we should vote, because voting is a way that we can influence our society for good. We have been called to be salt and light in this world. In that passage in Matthew 5, the salt is being used there as a preservative to preserve something that is rotting for slow it down to preserve it How much different would the world be if there were no Christians here? You think it's bad now? You remove that restraining influence. of believers and the world would be unbearable. It would be a horrible place to live. So we are called to be salt and light, and we just happen to be living in a time and an era where we can have a part in the selection of leaders. that will hopefully uphold Christian values found in Scripture. Voting is one way that we can influence societal issues that the Bible very clearly addresses, like marriage. Abortion, euthanasia, the protection of life. I like what Spurgeon says. He says, every God-fearing man Should give his vote with as much devotion as he prays. Number three, third reason we should vote. Since God has called us to be submissive to our leaders, see Romans 13 or 1 Peter chapter 2, it seems logical that He would want us to do what we can to put the right people in positions of power. Governments, if I can put it this way, has like God-like power in the lives of people. They can put people to death. They can absolve people. They can send them away. It has great power And so the selection of those leaders is very, very important. So I would put it this way, our form of government does not lessen our obligations to the authorities. It increases our responsibility. to participate in the selecting of the right leaders. Number four. One of the ways that we love our neighbor is by seeking to elect the best leaders, not just for our benefit. But for theirs as well. The Bible, remember, Jesus said that you could boil down the Ten Commandments to two, the two tables of the law, love God with all your heart and mind and strength. And love your neighbor as yourself. Well, how do we love our neighbor as ourselves? Well, in a thousand different ways. And one of those ways is by voting for leaders who would help them do what's right. Even though that may not be who they would vote for. Ultimately, it would be for their good. I want to read a quote here from one of my favorite writers of the past, and that is Jonathan Edwards. If you know anything about Jonathan Edwards, you know he was focused on life after death. He wrote a great deal about heaven and about hell. And about setting our affections on Christ and what is eternal and what is lasting, instead of focusing our attention on the here and now But that does not mean that he had no interest in anything that was happening in the here and now. This is from his classic book, Charity and Its Fruits, an exposition of 1 Corinthians 13. Listen to what he says. A man of a right spirit is not a man of narrow and private views. but is greatly interested and concerned for the good of the community to which he belongs, and particularly of the city or village in which he resides. and for the true welfare of the society of which he is a member. Now he's going to try to support this with scripture. Listen. God commanded the Jews that were carried away in captivity to Babylon to see the good of that city, though it was not their native place, but only the city of their captivity. His injunction was, Jeremiah 29, 7, seek the peace of the city whither I have caused you to be carried away captives, and pray unto the Lord for it. And a man of a truly Christian spirit will be earnest for the good of his country and the place of his residence, and will be disposed to lay himself out for its improvements. I think that is very well said. Now I want to move on to the second question that I mentioned earlier. And this is perhaps the most difficult. What should Christians look for in a political leader? We should think biblically about this. Let me tell you some factors that often people think of or mention that should not be at the top of the list. Number one, this is going to sound strange to you, someone who is attractive. Did you know in 1960 when there was a presidential election And there was the first presidential debate between John F. Kennedy and Richard Nixon Those who listened on the radio thought that Nixon won, and those who watched the TV broadcast thought that Kennedy won. And I am not going to go into the pros or cons of either one of those characters. But the fact is that with the advent of TV, the attractiveness of a political candidate becomes important. In fact, many uh political scientists would say that Abraham Lincoln could never be elected today. Because he was not an attractive man at all. But back in those days, people would many times never really see what the candidate actually looked like. So it should not be someone who is attractive. Number two, it should not simply be someone who is a member of your political party. We should think a little more deeply than just that. Number three, it should not be someone who seems to be patriotic. I'm not against Being patriotic, I love my country. But there have been in the history of the world many horrible people who have wrapped themselves in flags. And an attempt to influence people. Number four You should not just vote for someone who promises prosperity. I'm not saying that none of these characteristics that I've just mentioned should not factor in your decisions at all. But they should not be the top of the list. In other words, we should not think about who we vote for just like every lost person in the country. We should think on a deeper level. We should think on a biblical level. So I want us to look at two key passages. It's difficult to find a passage because most of the passages that we have in Scripture take place under a theocracy in the Old Testament or in the New Testament like qualifications for pastors and deacons, etc. etc. And obviously that's comparing apples and oranges. But there are two passages that I think are general enough that could be somewhat helpful to us. I want you to turn with me, if you can, to 2 Samuel. Chapter 23. Second Samuel chapter 23. These are David's final official words to the nation. 2 Samuel 23, verse 1. The oracle of David, the son of Jesse. The oracle of the man who was raised on high, the anointed of the God of Jacob, the sweet psalmist of Israel. Now look at verse 2. The Spirit of the Lord speaks by me. His word is on my tongue. The God of Israel has spoken. The rock of Israel has said to me, When one rules justly over men, ruling in the fear of God. He dawns on them like the morning light, like the sun shining forth on a cloudless morning. Like rain that makes grass to sprout from the earth. So in the second half of verse 3, there are two qualities. Two very general qualities that we should look for in a political leader. Number one Political leaders should rule justly over people. A political leader should not just deal justly or righteously with the people who favor him or her. He should not try to set one group of people against another. The political leader should uphold the rule of law And probably what David is primarily focused on is that political leaders should not be corrupt or influenced by a bribe. This was a huge problem in the ancient world and is still a great issue in many countries There are many countries where everything is transacted through a bribe when you're dealing with authority. If you have any doubts about this, ask Pastor Aaron about this. This is actually a major component of why many nations in the world remain in absolute poverty. And no matter how many billions of dollars Western nations pour into those countries, it never ever seems to help. They never improve. Why is that? Because when the money comes in, it goes to the corrupt officials who don't distribute it to others, who use it to feather their nest, rather than help to improve the nation. This is a huge problem. This is why nations that have great resources and great potential remain locked in abject poverty. And so the idea of having corrupt leaders is not like, you know, a minor point. It's not that important. It's a really, really major point. And because we have lived in a nation that has traditionally had Christian values , And because we have been more watchful, perhaps and vigilant than most nations have been about this, this is one of the reasons why we've had more stability and more prosperity. There are other many other factors. But this is an important thing. A political leader must be a just individual who does what is right, not just what is politically expedient. Number two, political leaders should govern in the fear of God. Now, ultimately, to govern in the fear of God in its fullest sense of the term would mean that a person knows God. However, the Bible is clear that a person can fear God and yet not really be a believer. In fact, the very first time that this term is used, the fear of God, is in the context of an unbeliever, a pagan. And Genesis chapter 20 and verse 11, this is where King Abimelech confronts Abraham and says, why did you lie to us about your wife and say that she was your sister instead of your wife? And Abraham responds this way, I did it because I thought there is no fear of God at all in this place, and they will kill me because of my wife. But there was some fear of God in the place. King Abimelech did not once the judgment of God to descend on his kingdom because they had broken this man's marriage vows. So even an unbelieving pagan lever leader can rule with some of the understanding of the fear of God. What does this practically mean? It means that he or she governs with the understanding That they are not the final authority, and that they must answer to God So that's an important thing. Does this person have any sense that there is a God to whom they must answer? Or is that the furthest thing from their mind? And then verse 4 in this text provides three word pictures of the blessings that come with a political leader who rules with these characteristics. First of all, he's compared to the first morning lights. The rising of the sun on a clear day is a beautiful thing. It's also described as the warm sun of a cloudless morning, just perfect, kind of like it was today. Perfect weather, low humidity, no clouds, beautiful sunlight, but not too hot and not too cold, beautiful colors everywhere. This is what it's like to have a leader that brings stability and peace to his people. And this leader is compared to a rain shower after a drought. It is a welcome relief. And this part of the world where this was written There were many droughts that would lead to famine and starvation. And so when a rain came after a drought, it was a time of great celebration because it was viewed as the blessing of God. And so a leader who is just and rules in the fear of God and carefully governs his people, not for his advantage, but for theirs, is a tremendous blessing. But I want you to know that every human leader who has ever lived and ever ruled has been a disappointment to his people on some level. Because ultimately, the Davidic king that David is referring to here at the end of his life is the Lord Jesus Christ. And he is the only one that will satisfy his subjects by the way he is ruled Now we must turn to another passage that is somewhat obscure, and that is Exodus chapter 18. Exodus chapter 18. And verse 21. The context is that Moses speaking to his father-in-law Jethro. And he tells Moses that what he's doing is not wise because Moses was listening to cases from morning till night and absolutely wearing himself out trying to lead the people. And he says to him, you can't survive like this. This is foolishness. You must delegate. You must find competent individuals who can rule on lesser matters and only the most difficult and the most monumental of cases will come to you. He was essentially going to be like the Supreme Court. But what sort of qualities should these leaders possess? I want you to notice he does not address their educational background, their wealth, or their status. which was very, very unusual in the ancient world. In the ancient world, there were people of status and people without status. And whenever you were looking for leaders, you simply looked for people who had royal connections, who had power and wealth. They were always the leaders. And that's the way the world has always been. The leaders at the highest levels of government today tend to be very wealthy individuals. And if they're not when they went into office, they will be when they retire. Now I want you to notice there are three things that are mentioned here. And what he mentions is their moral and character qualities. Number one Political leaders should be capable individuals. Look at verse 21. Look for able men from all the people who fear God. who are trustworthy and hate a bride, and place such men over the people as chiefs of thousands or hundreds or fifties or tens. There was a hierarchy going all the way down to just rulers of tens. Able men here is the idea of capable individuals. Not everyone is capable of leading. We live in a society that tells us anybody can be the leader. It's not true. You can lead on some level, you can lead in your own life, you can lead in your family, but not everyone has the qualities or the ability. To leave. So how would Moses know if they were capable? Well Because they had a track record of discernment and wise leadership. There's a parallel passage to this where Moses is reminding them of this time in Deuteronomy chapter 1 and verse 13 and describes them as these men as wise, understanding, and experienced men. People have a track record of being able to lead and to do a good job. They have They are capable, competent individuals. You might say, why does this matter? Well, Proverbs 28, verse 6 says, a ruler who lacks understanding is a great oppressor. And no one wants to live under an oppressor. Number two, and we've seen this already, political leaders should fear the Lord. These leaders must recognize that they will one day answer to God. They should recognize that any authority they possess has been given to them by the Lord. Then number three, political leaders should be individuals of integrity. He says, trustworthy and hate A bribe. They are leaders who will be just and honest in their deliberations. They will not show favoritism or simply use their positions of power to feather their nest. and the people that they know well. They will do what is right. Now this word integrity is a very interesting word. It has the idea of wholeness. It means that a person's character will permeate every aspect of their lives. There are no secret compartments. So I would take this from this description. Christians should not take the position that a candidate's character doesn't matter. This is often the way the world thinks. The world says what a man does in his private life is nobody's concern. That's not a biblical position. The Bible says as long as a person gets the job done, who cares with what kind of a character he is? That is not a political Christian biblical position. Because a person's character permeates and flows into every aspect of their life This is why one of the things the Bible says that a pastor, a preacher has certain qualifications. It doesn't say if he's a really good preacher and a really capable administrator, don't worry about his private life. No Because a lot of what a teacher does is lead by example by modeling behavior, by modeling how to lead and how to deal with difficult situations. This is a complicated thing. And usually Christians are forced to vote between the lesser of two evils. And their evaluations of these different biblical information about who to vote for. But now I want to turn to the third point. How should Christians respond to the results of an election? Number one, we should remember that God is in control of this election, just like every other election and every other leader who has ever lived. Because God rules over all. Psalm 47 verse 7 says God is king of all the earth. Psalm 103 and verse 19 says the Lord has established his throne in the heavens and his kingdom rules over all. Psalm 115 and verse 3 says, Our God is in the heavens. He does all that he pleases. Psalm 135 and verse 6 says, Whatever the Lord pleases, he does in heaven and on earth. Number two, we need to remember that God cannot be stopped from doing what He's trying to accomplish Psalm, excuse me, Isaiah 46 and verse 10 says, My counsel shall stand, and I will accomplish all my purpose. God's strategy, if I can use that term, God's plan of redemption and his plan for the world has never been thwarted. Every detail is working out exactly the way as he has designed it to work out. I love this verse, Daniel 4. 35. All the inhabitants of the earth are accounted as nothing, and he does according to his will among the hosts of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth. None can stay his hand or say to him, What have you done? God has, if I can put it in a strange way, zero accountability. He doesn't answer to anyone because he's God. And what he does is right. Proverbs 21 and verse 30 says, no wisdom, no understanding, no counsel can avail against the Lord. No one, no leader has ever been able to come up with a strategy to overcome what God's going to do. Isaiah 14 verse 27, for the Lord of hosts has purposed, and who will annul it? His hand is stretched out, and who will turn it back? The answer is no one. And thirdly, we should remember that God selects and controls all the rulers of the earth. Psalm 75 and verse 6 says, for not from the east or from the west, not from the wilderness come lifting up. But God, it is God who executes judgment, putting down one and lifting up another Daniel chapter 4 says, the Most High rules the kingdom in the kingdom of men and gives it to whomever he wills. And that phrase is mentioned three times in chapter 4. He rules and he gives authority to whoever he wants to give that authority to. And Proverbs 21 in verse 1 says, the king's heart is a stream of water in the hand of the Lord. He turns it wherever he wills. Even if some despot gets into office anywhere in the world, God is still in absolute control of that person. And so I want you to know that I know exactly who's going to win this election. It's going to be the individual that God has chosen to put in that office. But that raises a serious question. What about leaders that rise to power and are wicked and ungodly and persecute the people of God? Why would good Why would God, excuse me, place them in those positions? That doesn't seem to make sense to us. Number four, we should remember that God's purposes are often mysterious to us. We often do not understand fully why God has put wicked leaders in positions of authority. In the history of the world, there have been some really, really bad leaders. who have brought devastation upon the world. Men like Adolf Hitler. How many millions of people died because of his tyranny. What devastation and disruption he brought to the world. But I want you to know on the basis of Scripture, I have to conclude that it was God's will that he be in that position of power for about a decade in Germany. Pastor Aaron mentioned one reason in the sermon on Wednesday night, without the devastation of World War II and the Holocaust, the Jews would never have returned to their homeland of Israel. And this was part of God's plan of working out his promises that were made long ago. And I'm sure there are many, many other reasons. That people have seen and that are perhaps only known to God. My point is that God uses wicked political leaders at times to afflict his people. The northern tribes of Israel never really had a good king. Did you know that? They were all bad to one degree or another. In the South, there were several really good kings. And why is that? Why did God give them such poor leadership? I think one of the answers is because The people in the north were much more given to idolatry. And so he said, in essence, you love idolatry, I'll give you leaders who love idolatry, who bring my judgment upon the lands. So sometimes God gives us, if I can put it this way, the leaders that we deserve. And the leaders that reflect the way our nation and our people tend to think and tend to believe Number two, God can also use wicked political leaders to deliver his people. King Cyrus the Persian was predicted by Isaiah. And Isaiah 45 is the one who would deliver Israel from the Babylonians a hundred years before it took place. Cyrus was not a God-fearing, wonderful Christian man. He was a despotic ruler. But God used him to free his people from Babylon. Because God is in control of all leaders. Finally, how should we respond to the reality that God is in control of this election? Let me mention five things. Number one, negatively, we should not be filled with anxiety and fear. We should not allow the news to make us depressed and fearful as if there is no God. Don't consume news all day long. I know there's a 24-hour news cycle. And it's very easy, especially if you're retired, to sit at home all day long watching the news. and become disgruntled and angry at everybody in the world. That's not a good strategy. I honestly I have told many people Who are in the depths of despair, you need to stop watching the news and start reading your Bible Number two, we should pray. God's sovereignty and prayer go together. In Acts chapter 4, when the church experienced its first persecution, they had a powerful prayer meeting. Where God literally shook the place. And what did they pray? They prayed for God to do whatever your hand and your plan has predestined to take place. God, do what you're going to do. If that involves persecution, if that involves suffering, that's okay. You work out your plan because you're in control Number three, having said that God is sovereign does not mean that we should not vote. The Bible always speaks about God's sovereignty not making us think, well, I guess there's nothing I should do. I guess I should just give up and do nothing. No. You should vote. And you should vote with Christian values. Number four, you should not become overly joyful If a particular candidate you voted for wins. Does that sound strange to you? Because you will soon discover that they are a very poor savior. They're not going to solve all the problems. I'm always amazed sometimes at young people who are voting in the first election and they're the ones, of course, who protest and and uh rally and get most excited and everything. And they really honestly believe that if you get the right person in power, everything is going to be taken care of. And that, of course, is not the case. Then there's the other side of this. You should not become overly sorrowful if the candidate you voted for loses. Why do I say that? Psalm 146 and verse 3 says, put not your trust in princes, in a son of man in whom there is no salvation. The reference to princes here is in our modern parlance would be a political leader. Don't put your trust in political leaders, because they can never ultimately solve the problems of the world. They're not saviors. Trust in God. Psalm 118, verses 8 and 9 says, it's better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in man. It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in princes, that is, political leaders We must not have a testimony before the world that ultimately what we're banking on and what we're really excited about and earnest about is getting the right candidates in office. That's the most important thing in the world to us. It means that we're kind of trusting in political leaders to solve our problems, and that is a fool's game. I know these issues are complex, and perhaps I've just raised more questions than given you any answers. But I've given done my best to try to explain to you what the Bible, how the Bible answers these very relevant questions for us today. And I hope the Lord will use them for good in your lives. Let's close in prayer. Father, I pray that you would give us confidence and rest in knowing that you are in control. And that nothing can thwart what you are trying to do. No scheme of man. No dark strategy can undo your purposes. And so I pray that we would be a people not who live in fear and alarm, but are at peace and at rest because we know that you will accomplish your purposes. And that they will ultimately end in glory and in the exaltation of Jesus Christ, the only man who is worthy of our trust. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.