Would you turn with me please to Psalm 102? Passage that we read together a while ago. On September 30, 1859, Abraham Lincoln addressed the Washington State Agricultural Society. in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. In that speech, he told this memorable story. He said, long ago, an Eastern monarch was plagued with worries and fears. He called his wise men together and asked them to invent a brief motto. that would help him in times of trial or distress. The motto must be short enough to fit on his ring And the motto must be true in every situation, whether in adversity or prosperity. After much thought, the wise men came back with these magic words. This too shall pass away. I'm not sure that that is really the origin of this common expression. My internet searches reveal that there are about a dozen different stories that claim to be the origin of this famous expression. And it has all the markings of perhaps an apocryphal tale. But the sentiment is true. Everything As you know it, will pass away with one great exception, and that is God, for He is eternal God will not change, for he is immutable. These two fundamental doctrinal truths are inevitably intertwined Because God never changes, he is eternal. And because he is eternal, he never changes. These complementary ideas are like two sides. of the same coin. You can't really have one without the other. And so we should not be surprised to find these twin truths found in Psalm 102. I'm not going to preach this psalm in an expositional manner this morning. This is more of a doctrinal message than an expositional message. But I do want to give you some background and lead up to our text this morning. Psalm 102 is one of the seven designated penitential psalms. But there's only really one verse that has the flavor of a penitential psalm, a psalm of repentance. And that is verse 10 , which says, Because of thy indignation and thy wrath, for thou hast lifted me up and cast me down. The key to understanding this Psalm is actually found in the inscription, which says, a prayer of the afflicted when he is overwhelmed and poureth out his complaint before the Lords. This psalm is technically known as a lament or a complaint. The psalmist here expresses his problems both as being national and personal. We have no idea who wrote the psalm. It was most likely written during the Babylonian exile. In verses 13 through 16 , he makes reference to the nation and to God's work. And he seems to be riding as someone who's riding from some distance. I suspect that some unknown Jewish captive is distressed in spirit. And pours out his heart to God in prayer. All the commentators are agreed that the Psalm is made up of three parts. And verses 1 through 11, you have a personal complaint. Notice what it says here. I want to begin reading at verse 3. For my days are consumed like smoke, and my bones are burned up as a hearth. He recognizes that his life is rapidly coming to an end. It's like smoke that is dissipating quickly. It's like a charred log that is about to be burnt up. And then in verse 4 he says, My heart is smitten and withered like grass, so that I forget to eat my bread, his joy. And will to live has shriveled up like grass under a hot sun. Look with me at verse 5. By reason the voice of my groaning, my bones cleave. to my skin. His life, he is saying, is filled with agony and weakness. In verses 6 and 7, he He says, I'm like a pelican of the wilderness. I'm like an owl of the desert. I watch and am as a sparrow alone upon the housetop. He uses these different references to bird, to birds to express the idea of he feels very alone, he feels detached and isolated from the world. And why is he in this distress? In verses 8 through 11 he gives two reasons. One is because of the oppression of men. And he's probably referring to the Babylonians who have held him and his people captive. And then in verse 10, he mentions the judgment of God there Exile was deserved because of their sin. It was God correcting his people. In verse 11, he says, My life is almost over. They're like a shadow that declineth, and I am withered like the grass The second division begins in verse 12 and goes through verse 22, and here the focus is not personal but national. The tone will change. He begins now to think and consider the promises of God. Look with me at verse 12. But thou, O Lord, shalt endure forever. and thy remembrance unto all generations. When he begins to take his focus off of himself and his own problems , and remembers what God is doing and the promises that he has given to his people, his attitude begins to change. And in verses 23 To the end, we have the third and final division. And here the psalmist acknowledges that he still has problems, but he finds his hope in God. A hope That will extend to the next generation. Look at the final verse. The children of thy servant shall continue, and their seed shall be established before thee. Now, my focus this morning. is on verses 25 through 27. It says, Of old hast thou laid the foundations of the earth and the heavens are the work of thy hands. They shall perish, but thou shalt endure. Yea, all of them shall wax old like a garment, as a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed. But thou art the same, and thy years shall have no end. These words gave comfort and confidence to this man many centuries ago. This elderly writer recognizes that his days are about to come to a close. He is in a strange country. He is seeing great change in his lifetime. But there's something that he can trust in, and that is his God. His God is both unchanging and eternal. We see here and we find here an anchor in a time of change. We live in a world of great change. When you are a young person and your experience extends to no more than a decade, you don't see the incredible changes that have taken place in the world. But for those of you here who are senior citizens, you realize that you live in a different world than you were born in. Things were so much different. Oh, differences in technology, differences in transportation. But then even differences in the way that people perceive things and the things that people believe. There were things that you were taught that everyone that you knew believed when you were a child that are ridiculed today and are now in the minority and are considered dangerous ideists The world is a place of change. And the older you get, the more you become aware of that. And that can be a very disturbing thought. But there is something that will never change, and that is our God. God is our only refuge in times of change. I want us to consider from these verses two great doctrinal truths this morning, and then our response, our appropriate response to those truths concerning our God. The first thing I want you to consider is that our great God is eternal. This truth is mentioned several times in this Psalm. In Psalm 102 verse 11, he says, My days are like a shadow that declineth, and I am withered like grass. Verse 12, but thou, O Lord, shalt endure forever, and thy remembrance unto all generations. And of course it's found in verses 25 through 27, as I read just a moment ago. When a person is young, they tend to feel like their life will continue on beyond their comprehension. It will just go on forever. But there comes a point in a person's life where all of a sudden they look at themselves in the mirror, they look at the calendar, and they say, My life is more than half over. Where did all the time go? That's exactly the conclusion of the psalmist here. This is why we have been called to redeem the time, because life is short. The scripture uses many different pictures of the brevity of life. In fact, I think if you were to count them all up , And distinguishing them, you would find something like 14 different pictures of the brevity of life We read things about the fact that what is your life? It is even as a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then it banisheth We read here in verse 11 of our light is compared to a shadow. Shadow is transient. It moves with the movement of the sun. We read here in verse 11 also grass that withers under the hot sun. In the morning it looks vibrant and green, but then when the sun comes out and it strikes that grass for hours at a time, it withers, and that is the way our life is. It's compared to a flash flood. It's compared to a sudden gust of wind. It's compared to a dream. On and on we could go. You get the idea. Life is short. And God has provided us all of these images, these pictures. So that we don't miss this message. Life is very, very fleeting. It's short. So we need to apply our hearts unto wisdom, as is put in Psalm ninety. And when you come to grasp the brevity of life, you naturally want something that will not change. And that is found in our God verse 27. Thou art the same, and thy years shall have no end. Now the Bible teaches this truth. all through its pages. We find this in the names of God. He is called the everlasting God in Genesis 2133. Hebrew it's El Olam. In Exodus chapter 3 and verse 14, God tells Moses that he is to go back and tell the people of Israel that I am have sent you. Another title that expresses this truth is The Ancient of Days, which is found in Daniel chapter 7. My favorite is the Rock of Ages. We have references to this attribute all throughout the scripture. The oldest Psalm that we have on our Psalter is Psalm 90. It was written by Moses. probably about 3,500 years ago, if you look at the inscription. And it's very fitting because that psalm is where we have this verse, from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. Think how much the world has changed in 3,500 years when Moses first wrote those words. It's hard to imagine what life was like way back then. But you know what? God has not changed at all. He is not aged, he is the same. He is the eternal God of the universe. Psalm 45 and verse 6 says, Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. Isaiah 57, 15 says that God inhabits eternity. And 1 Timothy 1:17, the passage that Pastor Steve mentioned, at the opening of immortal, invisible, God only wise, where it says, now unto the King, eternal, immortal, invisible. It was that verse, by the way, that God used to open the eyes of Jonathan Edwards. This was his salvation verse. Now what exactly does it mean that God is eternal? I've just demonstrated to you hopefully that the scriptures teach this again and again in a variety of ways. Some skeptics say that the Hebrew word for eternal or everlasting really does not mean eternal. It just speaks of vast ages of time. But the logical fact is God must be eternal, or he's not God And the fact is the scripture confirms this with the most expansive language available, such as, from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God's. From ages past to ages yet to come, God is God's. The fact is that human language fails us at this point. We speak of things like eternity past. We speak of things like infinites. But how can we describe the inconceivable? Everything that we know has a beginning and an end, but not God 's. God is infinite in reference to space. He is omnipresent. He is infinite in reference to knowledge. He is omniscient. He is infinite in reference to power. He is omnipotent. And he is infinite in reference to time. He is eternal. And if God is not these things, as described in Scripture, then He's not God's Sometimes when I hear Christians talk about gods and about their problems, I want to stop them and I want to say, your God is too small. Because the conception they have in their mind does not fit with what is taught in the Word of God's. So many of our problems stem from the fact that our understanding of God And so small and trivial, we need to recognize our God as great. So, what does it mean that he's eternal? It means, first of all, that he has always been. He has always been. Everything that we know has a cause But who started everything? By the way, this is a big problem that evolutionists have. Whenever they want to talk about, you know The beginning of the universe and everything, they always start out with uh there was this big bang, there was all this energy, there was all this matter, then there was this huge explosion and the universe is expanding and so forth. And I said, wait a minute, where did all that stuff come from? And the energy for that explosion, where did that come from? Um we don't know. We don't know. Well, that's a big problem. It had to come from somewhere. It had to have a cause. Who created that matter? Who created that energy? The fact is that it is God who starts everything. By the way, I don't believe in the Big Bang Theory. I'm just using that as a Ancient philosophers, Greek philosophers, reason correctly that there must be What they designated an uncaused cause. An uncaused cause. The only Logical option beside that is to believe that matter and energy are eternal. They have always been And it's hard to imagine that matter is eternal because it's always breaking down and falling apart and disintegrating. And this is exactly what Scripture teaches that God is the uncaused cause. He is the creator of the universe that has always been. He is the first cause. He has always been and he always will be. The scripture says he shall reign forever and ever. Lamentations 5. 19 says, Thou, O Lord, remainest forever thy throne from generation to generation. He will always exist. There's no number you can conceive of and go into the future and say this will be a time that God does not exist. No, he is the eternal gods He always has been, he always will be. And then this one is the hardest one to grasp. We're getting really philosophical and ethereal here, but he is timeless in his being. It's significant that he described himself at the burning bush as I am. Eternally present or timeless. You see, God exists outside of time. Now he acts in time and the sequences of our lives and of the universe and of the world, but God is not bound by time like we are. He stands outside of time. I know this is hard to wrap your mind around. In fact, it's really impossible to fully comprehend. The scripture gives us analogies like this. Psalm 90 in verse 4 and in 2 Peter 3. 8, a day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as a day. Why? Because God is outside of time. He sees everything from the creation of world to the consummation of the age in one glance. I think the best illustration that I've shared with you before of this is this. You know, in New York City and other major cities they have these large parades that Go down very important streets and people line the streets and they watch the parade and they go back for many, many blocks. Our view of the world and of time is of an onlooker on the street who's there on the sidewalk and we see one float come by and then we see another float come by and then another float come by and we admire and we like it and we see it. But God's view is from like the top of the skyscraper where he can see the beginning of the parade over here, four blocks down, and the end of it five blocks down over there, and he can see every single float in one gaze. Or you could put it this way. Let's talk about your life. God 's never been surprised with anything that's happened in your life. You might be, but he's not. He sees your life from beginning to end. It's almost like you could think of it like a timeline that you might have on a single sheet of paper. You have up there the date you were born. And you can go down a little bit further, maybe the day that you took your first step, and then the day you said your first words, and then the day you started school, and then the day you graduated from high school. And then the day that you got married, and then the day you started your career, and the day you had your first child And then the day that you retired from your career, and the day that you celebrated your 50th anniversary, and then the day that you died. And all of those dates are lined up and everything in between, and God can see it all in one glance on one page, like it was a summary of your life. Because God stands outside of time and sees the beginning and the end. Our great God is eternal. And this should bring great comfort to us. I want to come now to the second great doctrinal truth to consider this morning, this twin truth, and that is that our great God is immutable. Now, this is not a word that we use that often. A mutation is a change. But God is immutable, which means he never changes. This again is in keeping with all his other attributes. If God is not immutable, then he can't be the other things that I talked about. Of being omniscient and omnipresent and omnipotent and eternal. Those things cannot remain as they are if He changes. God does not grow better or worse. Because he is absolutely holy. He does not grow weaker or stronger because he is omnipotent. His knowledge does not increase or diminish because he knows all. If God were to change, it would be an indication that he was lacking in some area and therefore not the perfect being that the scripture describes. Notice how this is found in our psalm this morning. It says verse 25, Of old hast thou laid the foundations of the earth, and the heavens are the works of thy hands. They shall perish, but thou shalt endure. All of them shall wax old like a garment, as a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed, but thou art the same. And thy years shall have no end. What's included here in this description in verse 26, they shall perish Know what's included in that? Everything. Your clothing, your house, your car, your shoes, your boats. And you. You ever notice how you're changing? I have a file in my office of every church directory we've ever had here. And some of you have really changed. It's interesting to see how people change. This is going to sound really morbid, but it's reality. I was looking at this clip online and someone had taken um uh a motion picture in like 1907 in downtown New York City and this person had colorized this. It only lasted for a few minutes, but it was very interesting, very crowded. You you look like you're of course looking at a different world, the way people are dressed and the vehicles that they're driving and using and all the hustle and bustle of downtown New York City and you see in this picture thousands and thousands of people And there was a comment, you know, people have comments about videos and it said it's sad to think that every single person in this video is dead. Because that was 110 years ago that video was taken. They're all gone. The children. Their parents, the grandparents, everyone in those pictures, the thousands of people that are just enjoying their life in downtown New York City, they're all gone. They're all gone into eternity Everything changes. How much the world has changed. You know, when I was a young man, a teenager, I'm gonna sound like an old man here, but But young people, people could not have conceived like of us having a cell phone today. You know And uh and and and the incredible abilities that people have because of that cell phone. Ability, you can talk. You know, I talk, I can be out walking the grounds here and talking on my cell phone to a missionary in South Africa. That sort of thing happens all the time. And I can see them. I can Skype them and see them and have a conversation with them. Now, when I was a teenager, that sort of thinking was science fiction. Because everything that we had had a cord connected to it. And the idea that you could walk around, or the idea. That any question or any statistic or anything that you wanted to know, you could instantly find out. You know what we used to do? We used to have to go to the library. I can remember my friends, you know, we'd be debating about like uh who had the most hits in Major League Baseball. And some guy would say this number and someone would say this number, and they would argue about it and say, all right, we're gonna have to go to the library and solve this. Find it out. You know, in the next day you would have the answer. Not like that today. Instant information. Of course, there are many, many drawbacks and problems. That come with that. But I use it as an illustration of the incredible changes that we have seen in the world. But God is unchanged. Now what does this mean, his immutability? It means that he is, first of all, unchanging in his being. He is the great I am. Again, as I mentioned earlier, for him to change in his being would imply that God is not perfect, but he is perfect, and therefore he is unchanging. Secondly, God is unchanging in his perfections or attributes. Sometimes Liberal theologians like to say that God is more loving in the New Testament than he was in the Old Testament. That is nonsense. He's unchanging. The Bible says in the Old Testament that his mercy endureth forever, that he loves his people with an everlasting love. You can't improve on that And God is unchanging in his purposes. Psalm 33, 11 says, the counsel of the Lord standeth forever. God has a plan for your life. I've mentioned this verse often in recent weeks. He that hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. The Puritan Stephen Charnock wrote a massive book entitled The Existence and Attributes of God And he says this, men may break their promises because they are made without foresights. But God that inhabits eternity foreknows all things that shall be done under the sun. as if they had been then acted before him. And nothing can intervene or work a change in his resolves because the least circumstances were eternally foreseen by him God is not surprised about anything. God is unchanging in his promises. Isaiah 40, verse 8 says, The grass withereth, the flower fadeth, but the word of our God shall stand forever. Now perhaps in some of your minds there's a thought that has occurred to you, and that is, wait a minute, Pastor, aren't there some passages in the Bible that speak of God changing his mind? In fact, in the King James Version, it says that he repented him. If you were to go through, you would find that there are some 15 passages like this. So I must address this for a moment and get a little bit further into the weeds of theology, as it were. One such passage is Genesis chapter six, verses five and six in the context of the flood. It says, And God saw that the wickedness of man was very great in the earth, and that every imagination of the farts, thoughts of his heart was only evil continually, and it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth. Does this mean that God thought that creation was a mistake? Was God surprised by the wickedness of mankind? A superficial and isolated reading of this text may give you that impression, but it's not true. Let me try to explain a little bit here. God's thoughts and God's feelings are described in human terms that we can understand. But it's important to remember that God is not like us. There's a difference between God's descriptive works and God's declarations that we find in Scripture. Theologians, I'm not trying to use big words, but theologians use terms like anthropomorphism and anthropopathism. To describe what is taking place here. For instance, in scripture it talks about God's hand, that holds the world in his hand. Is there actually, does he actually physically have a hand that holds the world? No. John chapter 4 and verse 24 says, God is spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. But that imagery helps us to understand the greatness of his power and the control that he has in the earth. It says that he shelters us under his wings. Does God have feathers? No. He's a spirit. But the imagery of a mother bird sheltering her little chicks helps us to understand the protective care of God. And so sometimes in scripture, the scriptures describe things in ways as if God is surprised or as if God didn't know about something, but we have all these declarations in Scripture that God knows everything. What that text is describing is that the Lord was grieved over the wickedness of mankind. He knew it was going to come. And he did bring judgment because of it. But it's not like he really changed his mind. We have many other examples of this. We have one towards the end of the Old Testament in reference to Jonah. Remember the message that this reluctant prophet was to bring, yet 40 days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown, and what happened? The people repented, much to the chagrin of Jonah. It says, and God saw their works that they turned from their evil way. And God repented of the evil that he had said he would do unto them, and he did it not. You say, see, God changed his mind No, it's the people who changed. And God appropriately changed his plan. But his plan didn't really change because he knew this was going to occur. This is why it's hard for us to understand God's ways. Let me give you another example, and I might really be I don't know, m making people upset or at least think about these things, but you know, we have this wonderful thing, and it's true. Prayer changes things. So does prayer change God's mind? Was God planning on doing this? But then you prayed, and so he did this over here. It seems that way to us, but I want you to understand something. That God knew that you were going to pray. And that was part interwoven into his eternal plan. And his response to your prayer was something that he knew what he was going to do. So you might say, well, I guess I don't need to pray then. No. Because He's commanded you to pray and to pour out your heart and He does respond to your prayers. But again, God stands outside of time and He knows everything that you and I are going to do. He knows our thoughts. He knows the number of our days. He knows the burdens of our heart. And he knows our prayers. Believers have always found great comfort in this wonderful truth that God never changes. I don't know if you noticed in the hymns that we sang together this morning. I try to find hymns that fit with the theme of the message. We sang Immortal Invisible and we sang these words. Did you think about them? We blossom and flourish as leaves on the tree and wither and perish, but not changeth thee. Kind of morbid words, but true. We do shrivel up like a leaf in the fall. That's our life. Or how about the song Abide with Me? Change and decay, and all around I see. Oh thou who changest not, abide with me. Do you know what it is to abide in an unchanging God? You see, this is not some academic lesson in theology that I'm giving this morning. This is relevant and practical. And our response to these twin truths, that God is eternal and unchanging, is my third point, and that is that our great God is worthy of our trust. So many of our problems are due to our unbelief and our failure to really believe the great God that is revealed in his words. We forfeit our peace and joy and contentment because we do not believe what God says about Himself. We should trust God because He is eternal. I think of this wonderful passage in Deuteronomy 33, 27. You don't have to turn there But Moses is at the end of his life and he's blessing the 12 tribes and he says, the eternal God is thy refuge, and underneath are the everlasting arms. What a beautiful picture is that. Oh, they've come out of Egypt. They've gone through the wilderness. They're about to go into the promised land. And he says, you don't need to worry. Because underneath of you are the everlasting arms of God. The eternal God is your refuge. Dear Christian friend, do you know what it is to rest in those eternal arms and to trust contentedly in your great God? Trusting in God and the eternal God brings peace. One of my favorite passages is Isaiah chapter 26. You don't need to turn there. But I want to read this for you. Verses 3 and 4 says, that will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee because he trusteth in thee. Trust ye in the Lord forever, for in the Lord Jehovah is everlasting strength. And the words that are translated everlasting strength literally in the Hebrew are the rock of ages. We can trust in God because He is our rock of ages. In the ancient world, a large rock was about the most permanent thing you could imagine. And so it provided an appropriate picture of eternity. And they were often used as a place of refuge, a place where you could hide from the enemy and find comfort and security. Do you run to God in time of need? We sang about that this morning People often turn to financial resources or political powers to solve their problems But the scriptures tell us in Psalm 146 and verse 3, put not your trust in princes. Which would have been a term for ancient political rulers. And in 1 Timothy 6. 17, we read, we should not trust in uncertain riches. Do you recognize that your security cannot be found ultimately in your investments? Or in some political leader who's going to right all the wrongs of the world? No, your trust must be in the eternal God's. Those who trust entirely in men or in money will be disappointed. And trusting in God brings strength. A very familiar passage, the conclusion of Isaiah chapter 40. Listen to these words. Hast thou not known? Hast thou not heard that the everlasting God, the Lord, the Creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is weary. There is no searching of his understanding. He giveth power to the faint and to them that have no might. He increaseth strength. Even the youths shall fail faint and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fall. But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. And these encouraging and comforting words are based on this truth. That we worship and serve an everlasting God. But we should also trust in God because He is immutable. He will not change. I like what it says in Malachi chapter 3 and verse 6, for I am the Lord, I change not, therefore ye sons of Jacob are not consumed. The background is that the people of Judah had come back a generation earlier from the exile And in that first generation there was some sense of revival and re-establishment of God's people. But now people had Drifted away from that and there was a dead formalism in the lands. They were just going through the emotions of offering sacrifices and worshiping Jehovah, but there was no heart in their worship. And God says, the only reason I don't destroy you is because I do not change. And his promises will not change. I say this with all reverence. God never has a bad day. He's never in a bad mood. He never acts out of character because he is always the same. And that is one reason why we are still here and have not been consumed by his judgment And he will never stop being good to us. In James chapter 1 and verse 17, we read, every good gift Every perfect gift is from above and cometh down from the Father of light, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. These words in James are found in the context of trials and testings. Often when we are facing adversity, we assume that perhaps God has changed, that he has rejected us. But this verse tells us that God does not change like a shadow. There is no variableness with them. He never stops being good to his children. God is good all the time. All the time God is good. Why? Because God never changes. And even when He corrects you. Even when he brings adversity into our lives, he is being good to you And he will never break his promises to us. Numbers 23, 19 says, God is not a man that he should lie, nor the son of man that he should repent. Hath he said and shall he not do it, or hath he spoken, and shall he not make it good? God is not going to go back on his word. Your sin does not invalidate God's promises because God does not change. But how can we enjoy God's unchanging love? It's only through Jesus Christ. Our text this morning in Psalm 102 is actually quoted in Hebrews 1, verses 10 through 12. Where the psalmist uses this and applies it to the Lord Jesus Christ. And at the end of that book of Hebrews, in Hebrews 13 in verse 8, we read: Jesus Christ the same yesterday and today and forever. He is the faithful and just one who will forgive the sins of the repentant, and he will not go back on his promises. The only way you can enjoy and find comfort and peace and contentment in the eternal and unchanging God is through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Through knowing him as your Lord and Savior. Lloyd Douglas, the author of the famous book The Robe, tells a story from his college days. He lived in the upstairs of a boarding house. And downstairs on the first floor there was an elderly retired music teacher. And there was a routine that they followed every morning. Lloyd would come down the stairs and he would open the elderly man's door and he would say, What's the good news? And the old music teacher would pick up his ancient tuning fork and tap it, and he would say, That is middle C. It was Middle Sea yesterday. It will be Middle Sea tomorrow. It will be Middle Sea a thousand years from now. The tenor upstairs sings flat. The piano across the hall is out of tune. But my friend, this is Middle C This poor old man found comfort in this one constant in his life. But God is the only constant. He is the only rock in which you can build your life. He is the only refuge in times of change. And I encourage you to seek the Lord if you don't know Him as your Savior. Let's close in prayer. Father , What a great God you are. What a joy it is to contemplate your greatness, though it is beyond our comprehension. To know that from everlasting to everlasting you are God. And that you will never change. That you will always be faithful to who you are. You are the God on whom we can trust, the God on whom we can depend. I pray that you would help us. Help your children to find comfort and solace and strength in these words today. Help our faith to increase. Help us to be encouraged and to find more confidence to go forward as we face the unknown future. And Father, for those who are here today, who do not know you, who do not know the Lord Jesus as their Savior, who have never repented of their sins And sought forgiveness, we pray, Lord, that today they would seek the Lord, that they would recognize that because you are an eternal being Your word teaches that there is a place of eternal punishment called hell, and that those who will not trust in the Savior would have it this horrible place for eternity. So Father, help us to not toy with these things. Help us, Father, not to silence the convicting power of the Spirit of God, but to seek the Lord earnestly. That those who are lost might be saved. Father, we pray that you would do a work in our midst, that we would be strengthened by your word today. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.