Well, if you have your Bibles, please would you turn with me to Romans chapter eight? Romans chapter eight Let me ask you, do you like to wait? I doubt it. No one really likes to wait. Well the problem is that life is full of waiting. I was a youth pastor before I came here, and I noticed This phenomenon that in my youth group that when the class came in to start their time in youth group, they were so excited about coming and being with the big kids. They had been looking forward to this for years. To be in the youth group. But by the time they were in eleventh grade Youth group was passe. It was not so exciting because they were too mature for youth group. Now their sights were set on college because that's what the really big kids were doing. They were in college. And then by the time they reached the junior or senior year that they were in college, they were tired of being in college because they were looking ahead to starting a career, being married. We all understand the impatience of youth, but that impatience does not go away in our youth. The fact is, life is filled with waiting. There's a sense in which the whole world, I think, has been waiting for COVID-19 to go away. It's changed all of our lives in some way. And we all really want it to go away. I've had so many people tell me that they're just done with it. They're just they're just tired of it. Well, I wish that we could collectively tell it to go away, but it doesn't work that way. I had Many people tell me in the spring, you know, Pastor, when the summer comes and we have warm days, the virus is just going to disappear. And I would say to people, I hope you're right. And then after the summer was over and that didn't happen. There are others who said to me, well, Pastor, you know, as soon as the election is over, this is just going to disappear. You won't hear anything more about the coronavirus. And I said to them, I hope you're right. And in both cases, unfortunately, they were wrong. The virus is alive and thriving, and we continue to wait for it to go away. This morning as we come back to Romans chapter 8, we come to a passage that reveals to us that the Christian life is all about waiting. Let me remind you of the context of this passage. The key verse of this paragraph is the first one, verse 18. where Paul lays out this proposition. For I reckon that the suffering of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. And then in verses 19 through 30, he's going to further explain and demonstrate how that works. The suffering of this present time is not going to separate us from the love of God. In fact, it will culminate in glory. Now verses 19 through 25 are kind of a subsection of this larger section, verses 18 through 30. And the key word in this section, verses 19 through 25, is the word waiting. Let me show you this. Look at verse 19. For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth For the manifestation of the sons of God. Now, if you'll look down at verse 23 You will see that it says, and not only they, but also ourselves, we also have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves grown within ourselves waiting for the adoption to wit the redemption of our bodies And then if you look with me at verse 25, but if we hope for that we see not, then do we with patience wait for it. Three times we encounter the word waits. It's the same Greek word, and it has a prefix added to intensify the word, and so some scholars render this word eagerly waits. What is it that we are waiting for? We are waiting for, it says in verse 23, the adoption, it is the redemption of our bodies. We'll examine this phrase in more detail in just a few minutes, but for now I want you to understand that Paul is using this as a part of what is the culmination of our salvation. This has been described in different language in this passage, but Paul keeps coming back to this. He's not talking about different things. He's talking about the same thing. Look with me at verse 18. It talks about the glory that shall be revealed in us. In verse 19, it's called the manifestation of the sons of God. In verse 21, it's called the glorious liberty of the children of God. And then in verse 23, it's called the adoption, the redemption of our bodies. Now, perhaps you would say, I thought we were already saved. Well, the Bible speaks of three aspects of our salvation. There is the past tense. You were saved the moment you put your faith and trust in Christ alone. You were saved from the penalty of sin. Then there is the present tense. You are being saved from the power of sin. We call this process sanctification. And then there is the future tense to your salvation. You will someday be saved from the very presence of sin, and we call this glorification. So the final this final stage of our salvation is when we will discover how great our salvation truly is. Right now, we are like people who live between two towering mountain ranges. In one sense, we live between the two advents of Christ. We have Christ first coming, which we are celebrating this month. We have these Advent readings out in the lobby. Christ has come But the scriptures also tell us that Christ will come again. These are two great events in the history of redemption, and we live in the valley in between them. It's also true that we live in a valley in our own experience. In our past, if you've been saved, you have your justification when you were declared to be righteous in Christ. And in your future ahead of you, like another mountain, you have your glorification when you will be perfect, when you will be holy as Christ. But right now you live in between those two events. We sang together this morning, O come, O come, Emmanuel. That song in its minor chord is intended to express the almost painful longing of the Old Testament saints. those prophets who waited for the coming of the Messiah. And so in the Old Testament, people were waiting for Christ to come. And in the New Testament, we are waiting for Christ to come. again. You see, the life of a believer is a life of waiting For God to act and to work as He has promised He would do. So Christians should eagerly wait for the culmination of our salvation. But how should we wait? What attitude should we possess? I think our passage today, verses 23, 24, and 25, give us three attitudes, three dispositions, three ways that we should wait for the culmination of our salvation. And this should flavor everything in our lives. First of all, Christians should wait with intense longing for the culmination. of our salvation. Look with me at verse 23. And not only they, but ourselves also, which have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for the adoption. to wit the redemption of our body. We have the reference here to groanings. Which takes us back to verse 22 where that same term is used. This is the verbal link between these two sections. In verses 19 through 22, which we looked at two weeks ago, the Apostle Paul revealed something amazing that you may have never thought of, and that is that creation Is in a sense waiting for the culmination of our salvation. They're groaning, all of creation sighs in a minor key. And then in verse 23, he says it's not only creation that's waiting, but it's us as believers that are also waiting, longing, groaning for God to fulfill his purposes. Now in verse 23, we have this analogy of the first fruits of the spirits. First fruits is a reference to the Jewish custom of bringing the first harvest to the temple and offering it to God. This offering was not like pagan sacrifices that supposedly provided food for their gods. It was for the priest who served in the temple. This offering is described in Leviticus 23 and Deuteronomy 18. The offering symbolized the consecration of the whole harvest to God. This New Testament, in the New Testament, this metaphor is used. to designate simply the first installment of more to come. It's used by the Apostle Paul to designate the first converts of a region. He would go into a region of the world where the gospel had never been preached, and there would be some fruit, and he would say, these are the first fruits of Achaea. The very first believers, but there's more to come because the gospel is the power of God and of salvation. It's used broadly to depict the first stage of God's redemptive work. It's used in 1 Corinthians 15 to describe Christ's resurrection from the dead, ensuring that there would be more who would rise from the dead. So what is meant here by the first fruits of the spirits? Well this phrase should be understood to mean the first fruits, which is the spirits. Paul here is referring to what he said earlier in this chapter. Remember, Romans chapter 8 is a chapter that deals a great deal with the work of the Holy Spirit in the life of a believer. And because the Spirit of God is indwelling our hearts, that is just the first installment of a greater measure of the Spirit to come. It also pictures the security of our salvation. The first fruits of the Spirit here is essentially equivalent to the concept of the earnest of the Spirit. That you read three times in your New Testament. The Greek term earnest refers to a pledge. or a down payment even a day in real estate transactions, often we have something called earnest money The modern Greek word for an engagement ring is the word for the earnest of the spirits. We all know what an engagement ring signifies. It's saying that this is just the beginning, that a marriage is to come. And so the indwelling of the Spirit in the heart of a believer is not the end of the Spirit's work. It's only the beginning. The indwelling of the Spirit is a promise of the coming completion of our salvation. Now I want you to notice the intensity of the waiting that's described in this verse. It's described as groaning This speaks of a painful, even sorrowful longing. Notice that this groaning is very personal. He says, we ourselves It's also universal. He says, we ourselves, including the Apostle Paul, this is true of all believers. All believers have a groaning in their hearts for the completion of their salvation. Because we all know instinctively that we have not arrived. And notice that this is internal. It says within ourselves. Every believer will face some suffering in this life. We will be disappointed at times. We will experience pain, frustration, persecution. Life will not Be easy. But what exactly is it that Paul is referring to when he speaks of groaning? Well, you could classify this into two broad categories. One of them would be physical suffering. Now some of our young people here may wonder, what's this talk about physical suffering? Because you're young and healthy and vibrant and everything. Give it some time. You will understand that more fully We have a cross-reference that's helpful in this regard. In 2 Corinthians chapter 5, the same wording is used Paul writes in 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 1, For we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. For in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with our house which is from heaven. Now look at verse 4. For we that are in this tabernacle do groan, being burdened, not for that we would be unclothed, but clothed upon that mortality might be swallowed up And of course at the end of verse 23 in Romans 8, Paul will refer to the redemption of our I would submit to you that physical pain was no small part of Paul's suffering. Several weeks ago when we were looking at Romans 8 18, we looked at the fact that when Paul said, For I reckon that the sufferings of this present life are not worthy to be compared, the Paul Was not a novice when it came to suffering. That the record of suffering that we find in the New Testament is truly astounding. It's amazing that the man was still alive. And so as Paul was pinning these words where he speaks of us all waiting for the redemption of our body, he was writing as a man whose body was broken. As a man who was in chronic pain and discomfort. So one part of our suffering in this life. Will indeed be physical. We can exercise and diet and train and use supplements, but in the end, your body is going to decay. That's just the painful reality of life on a fallen planet But the second aspect of what Paul is talking about in the groaning here is spiritual frustration. We're waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our body Now let me ask you an important question. What is the connection made in this verse between the indwelling of the spirits and our groaning? So there are some scholars who would say that the connection is this, even though we are spilled with the Spirit of God, right now we still groan in our bodies. But most New Testament scholars believe that's not what Paul is expressing here. In fact, what he is expressing Is that because we are filled with the Spirits of God, we groan? Why do we groan? Because we know that we have not arrived. And we still fall into sin. And we still come short of the glory of God on a daily basis. We fail to do the things that God's word has commanded us to do and the things that He has prohibited us from doing, we still on occasion do those things. In the chapter previous to Romans chapter 8, we have this astounding and debated description by the Apostle Paul. I'm not going to go into the six different possible interpretations of this passage. It's a hotly debated passage. Is Paul here speaking as an when he was an unbeliever or when he was a believer? When he was a Pharisee or later in his life, was he spiritually mature or spiritually immature? I don't have time to go into all of that. I take it to mean that Paul is writing as a believer. Look with me at Romans chapter 7 and verse 14. Paul writes, for we know that the law is spiritual. But I am carnal, sold under sin, for that which I do allow not, for that I would, that do I not, but what I hate, that I do. If then I do that which I would not, I consent into the law that is, that it is good. Now then it is no more I that do it, but the sin that dwelleth in me, for I know that is in me that is in my flesh dwelleth no good thing, for to will is present with me, but how to perform that which is good I find not. For the good that I would do not, but the evil which I would not, that I do Now if I do that I would not, it is no more I that do it, but the sin that dwelleth in me. I find then a law that when I do good, evil is present within me. For I delight in the law of God after the inward man But I see another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind and bringing me into captivity, the law of sin which is in my members. O wretched man that I am Who shall deliver me from this body of death? I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord, so that then with the mind I myself serve the law of God, but with the flesh the law of sin. Whatever you want to say about this passage, it speaks of someone who's spiritually frustrated. But I want you to know that someday your frustration will come to an end. Your guilt, your regrets, your despair will be gone Now look how Paul describes the culmination of our salvation at the end of verse 23. This is what we should be longing for. The adoption, that is the redemption of our bodies. Now perhaps she would respond by saying, I thought we were already adopted. We are. Look at verse 15. He says, For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear. but ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father. In one sense, we have already been adopted, but the full bestowment of our inheritance is yet to come. One part of the culmination or salvation is the redemption of our body. This is a very common theological Phenomenon that we find in Scripture in regards to our salvation. It's the already but not yet. Have we been redeemed? In one sense, we have been, in another sense, we have not yet been redeemed. Because our redemption will not be complete until the redemption of our body. In one sense we've been adopted, in another sense, we have not been fully adopted yet. We have not received the full inheritance yet. Now what does he mean here by it, the redemption of our bodies? Well, this is exactly what he was saying in verse 11. It's another way of expressing our resurrection. Verse eleven of this chapter said, But if the spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his spirit that dwelleth in you. in you. This is a distinctive doctrine of Christianity, the resurrection of the body. God's grace is so amazing that even your body will be redeemed. You see, God didn't just save your spirit Or your soul. No, he saved all of you, including your body. And someday your body will be redeemed. It will be glorified. It will be better than it's ever been before. He's not going to restore you to what you were like when you were 23 and healthy. No, it's going to be much better than you were when you were 23 and healthy. So first, the Christians wait in this life with an intense longing for the culmination of our salvation. Secondly, Christians should wait with hopeful optimism for the culmination of our salvation. Look with me at verse 24 For we are saved by hope. But hope that is seen is not hope. For what a man seeth, why does he yet hope for? If you look over into verse 25, you'll find this term again. But if we hope for that we see not, then do we with patience wait for it. Five times in these two verses we have the word hope. Let me remind you that biblical hope is not a sentimental wish which is often conveyed in our English word hope. No, biblical hope is a confident expectation based on the revelation of God. Now, what is Paul doing here in verses 24 and 25? Paul is explaining here why it is that we need to wait. He is saying that we should not be surprised at this. Because this is part of an expression and development of our faith. This is part of what it means to be a follower of Christ. The very nature of the Christian life is one of hope. Now he begins in verse 24 by saying, for we are saved. Perhaps you would say, I thought we were saved by faith. Indeed we are. Paul here is not saying that hope is the means of our salvation. No, he is expressing that hope is part of the Christian life from day one. A better way of rendering this statement would be: in this hope, we were saved. That is, from the moment you believed, you were looking forward to a day when you would be with Christ in heaven. The whole Christian life is forward focused. The Christian life should be optimistic and forward thinking. It's an expression of our faith. Paul is simply reasoning here that you don't hope for something that you already possess. For example Let's say that there's this 10-year-old kid who desperately wants a bicycle for Christmas And one day he's out playing in the garage and he sees a brand new bike hidden away under a blanket and he sees his name on the handlebar. He's all excited. Let me ask you, is that boy still going to hope and pray that he gets a bite for Christmas? No, he's not. Because he's already seen the bike. He knows it's coming. He knows his mom and dad bought this bike. They had his name put on it. It's there waiting for him. He's not hoping and longing for that bike because he knows it's coming. And so Paul is reminding his readers of Christianity 101. 2 Corinthians 5. 7 puts it this way, we walk by faith and not by sights. You see, faith and hope are like twins. They are different, but always together Remember how Paul concludes the great love chapter, 1 Corinthians 13. He says, And now abideth faith, hope, love, these three, but the greatest of these is love. One of the evidences, therefore, that we walk by faith is that we possess A joyful optimism that is rooted in the promises of God's. I know that this has really been tested in 2020. But there is no reason for us to look at our present circumstances And to think that somehow God has failed us, that somehow his promises will not be fulfilled. We should stand out and stark contrast to the people around us because of the hopeful optimism that we have. Because we know the end of the story. Remember what Paul says at the opening chapter of this book. This expression that's found four times in the Bible: the just shall live by faith. Our outlook must not be filled with despair, but with hope. This should be reflected in our attitudes and our dispositions and our interactions with one another. Paul makes a very strong connection in this book between our hope and are infilling by the Holy Spirit. Let me show this to you. Please turn back with me first to Romans chapter 5. Romans chapter 5, the opening verses of this wonderful chapter. Paul writes, Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. By whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand and rejoice, look at this, in hope of the glory of God. And not only so, but we glory in tribulations, also knowing that tribulation worketh patience, and patience experience, and experience, there's our term, hope. And hope maketh not ashamed, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us. The Holy Spirit that indwells our hearts should fill our hearts with a hope that we'll never be disappointed, which we will never be ashamed. Now turn with me ahead to Romans 15. Romans chapter 15 Look with me now at verse 13, which is essentially a benediction. Now the God of hope Fill you with all joy and peace in believing. Why? That ye may abound in hope. Through the power of the Holy Ghost. You see, people who are filled with the Spirit of God are hopeful people. They have the joy of the Lord. They don't look at the circumstances of this life with despair, with a sense of hopelessness. No, because they know the promises of God. They know how this ends. It ends in glory. So the spirit-filled Christian will always be filled with hope. But there's a third way in which we As Christians must wait for the completion of our redemption. First of all, we wait, we notice in verse 23 with intense longing. And then we wait with hopeful optimism. But now would you notice with me in the final phrase of verse 25 We wait with steadfast endurance for the culmination of our salvation. It says at the end of this verse, with patience, wait for it. Now there are two different Greek words that are translated as patience in the New Testament. One speaks of patience with people. The other refers more to patience with difficult circumstances The term that's used here is one that denotes endurance under painful pressure. One Christian writer has defined this word as the ability to remain faithful to God under pressure because you continually look to the Lord for strength. We are waiting with steadfast endurance, with perseverance for God to work out his plan of redemption. That is, Christians don't quit. We don't give up on God We keep trusting in him. We faithfully serve him even when circumstances appear bleak and painful. But why does God place us under these painful burdens? That's the idea of this word, patience or endurance of being under a painful burden. The scriptures give many reasons, but one of the stated reasons is that God sends trials into our lives to develop spiritual stamina. Within us. We looked at Romans chapter 5 just a moment ago. You don't need to turn there. But he says here in verse 3: knowing that tribulation worketh Patience. And the word patience, there is the same one here in Romans 8. It speaks of endurance. In the book of James, the opening words of that little book, we find a very very similar statement. In James chapter 1. It says, My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this the trying of your faith worketh. Patience or endurance. Think of it this way. If you want to become an endurance athlete, You will need to do some intense training so that your body can endure. Have you ever heard of people That run these 100-mile endurance marathons, these ultra marathons. Yeah, there are people like that. How about the Iron Man triathletes? Who swims two miles, bikes 112 miles, and then runs 26. 2 miles back to back. How do you think they condition their bodies for this kind of endurance? Well, it's brutal. If you are good athletes, in very good shape, you will still need two hours of specialized training per day for at least six months before this event. You can read about it. If you're not willing to give two hours of intense specific training to it, don't even try it So what's my point? My point is the Christian life is compared to a marathon. It's like a triathlon. It's brutal. It's difficult. It's draining. It requires endurance. It requires you to learn how to trust in God and rest in Him even when you feel exhausted. Like you can't go on. How do we do this? There perhaps is no better answer to this than that famous chapter, Hebrews chapter 11, that speaks of the hall of faith. I want to give you two biblical examples that are mentioned here in reference to endurance. Number one is Moses It says in Hebrews 11, 24, By faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season, esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt, for he had respect unto the recompense of the reward. By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured, there's our word, as seeing him who is invisible. Moses by faith was able to wrest hold of the promises of God, and they were more real to him than the treasures of Egypt that he could hold in his hands. That's how he was able to endure. It takes faith to endure a living faith. And then just a few verses later, we have even a greater example than Moses. And that's the Lord Jesus Christ. In Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 1 it says, Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight. and the sin which doth so easily beset us, let us run with patience. There's the word endurance, the race that is set before us, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith who for the joy that was set before him, there's our word, endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand. of the throne of God. Verse three, for consider him that endured, there's the term again, such contradiction of sinners against themselves, lest ye be wearied and faint in your minds. The writer here says you need to endure because your Savior has gone before you and he endured. How did Jesus endure? You might say that's simple. He was God, so it wasn't Hard for him at all. Not true. He was also man. He also had flesh that experiences pain just like you and I. No, the answer is given here. Who for the joy that was set before him, that is, he set his mind before on what would be accomplished through his suffering. He focused his mind on the future glory. that would result from his death on the cross. He knew that his death would bring many sons to glory. He knew that he would please the Father. He knew that on the third day he would rise from the dead Jesus reckoned the suffering of the cross as nothing compared with the glory that would be revealed. And so if we desire to endure to the end, we must keep our hearts set on the glorious culmination of our redemption. I'm going to conclude with just a few brief applications. Number one, we should not be surprised that our lives are filled with suffering and frustration. The Bible tells us from cover to cover, this is the way it's going to be. This is the way it is on a fallen planet. Things don't function the way they should function. Bad things happen. Our frustration must never lead us to despair. Because we are people who have hope, because the Spirit of God dwells within us, and God has promised that He will complete His great work of redemption. So we long for the culmination of our salvation. It's in a sense a painful longing. It's so intense. But it's also a longing with joyful optimism. We know it's going to come because God has given us his words. And we know that when it comes, it will be far greater than we could ever imagine. And so we wait with steadfast endurance. This passage reminds us again, like so many passages, something that's completely cuts across the grain of our culture and of your fallen flesh. And that is that God does not intend for us to find our satisfaction in the here and now. No matter how many times we hear that, we still seek to find our satisfaction in the here and now If I had a nice house, if I had health, if I had a good family, if I had a strong marriage, if I had these things, then I would be happy and I would be satisfied. Not true There's all kinds of people that have those things and they don't have satisfaction and peace in their hearts. This is the origin of so much spiritual turmoil in the life of Christians. There are so many children of God walking around today who think that somehow God has failed them, they've gotten a raw deal. Because things didn't turn out the way they thought they would. They had all these expectations and dreams of how their life trajectory would go. They had it all thought out, and it didn't work out that way at all. But God never promised to endorse your plan or to make all your dreams come true. He has a much better plan for your life. And his plan is far beyond your dreams. We try so hard To create our heaven on earth, especially in the modern Western world. Want to structure our society and then our individual lives for maximum comfort and pleasure, and to minimize our pain and discomfort. Now there's a sense in which that's very natural and healthy. God doesn't call on us to try to live a life of pain and difficulty. But the fact is we live on a fallen planet, and so we will experience a great deal of pain and difficulty. And when we feel that way, when we feel that pressure on us, which this word conveys We must not think for a second that somehow God has failed us, that somehow God has not been faithful to us. No. He told us it would be this way. In the world, you will have tribulation. What it should do instead is point our attention ahead, away from the things of this world. That are fleeting and temporary to lasting joy with him. An unknown Confederate soldier wrote this poem He said, I asked for strength that I might achieve, but I was made weak that I might learn to humbly obey. I asked for health that I might do greater things. I was given infirmity. That I might do better things. I asked for riches, that I might be happy. I was given poverty. That I might be wise. I asked for power, that I might have the praise of men. I was given weakness. that I might feel the need of God. I asked for all things that I might enjoy life. I was given life that I might enjoy all things. I got nothing that I asked for, but everything that I hoped for Almost despite myself, my unspoken prayers were answered. I am among all men most richly blessed. And finally, spiritual endurance is absolutely essential for the Christian life. I think often we think of spiritual stamina as a mark of maturity, which it is, but as something that is a luxury, not a necessity. But I want you to know that spiritual endurance is an absolute essential On at least two occasions, Jesus said, He that endureth unto the end, the same shall be saved. Those who walk away from God and never return demonstrate that they never have saving faith. 1 John 2, it says, They went out from us, for they were not of us. But by the grace of God, a living faith will endure. Oh, it may grow weak at times. It may fall indeed But it won't go away. It has a tenacious, God-given, gracious grip that will not let go. Do you have a faith that will withstand the suffering of this life? That's the question. It's only a living faith. It's only a true faith. It's only a faith grounded in the gospel and the work and person of Jesus Christ. That will avail you not only in the day of judgment, but in the day of testing. May God help us to trust in Christ alone. Father We thank you for your word. We thank you that it is instructive and inspiring. And edifying and helpful and convicting, Father. We pray that you would use what is said here today to build up your people and to draw sinners to the Savior, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen