If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to the Book of Ecclesiastes? Book of Ecclesiastes, chapter 1 Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow creeps in this petty pace from day to day To the last syllable of recorded time, and all of our yesterdays have lighted fools the way to dusty death. Out, out, brief candle. Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player that struts and frets his hour upon the stage, and then is heard no more It is a tale told by an idiot full of sound and fury, signifying nothing. This is one of the most famous soliloquies. From the writings of William Shakespeare. These are the words of Macbeth, and they express in a powerful way the futility And frustration of human existence. Many of the world's greatest thinkers have come to the same conclusion. Listen to the words of the English poet Matthew Arnold He said, Most men eddy about here and there, eat and drink, chatter and love and hate, gather and squander, are raised aloft, are hurled in the dust. Striving blindly, achieving nothing, and then they die. Life often seems pointless, without any meaning or significance This is the conclusion of all honest investigation. Indeed, if God does not enter the meaning of our lives, this is the right conclusion. This evening I want us to take a look at one of my favorite books of the Bible, the book of Ecclesiastes. Notice what it says in the first verse, the words of the preacher. The son of David, king in Jerusalem. Although there are some challenges to identifying the author of this book as Solomon, I still take this traditional view. I won't bore you with all the arguments for and against. The Bible says that Solomon was the wisest man who ever lived. And Ecclesiastes is certainly a thinking man's book. It's part of the Bible's wisdom literature. It addresses the most basic question of humanity. What is the meaning of life? It is indeed the most philosophical book in the Bible. It's been called the strangest book of the Bible. Another scholar referred to it as the Bible's resident alien While another has called it the black sheep of the Bible. In fact, we know that some Jewish rabbis, at least for a time, questioned if it belonged in the canon of Scripture. They did so for two primary reasons. First of all, it's unlike any other book in the Old Testament. There's no mention of the patriarchs The Exodus, the covenants, the sacred name Jehovah is not mentioned. It's not tied. You don't have quotations. You don't have in your Bible all of these marginal references that refer you to other books. Where he's alluding to other promises and the things that have written before. It kind of is like an island by itself. But the main problem is not with what's missing in its content, but the ideas that seem to be present in the content. It seems to be pessimistic, even fatalistic. And at times it appears to promote a hedonistic view of life. There's something called the Epicurean refrain that is found in this book. For instance, in chapter 2 and verse 24. There's nothing better for man than that he should eat and drink, and that it should make his soul enjoy good in his labor. This also I saw that this is from the hand of God We have in chapter 3 and verse 12, I know that there is no good in them but for a man to rejoice and to do good in his life. And also every man should eat and drink and enjoy the good of all of his labors. It is the gift of God, and there are others. And others find that this book suggests that there is no life after death. There's no afterlife. There's no heaven or hell. And they do so On the basis of verses like chapter three, verses eighteen and following, I said in my heart concerning the estate of the sons of men that God might manifest them and that they might see that they themselves are beasts. For that which befalleth the sons of man befalleth beasts, even one thing befalleth them, as the one dieth, so dieth the other, yea, they have all one breath, so that a man hath no preeminence above a beast For all is vanity. And then chapter 9 and verse 10, and there are others, verses like this, whatsoever thy hand findeth to do Do it with all thy might, for there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom in the grave whither thou goest. Now all of these interpretations are a misunderstanding of what Solomon is seeking to convey, and if I were to take the time and look at the context of those passages And notice exactly what he says and then what he says elsewhere, you would see that he's not saying that life has no meaning. He's not saying that we should just grab all the pleasure we can in life, and he's certainly not saying that there's no life after death. All of those things are misunderstandings. But it does point out that this book is an unusual portion of God's word beset with interpretational challenges. Now, this evening I want to look at the opening poem or the prologue that effectively introduces this unusual book. And I want us to see In these verses, the futility of life without God. And I want us to notice that we should recognize that only when we have a God-centered perspective Do we find true meaning in life? The first point I want to make is I want you to notice the declaration of Solomon reveals the futility of life without God. Look with me at verse 2. Vanity of vanities, saith the preacher. Vanities of vanities, all is vanity. Now, I wonder if you could use your exegetical skill to find out the key word in verse 2. Alright? It's the word vanity. It's mentioned five times. in one verse. It's found 38 times in this book. It's the Hebrew word Hevel. It's the keyword of this unusual book. This is the functionally the opening of the verse. that opens up to the reader the theme of this verse. And then if you look at chapter 12 and verse 8 before his Concluding words, he says again in verse 8, Vanity of Vanity saith the preacher, all is vanity. And this is a literary uh uh tool called uh inclusio where he has the theme found at the front door and at the back door. They're like parentheses or bookends that mark off the theme of the book. So what does vanity mean? This Hebrew word could be translated as wind, breath, smoke, or vapor. But what is the precise point of this imagery? It could be taken one of two ways. And the reason it's difficult is that both of these suggestions are true to both the Word of God and human experience. One, it could be saying that life is fleeting. And sometimes the word vanity is used that way. In James we read their life is like a vapor that appears for a little time. and then vanisheth away. And so maybe he's saying, you know, our life just passes by so quickly. And anyone who has any age on them here tonight knows that that indeed is true. In fact, the Bible says this again and again and again. But I don't think that's what Solomon is communicating here. Solomon is saying something more disturbing than life is over before you know it. He's talking here about the fact that life is empty, meaningless, or futile. This is the most common way that the term vanity is used in the Old Testament. This is the way the ancient versions understood this word in Ecclesiastes. And this fits the context of what Solomon is saying throughout this book. Now look with me at verse 3. We have the opening words of a poem. that essentially act as like a front porch to the house that is the book of Ecclesiastes. Look at verse 3. What profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh under The sun. Verse 3 is packed with key terms that must be explained. In fact, they're going to be used again and again throughout this book. First of all, we have the word prophet. This Hebrew word is found ten times in Ecclesiastes and no other book of the Bible. It's a commercial term used to designate the sum of money that is left over aft after expenses have been subtracted We call this today net profit. Net profit is your business revenue after subtracting all operating costs and tax expenses. The Hebrew word profit expresses the net profit of a person's life. You can think of it this way. How much energy How much investment, how much of what you do is just to maintain your life and the lives of those that you love. That's a sizable portion of what our earnings go to, right? Keep a roof over our head. Keep our car running so we can go to work and earn money to keep a roof over our head, to buy food so that we have the strength to get up in the morning and go to work and earn money to buy more food so that we have strength to It's all connected. And so Solomon is saying, writing in this agrarian culture, where a sizable portion of the population lived a subsistence existence That most people are just living to support themselves so they can go on living, but at the end of their life, there's nothing to show for their life. They just sustained their life. They didn't leave a legacy, a corporation, a foundation for charity. There's nothing left of profit. Their life was over, and it was just self-sustaining. And then we have the word labor here. What profit the man of all his Labor. The word labor is used 23 times in this book, and it often expresses not just work, but work that is toilsome, difficult, and filled with frustration. This of course reminds us of Genesis and the effects of the fall. God did make man to work, but so often our work Is not satisfying, it's difficult, it's frustrating, it's hard, it saps the life out of us. You ever feel this way about your job? You ever feel frustrated? People mutter to themselves in their commute on the way home, I want to get a different job. Can't stand my boss. So much pressure. If you feel that way, Solomon would say you're in good company. And then we have this term under the sun. It's found 29 times in the book of Ecclesiastes, and again, it's not found in any other book of the Bible. Under the sun is Solomon's way of describing life viewed from an exclusively earthly perspective. He's not saying, by the way, that this is his perspective, like that he doesn't believe there's a God or anything. No, but he's saying that it's very easy for people to look at life from this perspective. This is the secular worldview. This is the view of the world. You know, you can watch the nightly news, you can watch all kinds of programming. And you might come to the conclusion that there's no God and there's no life after death because these things are rarely mentioned. They're not used in polite conversation. That's the secular world view. And Under the Sun describes that life. Of everything under the sun, but nothing beyond the sun. You see, if God is not the focal point of your existence Then if you accurately are able to gauge your life's work, it will seem futile This is the conclusion of many thinking people when they're truly honest. They may have started out their careers with big plans. But when they come to the end of their lives and reflect on what they have accomplished, they usually are overwhelmed with a sense of frustration and futility. And they are doing so because they are viewing it from a secular, man-centered perspective So verse three is like the introduction of this poem, and then we have two sections of the poem that I want to look at now. First of all, we have verses four through eight, and what I want you to see in this first section This first half of the poem is the common cycles of nature or creation attest to the futility of life without God. Look with me at verse 4. One generation passeth away. And another generation cometh, but the earth abideth for ever. The sun also ariseth, and the sun goeth down, and hasteth to his place where he arose The wind goeth forth towards the south and turneth about unto the north, it whirleth about continually, and the wind returneth again according to his circuits. All the rivers run into the sea, yea the sea is not full unto place from whence the rivers come, thither they return again. All things are full of labor. Man cannot utter it. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear with hearing. Solomon is in these verses going to provide four repetitious cycles from creation that seem to come and go with little impacts. The first thing he talks about is the human generations. Generations come and go, but the world remains the same. Every new generation views the future with unrealistic aspiration and dreams. They say we can change the worlds. You ever wondered why it is that in every protest in the world it is young people who are leading the protest? Why don't you see a bunch of silver eggs? haired men out there in the protest because they've lived a little while to know that waving a sign around is not going to change anything. We had in our town, of course, with the recent um uh turmoil that we've experienced in our country, we had some demonstrations and even after the demonstration there were some teenage girls that would be out there on a street that I drive home every day right on 27 with signs that said, end racism now. Now they're very noble in their goals and everything, but you know what? You can't end racism by holding up a sign. It's been around since the fall. And and and saying, you know, you guys just need to bring this to an end, okay? Reveals great n naivete of the way things function in the world and the and the whole knowledge of human nature. But the point is that every new generation looks at the older generation as inferior and out of dates. Isn't that true? It's always been that way. And every older generation, because when I said that I saw all the elderly people nodding. their heads. And every older generation believes they are superior to the rising generation. Did you know that? They always feel that way. And I know some of you right now are looking at it, but it's true, Pastor. Listen to these quotes, please. The children now love luxury. They have bad manners, contempt for authority, and they show disrespect to their elders. Those words were uttered 2,400 years ago by a man named Socrates. Another quote. The young people of today think nothing but themselves. They have no reverence for their parents or old age. They are impatient of all restraint. They talk as if they alone knew everything. And that was said about a thousand years ago. And I could go on and on and on with page after page after page after page after page of quote from people hundreds and hundreds of years ago saying that about the next generation. It has always been that way. And if you think about it, it wasn't long ago that people were saying that about your generation and about you. It has always been that way. But whether old or young, every generation comes And goes. We read, we sang a song tonight, and you guys had very pleasant looks on your faces. But have you ever thought about the meaning of these words? Time like an ever-rolling stream Bears all its sons away, they fly forgotten as a dream, dies at the opening day. That is a profound, true, but perhaps from your estimation, very depressing verse The second thing that he brings from creation is that the sun rises and sets, but the world remains essentially the same Look with me at verse 5. The sun also rises, the sun goeth down, and hasteth to his place where he arose The sun follows a very predictable and monotonous cycle of rising in the east and setting in the west. We can predict exactly when the sun will rise. You have it on your phone right now. You can see what time the sun will rise to the exact second tomorrow. And you know when it's going to set because it is very, very consistent. The Hebrew term hasteth here gives us this word picture. It means literally to pant, like a runner who's been running and he's exhausted and he's panting. And Solomon here pictures the sun like he's on a track running around the earth and he's getting tired, but he never gets a moment's rest. He just keeps going. Of course, Solomon doesn't really think that that's true of the sun. But he's using a picture here of the sun rises and sets, but things pretty much remain the same on the planets. Then in verse 6 we read of the wind blowing in an endless cycle, but the world remains the same. The wind goeth towards the south turneth again unto the north, it whirleth about continually, and the wind returneth again according to a circuits. The wind patterns are pretty consistent as well. And in Israel, the wind generally, in most weather patterns, would blow from the north to the south. Sometimes do the storms and other things that would change, but that's generally the way it is. And so commentators say that what What Solomon is saying here is, you know, the sun goes east to west and the wind is blowing north to south, and you have all of this activity and all of this energy being dispelled, but nothing really is changing on planet Earth. He is of course not criticizing God's creation. He's just saying that even in creation, we see these monotonous cycles that remind us of much of the frustration and monotony of life And then he talks about the rivers run continually, but never fill the sea. Look with me at verse 7. All the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea is not full under the place from whence the rivers come. Thither they return again. Again, Solomon is not ignorant. About the hydrological cycle. You can't point to this as saying the biblical writers didn't know how things worked What he's saying is this is a picture of like someone who is gathering something, resources, but they never seem to have enough. He's using God's creation to illustrate the sense of constant activity with any sense of fulfillment or completion. And now in verse 8, Solomon is going to conclude this section of the poem with his own observation. Verse 8. All things are full of labor. Man cannot utter it. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear with filling. The wording of this verse sounds a little strange to our ears. Essentially what Solomon is saying is that the natural world is more monotonous than words can ever express. And he's saying that humanity can never find the ultimate meaning of life through the investigation of nature. No, all that we will find is futility in the cycles of nature that mirror the futility of our own human existence. Then we come to the last portion of this poem in verses 9 through 11. And here we see the common cycles of our human existence, or we could say history. Confirms the futility of life without God. Look with me at verses nine through eleven The thing that has been, it is that which shall be, and that which is done is that which shall be done, and there is no new thing under the sun. Is there anything whereof it may be said? See, this is new. It hath been already of old time, which was before us. There is no remembrance of former things. Neither shall there be any remembrance of things that are to come with those that shall come after. There are four truths That Solomon is now going to bring forth just as he brought four truths from his observations of nature. Now he's going to bring four truths from his observation of human experience. Number one. History repeats itself. Marcus Aurelius, the Roman, says, they that come after us will see nothing new, and they who went before us saw nothing more than we have seen. Winston Churchill said, the one thing we have learned from history is that we do not learn from history. We see this all the time, don't we? We've seen this this year when again and again and again people have said, and I've heard of the news and everything else, nothing like this has ever happened before. Except that it's happened many times before, just not in our lifetimes. You see, human experience goes beyond the years that we've been on Earth. The fact is, history is filled with examples of plagues and disease and disaster. History continually repeats itself. The second observation he has is this, nothing really changes. The more things change, The more they stay the same. Political leaders come and go. I'm always somewhat amused by the trust that some people place in their political leaders Often young people when they first get interested in politics and they'll latch on to some candidate they think is just going to change the world and right all the wrongs and make life a utopia. And they get behind them and they do everything for this candidate. They are so active and so involved and so enthusiastic. But as time goes on, they're always disappointed. Things don't turn out the way this person promised. And politicians come and go, but we never achieve utopia. We still have poverty. Crime, injustice, racism, corruption, disease, all of these things continue as before And thirdly, the third observation that he makes from human experience is that nothing is really new. Verse 10 he says, Is there anything whereof it may be said, see, this is new, it hath been already of old, which was before us. Now you may object to this and say, that's not true, Pastor. There are so many things that are new in the world. Perhaps you would point to the incredible advances in our lifetimes in transportation and communication and medical science in the whole tech world. But I want you to think about this. Inventions may bring new ways of doing things, but the most significant aspects of our human experience never change. The cycle of human life has not changed. We're born, we grow up, people often get married, they have children, they work and they die. And that continues on. You ever viewed that narrative before? Something real to me now. You know, I am at this point in my life where my kids are now adults. Which you never think about when they're young, really. You think they're always going to be little kids, but that doesn't last very long. And then your parents Are now people that you take care of. And you never thought about that growing up either. And I can look back not long ago to when I was in college And my mom was taking care of her parents. And she was managing their finances. And she was always stressed. with trying to care for them. At one time they were both in a the same nursing home with failing health. And I can remember Looking back as a 20-something year old at the stress that she was under, and you know what? Now I'm that person And my dad's in a nursing home, and I'm trying to help my parents out. I'm at the place that I once observed. And it's not a very um pleasant thought to me to realize that the next step in that equation is I'm the one being taken care of. I don't like the thought of that, do you? But why would it be different when I've seen several generations of this? That hasn't changed. The fact is, human nature does not change. Our ability to communicate may change, but not what we share and say in our communication. Our ability to travel may improve, but not the reasons why we are traveling. We still travel for business or for pleasure or to meet people or to get reacquainted. or to make contacts or to escape, the same reasons that people traveled 4,000 years ago. Our ability to find information may increase. I could not have imagined as a young man having a phone and being able to type into Google to find out anything, any straight question that comes to my mind. I wonder how you fix that. Or I wonder I wonder w what year that took place. Instantly I can find that information. Those of you who are very young here who have grown up, and come of age under this technology. Cannot imagine a time when that was not the case where any question you could instantly answer That is absolutely mind-blowing. But you know what? Google and our smartphones and the internet cannot answer life's greatest questions. You see, the superficial aspects of life and of history and of experience may change, but not the core issues. They remain the same And number four, and this may be the most disturbing thing of all, nothing that we do will likely be remembered. Don't you like the sound of that? And here I say this on you guys honoring me for my 20 years here at Calvary Baptist Church. Look at verse 11. There's no remembrance of former things. Neither shall there be any remembrance of things that are to come with those that shall come after. Let me explain what this is saying. This verse is explaining that one reason we think that things are new is because we have either forgotten the past or are ignorant of the past. For instance, COVID-19 and pandemics and disease. What is this? This has never happened in the history of the world, except that it has We're ignorant of the past. Pardon me for saying that, but you know, I at one time was a history teacher, so I I had to throw that in there This verse is also explaining the frustrating truth would not only work with the past into the present, but with the present into the future. Of course, there are some exceptions to this of people we remember from the past. There are names from the past and every branch of human knowledge that we know those names. We may not remember their dates or what they did, but we know their names. They're important people. But that's a very, very, very, very small percentage of humanity. The fact is that almost all of us will not be remembered beyond the lifetimes of our grandchildren. When your grandchildren die Everyone that ever loved you and cared for you and knew the sound of your voice and what you were like and your personality and your character will be gone. That is a very, very harsh reality, but it is true. A very small percentage of human beings are forgetting. When I say that, I mean like one hundredth of one percent What can you tell me about your great-great-great-great grandfather? Now you may go to ancestry. com and you may be able to find out their name. and and where they lived and what land they owned and so forth and so on. But you don't know the sound of their voice. You don't know their eccentricities. You don't know their nicknames. You don't know a lot of the personal information. In fact, if you could go back in time and they were to cross you on the street, you wouldn't know who they were Go to a cemetery sometime and examine that old, those old weathered tombstones. No one that they knew or that anyone who knew them is alive today. They have been forgotten. They're just a name on a tombstone. Now that may be to you an incredibly depressing thought, perhaps, but it's true. So much contemporary spiritual truth is stated in sentimental language that's not true to reality. And so many lost people assume the Christians are just sentimental fools who can't cope with the Harsh realities of life. But actually, the Bible is the most realistic book in the world. It doesn't whitewash the painful realities of life on a fallen planet. And it's only when we squarely face the facts of life that we can really discover the truth. So, how do we apply this distressing reality that life often seems frustrating, pointless, and empty of lasting value? That brings me to my application. And I'm going to say several things here. Number one, we should not seek to find our meaning in life, in our work or careers. Many men I've spoken to over the years have expressed to me how they poured their life into a career or business, only to find that at the end they had accomplished nothing. Five years after they retired, every trace of their existence in the company to which they gave their life was gone. God has made us to work. And it's good for us to find satisfaction in our work But our careers can never give us lasting identity or sense of meaning and purpose. And we need to remember that If we seek to find our meaning in the labor of our lives, we will likely be very disappointed. Number two, we should not seek to live the American dream. What do I mean by the American dream? Sounds un-American, doesn't it? Well, to live the American dream is to live your life to achieve relative affluence, comfort, and status. that that is the great pursuit of your life. That is what they call the rat race. That's why people work long hours and sit in their cars and traffic for many hours every week. Because they want to have a certain level of affluence to pay their bills, to have the nice house, to have the nice cars, to have everything that our society says that you should have. I'm not saying it's necessarily sinful to have a big house or nice car, but if these are the primary investments of your life, if these are Remember Solomon's word, the prophet of your life. All that you have to show for your earthly existence, if these are the reasons you get up in the morning, You're living just like your lost neighbors who don't know God. And that must not be what drives us Now last time I preached critiquing the American dream, I got some heat from members of this church. So I'm going to double down tonight. As Jesus has said, lay not out for yourselves treasures on earth. It's our Savior who said, What does it profit a man that to gain the whole world and lose His own soul. And the Apostle Paul had some very strong words to say about this. Listen to his inspired comments. But godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world, and it's certain we can carry nothing out And having food and raiment, let us be there with content. But they that will be rich, that is, those who set their will on being rich, fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition For the love of money is the root of all evil, literally the root of all kinds of evil, which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. We use the expression of a person shooting themselves in the foot, self-inflicted pain. He says, those who seek to find their meaning in life and money, that's a self-inflicted wound that may prove to be fatal. Goes on to say, charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high-minded. By the way, the rich in this world would be us. Nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God who giveth us richly all things to enjoy. And they that they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate, laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come that they may lay hold on eternal life. Do you envy Bill Gates or Mark Zuckerberg Zuckerberg or Jeff Bezos? These men are billionaires. They have more money than they can burn. Read the other day of Jeff Bezos going out to California during the COVID crisis with Amazon stock going up because people are secluded at home and ordering thing, his his net value has almost doubled. So they went out to California, and I may have these numbers wrong, it's been a while since I read this, but he looked at one house that was like seven hundred million dollars or something. That's not No, it wasn't that much. It was like 70 million. Then he looked at another house that was like $60 million. And the guy says, So which one do you want? He goes, Why choose? I'll take them both. To rarely be there, but spending $130 million is like spending a quarter to you for him. So why not buy both of them? But we should not envy the Jeff Bezos of the world. Because unless these billionaires repent of their sin and seek the Savior, they will perish eternally. So we should not we should not live our lives to achieve stuff, to gather stuff. Because you're going to leave it all behind. You brought nothing into this world, Paul says, and you're going to leave it all here. You're not taking it with you. So don't live to achieve the American dream. Thirdly We should recognize and embrace the transitory nature of life. Life on earth is short. It's brief. Your life will be over before you know it. When you're a young person, you think that you have eons of time ahead of you, but you don't And it's so easy for you all of a sudden to look and say, where did the years go? What happened to my youthful vigor? What happened to all the energy that I once had? It's all gone now. And what I have before me, there's much fewer years ahead of me than there are behind me. So we need to realize that. That's why the Bible says, teach us to number our days. That we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. That means we don't have whole periods of our life that we can just throw away on self-indulgence. The new norm in our culture is that young people in their twenties just have fun and mess around and travel and do whatever they want. But then the thirties, you know, they should get serious and get a real job and get married and start having a family and everything. But they've got really a decade to just kind of throw away. No, life is too short for that. And besides, often they make many tragic decisions that will haunt them and go with them the rest of their days during those times. We are to embrace the transitory nature of life, that it is very, very short. It's like a vapor that appears for a little time. and then vanishes away. That's why we must redeem the time. We must buy it back. We must invest and use it for eternal thanks. The Bible says this, the world passeth away and the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. 1 John 2, 17. And number four, we should live for Christ and the advancement of his kingdom. This passage that seems so depressing is intended to drive us to God and to his Savior who died for our sins. This reveals to us how desperately we need the gospel. The fact is that life does have ultimate meaning and significance. But it's not found in living under the sun. It's not found in living your life with a secular worldview. It's found in living your life for God 's Living life for eternity. One of the things that I find increasingly in contemporary Christianity is the entire focus seems to be how to live our lives in the here and now. And so all the books, the the popular books, the popular articles, the popular speaker address things like You know, getting through struggles in life and getting beyond your grief or or or dealing with your children's rebellion or how to have a better marriage. And I'm not saying that the Bible doesn't address those things. But the Bible was written to show us that the ultimate meaning, the ultimate purpose, the ultimate satisfaction in life comes after our death. Not here in this life. And what we keep wanting to do because of the perversity of our nature is try to create our heaven here on earth. And so we want to somehow use the Bible to eliminate all of our problems in life and give us a smooth ride here on earth. And indeed, God's way is best. But that doesn't mean that it won't be a life without suffering and disappointment and frustration. Because we live on a fallen planet, we will never find that utopia, as it were, until we are in heaven with the Lord. And therefore the whole Christian life is a vertical focus, a future focus. All of our New Testament epistles are talking about living for what will happen when the Lord returns, when we receive our rewards, when we see our Savior. Not about focus on the here and the now. One thing that's patently clear from this passage is that man desires to live his life with significance and purpose. This is true of everyone. Everyone wants to live for something bigger than themselves. Everyone wants to be part of something greater. than just their own little world and to be part of something that is really going to be great. That's why young people are out there holding signs. Because they want to be part of something great. They want to make a difference, which is a term they often use. That's what God has implanted in our hearts. But that can only be answered by knowing God's. And when we live our life in the presence of the Lord and for his glory , Then indeed we will be remembered by the one whose opinion is most valuable, and that is the Lord Himself. The Bible says that even a cup of cold water given in his name will be remembered and rewarded. Any little trivial thing Note to someone discouraged, a call, a text, anything small like that will be remembered for eternity. This is how we can live life with real meaning and purpose. But if we try to find our meaning and purpose, by living just like our lost neighbors and the rat race of life trying to accumulate possessions and status symbols and feeling like we've really made it We will be profoundly disappointed. This is why we must set our affections on things above and not on things of the earth. Only this life will soon be passed. Only what's done for Christ will last. Let's close in prayer this evening. Father. I pray that you would help us to live a distinctive lifestyle that would testify to everyone around us. That we live for something greater than the things of this world. That our life is hid with Christ in God. That our meaning and significance does not come from the clothes we wear or the car we drive or the house we live in or the job that we have, but in our relationship with you. Help us, Father , to not follow the well-worn path of the American citizen of laying up treasures on earth But help us instead to follow our master's words and lay up treasures in heaven to live our life with eternal significance. to invest in those things that will last forever. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.