If you have your Bibles , or if you don't, you can look at it on your song sheet. We're looking at Psalm 133 today. On July the 8th, 1741, Jonathan Edwards preached the most famous sermon in American history. Sinners in the hands of an angry God, and that has kind of given him the undeserved reputation as strictly a hellfire and brimstone preacher. But he actually preached more about heaven than he did about hell. And those sermons are so beautiful His most famous one was preached in 1738. It was entitled, Heaven, a World of Love. I want to just read one statement from He said, all the members of the glorious society of heaven are sincerely united There is not a single secret or open enmity among them all. Not a heart is there that is not full of love, and not a solitary inhabitant that is not beloved by all the others. What a wonderful place heaven will be. We often think of it as a place of peace, of course, and no tears. And we think of it as a place where we see our loved ones, most of all where we see the Lord, and we think of these beautiful descriptions that we find in Scripture, but perhaps what we often do not think about is the wonderful unity, the perfect harmony that the people of God will have in heaven. The Bible says that is what is going to take place. And when we gather as a local assembly, We are trying by the grace of God to reflect to some degree what our ultimate destiny will be when we will be a unified, loving body of people. But it's often a challenge. Someone once wrote, To live above with saints we love, oh that will be glory. But to live below with saints we know, well, that's another story. And that is often the case. Churches are often known for infighting, clicks, and political power plays. It's a shameful reality that often people who gather for worship not only do not speak much with one another, but have animosity for one another. In fact, it's this reality of strained relationships in the church that has caused many professing believers to stop going to church and loss people from ever considering visiting the church. But it doesn't have to be this way. God's desire is that his people would enjoy loving Christian fellowship. when they worship together. Last Sunday, our first Sunday together, after an absence of ten weeks, we looked at the blessedness of corporate w worship and we considered Psalm 84. And this morning I would like us to look at another psalm, but it's much briefer. This is Psalm 133 Now I want you to notice the inscription of this psalm. It says, a song of degrees of David. You'll find this inscription A song of degrees, 15 Psalms. They're Psalms 120 through 134. Also, you might have a song of ascents in your Bible, and that is because It's songs that were sung as pilgrims were ascending up to Mount Zion, the city of worship. That's why we sang that song today. We're marching to Zion, because it fits well with our text here. The the Old Testament Jews were required to gather in Jerusalem for one of three, for for three uh feast days. There was the feast of unleavened bread, there was the feast of harvest, there was the feast of in gathering which was at the end of the year. And these 15 Psalms that are found in Psalm 120 through 134 are kind of like a hymn book within a hymn book And we can relate to this, just like we have a section in our hymn book of Christmas carols. We sing those really at just one time of the year and they're like a a hymn book within a hymn book. Well it was the same way with these Psalms. They sang these Psalms when they were journeying as as bands of pilgrims to Jerusalem to worship in their tabernacle or temple. And so these are a very special section. And it really reflects, this psalm really reflects the joy of fellowship that they would enjoy as they traveled. So just imagine this. Just imagine that you live in northern Israel. And you began that long trek of nearly a hundred miles down to Jerusalem. When you first started out, it was just you and your family. But as you would pass through towns and villages, more pilgrims would join And you would renew acquaintances of people that you had spoken to in previous journeys, and you would make new friends. And as you would come closer and closer to Jerusalem, the crowds would grow, the bands of pilgrims would swell. And everyone was talking and fellowshipping and enjoying one another's company as they made their way to Jerusalem to worship the one true God. And they're walking together, they're singing together, they're praying together, powerfully demonstrated the beauty of spiritual fellowship. And so very fittingly, we have a psalm that describes the unity of believers that was sung by people as they were united in gathering for worship. Look with me at this Psalm. I want you to notice as I read this how it divides naturally into three parts. First of all, we have this exclamation. Behold how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. And you have an exclamation point. He is saying this loudly and with great fervency. And then we have two illustrations of this. It is like the precious ointment upon the head that ran down upon the beard, even Aaron's beard that went down to the skirts of his garments. And then we have a second illustration, as the dew of Hermon and as the dew that descended upon the mountains of Zion. And then finally we have an explanation, begins with the word for. For there the Lord commanded the blessing, even life forevermore. This psalm is all about the beauty of spiritual unity, or you could say the beauty of spiritual fellowship. And what I want you to understand is a very simple but profound concept this morning. This is not a complicated passage, but it's this. Christians should understand that spiritual unity is precious and therefore it must be protected. It is something that we should treasure and that and therefore we need to strive for unity. Now let's look at these three parts to begin with. First of all, I want you to notice an exclamation concerning the beauty of spiritual unity in verse 1. David begins by saying, behold, he's saying, look at this. This is one of the devices that scriptural writers use to gain the reader's attention. Perhaps David was in Jerusalem and he was watching the bands of pilgrims make their way into the holy city. And he's just, he sees the smile and the joy. and the the harmony and the unity that they were experiencing and he says just look at them behold and then he makes this declaration How good, how pleasant is it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. This is an amazing thing. David makes this value judgment. What is so good and so pleasant here? I want you to notice it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. He doesn't just say it it's good and pleasant for gu for brethren to dwell together. Because the sad fact is that isn't always true. Over the years, I have spoken to many Christians. who have been part of an assembly when there was a church split. And I've heard them talk about the tension that was in the air. How that they would go to church, they would be getting ready Sunday morning, and they wouldn't go with a sense of anticipation and joy, but they had anxiety in their hearts because they didn't know what was going to happen. Things might blow up. There might be real contention there. There might be angry voices that were lifted. There might be people that just go to the other side of the room and will not even look at them. And so there's this concern that people have. So it's not just the gathering together of people. That is a joyous thing. No, the key word of this entire psalm is that last word in verse 1. In unity. It is a pleasant and blessed thing when brethren dwell together in unity. But if they're not dwelling together in unity, but their strife and contention. It isn't a good and a pleasant experience. Now let's look at these two terms that David uses to describe the situation. Good and pleasant. The Hebrew word for good is a word that's used many times. It's used often to describe the Lord. In Psalm 34 and verse 8 we read, O taste and see that the Lord is good. It's the same word. And it's a word that we find in the very first chapter of the Bible and the account of creation, when after those various days the Lord proclaims that his creation is good. That is God's evaluation. And David writing under inspiration here is giving us God's perspective that when the brethren When the true followers of God gather together and they dwell in unity, it is a good thing It is good for the church. It is a good testimony to the lost and dying world. And it's good in the eyes of God. But we also read that spiritual unity is pleasant. Now this term is a little more subjective. It's delightful to enjoy Christian fellowship. The same word is used in Psalm 27 and verse 4 to describe David's delight in worshiping his God. He says, one thing have I desired of the Lord, and that will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. to behold the beauty, and that's the word there, the beauty of the Lord, and to inquire in his temple. That same word that's translated beauty in Psalm 274 is translated pleasant here in Psalm 133 and verse 4. one. Why is it delightful to God and to us to enjoy spiritual fellowship? You might say, well it just is. Well, I want to ask the deep question, why is it delightful to God and to us? What is it in our nature or in the very nature of God that makes People dwelling in harmony a pleasant thing? Well, the answer is that when we enjoy deep spiritual unity, It is a faint reflection of the perfect unity within the Godhead. Did you know that? We are Trinitarians. We believe that God is one, but God eternally exists in three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Some people are sometimes almost embarrassed by this. But this is an essential aspect of God 's revelation to us. This is part of what separates us among many things. of false religions. We believe that God exists in three persons. And that speaks of perfect harmony. There's never, it's almost blasphemous to suggest, any contention or any strife or any problems between the members of the Godheads. There's perfect harmony, and that that picture, that motto is to be reflected in the church. Perfect unity. Now I want us to turn to the two illustrations of the beauty of spiritual unity. The first one we find in verse 2. The spiritual unity, it is, that's what he's referring to, this dwelling together in unity, is like the precious ointment upon the beard that ran down upon the beard, even Aaron 's beard that went down to the skirts of his garments. Now some people have misread this and thought that it's saying that Aaron's beard went down to the skirt of his garments. Well that's not the case. It was the ointment that went down to the skirts of his garments. He didn't have a beard that was that long, all right? So what are we to make of this illustration of unity? Number one, Christian unity. is precious. Notice he says it's like the precious ointment. Christian unity is precious. And therefore it's something that we should treasure and protect. If you have something in your house that is precious, if you have something that is an heirloom and you keep it in a safe place and you keep it hidden and you keep it locked up. Because it's precious to you. In the same way, we should not be indifferent about spiritual unity. We should be protecting it and promoting it. We should value it. Secondly, Christian unity is unique. The high priest was anointed. with a unique mixture of olive oil and four spices, myrrh, cinnamon, calamus, and cassia. There was no other anointing oil like this. It was to signify that this was a very special thing. And there's no other fellowship like the fellowship of the people of God. Do you remember what Jesus said the night before his crucifixion? He said, By this shall all men know that you are my disciples, if you have love one for another. This is our Lord's desire that people would be able to say, you know, you can tell those people are Christians. I mean, look how closely bonded they are with one another. I mean, they really love each other. And the idea here is that our testimony should be to the world that the unity that we enjoy is of supernatural origin. In other words, it can't just be explained by like people who like the same sports team or people who go down to the same lodge. or people who work together for 30 years. I mean, there's all kinds of bonds that are formed in the society of lost people. But Christian unity should be something that is in a class by itself. So often we come short of this. But this is God's desire for us. And by his grace, we can achieve this. Now there's something else I want to bring out of this that perhaps you didn't see in our initial reading in verse 2. Aaron, of course, was what? What is his significance? Well, he was the first high priest. And we see, we read here of him being anointed. For that office that we read in the Old Testament of prophets and priests and kings being anointed, being consecrated to their office of service. It signified that they were being set apart for a very special duty. And when Aaron was anointed and there was the beginning of the priesthood, it is to remind us. of our great high priest, the Lord Jesus Christ. We read of him often in that regard in the book of Hebrews. He is the ultimate anointed one. He is our prophet, priest, and king. And I think what this reminds us here, this picture, is that our unity is found ultimately in our bonds in Christ. Don't you find that is the case? That when you're with other Christian people, there may be topics and subjects that are brought up that don't endear you to them because you look at things a little differently? But if you're truly a born-again believer and that person begins to speak of Christ and who he is and what he has done and their relationship with them and their affection for him. There is suddenly a bond and an empathy that you have in your heart for that person because you feel that same way about the Lord Jesus Christ. This is the way it should be. This is what is it that holds us together. I want to talk about this more in future weeks, but I just think there's an allusion to it here. And I want also you to note in this picture that Christian unity is accomplished by the transforming power of the Holy Spirit. Many of you know That oil is often used symbolically of the work of the Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit. In 1 Samuel 16 verse 13, we read that when David was anointed, that the Spirit of God came upon him. And as the oil ran down Aaron's head, so the Spirit would flow down upon our head, from our head Christ, to his body, the church And we see this pictured in the early church. Do you remember the day of Pentecost? the advent of the Holy Spirit when there were 3,000 souls that were saved. They started out that day with about 120 followers. By the end of the day, the church had grown a great deal. And what is remarkable about all these people and this new body of believers is the Bible describes their supernatural unity. It says in Acts 2. 44, and all that believed were together. And we read in chapter 4, just several weeks later, it says that they were of one heart and of one soul, and great grace was upon them all. This should not surprise us because we read in Galatians chapter 5 that the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, and every one of those fruits Supports and promotes unity. And that's a very important thing for us to consider. You see, the more Spirit-filled we are, the more we will be unified as a body of believers. The more our focus is on Christ, the more we will come together. The more we focus on ancillary things and other things, the less will be our unity. Now let's look at the second illustration. It's down to the first part of verse 3, as the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that descended upon the mountains of Zion. Spiritual unity is compared to do here. What are we to take from this picture? I think first of all that Christian unity is refreshing. and life-giving. Israel has a much drier climate than we do here in Carroll County. Rain is infrequent between the months of May and October. That's the dry season. Nine years ago, this church gave my wife and I a wonderful gift, and we went over to Israel about this time of year. in 2011. And uh we were there for eight or nine days, and you know what? It never rained during that time. sunny days every day, a different climate. And so be because of that lack of rain, especially during that season of the year. Dew is a very important source of moisture in such a climate. Now Mount Hermon is the highest mountain in Israel. It's over 9,000 feet high. It's often snow-capped. It was when we were visiting there. And the region around Mount Hermon is the greenest area of Israel. That's where you find the most vegetation. The most trees, the most flowers. And one reason has to do with the way that mountain affects the climate. And that region around the foothills of Mount Hermon is known for its heavy dews. And those does come and they support less vegetation there. And so in the same way, Christian fellowship is refreshing to the soul. It's like finding moisture in a dry and thirsty land. It's both vital and refreshing. This is why our Christian fellowship is so important. It's not some nonessential thing. Sometimes, and you've heard me often say this even last week, that the Bible knows nothing of a Lone Ranger Christian. You know, it's just me and the Lord, and I don't need anybody else, and I don't need to be around everyone else. That's not true. You need your brother and sister to encourage you and to strengthen you and to correct you and to turn you to other scriptures And to support you and help you, we all need the ministry of one another. It's life-giving, it's refreshing And I hope that some of you even here today who have not been here in a long time that you will know exactly what I'm talking about because your your spiritual batteries will be charged because You have been here with the saints of God for the first time in a long time today. But then I want you to notice the second point of comparison, and that is that Christian unity is a blessing that comes down from heaven, and we might say from God upon the Lord's people. This is actually the main point of comparison that ties these two illustrations together. And I want to show you this in the text. Would you look with me at verse 2? We spoke about this anointing of Aaron. It speaks of that oil. It says that it ran down the beard, and then we read that it went down to the skirts of his garments. And then if you look at verse 3, it speaks of this dew descending upon the mountains of Zion. So this is the main point of comparison that connects these two analogies together. Just as the anointing oil ran down Aaron's head and went all the way down to the skirts of his garments, and just as the ascendant came down from heaven, and it came down upon the regions around Hermon and eventually also it came down around the Mount Zion It affects the whole. In other words, this psalm is telling us that the blessings of God come down and they reach every part of the whole. Now these two mountains, Mount Hermon and Mount Zion, are quite distant from one another. But the same God was sending his blessings of unity and harmony upon his people in the north where Hermon was, and in the south where Zion was, just like he sent them do. And so the point here is that God wants his blessings, this blessing of unity to fall on all of his people, not on some of the people. But just as that oil went down and went on all the garment of Aaron and the dew went over all of Israel, so God's blessing come on all of his people. Now this interpretation is verified by the concluding explanation. Look with me at the end of verse 3. And you have this phrase that begins with the word for. And I've mentioned to you many times in my sermons that when you see that word, it means there's an explanation that's being given. For. There the Lord commanded the blessing. even life forevermore. So David is explaining what he's just said with these two analogies. How is the unity of the people of God like anointing oil that flows down and dew that falls from heaven? Well, they are both both blessings that ultimately come from God. Now, where is the there that's mentioned in verse 3? Well, in a historic sense. It was Mount Zion, but in a broader sense, is where the people of God worship the Lord in unity. Where there is a gathering like this, there the Lord has and will pour forth his blessings because God delights to bless the unified people of God. The idea here of the Lord commanding his blessing is that this is the ultimate blessing That the Lord has for the people of God as a community of believers. When you can go to a church, a body of believers, and in your worship And in your fellowship and in your service, there is a unity there. That is the blessing of God. That is a special thing. That is a precious thing. That's what the psalmist is saying. It is evident that God is at work and that He is pleased because God is pleased when we dwell together in unity. Now what should be our response to this truth? I just want to make one simple application. This morning. And that is this. We must fight for our spiritual unity because it is beautiful, precious, and delightful in the eyes of God. and his people. I intentionally have used this ironic wording so that it will stick in our minds. We must fight for peace in the church. We must strive to maintain unity and harmony. It doesn't take much to disrupt a relationship. It's like that in our interpersonal relationships. It doesn't take much to interrupt the marriage uh a marriage relationship. It doesn't take much to disrupt a a parent-child relationship. It doesn't take much for two coworkers to fall out with one another and then for years for there to be this icy silence between them. It doesn't take much. And if we just let nature take its course in the church of Christ, there will be divisions and clicks and suspicions and there will be silence and all of that is a horrible testimony and the opposite of what God wants his church to be. God wants his church to be a place of joy. Fellowship where you look forward in the morning to going to church because there I'm going to see my brothers and sisters in Christ. The people who believe the most important things that I believe, we have those things in common. And we're going to enjoy a deep fellowship together. Now there are two great challenges that stem from the extraordinary global challenge. that we have experienced in the last few months. There may be many more, but I'm just going to mention two. One challenge is that it's very easy for believers to become isolated and detached because they are no longer congregating as a body of believers I wonder when we're all going to actually able to be back together again. And this in no way is me trying to shame people who are watching at home. I'm not doing that at all. But obviously it's our desire and our goal that we would all be able to gather together as a body of believers. Because even though you can watch on live stream and perhaps you can see your your brother and sister in Christ there, it's still not the same. And it's those conversations often after the service that can be so meaningful and so helpful in our Christian walk. I thank the Lord for the technologies that we have that allow us to have live stream. Just imagine if for all those weeks we didn't have live stream That's been true of many churches in the world in poor locations that have been shut out from having services but do not have the uh people don't have computers in their homes. I've talked to Pastor Aaron about this and uh the the struggles that they've had there and uh where he ministers. And I've talked to many pastors of smaller churches who don't have that or have something that doesn't work very well. We're so thankful that we have this. But it's not the ultimate substitute for the fellowship that we can enjoy here today. Fellowship is not an optional part of a Christian experience. It's an essential part. And I'm praying that the time will come in the not too distant future. when we can all be together and enjoy that fellowship. But the second challenge to our unity is due to the different perspectives that people have. Concerning the coronavirus. The situation, of course, has become very politicized. And I one of the things that pastors feel good about that it's not just me when you're facing some. I've talked to pastors all over the country and they've all said the same thing to me that their biggest concern And this situation is not so much that people in their congregations are going to die from this, but that their church will be divided over this. And it's something that that is a great potential. The fact is that it's like a perfect storm We have uh a situation that affects all of us. All right. It's not like there's just a few people in our church that this crisis has affected. It's it's affected all of our lives, and not just everyone in this country, but people throughout the whole world. And and because it's been such a great disruption, people have very strong and passionate opinions about it because it's impacted us all. In many ways, it's been painful and hurtful and difficult for so many people. And so it makes sense that they would have strong opinions about it. And the fact is that we look at it from different perspectives. We all come from different backgrounds. We're influenced by different people. We bring different life experiences to this situation Some of us have personalities that tend to be more cautious, fearful. Some people are bold. And courageous, and they don't worry about anything. Maybe in some cases those people are being foolish, in other cases, people are being prudent. It all depends on how you look at it So the answer is not to force everyone to get on the same page Because unity and uniformity are not the same thing. We do not require people to think the same way about every issue known to man in this church. There is a name for religious groups who require that. You know what they're called? They're called cults. Alright? They do. They brainwash you. You have to Believe everything exactly the same. And you know what? They have a certain kind of harmony there, but it's not a good kind. It's a brainwashed kind. We're not a cult. We're a church. And so we have to find ways to allow our differences is not to intrude into something that we find very precious, and that is the unity of the body. of Christ. The church is full of people with different ideas. You know what a boring place the church would be if everyone thought and felt the same way about every issue. And let me just hasten to say that I'm in no way devaluing core doctrines or beliefs. There are certain things that every Christian must believe. Because they are plainly revealed in the Word of God, and they are the basis of our belief. And if we don't believe those things, then there's no point in us gathering here. There are core things that we must believe that unite us together that are clearly taught in the Word of God. But we must be careful. We must be patient. We must be understanding with those who differ from us. Because we are part of the church which Christ has purchased with his own blood. The church is a very precious gathering of people because it's been purchased with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spots. And so we must not throw away the unity that our church has enjoyed for many years. We must protect it. We must treasure it. We must value it. And we must ask that God would allow this crisis not to divide us in any way, make us more detached from one another. But instead that he would use it to unite us in a common cause. That we would, one of the lessons that we would walk away from this crisis would be How good, how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. For us to be able to say, I didn't realize how much I really needed the church and the people of the church and the body of believers, I didn't realize how vital that was to my life until it was taken away And now I see that it's a precious thing that I must cultivate and I must seek to promote as much as I possibly can. My prayers that God will use this experience to cause us to love our brothers and sisters more. and not less. And that we would give a testimony to this world that one of the attractive things that people in the world would see is that there is a gathering of people Who truly love one another. And they would say, I want some of that. I've all my life have wanted to be a part of that. I talk to lonely people all the time. And lost people. So many people are looking for a place where there's acceptance, where people will genuinely care for them, where there's a support system. And in our culture today, there's less and less avenues where people in the world can find that. The church is to be that answer. For that need that we have, that God-given need we have for fellowship. We are to find that in the church, and it is to strengthen us. build us up in our faith. May God help us to find that blessed harmony that is extolled in this Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for all that we have in Christ. We thank you for the unity that we find in Him. I pray that you would help the words that we have studied together today, and even the time that we've spent with one another. to strengthen our bonds with one another and cause us to love one another as Christ's desire is for our lives. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.