I encourage you to turn your Bibles to Luke chapter 16. Luke chapter 16. On July the 8th, 1741 Jonathan Edwards preached the most famous sermon in American history in Enfield, Connecticut. It's entitled, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God It was a sermon that was never finished. The once light-hearted congregation was suddenly gripped with the realization that they were in grave danger. As Edwards preached, people cried out. Things like, What shall I do to be saved? And another cried, Oh, I am going to hell. Edward stopped and asked for silence, but the tumult only increased. A few years ago, my family and I were on vacation in New England, and we passed by the town of Infield, Connecticut, and so I decided to stop. to find a marker that I had discovered on the internet was located at the site of where that sermon was preached. The old church house had been torn down centuries earlier. I went and looked for it, and it was very difficult to find. There was a hedge that had grown up around the stone marker, and so I had to kind of explore and uh look very carefully to find it underneath of this hedge. I read a posting online that was placed there by a believer that said that the town was embarrassed to be associated with that kind of preaching. And so they had intentionally tried to forget that that sermon on hell was ever preached in their fair city. Most people today respond to the doctrine of hell with anger, humor, or embarrassment. In fact, most Americans today claim that they do not believe in hell. But that was not the case in Edward 's day. And that day, everyone, saint and sinner, believed that there was a real hell prepared for sinners. It's important to remember that hell is not an invention of Jonathan Edwards or the Puritans, but is a doctrine that is clearly taught in the Bible. In fact, Jesus talks about hell more than anyone else in Scripture. This morning we come to what is perhaps the most famous passage that deals with hell. It's commonly known as the parable of the rich man and Lazarus. I want to acknowledge right off They begin here that there's some debate about whether or not this is a parable. Some of you may have heard a preacher In the past, perhaps a pastor or an evangelist say that this is not a parable, but a historic event. And those who take that position do so for two reasons. Number one, because this parable includes a character named Lazarus. And no other parable has this speech, or no other parable has a name given to someone. But a second reason is because many people think that if it's just a parable, that is a story. It's like you're taking a weaker position on the doctrine of hell. But this is not the case. Remember Jesus' parables were always true to life that never included any element of fantasy in them. I want to suggest to you that this is a parable. I believe that it is. Most Bible scholars do. And they do so for several reasons. I'm not going to uh take any more time with this, but I do want you to notice how this parable begins in verse 19 it says, There was a certain rich man. Now, if you look with me at the previous parable to this, found in Luke chapter 16 and verse 1, we read this, there was a certain rich man. Notice it begins with the identical words, and that is because I believe Jesus is linking these two parables together. Both of these parables touch on the delicate issue of money, and both parables teach that how we use our money says says volumes about our own hearts. In the parable, the just We are exhorted to invest our money wisely. That is in eternal riches. But in the parable of the rich man in Lazarus, we get an illustration. of how not to invest your riches. In fact, we essentially have an example of what happens when Is a slave to mammon. Remember, that is what Jesus warned against in the last verse connected with the parable of the unjust steward in Luke 16, verse 13. Now, whether or not this is a parable or a historic event ultimately does not matter. That's more of an academic discussion. But the truth that Christ teaches here is very clear. I want you to notice, first of all, to whom this parable is addressed. Look with me at Luke 16 and verse 13. It says, No servant can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. And now look with me at verse 14. And the Pharisees also, who were covetous, heard all these things, and they derided him. And he said unto them Ye are they which justify yourselves before men, but God knoweth your hearts, for that which is highly esteemed among men is abomination in the sight of God. This parable was specifically addressed to the Pharisees. The Pharisees tended to be wealthy businessmen. Who were also highly regarded for their religious acts actions. The Pharisees had concluded that wealth was the blessing of God, and therefore those who were poor Must be cursed of God. This distorted understanding of Scripture provided a convenient excuse for them to neglect the poor and to spend their money selfishly. There's very much a sense in which this entire parable is an illustration of the warning Jesus gave in verse 15. Notice it again. You are they which justify yourselves before men, but God knoweth your hearts, for that which is highly esteemed among men is abomination in the sight of God. Just as the older brother in the parable of the prodigal son represents the Pharisees, So the rich man in this parable exposes another aspect of their empty religion. This parable of the rich man and Lazarus is intended by our Lord to be a shocking warning to wealthy, self-righteous people that a callous disregard for the needy is usually a revelation of a wicked heart that will ultimately send them to hell. I'm going to preach to you this morning on the danger of living the good life. And first of all, I want us to look at an exposition of this parable. The very title of this parable, The Rich Man in Lazarus, reminds us that it's a study and contrast. In this parable, we read of two men who are very different. They were different in their lives. They were different in their death. And they were different in their afterlife. Although this parable is about two men, the focus is obviously not on Lazarus the beggar, but on the rich man. The parable begins with him. It ends with his extended conversation with Abraham. And it focuses more attention just by a size of text to him rather than to Lazarus. So let's begin by looking at the life of the rich man. Look with me at verse 19. Jesus says there was a certain rich man which was clothed in purple and fine linen and fared sumptuously every day. Two aspects of his lifestyle are recorded here. His clothing and his meals. Notice he was clothed in purple and fine linen. Everyone knows that purple is the color of royalty. This purple dye was extracted from shellfish. But each shellfish, this particular variety that was hard to find, produced only one tiny drop of dye. And so the production of this purple dye was very labor-intensive and therefore very expensive. Only really wealthy people Would be able to wear purple clothing. And this man wore purple apparently on a regular basis because he wanted everyone to know That he was wealthy. It was a status symbol. Now the mention of the fine linen here refers to the garment that he wore under his purple cloak. It was of course hand-stitched, as were all garments of that day, and also extremely expensive. It was like the luxury sheets. that are so popular today with many stitches every square inch. It felt like satin next to his skin. Next, we read of his meals. It says he fared sumptuously every day. That is, that every day Was a feast day to him. This word speaks of a flamboyant display of cuisine. In chapter 15 of Luke, we read of the fatted calf that was slain. to celebrate the return of the prodigal son. The suggestion in this phrase is that every day in this man's house the Fatak Tath was slain, and it was a great celebration. His diet consisted of only the finest foods. Now it's important to realize that verse 19 is conveying the fact that this was the sum of his life. This man was not known in the community for his family or his civic position or his godliness. No, everyone knew him for his fancy clothes and his gourmet meals. He had it all. And it was all about him. You know, the world really has not changed. If you were to look at the pictures and ads in most of our magazines today. They would all be promoting the good life. The consistent message is that life is all about designer clothing and fine cuisine. and exquisite wines. It's about satisfying the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the pride of life. It tells us that everyone should be pursuing this lifestyle. But by contrast, we meet another character. Look with me at verses 20. and twenty-one. There was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate. Full of sores, and desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table. Moreover, the dogs came and licked his sores Lazarus is the Hebrew equivalent of the name Eleazar. His name means he whom God helps. Notice his situation in life. Right off the bat, we are told that he was a beggar. He was the lowest rung of human society. This is a picture of abject poverty. Notice that he was disabled and unable to work. It says that he was placed at the gates. It was not that he walked to the gate, but he was placed there. Perhaps he was unable to walk or he was blind. In the ancient world, there was a much higher percentage of people who were blind or deaf or crippled. And that is because they did not have the nutrition and the medical practices that we have today. In other words, in Jesus' world, beggars were everywhere. And this beggar decided to sit at the gate of this wealthy man, hoping that since he was so wealthy, he could certainly afford to give something to this destitute individual. Every day as the rich man left his estate and returned home, he saw poor Lazarus at the gates. Notice his suffering in life. He is said to be full of sores. These are ulcerations that were open and infected. This came, of course, from sitting in the same place. Just like today, when a person is confined to their bed, they will likely get bed sores. His inability to heal may be the result also of a poor diet. He was malnourished Notice his starvation that's mentioned here. It says he desired to be fed with crumbs which fell from the rich man's table. Apparently, at times he would hide under the banquet table and try to get scraps of food that fell from the rich man. This poor man had the same diet as the dogs. But then we reach the the depths of his depravity, his degradation. And the last phrase of verse 21, when it says, moreover, the dogs came and licked his sores. You may find this repulsive, and indeed it is, and so did Jesus' original audience This line in the parable corresponds to the line in the parable of the prodigal son, where it says that he was there and the pig sty and he wanted to eat their food. To the Jews who abhorred swine, this was as low as a person could go. I want you to know that In Jewish tradition, at least in the ancient world, they didn't have a much higher regard for dogs than they did for swine. Now we think of dogs as a man's best friend. If you read things written two, three thousand years ago, that's not the way people thought about dogs. They thought about them as scavengers. as dangerous animals that fed on garbage. And so the idea of this man's companions being dogs and of them licking These open wounds that he had was just utterly repulsive and disgraceful in their estimation. So we see here the stark contrast between Lazarus and the rich man. The rich man was covered with the finest garments. Lazarus was covered in swords. The rich man was eating gourmet meals every day, while Lazarus was fighting for crumbs. under the wealthy man's table. The rich man was surrounded by the elite company and his banqueting table, while Lazarus's companions were scavenger dogs. It's difficult to imagine a more extreme contrast, but finally we read of something they share in common. And that is death. Look with me at verse 22. And it came to pass that the beggar died. And was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died and was buried. Perhaps they died on the same day. What a contrast that would have been. Death has been called the great equalizer. It claims both rich and poor, young and old, men and women. Death is no respecter of persons. We read here of the rich man's burial, but no mention is made of Lazarus' funeral. Chances are his body was just tossed into a garbage dump. But what a funeral the rich man had. There was quite a procession to the burial plot. And those who c who followed the richly carved coffin were the who's who of polite society. There was a plaintive cry that echoed up to heaven from the best professional mourners in the land. He was buried in the finest coffin and, of course, in consecrated ground It was the most impressive funeral that anyone could remember. But at their deaths, a great reversal takes place. We read at the end of verse 22 that the angels carried Lazarus to Abraham. But in verse 23 we read, and in hell the rich man lifted up his eyes. Being in torments. What an amazing contrast They conclude from conversation between Abraham and the rich man That people in heaven will see and communicate with people in hell. That's not the point that Jesus is trying to communicate here But I do want us to understand that we do have the revelation of two very real places: heaven and hell. Let me first of all explain something that may strike you as odd about the description of heaven here. It's described as Abraham's bosom or Abraham's sigh. Why is it described that way? Well, Jesus is speaking to religious Jews. And this is the way they thought of heaven. They had high regard for Abraham. He was the father of the faithful. And so if anyone would be in heaven, in fact, the first person in heaven would have been Abraham. And their concept of heaven is that they would sit there at this vast table. Abraham would be at the head of the table, and they would enjoy a wonderful banquet for eternity. That was the Jewish estimation of heaven. But why does it speak not just of Abraham, but of Abraham? Mind you, that when Jesus was in the upper room We read that John leaned upon his breast. And that is referring to the fact that they would eat at a very low table, reclining on their elbows. And when you had someone that you had a close relationship with, they would be next to you at that table and they would lean right against you so that they could talk to you. It spoke of an intimacy of fellowship here. And so heaven is spoken of here in this Jewish context in this way because Those who were who went to heaven were privileged to have intimate fellowship with Abraham. And what we see here revealed in this parable is that the person next to Abraham was Lazarus. And the idea is that when the rich man saw this, this would have been the shock of shocks. That old beggar outside of his gate That man who was a disgrace to society is now right next to Abraham. He could not have imagined that Now I want us to turn to this description of hell that's given in this parable. This is the only place in Scripture where we read of someone's Experience in hell. This is what makes it so compelling. The Greek word used for hell here is Hades. It is the intermediate place of punishment. At the end of Revelation chapter 20, we read of Hades being cast into Gehenna or the lake of fire. Notice that the rich man here makes two requests of Father Abraham. Notice he's used to giving orders. And even though he is in hell, he is still making demands. He still thinks of Lazarus as his subordinate. Look with me at verse 24. And he cried and said, Father Abraham Have mercy on me, and send Lazarus that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am tormented in this flame Notice that he desperately wants mercy, but he never demonstrated mercy to Lazarus. And so his request for relief is denied. Now, verse 25 may strike you as odd. Look at this verse, but Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivest By good things and likewise Lazarus evil things, but now he is comforted, and thou art tormented This verse is not, of course, saying that people who have a difficult life will go to heaven and people who experience a comfortable life will go to hell. No, the idea here is that the rich man sought to make his heaven on earth, and that is the only heaven that he would ever enjoy. Now what do you make of the rich man's request that he would go back and warn brothers? Look with me at verses 27 and 28. Then he said, I pray thee, therefore, Father, that thou wouldst send him to my father's house, for I have five brethren. that he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torments. Does this indicate that the rich man had a change of heart? That suddenly he was thinking about other people Indeed, he may have been thinking about his five brothers, but he was still thinking about himself as well. His complaint, his request implies that he has been treated unfairly in being sent to hell. The implication of his request is that if someone had warned me, I would have repented. If God had provided more revelation, like someone from the dead, I would have turned from my selfish ways. But that is simply not true. Look at the way Abraham replies in verses 29 to the end. Abraham said unto him, They have Moses and the prophets, which is an expression that refers to the entire Old Testament. Let them hear them. And he said, Nay, Father Abraham, but if one went unto them from the dead, they will repent. And he said unto them, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded the one rose from the dead. Abraham is clear that the evidence of someone coming back from the dead would fail to convince those who love their sin. And this is powerfully demonstrated in Scripture. Because a man with the same name Lazarus Was brought back to life after being dead for four days. You can read about it in John chapter 11. But did everyone believe? No. The religious leaders actually plotted to murder the man. But the ultimate demonstration of mankind's willful unbelief Was the resurrection of Jesus Christ? How many still refuse to believe even with the witness of one rose from the dead? So let me ask you this morning, do you believe has the teaching of Scripture at some time touched your hearts And calls you to put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. I've spoken to many people over the years who have said, I'd like to believe if only God would provide me more evidence. I want you to know that God has revealed Himself abundantly to you. The Bible says the heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. How can anyone go out on a beautiful day like today and think that all of this just happened? It's just the result of random occurrences No, certainly there's a great designer. There is a good God who's made all of this for us to enjoy. All of creation points to its maker. And God has given us the revelation of his word. We have his word for our consideration. And no one today who's listening to this service can say, if only I had access to God's revelation, because all of us have access to the Word of God, you can find God's Word in so many places and so many convenient ways today. If you are truly seeking the truth, I encourage you to search the scriptures. And if you do, you will discover God's ultimate revelation of Himself in His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus said, Search the scriptures, for they testify of me. So I encourage you, if you're seeking answers, if you're seeking the truth, if you're seeking to understand and make sense out of what's happening in the world, I exhort you to search the scriptures, for in them you will find the only hope of eternal life. I would like now in my message to turn to application. And I want to make four applications. from this parable, which has been described as the most disturbing parable that Jesus ever told. First of all Being wealthy can be dangerous to your spiritual health. Why did the rich man not seek the Lord in his lifetime? I think it's simply because he didn't think that he needed the Lord. Life was good. He felt that he had everything that he needed, and so he never sought the Lord Would you turn with me just a couple pages ahead to Luke chapter 18 and verse 25? This is the account of the rich young ruler. And Jesus says to his disciples in verse 24 of Luke 18 How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God, for it is easier for a camel to go through the eye a needle's eye than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. I wonder if we really believe that is true. Because in our culture, in our society, we are obsessed with gaining riches. And yet Jesus says it is a very dangerous thing to do. If we believed what Jesus said here, we wouldn't make the accumulation of money the ultimate objective of our lives. We wouldn't be obsessed with stalking away Money for our retirement. We wouldn't teach our children by word and example that earning money should be the main ambition of their life. No, instead, we would seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. The second truth. I want us to see in this parable is that how we respond to the needy is very significant. Now I want to ask you the most important question that maybe you've been thinking about, but I haven't addressed yet. The most important question that arises out of this parable is this. Why did one of these men go to heaven and the other go to hell? It's not because the rich go to hell and the poor go to heaven. Ultimately, it's because Lazarus put his faith in God and the rich man did not. The evidence of this choice Is revealed in the way the rich man neglected Lazarus. Lazarus was just part of the landscape Lazarus was given no more thought than the dogs that cleaned up the scraps from under his table. This passage portrays a callous indifference to the suffering of Lazarus. He could have eliminated much of his suffering, but apparently he decided to do nothing. Now we don't get any sense in this parable that the rich man was a scoundrel. He's not accused of being a murderer or an adulterer. There's no suggestion that he gained his wealth through illegal means. I think he had a respectable standing in the community. I suspect that he attended the synagogue every Sabbath. He certainly would never have thought of himself as an idolater. That was a sin of the Gentiles. But in fact, he was an idolater. And his response to Lazarus reveals the idolatry of his heart. He loved his money more than God. He found his status, his satisfaction, and his joy in his riches, not in God who gave him those riches. And notice he didn't reflect the character of God, who we are told hundreds of times in the Old Testament, is a merciful God. And yet the rich man shows no mercy to Lazarus. Like all proud Pharisees, he claimed Abraham as his father. But in fact, he was just like his father, the devil. So let me ask you a very pointed question. When was the last time You gave of your resources to relieve the misery of the poor. Conservative Christians tend to place very little emphasis on this Because often those who seek to minister to the suffering of the poor and the needy do so and never give the gospel to them. And rightfully we complain and say, what good is it if you just help them out in this life, but you don't give them the gospel that can save them from hell in the life to come? And I think another factor that keeps us from doing that is that often we see people who are very destitute and very poor. We assume, and often we're right , that they have made many poor lifestyle choices that have gotten them in that dire situation. And therefore we think, listen, serves them right. They got themselves into that mess. I am not going to do anything to help them. But the Bible teaches, especially in relation to our brother and sister in Christ. That we are to be very generous and gracious with them. Do you remember the shocking thing that James says in his little epistle in chapter two that is that it's brought about so much Discussion. He says in James chapter 2 and verse 14, What doth it prophet my brethren? Though a man say he hath faith and have not works, can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled, notwithstanding, ye give them not those things which are needful to the body. What doth it profit? Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead being alone. And in 1 John chapter 3 and verse 17 it says, But whoso hath this world's goods and seeth his brother have need, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion for him. How dwelleth the love of God in him. This might be something that we really are put to the test with in the days and weeks ahead. If this pandemic continues, more and more people lose their jobs, more and more people are unable to provide for themselves and their families. How will those who have resources respond to the brother and sister in Christ in need? Will we say to ourselves, well, they should have worked harder during the good times, or they should have been more careful in the way they spent their money? Or where we say, I can't see my brother and sister suffering like this. I must help them. What James says is we must not say, Hey brother, I'm praying for you. Hope things get better for you. Not when we have the ability to remedy their situation. The third truth I want us to consider is this. Is that hell is a disturbing reality? Did you notice that there are only two destinies for people after they die? Some people imagine that they are three, that there's a purgatory or some state in between the two. Others, in fact, perhaps most people today think there's just one destiny for people, and that's called heaven. Everybody wins. Everyone Regardless of how they live their life or what they believe, everyone goes to heaven. That's what perhaps most people in America believe today. But Jesus says there are two destinies, heaven and I want you to notice several things about hell from this passage. According to verse 23, hell is a place of pain. Speaks of him being in torments. Number two, hell is a place of fire in verse 24. It refers to the flame. This aspect of hell is repeatedly mentioned by Jesus. Notice that hell is a place of memory. Notice. That the rich man remembers Lazarus and notice that hell is a place of no escape. We read in verse 26. Of a great gulf that is fixed, so that they which would pass from hence to you cannot, neither can they pass to us That would come from thence. The rich man can't, with all of his money, get out of hell. He can't go to Lazarus, and Lazarus can't come to him Hell is a place of no escape. There's some people who have taught that people will be given a second chance, that they will be put in hell for a time, and then they will be brought out, and they they'll be asked if they want to reconsider. But this rich man has no second chance. He remains where he is. Fifthly, hell is a place of frustration. This rich man makes two requests. To relieve his suffering and supposedly the suffering of his brothers to come, but his request are denied. But you know what the worst place of that hell is? It's not the flame, it's not the torment, it's not the regret. It's the fact that place, hell is a place without fellowship with God Hell is eternal separation from God. And God made us to know Him. He made us in such a way that our hearts crave to know God and to have communion with Him. And those who go to hell will never, ever experience that again in their lives. The very purpose of their existence has not been fulfilled. This is why we must be so much more vigilant in sharing the good news of the gospel. Because when people die, they don't just go to the grave. That's not the end of their existence if we believe what Jesus says. No, the Bible is quite clear that those who reject the gospel, who live life even A life that would be considered by people to be a good life, as in a life of luxury and ease, a life of respectability, even people like that go to hell. But the fourth and final truth I want to see in this passage is that God's word is the most powerful means of bringing the lost to salvation In verse 29, Abraham says, let them hear Moses and the prophets. There are many today who think that we need different gimmicks. We need miraculous powers. We need to do really spectacular and sensational things to get people's attention so that they will be saved and so they will bring in celebrities and all kinds of different types of entertainment to try to try to draw the attention of the lost But we see here that the most powerful means of reaching the lost is the Word of God Whatever evangelism methods we may use, they must contain the truth of God's word. Because God uses his word to bring lost sinners to the Savior. Faith cometh by hearing. and hearing by the word of God. People don't need gimmicks. They need the gospel. And God's word is sufficient to save sinful men and women. And so we need to be faithful and sharing the good news of the gospel. with our neighbors, our friends, and our loved ones. At this time, this unprecedented time in our experience Where the entire world is riveted on one thing and the awful reality of death, we need to take this opportunity when we're out walking, when we see people. to speak to them, to our loved ones and our neighbors and our friends about the gospel that is the only cure for our sinful hearts. May God help us to be faithful. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it's sufficient. We thank you, Father, that It always has a relevant message for us. I pray that you would help us to meditate upon your truth today. And the reality that every man, woman, and child when they die will go to one of two places. Help us, Father, therefore, to be faithful witnesses in the days ahead. And we thank you, Father, for your grace by which we have been saved. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.