Yeah, rebibles, please. Would you turn with me to John chapter twelve? John chapter twelve. There was a famous artist over a century ago by the name of Holman Hunt. We painted a lot of scenes from the Bible. In fact, there used to be children's Bibles that had lots of his paintings in them. One of his most striking paintings is entitled The Shadow of Death. Pictures Jesus working in his Joseph's carpenter shop, and the sun is streaming through the window, and as he is stretching out his arms, it casts a shadow on the back wall in the shape of a cross. The symbolism conveys the truth that our Lord's entire life was lived in the shadow of the cross. This was especially true in his final days on earth. This morning, as we continue our study of the Gospel of John, we come to a passage which takes place probably on the Monday after Palm Sunday. Jesus is in Jerusalem with his disciples preparing for the Passover. And is at this Passover that he will die and be crucified? And his mind is on his approaching death. We tend not to think much about our death, but imagine if you knew exactly when you were going to die and how you were going to die, that would probably cause you to contemplate it much more. I want you to notice the many references to death in this passage. In verse 23, we read, the hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. That is a reference to his death and resurrection. And then verse 24 Truly, truly I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies It bears more fruit. And then verse 27. Jesus says, now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me. from this hour, but for this purpose I have come to this hour. And then verses thirty-two and thirty-three. And when I am lifted up from the earth will draw all people to myself. He said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. So you see that our Lord's mind was on his death, which was just a few days away. The paragraph that we're considering this morning, verses 20 through 26 , has kind of two distinct halves to it. The first half records some Gentiles described here as Greeks probably not referring to their nationality as Greeks, but to the fact that they were Greek-speaking Gentiles. That come to Philip and then to Andrew, and they want to an interview with the Lord. And so these disciples go and ask the Lord about it. That's the first half of the paragraph. And the second half consists of our Lord's response to Philip and Andrew about their coming, which has some very significant lessons about following Christ. And both of these have to do with changes that would occur because of the death of Christ. We as Christians understand that the death of Christ changed everything. Because of Jesus' sacrificial death in our place, sinful people like us can be forgiven by a just and holy God and spend eternity with Him. That is the essence of the gospel. But the Bible reveals that there are many other significant changes that came about as a result of the death of Christ. And there are two of them that are found in this paragraph. So this passage reminds us the death of Jesus changes everything. And this is something that every believer should understand and embrace with joy. The first thing I want you to see in our passage this morning is that the death of Christ created a new people of God. Look with me, please, at verse 20. Now among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks. The feast that's mentioned here in verse 20 is, of course, the Passover. Now it may surprise you that some Greeks or some Gentiles Have come to observe a Jewish festival. Why would non-Jewish people come to the Passover? Well, there were many Gentiles we know in the first century that were fascinated by the claims that Jewish people made about their God because it was so different from what they had been taught growing up in their traditional religions. As we know, the traditional religions of the Greeks and the Romans of most Gentiles was that of polytheism, that there was many, many gods. There was a hierarchy of gods. And these gods were very much like human beings. They were fallen , they were immoral, they were evil in many cases. And these were the gods that people traditionally worshiped. But then the Jews said, our God is not like this at all. He is the only one. There are no other gods. And he is holy. And he is very different from humanity. And this very distinctive teaching was attractive to many Gentiles, and so many of them began to seek the truth They were allowed to come to synagogues and to stand in the back of the synagogues and listen and watch what was going on. And they would learn about the one true God, Yahweh. And these Gentiles who adopted a Jewish way of life, that is, they often kept the dietary restrictions, they observed the Sabbath, and they came to feast days. These individuals were known as God-fearers. We find several references to them in the New Testament. Cornelius was a God-fearer in Acts chapter 10. Some of the centurions were God fearers. Some of them went on to become proselytizes Apostelites, excuse me, they would be circumcised, but some of them didn't go that far. They were God-fearers. And these men, it seems, were God-fearers. They've come to observe the Passover. Many of the early believers, early Gentiles that came to faith in Christ were first God-fearing Jews, excuse me, God-fearing Gentiles that had already learned much about the one true God. You read in the book of Acts of Paul going into synagogues and preaching. You know, this was his modus operandi. He would go to synagogue, he would preach, and then there would be a riot And then he would be cast out of that and he would go. And then the Gentile audience would often have a much more receptive response. Well, those Gentiles tended to be God-fearing Gentiles, Gentiles who'd already learned about the one true God. And many of the early Gentile believers were were God fearers, just like these men who came to see Jesus. Now look with me at verse 21. So these came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida in Galilee, and asked him, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. Now there's a little speculation here. John mentions this detail that they came to see Philip, and it mentions where he was from, from Betheda and Galilee. Why does John mention those details? They don't seem that significant. Well, it's probably to explain why they came to Philip. Philip is a Greek name. It means a lover of horses. And perhaps they recognized that he had a Greek name, and they heard that he was from Bethsaida, which was a region in Galilee that bordered right next to Gentile territory. And perhaps I'm speculating here, perhaps he even asked people, which one of the disciples knows Greek best? And they said, ah, Philip's your man. He speaks Greek like it's his native language. You should go and talk to him. And so they come to Philip and they said, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. Of course, this does not mean that they just wanted to see him from a distance. They probably could already see him from a distance. No, it meant they wanted to have a private interview with him. And you can guess what they wanted to ask. These Gentiles have come to this Jewish festival, and all they've heard about is of Jesus of Nazareth. They've heard about his miracles, that he raised this man Lazarus from the dead. They've heard that he just came triumphantly into Jerusalem the day before, and they're intrigued by this. Is this man truly the promised Messiah of the Old Testament? And so they want to find out for themselves. They want to ask him questions. And so they come and they request this interview. And then in verse 23 We have an unexpected response. We would expect Jesus to simply say, well, of course I would I want to talk to these Greek gentlemen, and they would be ushered in, and then he would talk to them, and we'd have a record of that conversation But that's not what we have in the rest of this paragraph. That's not at all what we have. Look with me at verse 23. And Jesus answered them, the hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Now there is some question about who is meant by them. Jesus answered them. Who's the them? The most natural reading of the text is that this would be Philip and Andrew. Philip has this request that's brought to him by these men. He's not quite sure what to do, so he goes and he gets his friend Andrew. And every time we read of Andrew in the Bible, he's always bringing people to Jesus. And Andrew says, let's go talk to Jesus about it. And so these two disciples are there in front of Jesus and they're asking Jesus about this interview. Now, some people think that the them includes these Greeks, and some people it uh uh suggest that it might even include all the other disciples and other people there as well. We know later in the next paragraph that Jesus is speaking. It says to the crowd, the crowd that stood there heard it. And Jesus answered them. Some of these things we're not sure exactly. We can't be dogmatic about it, but I I suspect with the response that he gives that those Greeks are not there, they're standing off a little ways. And Jesus here is giving this information to Philip and Andrew and perhaps some other disciples that are there as well. Now, these what we find here is that their desire, the desire of these men to come and see Jesus is more significant. than the conversation that they had. Because the conversation's not recorded if there ever was one. We don't know. We don't hear anything more about these men. Now we're always curious. We want to know what what did they say to Jesus and how did they respond? And did they come to trust in Christ? And were they prominent members of the early church? We don't know. We don't know any of that information. What we do know is that Jesus has an unexpected response to this. He said, the hour, verse 23, has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. And what he's suggesting is the fact that these Gentiles wanted to come to see him and to talk to him and were seeking him was sort of like a trigger or sign that now his day had come. This is a refrain that we find throughout the Gospel of John. All the way back at the very first miracle. In chapter 2, remember Jesus' mother asked him to perform this miracle, to help this couple out of an embarrassing situation, and he says to her, My hour has not yet come. And the reader wonders, what does he mean by my hour? And then in John 7. 30, we read that the religious officials came to arrest Jesus, but they were unable to. because his hour had not yet come. And then in chapter 8, after a very intense conversation, the most intense interview that he has with with the religious leaders recorded anywhere in the Gospels. We read that they were there to take him, to take up stones and stone him, but no one arrested him because his hour had not yet come. And then here in chapter twelve, these Gentiles seek an interview with him, and Jesus says, Now my hour has come. So what is going on here? The seeking, these men seeking the Lord is symbolizing the fact that now the gospel is going beyond the ethnic boundaries of Israel and the Jews. Just as the Jewish nation in large part is at this moment rejecting their Messiah The coming of these men symbolizes that now the gospel will be open and will be going to the Gentiles. Not that Jewish evangelism would stop But that there would not it would not be as fruitful a field as would be the Gentiles during this time period. In fact, you'll notice in a little bit later in verse 37, John gives this very bleak summary of our Lord's ministry. Though he had done so many signs before them, they still did not believe in him. Even though there was great popularity, and we had the triumphal entry just a day before, in reality there were very few that believed in him among the Jews. And all of our Lord's ministry, almost all of his ministry, was taken up with ministry to the Jews We have exceptions like in chapter 4, the woman at the well, the Samaritan woman. We have the Syrophoenician woman we read about in Matthew. There are exceptions, but almost all of it was to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, as he put it. But now there's a transition that's taking place. Not that the Lord was finished with his people, Israel. Romans chapter 11 is very clear about that. God will fulfill his promises and his covenant to Abraham. But now the death of Christ will signal a new beginning of the gospel going to the Gentile world. Do you remember how the paragraph before the one we're looking at today ends? It ends with the Pharisees in verse 19 saying, You see that you are gaining nothing? Look, the world has gone after him. And when they spoke of the world, they were talking about the Gentiles, the Gentile world. Well, the world including both Jews and Gentiles. And so the very next thing that John records is an example of the world going out to him. That is, Gentiles now seeking him. Now in the Old Testament, God revealed himself in a special way to a man named Abraham. We read about this in Genesis chapter 12. And then God makes a covenant with him and with his descendants. And the rest of the Old Testament is an outworking of God's work among that group of people, that nation. The Israelites, the sons of Abraham. And they had great advantages. God did not reveal himself to the other nations like he did to Israel. He made covenants with them. He gave them all these signs that pointed to the coming Redeemer. He gave them his law and his prophecies and his promises. But now the gospel would go to a larger audience. The cross would change everything. The new people of God would not just be the Jewish people, but it would be Jew and Gentile. This is what Paul says is this great mystery that was revealed. In Ephesians chapter 3 and verse 6, he says that the Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the same body, and partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. The cross of Christ created a new people of God, the church comprised of Jews and Gentiles. Now, I don't have definite confirmation from Scripture to prove this, but let me make uh an observation and a little speculation here. Do you remember at the very beginning of our Lord's life on earth There were some Gentiles who came to seek him. Do you remember that? We called them the wise men or the magi. And now here at the very end, his final week on earth, we have some Gentiles coming to seek him. These Greeks. Those two events are like bookends that signal the beginning and the end of our Lord's ministry and life on earth. And it points to the fact that he would be not just the promised Messiah to the Jews, but the Savior of the world. It shows us that the great story of redemption is far greater than we can ever imagine. And so someday people from every tribe and language group and nation will sing with a loud voice, Worthy is the lamb that was slain. The Church of Jesus Christ is much greater than this assembly here, or every believer in the state of Maryland or in the United States of America It includes people of every ethnicity, of every culture, of every language group around the world. So our view of the church should not be provincial. The death of Christ created a new people of God. And secondly, the death of Christ created a new pattern for living. Now we turn to what Jesus said to at least Philip and Andrew and perhaps some other disciples as well in verse 24. We read this: Truly, truly I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. Twenty-five times in the Gospel of John we read this formula, truly, truly, or verily, verily. These are always the words of Christ, and it's the Lord saying something like this. I want you to listen very carefully to what I'm about to say. It's his way of highlighting something that's very, very significant. And here what he does is borrow an analogy that everyone would have understood in their agrarian society When a grain of wheat falls into the ground, it essentially dies, at least in reference to its old form. That seed germinates, the husk is broken open and discarded. And the seed that's been buried in the earth and is out of sight springs forth. And in time it grows and it bears many more Grains than was put in the ground. It's fruitful. This is the general principle that he establishes in verse 24. And make no mistake, he is referring to his own coming death. Through his death and resurrection, there would be much fruitfulness. You know, if you look at the ministry of our Lord on earth During those three-year period of time, there were not that many converts. There were not that many people who came to faith in Christ We read of people gathering in the upper room after his death and before Pentecost. And we read of people in Galilee that were up there. There were several hundred true believers, it seems. But after his death and his resurrection and the day of Pentecost, we read of thousands being saved at one time. The fruitfulness that would never have occurred apart from his death And Jesus is going to now establish this as not something unique that happened to him, but as a pattern for his father. Jesus had to die to bring many sons to glory Now in verses 25 and 26, Jesus is going to apply this general principle, this pattern in his own life to the life of believers. Verse 25 is a verse that can be confusing and hard for us to understand because The context and the culture is different. Look at verse 25. See if you can understand how like this could be misunderstood. He says this, whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for life eternal. When we speak of someone hating their life, we generally describing a person who's just miserable in life. And so if you didn't know anything about the Bible and you don't read the scriptures on a regular basis, you might think that Jesus is saying that the way to go to heaven is to live a miserable life, where you just hate life. That of course is not what Jesus is saying, because one of the fruits of the Spirit is what? Joy. That's not what he's saying at all So what does he mean? We have to define these terms. Jesus is using paradoxical and hyperbolic language that was very common among the rabbis of this day to make an impressive point to people When he speaks of loving one's life, he is simply referring to the natural way that lost people live their lives. And that is that most people live for no higher purpose than for pleasure, comfort, security, and ease. The whole focus of their life is on themselves and on those nearest to them. They live as if there's no God, no heaven, no hell, no future, no right, no wrong. And certainly no sense that God has authority over you or the right to tell you how you should live your life. To love your life is simply to live like the world. John who wrote this gospel also wrote some epistles And 1 John chapter 2, he describes the mindset, the values of the world. He says that all that is in the world is the desires of the flesh, the desires of the eyes, and the pride of life. You see, people of the world have always been the same. They live to fulfill their appetites, to acquire beautiful things, and to impress people with their status. The spirit of the world is egocentric, narcissistic, and materialistic. This is the way fallen people naturally think. But the problem is this, though it's very natural, it never truly satisfies a person's heart. Even though they may through hard work and strategy develop a life of ease and luxury and self-indulgence, It never really satisfies the void in their heart. They never have enough. They never feel completely content and at peace. Because God didn't make the human heart that way. So what does it mean on the opposite end of the spectrum to hate your life? Jesus says this is the path to eternal life. What does it mean to hate your life? Well We have a parallel passage that uses very similar language in Luke chapter 14 and verse 26. It says, If anyone comes to me, and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yea, in his own life he cannot be my disciple. And that verse has alarmed many people as they read through their Bible because doesn't the Bible command us to love our family members? Yes, it does. So how are we to understand these words? Well, we have a cross-reference to that in Matthew chapter 10. in verse 37, where Jesus says, whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. So when Jesus says that we are to hate our family members, he's not literally saying that we should despise and hate them. He is saying that in comparison to our love and our loyalty to Christ, We do not love them the way we love our Savior. He has first place. He must come first. And so to hate your life means that you as a Christian do not live For yourself. You do not live simply to accrue things and to have luxury and to have status and to have pleasure and to have a life of ease. It means that you live for Christ first. And this verse here in verse 25 is not like some odd verse where you've never heard anything like it in the Gospels before. This is something that Jesus said frequently, and it's found in all of the Gospels. Let me quickly read these for you. Matthew chapter 10 and verse 39, whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. Matthew 16, 24 and 25, if any man would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me, for whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. Mark chapter 8 and verse 35. For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospels will save it. Luke chapter 9, verses 24 and 25, for whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it. For what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits himself? Or Luke 17, 33, whoever seeks to preserve his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life will keep it. So what we see here is that to love your life is viewed here as the same as saving your life or preserving your life. While as hating your life here in verse 25 is the same as denying yourself and taking up your cross and following Jesus. So when a person takes the approach that there's absolutely nothing more important than my well-being, my health, and my financial stability , They are thinking and living just like a lost person. Let me remind you of who Jesus was talking to. He was talking to his disciples. And what would happen in the coming days to those disciples? This must have been like a slap in the face. Think about this the day before they had the triumphal entry. And the disciples, I suspect, are looking at each other saying We finally arrived. All those three years of following this itinerant rabbi around the countryside, it's finally going to pay off. Have you ever thought about it? They had to leave their hometowns, their businesses, and some cases their families, and follow Jesus around. That was a huge sacrifice. But they're like, now it's going to pay off. Now he is about to become king, and we have gotten him on the ground floor. We're going to be his advisors. We'll have wealth and fame and status and riches beyond compare. Our investment of three years is going to be so worth it. And then Jesus comes and he says to them, you're going to have to hate your own life. And you know what's going to happen in the years ahead? Every single one of these disciples is going to die, except for John, who almost died. He was History tells us he was boiled in oil, but he lived a long time, the man who wrote this gospel. But many of them, in fact, almost all of them died horrific deaths. Because they hated their life. And they put Christ first. And they lived in complete devotion to following Him. Jesus here is saying that his followers are to live a lifestyle of self-denial and sacrifice. We might think in our minds, I'm so glad like that following Jesus isn't like a really costly affair. You know? Go to church every once in a while. Listen to a sermon, maybe read my Bible occasionally. But it's it's the demands are really, really low. That's not what Jesus said And by the way, he's not saying here that by denying ourselves and making sacrifices and following him, we earn our way to heaven. But he's saying that those who may who are who possess the gift of eternal life will evidence it when it comes down to loving this life or following him into something that's more uncomfortable and difficult, they're going to follow him, not perfectly But they're not going to deny him. They're going to follow him and do what's right. We understand, of course, to sell anything, you have to have discipline, intentionality. You know, we just come off of watching the Winter Olympics. And you hear the backstory of some of those people and you realize all the sacrifices they made, you know, getting up really, really early in the morning for years and years and years and going to rehearsals and practices and hiring coaches and eating a special diet. And they essentially had to die to getting a lot of sleep, normal living the normal life of a teenager, having a lot of close relationships, going out and partying, eating however they want. They had to die to all those things. If they wanted to pursue an Olympic gold medal, to live the Christian life in a fruitful way requires us to die to self, to make sacrifices, to deny some of our dreams, and to follow our Savior I have to tell you that when I was reading and studying Trying to understand and grapple with exactly what Jesus is saying in verse 25, it kind of hit me like a sledgehammer We're so soft, aren't we? I was thinking to myself, here I am sitting in my palatial office with a beautiful view of Carroll County, surrounded by 6,000 books, with a climate-controlled office. And I'm reading about self-denial and sacrifice and hating your life. And it really, really, really made me think. You know, we we've taken some of the truths of Scripture, but we've mixed in so much of our American culture and our individualism. And the whole philosophical viewpoint that what I want is more important than what anything else anybody else wants. And we've kind of mixed it all together in that healthy, wealthy gospel that is all about Jesus as a way to make my life more comfortable and more easy and more prosperous than. that of others. And yet Jesus taught exactly the opposite. So all of us have to believe these words. And we have to grapple with them and how that plays out in our life. Am I making any sacrifices? Am I denying myself anything because I'm a follower of Christ? Is it evident to others that Jesus has first place? Or do all my family members and everyone else know, no, actually I have first place? That's not the path that Christ walked, and that's not the path that He has called us to walk Now look with me at verse 26. If anyone serves me, he must follow me. And where I am, there will my servant be. Also, if anyone serves me, the Father will honor him. Because he is our Lord, we have been called to serve him. And here in verse 26, he throws out two incentives for us to serve him. He says, where I am, there will my servant be. What is Jesus promising here? I want to show you this language where I am. Turn with me ahead to just maybe a page or two in your Bible, to John chapter 14 and verse 3. Very familiar verse in the upper room. Jesus is the night before his crucifixion. He's with his disciples, and he says this. Look at John 14, verse 3. And I go and prepare a place for you. I will come again and will take you to myself that where I am, you may be also. Using that same language, where I am. Where will Jesus be? He will be in his Father's house. He will be in heaven. And you see, if we keep following him and our and our Savior is going before us, And we're following in his footsteps, and he ends up in his father's house. And guess where we will end up too? We will end up in his father's house. This doesn't mean that we earn our way to heaven by dying to self, but it means that our faith will demonstrate itself by continuing to follow Him. And at times that will involve sacrifice and self-denial and making difficult choices. But there's another problem promise that is given. He says at the end of verse 26, if anyone serves me, the Father will honor him. This is nearly identical to what we read in 1 Samuel 2 and verse 30, where God says, those who honor me, I will honor. The idea is that every sacrifice we make for the Lord will be abundantly rewarded. This is what is taught throughout Scripture. The Apostle Paul says in Romans 8, the suffering of this present time is not worth comparing with the glory that is revealed in us. And Paul is talking about a man who would die for his faith. And yet he says that it's nothing compared to the glory that will come. No one in heaven will say, I wish I didn't sacrifice so much for Jesus. Or if I had it to do all over again, I think I'd live more for myself and less for Christ. You can't imagine that, can you? No one will say, I wish I'd put more money into my 401k. No, I think there will be quite a different response in our hearts. So let me ask you How do you respond when you hear of God calling people out of our assembly to serve him like his missionaries? And you'll be hearing some of this in the days ahead. Do you look at them and say, well, better them than me. So glad call God calls some people. I certainly wouldn't want to do that I kind of think it's a foolish decision. I mean, this man had a good job and he's got a family, he's got a good career, and he's going to throw all that away to go to the other side of the earth. Is that the way you think? Or do you envy them and say, oh, it would be so good to serve the Lord in that way Or when some man in our church is not a little kid, but he's an adult and he has a well-paying job and he's got a beautiful home and God calls him to preach. And now he's going to sell that house and he's going to get a job that pays a lot less money. Do you think, man, that is a foolish choice he's made? Why would he do that? I remember this was the case with my father. I only know from him telling me because I was two at the time, but in 1968, my dad had a good job. He had recently bought a home. He had two kids and an ideal location. He had everything set for life, and God called him to preach. And he sold his home and he quit his job and he went down to study for the ministry. And he wouldn't own a home again for another 40 years. He made sacrifices and some people thought it was foolish. You've got to set yourself up for life. You've got to make sure that you got ever all your ducks in a row and everything set up. But I assure you my dad doesn't regret that decision and the gospel that he brought to many people and the men that he trained for ministry, some who are still preaching the gospel in Papua New Guinea today. No, we we never, the Lord is never in debt to us. We never do him a favor, and then he's like, well, I really owe you, you know, that I really ask a lot of you, no. He lavishes blessings upon us not only in this life, but in the life to come. Let us follow in the steps of our Savior. Let me make just a few points of application as we close. Number one, we should be on the lookout for people who are seeking the Savior We should seek to be witnesses, but you know who the most effective people to witness to? People who are actually looking for the Lord. And the Lord sometimes brings those people along our path. Let me ask you, why did these Greeks know to ask Philip and Andrew? The answer is because they were disciples of Christ. So let me ask you. Does anybody know that you're a disciple of Christ? The people at work say, if someone said, hey, is there anybody around here that's a Christian, would they all say, oh yep, go down to that office right there? He's definitely a believer. Would anybody know that about you? Would someone in your neighborhood if they ask, hey, that that family down there four houses is, are they a Christian home? Would they know that? Or do you like to keep your faith private and quiet so that no one knows? You may say, what difference does it make? Well, you see, when people know you're a Christian, there are times that they're going to come to you with questions. And they're going to come to you in a crisis because they've heard that you pray and they know that you're going to stop what you're doing and you're going to pray for them. This is a way you can be a light for the Lord. Secondly, we should stop, we should be focused on eternity, not our brief life on earth. I'm gonna give you very private information here. In another month or so, I'm gonna turn 60 years old. I don't know how it happened so fast I know the young people are looking at me like I'm ancient. But I want you to know that your life on this earth goes by like that. It's so brief. It's so transitory. It's so, it's like a vapor. Peers for a little time and then it vanishes away. Our time on earth is so short, we don't have time to waste on things that will never matter. Stop trying to make this world your heaven. That's what a lot of people, even a lot of Christian people, are doing. If I just do this and buy this and get this and arrange that, then I could have things just right. Don't misunderstand me. It's not wrong for you to own a home, to provide for your family. But it seems so often that's never enough for us. We want so much more. And we as Christians should have the testimony that we are content with Christ. We are satisfied in Him and not in the things this world has to offer. The other thing I want to mention is that the Christian life is difficult. So often Christians respond when they face unexpected sorrow and suffering. What is this? How did this come into my life? I thought if I followed the Lord, I was exempt from these things. Listen to me. Think of our Savior. He was despised and rejected of men. He died on the old rugged cross. And he says that we are to follow in his steps. So what did you think was going to happen? Did you think that there would be no self-denial, no suffering? Of course there will be. Let me say that you will never ever become fruitful and a bright light for Christ without self-discipline and denial. This is true in anything in life. You're never going to succeed at anything without disciplining yourself and saying, all right, this is how I'm going to get there. I'm going to discipline myself to do this. It's the same in the Christian life. You can never grow in godliness without dying daily to yourself. And following Christ. And let me simply add this. Following Christ will be worth it in the end. Only one life will soon be passed. Only what's done for Christ will last. Let us live as those who follow in the steps of our Savior and who believe. That we have a glorious home in heaven and that we are part of God's great work in the earth. And so we live our lives with joy and with intentional self-denial. And we don't seek to find our satisfaction the way every other lost person does, because we are satisfied in Christ. Let us live for him. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word We thank you that it says things that are hard for us to hear, things that cut against the grain of our culture and our society in the way we naturally think. Help us, Father, to respond in faith. And to heed what you have said to us. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.