On June the thirteenth, fifteen twenty-five, a former monk named Martin Luther married a runaway nun named Catherine von Bora. Their marriage was an interesting collision of two strong-willed individuals. They had an intense affection for one another, but they also had intense arguments. Martin called his wife by the affectionate name My Rib. And from their union would come six children. Martin Luther loved to invite guests to his table, usually young men training for the ministry, and he would always enter into theological discussion with them sometimes right before they were ready to eat, making the food cold. And on one such occasion, his wife, Katie, snapped at him and said, Doctor, why don't you stop talking and eat? And Luther replied back, I wish that women would repeat the Lord's Prayer before opening their mouths. And there were many such situations in the Luther household. Marriage is the fundamental building block. of human society. It is God's amazing plan whereby a man and a woman become one flesh. where they become a living picture of Christ's love for his church. But often marriage does not come close to this ideal. Even Christian marriages are often troubled and far from what God intends. But the Lord has given his people clear instructions. about the institution of marriage. This morning we come to 1 Peter chapter 3. We've been away from the book of 1 Peter for a few weeks. With missionary guests and other special events, but now we return to it. And we come to the section where Peter is addressing Christian marriage. He's going to address wives and their responsibilities, beginning in verse 1, and then in verse 7, he will address husbands' responsibilities to their wives. The Apostle Paul, of course, does the same thing in at least two of his epistles in Ephesians and Colossians And what is remarkable about these apostolic instructions is that they are remarkably consistent. The most famous passage on marriage in the Bible is in Ephesians chapter 5, and it says in Ephesians 5. 22, addressing wives, it says, wives. Submit yourselves unto your own husbands as unto the Lord, for the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church. And he is the Savior of the body. Therefore, as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands. in everything. And in Colossians 3. 18 he writes, wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands as it is fit to the Lord. And here Peter and chapter 3 and verse 1 and the third important passage in the New Testament that addresses marriage says, Ye wives, be in subjection. to your own husbands. So if you were to take these three passages and you were to reduce them down to a wife's obligations to her husband in one word, it is obviously what word? It 's the word that she is to submit to her husband. Now I wonder how you feel about that. I must confess to you that I would rather preach on just about any topic other than the admonition that wives should submit to their husbands. And I do so simply because we are journeying through 1 Peter. This is one of the advantages of expositional preaching. It forces preachers to deal with verses and passages that they really don't want to. But we have to preach the whole counsel of God, not just the parts that we love. But the parts that maybe we find a little disturbing and challenging. The three reasons I really don't want Or maybe four that I could give why I don't really want to do this. One is because I'm a man preaching about uh the submission of wives to their husbands, and so it sounds a little self-serving and perhaps a little chauvinistic. And of course, this is a very controversial and often misunderstood doctrine. We live in the age of the Me Too movement. And this Bible teaching seems so out of step with our society and culture. Another reason is because it's very difficult to preach this because many husbands are not the leaders that God intends them to be. And so often I have heard from women in counseling situations when I mention this, how is it that I am supposed to follow my husband's leadership when he's not leading? That is a very common response that I have received. But another reason I would prefer not to deal with this is because These words can be easily used by husbands to justify the sinful oppression of this wife. This, of course, is not at all what the Bible is advocating in this or any other passage. Having made these disclaimers, we are now going to consider this doctrine because it is the Word of God and it is God's primary directive for Christian wives. I want you to see this morning that submission is a beautiful thing when it's properly understood. At the heart of this passage, I don't know if you noticed it when we read it together, at the heart of this passage is a description of inner beauty. We several times came upon the word adorning in our text. It's used twice in verse 3 and again in verse 5. And it actually is that Greek word is the origin of our English word cosmetic. You see, biblical submission is not the ugly oppression of women. but a beautiful expression of godliness. And this is God's calling for every Christian wife. So I want to preach to this morning on this truth that the submission of a wife to her husband is beautiful. And I want us to see in this passage how it is beautiful. First of all, a wife's submission to her husband is beautiful because it reveals her obedience to God. Look with me at verse 1. It says, likewise, ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands. It's not natural or easy to yield to the will of someone else. No one likes to be told what to do. You don't like being told what to do by some government official. Children do not like being told what to do by their parents. You don't like your boss telling you what to do. There's something inside of you that just rises up and says, I will not submit. That's your flesh. And we all have flesh. And so really this becomes a great challenge. We all naturally want to be sovereign. We want to live life on our own terms. But the Lord Jesus has called us to deny ourselves and take up our cross and follow him. And part of what it means for us to follow him is to submit to the God-given authorities in our lives. So I want to define a little bit about what this means. And I have to start because of all the misconceptions. and spend most of my time on what it does not mean. Okay? So let me start there. First of all, I want to start very broadly. It does not in any way, shape or form mean that women are somehow inferior to men. That is not what Paul is saying or implying. It is not what the Bible teaches in any passage. By the way, this is not true of other of many other religions. But the Bible teaches that women are equal with men. How do I know that? Because the same Greek word that's translated uh to be in subjection here is used of our Lord Jesus Christ and Luke chapter 2 Remember in verse 51 when he was twelve years old and they left him behind at the temple and he was disputing with the rabbis, and it says there, Luke makes this comment, that he went back and was subject unto them. It's the same term. Now, was Jesus inferior to Mary and Joseph? Absolutely not. He's the Son of God. So this term does not speak in any way of inferiority. And in Galatians chapter 3 and verse 28, we read that in Christ there is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free. There is neither male nor female. The Bible is clear that both men and women were made in the image of God. And as we're going to see next Lord's Day Lord willing, in verse 7, it describes the wives as heirs together of the grace of life. Women are not in any way, shape, or form second-class Christians or second-class citizens. They are equal in the eyes of God. This is what the Bible teaches. This exhortation does not mean that women are to submit to all men. It says here and in Ephesians and in Colossians that they are to submit to their own husbands. This exhortation does not condone or allow the abuse of wives, because husbands have been called to love their wives, not to abuse their wives. Fourthly, this does not mean that wives should not have any opinion or any authority in the home. In 1 Timothy chapter 5 and verse 14, it says that the wives are to guide the house. Literally, it means in the Greek text that she is a house despot. That she is in control in the house of where things go and how things look. Maybe some men are going to be in trouble as a result of me mentioning that verse this morning But it doesn't mean that the woman has no mind of her own, that she loses her identity when she gets married. No, the Bible does not teach that at all. The fact is that a wise husband will seek his wife's opinion and every significant decision. He will listen to her very carefully because often she has insight and instincts about people that he does not possess. And he will delegate many areas to her care. The Proverbs 31 woman was given the authority to make important decisions like the purchase of property. The Bible does not teach that women have no ability to make decisions or have opinions of their own. Fifthly, this does not mean that wives should be told by their husbands to submit. I know many Christian husbands who use this verse like a club. But there's no biblical warrant to do so. If husbands would focus on loving their wives as much as they do on their wives' insubordination, they might see dramatic improvement in their home life. And sexually, that this does not mean that a wife should submit to her husband without exception let me explain if your husband is asking you to do something that is strictly forbidden in scripture that is wrong A wife should not obey. How do you know that? I know that there have been some Christian teachers in history, although a very, very small minority. Who have taught, you know, if he tells you to go out and kill someone, then you go out and kill that person, and he is responsible for it, not you. That's not what the Bible teaches. We are responsible for our actions. But how do I know that's not what this means? Because in the Roman culture in which Peter was writing. Wives invariably followed their husbands' religious beliefs. That was expected. That was a norm of culture. That was part of what it meant. and the pagan world to submit to your husband's leadership. If he becomes of a certain faith, then you become of that faith automatically, without a thought. But Peter here envisions a circumstance where they are not to do that. They are to yield their allegiance primarily to the Lord Jesus Christ. And of course, this does not mean that only women submit. Everyone must submit to someone. No one lives life free of all accountability and authority of others. The Bible, I don't have time to go through this, but the Bible lists seven different relationships of submission. We are all under someone And we are all under God. We all must submit to his authority. And so for a wife to submit to her husband's authority is a demonstration that she is submitting to God's authority ultimately. And this God-focused response is beautiful. Now, secondly, I want us to note that a wife's submission to her husband is beautiful. because it may be used to bring her spouse to Christ. Verse 1 continues, if any obey not the word They also may without the word be won by the conversation of the wives, while they behold your chaste conversation. Coupled with fear. Peter is addressing a very common scenario in the first century and unfortunately in our present day as well. That is of a woman who is married to an unsaved man. In every church you will find this circumstance. This, of course, may happen in one of two ways. It might be that a woman will marry an unsaved man while she is a Christian and she will think to her mind, I can change him. I will be such a witness to him that he will come around and he will come to Christ. And it usually doesn't work that way. Let me just pause and say for a second that young women, you must not fall prey to this lie of the deceiver. And think that that is an insignificant thing. And that is something that God will do or that's something that you can live with because It will be setting yourself up for a great deal of misery and loneliness and difficulty But of course, the way that Peter probably has in mind here, the scenario is that a woman gets saved after she has been married, and now she finds that everything has changed. because she has different desires, different interests, and she's married to an unsafe man. What should she do about this? Well obviously the first thing that's going to enter her mind is I need to see my husband saved. That's the desire of every Christian woman who is married to an unsaved man. And that is a right desire. The question is, how should she accomplish this? Should she remind him every day that he is lost and headed to hell? Should she leave tracks laying around the house so that he will read them? Should she invite him to church every Sunday? This may shock you, but Peter says no. He employs a play on words in verse 2. He says that if any obey not the word, that is, the gospel , They may also without the word, that is, without the word of the wife, be one by the conversation. That word means lifestyle of the wives. This is not saying that she should never share the gospel, because he will never be saved apart from the gospel. 1 Peter 1 and verse 23, a passage that Nick read for us that says that we as sinners are born again by the word of God that liveth and abideth forever. What this verse is saying If I can put it this way is this, that a Christian woman cannot nag her unsaved husband into becoming a Christian. It doesn't work that way. You can't force someone to be saved. You can't pressure someone to be saved. It doesn't work that way. In fact, by continually bringing it up, she may be hardening his heart and pushing him away further away from considering the gospel. That happens so often. So what is she to do? She is to live out her faith in a compelling way before the watching eyes of her husband. The Greek word that's translated conversation here means lifestyle or behavior. This is one of Peter's favorite words And we see here that becoming a Christian changes the way we live. It changes the very focus of our lives. But how is she to live out her faith before her husband? Well, the first way we've already seen in the opening of verse 1, and that is that she is to be submissive to him. She is never going to convince him to follow Christ if she becomes rebellious and difficult. In fact, Peter's implication is that she should be a more submissive wife now that she is a believer. than she was before she came to Christ. But there's more. Look at verse 2. She is to Her husband is to behold her chaste conversation or behavior coupled with fear. What does this mean? Well, chaste means that she is to be absolutely faithful and loyal to her husband. He should not suspect that now because of this new religion that she has, that she really doesn't care for him at all. that she is not loyal to him at all. No, Peter says, don't let him think that for a moment. You must show that you are still very faithful and loyal to him. And then it says, coupled with fear. This does not mean that she is to fear her husband. Every time that Peter speaks of fear, In his little epistle here, he speaks of the fear of the Lord. Her husband is to observe that there has been a transformation in her life, that now she lives in the fear of the Lord. Her question about every activity is, is this what the Lord would have me do? You know, there is nothing more compelling than the transformation of a person's life. This is why every company and infomercial has the testimonial of someone who says, this is what my life was before this product, and now this is my life afterwards. They know that people find that very compelling. Not that this woman is to put something on or to put on a show, but she is simply to live out her faith. in such a way that her husband will be intrigued, he will be interested, and he will search for answers. And he might come to her and say, honey, why are you so different now? What is it that has changed the way you think? Even the way you respond to me is different. What is it? And then she has a perfect opportunity to share the Lord with him. A godly wife's submission to her husband is a beautiful thing. And thirdly, I'd like you to note that a wife's submission to her husband is beautiful because it reveals her focus on becoming more like Christ. And now we come to verses three and four. It says, whose adorning, let it not be that outward adorning of the plaiting the hair and the wearing of gold, or of the putting on of apparel. But let it be the hidden man of the heart, and that which is not corrupt, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price. Peter is now continuing to describe what this transformation of the woman will look like. In verses 3 and 4, we have a clear contrast. We have in verse 3 a negative. This is not the kind of transformation he says I'm talking about. And then number four, we have the positive description of what he is talking about. Now verse 3 is an interesting verse that's been often misinterpreted by people. Look at verse 3. whose adorning, let it not be that outward adorning of plating the hair and wearing of gold or putting on of apparel. We read something similar to this in first Timothy chapter 2 and verse 9, Paul writes, in like manner also that women adorn themselves in modest apparel with shamefacedness and sobriety, not with braided hair or gold or pearls or costly array. And some Christian groups have looked at these two verses, 1 Peter 3 and verse 3. And 1 Timothy 2 and verse 9 have concluded that this means that Christian women should not fix their hair They should not wear jewelry. They should not generally try to look too attractive. They should be very drab and very plain. No makeup, no jewelry, no adornments. No rings, no necklaces, no bracelets, nothing like that. And all of you probably know Christian groups. that have that interpretation. These are the two verses that they use for the basis of that belief. This is not what Peter and Paul were saying. And I can prove this to you because if you look at the last phrase in verse 3 of 1 Peter chapter 3, it says, or of putting on of apparel or clothing. Peter is not saying that women are not to put on clothing. All right? That's not what he's saying. Peter is warning against thinking that a woman's true value is found in in her looks. the We know that Roman women, especially the upper class women, spent almost their entire day working on their appearance. They had Very tall talks here of the plating of the hair. They had really, really towering hairdoes. And they wore all kinds of very ostentatious jewelry that was which showed and demonstrated their wealth and their status in society. And they they went for many bizarre fashions that changed very quickly from one year to the next. And Peter here is saying along with Paul, that is not what true beauty means. This is not the way you're going to turn your husband to Christ, he's saying, by all of a sudden improving your appearance It's not wrong, I think, for a woman to be attractive. But we must not forget that a woman's true beauty and value is not found in outward appearance. This has always been the message of the world to women that your value is determined by how beautiful you are on the outside. Now, this problem has been multiplied because of modern media. And the universal image, at least in the Western world, of what the ideal woman should look like, which 99. 9% of women cannot achieve. And therefore, you will find on a regular basis that young women struggle with this. They think they're ugly, they think they're defective, they think there's something wrong with them. This is a foundational reason for the huge problem of eating disorders that we have in our culture today. But this is all delusion. A woman's value is not found in her outward appearance. It is found in her walk with God. Proverbs 31 says. Favor is deceitful and beauty is vain, but a woman that fear of the Lord, she shall be praised. This is an important thing for young women to consider. Because so many young women are very disturbed by this because they know that they can never achieve the world's ideal of beauty. They just don't have the genetics for it. Because mom and dad don't look that great either. But you know what? Any Christian woman, by the grace of God, can become a woman of virtue. She can be a woman who is truly beautiful, and everyone around her notices that. This is where we come in verse 4. Don't let that be your focus, but let it be the hidden man of the heart, the hidden person, the real you. and which is not corrupt, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price. Peter says that what's really priceless about a woman is on the inside. He's talking here about the inner person of the heart, the real you. He says this is not corruptible. Unlike that dress that you spent so much money on, or those shoes, or the latest hairdo, this beauty will last for eternity. It will not be out of style in a couple years. What kind of inner beauty is Peter talking about? He describes it here as a meek and quiet spirit. This is the foundation of a wife's submission. Sometimes people think that submission just means they go along with it and they yield to their husband's leadership, but inside they're just burning up. They're kind of forced. All right, I'll go. Well, the very idea of the word submission involves your attitude. So it's not enough just to go along with the program, even though you think it's really wrong. It has to be a matter of the heart. How can you change your hearts? The Bible says you must have a meek and quiet spirit, and that that may sound to you incredibly chauvinistic and sexist. Let me make a very clear disclaimer here. This is not saying that women are to be meek and quiet and men are to be loud and proud. That is not what the Bible is teaching. This is not a distinctively feminine characteristic. This is a characteristic of a godly person. How do I know that? Because the terminology that's used, especially in this term meek, most often that word is used of the Lord Jesus Christ. In Matthew chapter 11, verse 29, Jesus said, For I am meek and lowly in heart. And in Matthew 21 and verse 5, we read of Jesus coming into Jerusalem with meekness riding upon a donkey. And this term quiet refers to a person who is serene and who is wise and who is careful in their speech. How many problems are caused by us speaking without thinking? A wise person, Proverbs tells us, is known. for being very careful and deliberate in what they say, and for knowing when to remain silent and to say nothing That is what this passage is teaching. And both of these terms further explain what it means for a godly woman to be submissive to her husband. She is gentle and humble. She is calm and kind. She is controlled by the Spirit and not the flesh. This kind of woman is in the sight of God of great price. She is like the virtuous woman whose value is far above rubies. This is the beauty of submission. And God often uses, and there's an element of humor in this, God often uses the abrasive character of her husband, who sometimes makes it very difficult to submit to his leadership. To help her become strong and depend more on the grace of God so that she will become the woman of beauty that God has called her to be. And fourthly, I want you to notice that a wife's submission to her husband is beautiful because it demonstrates that she is following in the footsteps of godly women who have come before. Look with me at verses five and six. It says, For after this manner in old time the holy women also who trusted in God or who hoped in God adorned themselves being in subjection unto their own husbands. Even as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord, whose daughter ye are, as long as ye do well and are not afraid with any amazement. In verse 5, we read of these holy women. These women were not perfect. They were not different from women today. It simply means that they were set apart from the world and they walked by faith and not by sight. Then it says of these women that they trusted or hoped in God. The Greek word there is hope, which was one of the favorite words of the Apostle Peter. You may recall, he's sometimes called the Apostle of Hope. They trusted in God. And this is part of what is required for a woman to submit to her husband. It sometimes becomes a real challenge to her faith. This was true of the woman who's mentioned in the next verse, Sarah. Abraham, though he was a great man and he walked with God, sometimes made bad decisions like going down to Egypt. He sometimes didn't follow God's will. It was a real challenge to Sarah to follow him. But she did. Ultimately, not because she trusted in Abraham, but she trusted in God. It becomes a real test of a woman's faith. And it can be a little bit scary, right? Wives? Submitting to your husband's leadership? Sometimes when you think this is not going to turn out well becomes a real test. Sometimes people think of this as being unfair and being very oppressive and eroding the very nature of marriage. If you were to go online and you were to go to most evangelical marriage books, they would not teach you what I'm teaching today. They would teach that the most common perspective is that a woman submits to her husband, but also her husband submits to her. They both mutually submit to one another. And they base that on a misreading of Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 21. But that is not what the scripture teaches And of course it does not work in real life. Many of these books would say, you know, if a husband and wife do not agree on a major decision or something, then they just shouldn't make that decision. Well, that's not practical. Let's say that the husband and wife disagree on how they're going to educate their child and they have all kinds of discussions and they talk to people and they pray about it but they still have different perspectives. What are they going to do? Just not educate their child because they can't agree? No. Somebody has to make the decision. This is true. There has to be an authority structure anywhere where there's a group of people. Can you establish a business and say, you know what, we're not going to have any managers here, we're not going to have any owners. Just everyone do what you think is best. And if we have a disagreement, we'll just all get together and we'll try to hash it out and see what we can do. You can't run a human organization like that. There has to be someone in charge. There has to be someone who makes the decision, says, this is what we're going to do. After hearing all sides, sorry, I have to make a call. This is what we're going to do It's a gracious provision to maintain the unity of the marriage relationship. It's not an oppressive thing. It's a beneficial thing for the home. And just like in all human society, many times wives will look at this as being unfair and they will say, it must be nice to be able to make all the decisions. But there's a heavy responsibility that comes with making decisions as well. Because they can obviously turn out to be very difficult and bring problems into the home. In verse 6, Peter uses Sarah, the wife of Abraham, as an example of submission, which is perhaps surprising to us She certainly had a mind of her own. Remember when she ordered Abraham to marry Hagar, her handmaiden? So it's kind of a dubious example that Peter chooses here. And what's interesting is the context. He says, even as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord, whose daughter ye are. As long as you do well and are not afraid with any amazement, he's talking here, Peter here is speaking of following her example of faith, not being controlled by fear. not rebelling against your husband following in her steps. Now what is the example, the specific incident that he refers to? Well, it goes back to passage in Genesis chapter 18 verse 12. This is the only time we have recorded in Scripture where Sarah refers to her husband Abraham as Lord, and this is not a title of deity. It means sir. That's a title of respect. And the context there is that Sarah was in her tent and she's overhearing Abraham and his speaking to these messengers from God. And they are, Abraham has told the amazing story that he is going to become a father that next year of this time. His wife, the aged Sarah, would give birth to a child. And Sarah listening through the thin tent wall Laughs and says, after I am waxen old, shall I have pleasure, my Lord, being old also? Her very expression there was an expression of unbelief. She didn't think God could do it. So how is this an expression of submission? Well, it reveals in her address to Abraham, her off-handed remark of him as her Lord, as her referring to him as sir, we might so say That this was her customary way of referring to him. Now let me be very clear. This is not saying husbands that you should go home and tell your wife, you know, you just start addressing me as sir. Or it certainly doesn't mean that you should start calling me Lord. No, that's not the application from this passage. But what this passage is, the timeless route of application here is this, is that part of what it means for a wife to submit to her husband is that she shows respect to her husband. She shows respect to her husband. This is a very important part of the marriage relationship. That I think a lot of women, perhaps at least initially, do not understand. The thing that is most upsetting to a husband Is when he feels that his wife does not respect him and she just dismisses him relegates his opinions as a as something that's laughable and perhaps goes and talks to other people about her foolish husband The last verse in Ephesians chapter 5, that great passage on marriage ends this way It says, Paul says, and the wife see that she reverence her husband. And what that word reverence there means is she respect her husband. So let me make some application from that. Young ladies, if you can't really respect and follow the leadership of the guy you're interested in, then you should not marry him. Because that's what God has called you to do. He's called you to follow his leadership. You say, well, he doesn't make very good decisions, then maybe you should marry him. If you can't respect him as someone that you admire, as someone who's perfect, But someone who is a man of character, fundamentally, if you cannot respect that person as a man of character, it doesn't matter how attractive or how wealthy you might think he is. You should not marry him because your marriage will unravel. Because you cannot respect him This is what God has called Christian women to do, to respect their husbands and submit to their husbands. Even though he is less than perfect, even though he's not the leader that he should be, even though he's inconsistent, and even though he may be unsaved. God still calls on you to trust in him, follow his instructions, and submit to his leadership in the home. Now perhaps this teaching seems impossible. You know what? It is It's impossible. Martin Luther said, I started with him, I'm going to end with him. Martin Luther said, if a man wants a submissive wife, he must carve her out of the stone. The fact is that it's impossible for a Christian woman to be submissive apart from the grace of God's. apart from daily dying to self, taking up your cross and follow him. Apart from daily growing in grace. and developing by God 's Holy Spirit that sanctifies that meek and quiet spirit. It's out of step with our culture. The world would reveal what I said today is completely wrong and false. But my friends, this is the Word of God. This is God's instructions for Christian wives. And this is what we must follow. And let me end with this man. Next week it's your turn. Okay. My God, help us to follow his word. Let's close in prayer. Father. We thank you for your word. We thank you that it has all that we need for life and godliness. I pray that you would help us. To follow your word, despite what the world, despite what our flesh Despite what our friends may say, help us, Father, to let your word be our guide. I pray that you would be with our dear wives of our assembly. We thank you for the godly women that you've given to us. I pray that you would help them to receive this instruction in the spirit in which it's been given. I pray, Lord, that by your grace they would grow. And that they would be those beautiful women that are described here, that possess that spirit of meekness. quietness and fear of the Lord. I pray that you would help us to see from our young women who are yet unmarried. this kind of response to their godly husbands. And I pray, Lord, that you would raise up in this assembly many other strong Christian homes. that would be um pillars in the church of God in the days to come. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.