If you want to be pleased in John chapter six. John chapter six. Donald Barnhouse tells the story of a backwoods preacher who did not know English very well. However, he was A very devout pastor. He listened one day to a proud young preacher who was well educated in eloquent and filled with pride. But it was evident that the power of God was not on his ministry, and no one was touched by his sermon. So after the message, the old preacher went up to the young man. And ask him this question. He said, Young man, was you sent or did you just went? It's a good question for every preacher to consider. The very best example we have of a preacher sent by God was the Lord Jesus Christ. In our text this morning, Jesus says, I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. Jesus makes frequent references to the divine mission that he is on in the Gospel of John. Jesus was not a self-appointed Messiah. He was sent by his Father to be the Savior of the world. This morning we are returning to what is commonly known as the bread of life discourse. This instruction was given the day after the feeding of the 5,000. One of our Lord's most spectacular miracles. And here Jesus is speaking primarily to superficial followers. Who have been following him because they love his miracles and they love getting free food, but they weren't really interested in Jesus or the gospel. They asked Jesus for another miracle. They wanted to rain down Bana as in the days of Moses. But Jesus does not cater to their wishes. Instead, he rebukes them and corrects them, and he patiently calls on them to believe. But these Galileans did not and would not believe in Jesus. In verse 36 of our text this morning, we read: But I said to you that you have seen me and yet do not believe. And at the conclusion of the sermon, the people said, This is a hard saying. Who can listen to it? Verse 60. And then according to verse 66, the very end of this chapter. We read that the crowd disperses, and Jesus is left with just his original twelve disciples. This is exactly the opposite of what a preacher hopes will happen at the conclusion of a message. Every true preacher of the gospel wants people to respond in faith to the message of salvation. But that's not what happened here, and it's not what happened often in our Lord's ministry. This episode with the multitude raises An uncomfortable question. Was our Lord successful in his ministry? The time of his death there were A few hundred people, some in Galilee and some in Judea, who were still followers, but it was not a great multitude By many popular standards, he was not successful And the end of his popularity really changes right after this feeding of the 5,000 and with this discourse. Remember, the people wanted to come and make him king. But he left their midst. And after this sermon, they no longer were following him. But he did not go away in despair. No, he continued to preach the gospel to the people and he mentored his twelve disciples, because Jesus was certain of the success of his mission Because it was given to him by God. This morning we are just going to consider verses 35 through 40. One of the big Vexing questions that preachers have to deal with when they're preaching through a passage is where do I divide the sermon? And often, like in this case, You're in an uncomfortable situation where you would like to preach the entire sermon and have it all in context and look at it at one glance, but if you do that, you're making very Very brief, if any, comments on many of the verses that are significant. And so a pastor has to decide, is he going to focus on the trees or the forest? And today I am going to focus more on the trees, but I hope you don't lose sight of the forest. And of course we will continue, Lord willing, this study. So I want to preach to you on the certain success of the Savior's mission. Why was it certain that the Savior's mission would be successful? I want to bring out three things from our text this morning. And the first point is this The reason it would be successful is because everyone who comes to Christ in saving faith will find soul satisfaction. Look with me at verse 35. Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. This verse is the very heart of this discourse. This is one of the great verses in the Gospel of John. Jesus here in verse 35 is responding to what was said earlier. So back up with me to verse 33. Jesus says, For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. They said to him, Sir, give us this bread always. They misunderstand the Lord. They do not want him They want something like manna that's going to rain down every day so they don't have to worry about food anymore And so Jesus clearly corrects this misperception, and in verse 35 he says, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, whoever believes in me shall never thirst. He wants them to know beyond a shadow of a doubt exactly what he is saying. This is the first Of seven metaphorical I am statements in the Gospel of John. We have here in John 6. 35, I am the bread of life. John 8, 12 will come to him saying, I am the light of the world. In John chapter 10, verses 7 and 9, he says, I am the door. And in John chapter 10, verses 11 and 14, he will say, I am the good shepherd. In John 11, 25, he will say, I am the resurrection and the life. In John 14, 6, he will say, I am the way, the truth, and the life. And then in John 15, verse 1, he will say, I am the true vine. All of these are declarations of deity. He is using those words, I am, I think, referring back to Exodus chapter three, the burning bush incident where God reveals himself to Moses. And he's adding an analogy or a metaphor that helps to bring out the richness and the fullness of what he provides for his people. And Jesus has not chosen these analogies randomly. Remember this statement, I am the bread of life, comes right after the feeding of the 5,000 and undoubtedly is intended to tie into that great miracle And right after this amazing declaration where Jesus says, I am the bread of life, we have this incredible promise. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall not. Thirst. Notice this offer is made to whoever comes. This word comes Is the key word in our paragraph, and one of the key words of the sermon. I want you to notice this. Look with me at verse 35. Whoever comes to me Shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall not thirst. Now look with me at verse 37. All that the Father gives to me will come to me And whoever comes to me, I will never cast out. Looking down beyond our paragraph now to verse 44, no one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And then verse 45. It is written in the prophets, and they will all be taught of God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes. To me. And then wrapping it up at the end in verse 65, this is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father You see this theme appearing again and again. So what does it mean to come to Jesus? I want you to notice in verse 35 that this term is being used interchangeably or synonymously with the word believe. The first lie. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, the second line. Whoever believes in me shall not thirst. He's talking about coming in faith. It probably also suggests that you're leaving the old life behind. You are coming. To Christ in saving faith. And this promise is stated very emphatically. There are two double negatives in this promise Whoever comes to me, we have in our text will not hunger. But it has the idea of you could render it never ever. There's two negatives there. It's emphatic. This is so hard to translate because in English do negatives make a positive, not so in many other languages of the world, not so in Greek. But he is saying this as it were, he's highlighting this promise He's putting it in bold print. He wants everyone, his hearers, and all of us, the readers of Scripture, to understand this. This is a beautiful and attractive promise. Who doesn't want their soul to be satisfied and to be at rest? He is saying that he is the spiritual food that satisfies a person's soul. So let me ask you, do you know what it is to enjoy soul satisfaction? Do you know what it is to be right with God and enjoy communion with Him? To know that your sins have been forgiven and that there is no sentence of condemnation hovering over your head. The hymn writer Clara Williams put it this way, hallelujah! I have found him whom my soul so long has craved. Jesus satisfies my longings. Through his blood, I now am saved. Another hymn writer, Thomas Chisholm who wrote, Great is thy faithfulness. I love that verse that says, Pardon for sin and a peace that endureth. Thine O dear presence to cheer, to guide strength for today, and bright hope for tomorrow. Blessings all mine with 10,000 beside. I love that the end because he's saying, I've given this long list, but there's 10,000 more besides this. This is just a few things. Do you know what it is to experience soul satisfaction? This is what Jesus came to bring. To those who would believe, Jesus was certain that his mission would be successful because all who come in saving faith will find soul satisfaction But there's another reason for his confidence. And that brings me to our second point. Because everyone who comes to Christ in saving faith has been given by the Father. Look with me at verse 36, please. But I said to you that you have seen me and yet do not believe Despite this wonderful and beautiful promise, this offer of the gospel that he has just presented to them, when he says, I am the bread of life, they still did not believe And yet they had incredible privileges. He says, You have seen me and yet do not believe. What a privilege these people enjoyed. Of all the billions of people that have lived on planet Earth Only a relatively small number of people saw the Lord in his human flesh and heard his living words. And these people, this multitude, had the privilege of experiencing that They saw his miracles. They even, as it were, participated in his miracles by eating that bread and that fish that Jesus had multiplied from that little boy's lunch. And yet they did not believe. They did not believe. That brings us to verse thirty-seven All that the Father gives me will come to me Notice this definite statement. They will come. Not they might come or they could come or they can come. They will come This does not mean that people who come to Christ will come kicking and screaming, as it were, against their will. That's nonsense. Nor does it mean that they will come like robots, but it means that they will come in saving faith. Who are these people that the Father has given to his beloved Son? Well, John uses this expression several times in his gospel. We see it again in verse 39. And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of who? Of all that he has given me. We find this again in a very favorite text in John chapter 10 and verse 29, where Jesus says, My father who gave them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of my father's hand. It's a great verse of assurance. And the basis of that great verse is that it's the people that God has given to his son. We find this really highlighted in the great high priestly prayer, John 17. Where Jesus says, since you have given him authority over all flesh to give eternal life to all you have given him John 17, 6, I have manifested your name to the people whom you gave me out of the world. And John 18 and verse 9, of those whom you gave me, I have lost not one. John reveals that the Father has given a people to his son as a gift. These are the people who will come by faith to trust in Christ. This is John's way of describing what Paul often describes as the elect, those whom God chose to save before the foundation of the earth. 1 John 4:19, it was referenced today. We love him because he first loved us. This truth is mentioned in dozens of scriptures. I will mention just two. In Acts 13, verse 48, we read, and as many as were appointed to eternal life Believed. In Acts chapter 18 and verse 10, the Lord speaks to a fearful Apostle Paul in Corinth and says, Do not be afraid to go on speaking, and do not be silent. For I am with you and no one will attack you or harm you, for I have many in this city who are my people. And he's not saying that they were already Christians, because the gospel had not really gone there He's saying that keep preaching Paul because these people will respond in faith to the gospel. And there are many other passages we could go to, but for time we will not. Now I know that this is counterintuitive to the way most people think. It may be at odds with what you have been taught previously. And I know this doctrine has been abused by many. But this is what the plain meaning of the Word of God is teaching here. Everyone who comes to faith has been given by the Father to the Son. So if you're here this morning and you have a testimony of faith, there was a time the Spirit worked in your life and you came to faith in Christ, and you have been born again, guess what? You were given as a gift in eternity past from the Father to the Son. That's what this verse is saying. But then we have more that's mentioned here that we'll say more about next week. But look with me at verse 44. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise it up at the last day. You might say, how does this work? Does this mean that there are people who are trying to come to God and He won't let them come? No, look at the end of verse 37. And whoever comes to me, I will never cast out. He's not turning people away. He's not saying, I know you really desperately want to be saved, but you haven't been given by Father, so I'm not going to let you come. That's not at all the idea. They won't want to come. The Bible teaches that no one can come to Christ without the Spirit of God first working in their hearts, opening their eyes to see their true situation and the beauty of Christ and the gospel, and then coming to put their faith and trust in Him. There has to be a work of the Spirit of God in their hearts. Perhaps you would object and say, but doesn't it say, doesn't Jesus just say Somewhere that yet you refuse to come to me that you might have life. You're absolutely right. We looked at that just like a month ago in John chapter 5 and verse 40. Jesus speaking to the religious leaders And he says, you will not come to me that you might have life. They were responsible for their unbelief. Their decision was based in their natural, stubborn, and wicked hearts. You see, the sovereignty of God does not excuse a person's unbelief or sin. God is sovereign. But man is responsible to believe. Now perhaps you would say, I'm not sure I understand how all this works That's fine, neither do I. Okay? And I'm sure that you could come up, and this generates a lot of questions, and you have questions you would like to ask, and you know what? A lot of them the Bible doesn't answer. And sometimes people don't like that answer, but sometimes they say the Bible does not address that, it doesn't answer that question for us. You know, there are things, Deuteronomy 29-29 says there's secret things belonging to God. Sometimes you'll hear a father say to his son, I'm not suggesting this is a great thing to say, but he'll say something like, Son, I've taught you everything you know, but I haven't taught you everything I know. You ever heard that? Alright? God has taught us everything we know about Him, but He hasn't taught us everything there is to know about God or salvation. There are secret things that belong to Him. The Bible says that God's ways are past finding out, and the language there is of like a hunter who is following game. And he's tracking that game and the tracks become lighter and lighter and they just finally disappear and he can't follow it anymore God's great plan of redemption is kind of like that. You can track it so far, but then it goes to the place where you're like, I I can't track it anymore. My mind cannot follow God's plan any further. I don't know how this works out. We can believe in things and trust in things even if we cannot completely understand them. And so God is sovereign, and man is responsible to belief But then I want you to turn to this last part of verse 37, which has this wonderful promise in it: whoever comes to me, I will never cast out. Have you ever had someone throw away a special gift that you gave them? Don't raise your hand You know, they put all this time and thought and maybe some money into something, and then the next day you look and it's in the dumpster. And you're like, I I guess they didn't like my gift. Well, you know what? The son 's never going to do that with any of the people the father has given him. He's not going to say, I don't want this person. They're nothing but a troublemaker. No. And again, it's emphatic in the text. He's never ever going to cast you out. This is a precious promise. Why is it so precious? Well, I want you to notice it's made of the individual. It says, whoever comes to me. It doesn't say the select that come to me or the very cream of the crop that come to me. I'm not going to cast them out. The Lord is not sorting out those people that come to him and saying, you know, this person is not going to be helpful. No, no, no. Whoever comes to me He will not fast amounts. And notice it's personal. Come to me. Come to me And again, the statement is emphatic. Absolute. No chance of it happening. I will never ever cast them out. Jesus will not cast you out because you are a gift from his Father and He loves you with an everlasting love. And this truth is expanded in the next three verses. There's another reason why the Savior's mission would be successful. Because everyone who comes to Christ in saving faith will never be lost. But have eternal life. Look with me in verses 38 and following. Verse 38 says, For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. Notice Jesus describes himself as coming down from heaven. This description of Jesus is actually found seven times in Justice chapter, John chapter six. Let me show this to you very, very briefly. Look at verse 33. For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven. I have this color-coded in my Bible. Verse 38: For I have come down from heaven. Verse 41. And the Jews grumbled about him, because he said, I'm the bread that came down from heaven. Look at verse 42. They said, Is not Jesus the son of Joseph, his father and mother we know? How does he say, I have come down from heaven? Look with me at verse 50. This is the bread that comes down from heaven. Verse 51. I'm the living bread that came down from heaven. And finally, verse 58. This is the bread that came down from heaven. Not like the bread the fathers ate. Jesus is divine, and he existed before his birth in Bethlehem. For all of us here, our existence began at the moment of conception. But the second person of the Godhead, God the Son, existed. Before the beginning of time. We see his divinity and his pre-existence in this title. So verse 38 is kind of introductory to the next two verses. What was the will of his father? There are two, there's two mentioned here. Look at verse 39. And this is the will of him who sent me. that I should lose nothing of all that He has given me, but raise it up on the last day. It was the Father's will that his beloved son would not lose any of the people that he had given to him. I was a youth pastor for a number of years and sometimes I would s I had a a a bad sense of humor and I'd come back. and uh from a from a youth activity and there'd be a busload of kids and one of the kids would like go into the restroom or something and the parent would be there and they would say, Where's my child? And I said, Well, you know We did pretty well. We we had twenty-eight kids that left. We brought twenty-seven back. So twenty-seven now, twenty-eight's not a bad percentage. They never thought that was funny. All right Jesus isn't going to lose any of those precious people that the Father has given to him. He's not going to lose one. This would be a shameful development that would speak of his and ability to truly satisfy the soul and to keep his people. He's not going to allow that shameful thing to happen. We find very, very similar language to what we find here in the Good Shepherd Discourse. Turn with me, please, if you would, to John chapter 10. Familiar words. Look with me, please, at verse 27. My sheep hear my voice. I know them. And they follow me. You see this relationship here? And I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of my Father's hand. And then I and the Father are one Not only are you kept by the nail-scarred hands of our Savior, but by the omnipotent hands of the Father. And he's saying here that the Father and I, he's not saying we're the same person. He's saying we have the same purpose. We're on the same mission. And this is why true believers do not ultimately lose their faith. One of the most common problems that Christians face is the lack of assurance of their salvation. They're plagued with thoughts like, Did I really believe? Did I really mean it? Did I repent enough? Did I believe enough? And if I am truly a child of God, why do I still struggle with sin? Why do I still respond in unbelief? And these things plague not just a few Christians. And I'm sure, as I'm standing here, that there are many people under the sound of my voice right now who struggle with this. My dear friend, you will never find assurance by looking at yourself. You must look to God and to Christ and remember that it's all of grace. It started in eternity past. And it will continue in glorification. People always want to know questions that God has about answered, like, why did why of all humanity, why did he choose me to be saved? Well it's not because of your wonderful personality and your winsome smile. It's not because he thought, man, this person Really, really going to crush the Christian life. They're going to be so great. I want to save them. That's not why he saved you. It was according to the good pleasure of his will. But you have been purchased. And you were chosen not because you are worthy, but because one who was worthy died in your place. And your salvation is not based on your faulty obedience, but on the perfect obedience of the Son of God, who lived a perfect life and died in your place. This is the glory of the gospel. If you think of your salvation as my ability to continue to be faithful and obedient and to walk with God and have my devotions every day, and you know, this is where I find my assurance, my friend. If that's the basis of Of your insurance, you're going to be living a miserable Christian life. Because you are going to fail. You all, you are going to come short. And let me just tell you this. This is true not just of you, this is true of this man right here and every pastor that you've ever known in your life. And then verse 39 concludes with this promise: He will raise them up on the last day. This is an expression that's unique to John. He uses it for the day of resurrection. which he views as the culmination of our salvation. Notice he he uses this in verse 40 of uh of chapter 6. I will raise him up at the last day. He uses it again in verse forty-four, I will raise him up for the last day. And finally, in verse fifty-four, I will raise him up on the last day. This speaks of the triumph of the Christian life, the culmination, the fulfillment of the Christian life. In verse 39, we agree that the Father's will is that he would lose none of the people he has given to his son. But there's another expression of the Father's will for his son. Look with me now at the final verse, verse 40. For this is the will of my Father that everyone who looks on the Son and believes , excuse me, what 's my place here? In him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up at The last day. Notice the reference to looks to the sun. What's this a reference to? Well, it it means something more than physically look, right? Because in verse 36 He had just said to them, You have seen me and yet do not believe. I believe that Jesus is referring back to what he was talking about in John chapter 3. Remember in John chapter 3 used as an illustration from the Old Testament of Moses lifting up that bronze serpent in the wilderness, and everyone who looked at that in faith was healed of that venomous bite they received from a serpent. It was a look of faith. You see, those who believe see things as they really are. People who are lost and in the darkness, they have two huge problems Number one, their sin doesn't seem to be such an issue at all, no matter how depraved they are. I've done prison ministry before and so often you'll talk to guys there and they'll say, I'm not that bad. People who are felons, convicted felons, I'm not that bad. I'm a good person. At heart, I'm a really good person. Give you the shirt off my back. Lost people are blind to how bad they are, and they're blind to the beauty of the gospel. And who Christ is and what He is offering. They don't see it. It's not attractive to them. It doesn't touch them. Look with me in verse 40 again. What happens to those who believe in Christ? They are promised two things. They will have eternal life. And they will be raised up on the last day. These blessings are available to all who believe. This is the will of the Father. He's going to make sure that this is accomplished. So you notice this paragraph begins and ends with a wonderful invitation to believe. Verse 35 says, Whoever comes to me shall not hunger. And whoever believes in me shall never thirst. And verse 40, everyone who looks in the sun and believes in him should have eternal life Some of you here might be thinking, I wonder. I wonder if I'm one of the elect. That's not the question you should be asking. The question you should be asking is: have I come in faith? Have I come in faith? Am I trusting in Christ alone? Or am I trusting in my own righteousness or something else, or I think I'm not really a bad person? I don't really have a sin problem. Come to Christ, trust in Him, and these wonderful promises That he will never cast you out, that he will raise you up the last day, that he will give you the gift of eternal life. These things can be yours if you believe If you come in saving faith, I want to conclude with three brief applications for us. Number one, Christians should demonstrate soul satisfaction to the world. Jesus promises in verse 35 that those who come to him will never hunger, and those who believe in him will never thirst. If this is true, then why are so many Christians dissatisfied and miserable? Let me first of all say this is not a promise that we will never experience difficulty or have sorrow in life. The Bible says many are the afflictions of the righteous. This is not the health and wealth gospel. You come to him, all your problems go away. That is never found in Scripture. Christians face disappointment and sorrow and grief just like everyone else on the fallen planets. But we should respond differently to the tragedies of life that demonstrate that there is a foundation Bedrock of trust in our lives that others do not possess. I think many Christians struggle to be content because they are not seeking to find their satisfaction in Christ. You see, often there's a misunderstanding. When he says here of coming to him and and believing in him, people sometimes think that this is like a one-time thing. I come to Christ once And that's it. But he's going to say later in this sermon that you must feed on him the bread of life. You keep coming. You keep trusting in him. You keep finding your satisfaction in him. You keep coming to him with your problems. You keep returning to him. You don't just come once And so we must continually come to Him and we must abide in Him. And that's when we can demonstrate in a powerful way to this world. that we have something that they do not possess. We have a soul that has been satisfied and is anchored in Christ. Number two, Christians should share the gospel with everyone because we don't know who has been given by the Father. One of the common objections you have to this truth is that people say, well, if God is sovereign in salvation, then what's the point of ever preaching or sharing or witnessing or sending missionaries? Because if people are going to get saved, they're going to get saved What I would say to that is the same God who's chosen some to be saved has also chosen the method by which they come and be saved, and that is through the preaching of the gospel. And that's why we send out missionaries, and that's why we train preachers, and that's why we translate the Bible into languages that people can understand. Because faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. This truth, when properly understood, does not discourage a preacher, it encourages him. That in the most negative of circumstances where people in large part seem to be rejecting the gospel, he knows that there will some be some people whom the Spirit of God is working in their hearts and they will come to believe that his word will not return voice. And then finally Christians should embrace God's sovereign plan of salvation because this is the basis of our assurance It's very common for young people when they come of age that have been raised in a Christian home to doubt their salvation. I know that was true of me When I was like twelve, thirteen, fourteen, maybe fifteen. Oh, I struggled. I 'd lay in my bed at night and think Did I believe enough that I really mean it? Is there evidence in my life that I've been saved, that I've really been changed from the inside out? I mean, because I still sin. And so I did what was commonly taught then, what my pastor and my youth pastor and others would say. Well, if you're in doubt, just pray and ask Jesus to save you. And so every night I would pray and ask Jesus to save me. I probably prayed that hundreds of times, literally. And this time I mean it. And I feel better for maybe a few hours, but the next day it's back. I'm not laughing at this. This is where many, many people live. And then one day, in my scripture reading, I came to verse 37, and the last part, whoever comes to me I will never cast out. And I said to the Lord, I have come to you in faith. As best I can, I've come to you in faith. I'm trusting in you alone. Therefore, there's this promise that he will never cast me out. You see, God's sovereign work in our salvation is the ultimate assurance of our salvation. What God started back then, He's going to complete. He's not like some folks that perhaps you know that love to start projects that they never ever finish What God starts, he completes. He that hath begun a good work, and you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. God 's great plan of redemption will not be defeated by man's unbelief. His Savior Who came and lived a perfect life and died a sacrificial death, his sacrifice will accomplish what God intended it to accomplish. And there will be a great host of people from every tribe and tongue and nation that will be redeemed from the nations of the earth. The Father will glorify his son. That is the basis of our assurance. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that at times things that it teaches disturb us and are beyond our comprehension. We also thank you that it's filled with precious promises that delight our soul and strengthen our faith. I pray that you would use this message to help those who might be here who are struggling with the assurance of salvation. Pray that they would find assurance. And Father, for those here who are yet lost in their sins, we would ask that you would open their eyes. So that they would be disturbed about their spiritual state, and they would run to the Savior and come by faith. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.