Would you take your Bible and turn with me this evening to Hebrews chapter 7? Hebrews chapter 7, verse 25. Hebrews seventh chapter and the twenty-fifth verse. Let's go to the Lord in a word of prayer. Father, we come to you through the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you, Father, that He is risen, that He is ascended, and that He is seated at your right hand this evening. And Father, I pray that your spirit would fill this place, that your spirit would fill me. Lord, I ask that you would cleanse me I pray, Father, that the glory of our Savior would be magnified tonight in our eyes. And I pray, Father, that our hearts would really be fed tonight. I pray, Lord, that Christ would meet the need of each heart here. Lord, there are so many needs represented, but Lord, our Savior, Father, your son is all sufficient. And so I pray that as the bread is broken tonight, as your word is proclaimed that Lord it would nourish our hearts. And I pray that you would be glorified and that we would go away rejoicing in your Son. In whose name we pray. Amen. Well, several years ago I had the opportunity to travel across to Europe on a musical mission team. And over the course of the summer I visited nine countries. And I can say without any hesitation at all that Switzerland was by far my favorite country, and for one reason alone. the Swiss Alps. We criss-crossed from Paris, France, to Warsaw, Poland, covering 5,000 miles There was not a castle or a cathedral that came close to matching the beauty, the magnitude, and the sheer majesty of the Alps. You could see them from all s from almost any road in Switzerland. Their snow-capped peaks towered through the sky and in many cases above the cloud line. At one point, we lodged near the base of one of the mountains. And the view was truly spectacular right there at the base. But the vantage point that was the most thrilling to me. Came at the end of the summer. We stayed in the town of Zermont at the base of the Matterhorn, a very popular, well-known mountain there in the Swiss Alps. We then took a train 10,000 feet up to a snow capped peak to a lookout point The sight I gained that day by looking at the Alps from such an elevated height left an impression on me that I will never forget. I was standing above the clouds, and at times I could see the grasslands below, but there was just a blanket of white clouds with a mountain range of white caps. that were peeking out of those clouds, kind of like I would compare it to like ice caps that were popping up out of the sea, except it wasn't an ocean, it was clouds. It was gorgeous. I came to love and appreciate the Alps even more that day because of that elevated vantage I gained. There is a beauty in seeing them from the ground, but there is another beauty in seeing them from 10,000 feet above the clouds. Tonight I would like to begin a series on the intercession of Christ. We see a certain glory and beauty of our Savior by studying him in his state of humiliation. That is, in his life and in his sufferings, and in his death. But that vantage alone, though glorious indeed. Is incomplete. We must also see Christ in his exaltation ascended. enthroned, seated at God's right hand in the heavens, and ever-living to intercede for his saints. There are many reasons why I would like to preach on the intercession of Christ. One is simply this. I just want Christ to be glorified when when I preach. And that's the heart of every preacher that desires to please the Lord, that they want Christ to be lifted up. Secondly, I know there's nothing that is going to so encourage and strengthen your heart. as a deeper, richer knowledge of Christ. And I want that for you. I want that for me. But thirdly, and very personally, the intercession of Christ has become a source of great comfort and assurance to me. The sins that I am most ashamed of committing in my life. I have committed while while a believer. This is not true for every believer. I want you to consider the sins of the Apostle Paul. The sins that Paul was most likely grieved of the most when his life came to an end. When do you think they occurred? Before or after his conversion? I would argue before he persecuted the church, right? He was there at the stoning of Stephen. But then consider David, the man after God's own heart. As he looked back over the course of his life, what sins do you think, well let me ask you, what sin is is David most known for? Well, it was uh correct, adultery, right, and and murder. Which happened when? After he was justified, after he had saving faith. Though sin before conversion is no less sinful, the believer who sins cannot say to the Lord, I didn't know any better. I didn't have your spirit in me, or your word to warn me, or the love of the cross to compel me. No, the Christian has all of those things. If a lost man is without excuse for his sin before God, then how much more is a Christian without excuse? He must all the more rely on the intercession of Christ on his behalf. And so I want us to see in this series the glory of Christ in his ministry of intercession. And tonight I would like to answer a very fundamental question as we begin this series. Just want to lay before us a very fundamental, basic question, and that is this. Why does the Christian need the intercession of Christ? Why does he need this? Please read carefully with me. Our verse beginning in verse excuse me, chapter 7 and verse 25. It says this, consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. How important is the intercession of Christ in the life of the believer? I think if we asked the average Christian, they would probably pause and hesitate. And not be entirely sure of that answer. I think it's entirely likely that some Christians may see Christ as kind of a secretary who like you know a secretary of a a CEO who sits there uh beside him and edits and maybe makes last-minute um adjustments to any requests that are then passed on and submitted to to him. And maybe we picture Christ that way. He kind of edits our prayers and makes revisions before they make it to the Father. But I think many Christians don't understand or appreciate and much less draw great comfort and assurance from this ministry of our Savior. So let's begin with verse 25. I want to make a couple of very preliminary observations from this verse before we move any further. I want you to notice the word here, beginning at verse 25, consequently. This word is indicating that the writer is drawing a conclusion from the preceding context, from what has been said earlier in chapter 7. We discover early in chapter 7 that the writer of Hebrews compares Christ's high priestly ministry to that of the king and priest Melchizedek And he draws this comparison between Christ and Melchizedek to make one primary point. There are some subordinate points, but there's one primary point that the writer of Hebrews in chapter 7 is making when he compares This king, priest, Melchizedek, to Christ. And I want you to see that point. Look at verse chapter 6, verse 20 It says, where Jesus has gone as a forerunner on our behalf, having become a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. Now drop down to chapter 7, verse 3. Verse 3. He is without father or mother or genealogy, having neither beginning of days or end of life, but resembling the Son of God, he continues. forever. Now drop down to verse seventeen. For it is witnessed of him you are a priest forever after order of Melchizedek. And drop down again to chapter, excuse me, verse twenty-four. It says, Behold Or but he holds, rather, his priesthood permanently because he continues forever I'm sure you've seen the repetition here. The point is that Jesus holds his office of priest eternally , forever, permanently. Now there are three offices of Christ. Actually, our teams just covered this last month in as we finished up our doctrines course on Christology. What are the offices of Christ? Well, first, he is God's ultimate prophet. That is, he represents God to the people. But he is also God's ultimate priest. Hebrews calls him our great high priest. And in that role, he represents the people to God. And then he is our ultimate king. He governs all things as sovereign. Now, in his office of priest, the priest has two primary ministries, two primary functions. Number one, a priest offers a sacrifice. He makes atonement for the sins of the people. And number two. He intercedes on the people's behalf. Atonement and intercession. The ministry of the priest. Verse 25 is emphasizing the importance of Christ's intercession. How vital, how necessary is it that Christ intercede for us. Look at verse 25 again. It says he is able to save. Do you see that? He is able to save to the uttermost. That is, he is able to save forever and to the greatest degree. Speaking, you could say completely, entirely. Now I want you to look at that little word that comes at the beginning of the next clause. It's the word since. Which could also be translated because. It is communicating cause. Christ is able to save completely, thoroughly, entirely. Because of something. Because of what? Because he always lives to do this. to make intercession for us. My second preliminary observation from this verse, just looking at it, bird's eye view. Is this our salvation is dependent upon the continual intercession of Christ on our behalf. So here's my question for us tonight. Why does the Christian need the intercession of Christ? And I could even, we could even get more specific, and we could ask it this way: why does a justified person Someone who is declared righteous before God, why does a justified person need to be saved by the intercession of Christ? Christ. Please turn with me now to Romans chapter 5, verse 10. I want to answer this question first generally and then specifically. So we're going to move from the general to the specific. And just so you know, I'm going um I want you to understand how my approach to this series. It's going to be a textual approach. I will be taking my main point from Hebrews 7. 25, but then for the subordinate points. I'm going to be going to other passages and I'm just sharing that with you because I want you to track with me. There's nothing more frustrating when you're trying to listen to the to the preacher and you're just not understanding what he's doing and why he's going there and you just feel like giving up and walking away and and I've been there. I want you to be able to track uh with me and follow me and know why I'm doing what I'm doing. Romans chapter 5, verse 10, it says this, for if while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. Much more now that we are reconciled, notice this last phrase, shall we be saved by his life? The atoning death of Christ and his life of intercession are necessary for our final salvation. I want to call your attention to the tense of the verb saved. It says this. It says we will be saved. It's in the future tense. Paul is saying that these believers in Rome will in the future be saved by Christ's life. Now, if you're studying this, this should raise a question in your mind. Aren't these believers that Paul is addressing here in Romans 5, aren't they already saved? I mean, we just talked about justification back in chapter 3, right? Aren't they already saved? Why is he saying that they will be saved? In what sense do we who are saved still need to be saved? Does this mean our salvation is is somehow incomplete? Well, the scripture speaks of three aspects to our salvation. The first is justification, or you might say, as some theologians describe, initial sanctification. Justification is the judicial act of God declaring the sinner to be righteous on the basis of Christ's death and resurrection, the moment the sinner repents and believes the gospel. It is a punctilliar action. It takes place at a point, at a moment in time. A person hears the gospel and they respond in repentance and faith to the crosswork of Christ. And in that moment, God declares them justified. He declares them righteous. And he accepts them in a standing of grace, Romans 5. 1. From that moment of justification until death, the believer is in a state of progressive sanctification. Sanctification is the process by which the Holy Spirit, through the means of grace, conforms the believer to the likeness of Jesus Christ. This is not punctilier. This is not a point or a moment in time as justification is. It happens over the course of time. It's linear. If you like geometry, it's it's like uh a line. It takes place over time. During this time, the believer wars against his flesh, the world, and the devil. He is tempted in many ways to sin. He is exposed to trials. of various kinds, as James says. He must endure sorrows and suffering which test his faith. He must die daily and take up his cross. He must put on the Lord Jesus Christ. He must grow in grace and add in to his faith virtue and knowledge and self-control and steadfastness, godliness, and brotherly love. Our salvation is complete in the sense that when Christ died and rose again, he purchased it, all of it. But our salvation is not complete in the sense that we have yet to experience its full and final saving effects. You see. Think of Israel's salvation. When the Israelites came out of Egypt, they were indeed delivered, were they not? But were they still in need of future deliverance before reaching that promised Canaan land? Yes. Canaan was promised. It was secure. It was theirs. But it was not obtained yet. John Bunyan, in his famous allegory of the Christian life, Pilgrim's Progress, describes the moment Pilgrim unloaded his weight of sin at the cross. From that moment until he reached the celestial city, there were many dangers. There was the lions near the palace beautiful that Caused the fear of potential suffering. There was the valley of humiliation where Apollyon assaulted Pilgrim fiercely and where Pilgrim must learn not to rely on himself. There was the valley of the shadow of death where Pilgrim is plagued with fear and a sense of abandonment by God. There was Vanity Fair, where pilgrim was tempted by the pleasures and the allurements of the world, or the bypath meadow that leads pilgrim away from Scripture to Dalton Castle. and the giant despair, or the enchanted ground where a pilgrim is tempted with spiritual complacency. And eventually there was the river of death that he must cross before the celestial city. John Newton rightly describes the Christian experience when he said, through many dangers, toils, and snares, I have already come. There are many spiritual dangers that we encounter during this state of our salvation And beyond this, we have yet to stand before the scrutiny of the bar of God. There is a sense in which we are still being saved and will need to be saved in the future. Then we come lastly to the stage, this final stage, which is called glorification or final salvation. This stage takes place at death, and more specifically at Christ's second coming, when believers receive their uncorrupted, resurrected bodies and are fully conformed to the image of God. of Christ once and for all. What Romans 5. 10 and what Hebrews 7. 25 are teaching us is that our future salvation is certain because Christ is ever living to intercede for us. Our salvation was accomplished, secured, and paid for in full by the death of Christ But our present and future experience of it is guaranteed and mediated by the intercession of Christ. John Bunyan summarizes it this way: There is a saving that Christ accomplished by his death. And there is a saving that Christ accomplishes by his life. Both atonement and intercession are necessary for our salvation. So we've asked the question tonight, why do Christians need Christ's ongoing ministry of intercession? And we've begun by answering this question in broad terms. Christians need the intercession of Christ in order to experience final salvation. He is able to save to the uttermost to them who draw near to God by him since he ever lives to make intercession for them. So I want to pause here at this point. You've done so well in listening to me. That was a lot. At least I thought it was a lot. And I hope that everyone's tracking. We're all together here. But I want to pause and ask you here, by way of application, I want you to think about how you think. About this particular truth. I want to probe your own personal theology here. How important is the intercession of Christ to you? Just on a day-to-day basis. Think about last week. How often did you rely on the intercession of Christ? When you were tempted with sin, when you were tempted with a doubting spirit, When fear began to grip your heart this past week, how did the intercession of Christ Comfort, assure, strengthen your heart. I think if we're honest, so often we live unaware. That at the right hand of God, Christ is ever living to intercede for us. I want to move now from the general to the specific. Why specifically do Christians need the intercession of Christ? Number one, I'm going to have three points to this last half of the message. Number one, Christians need the intercession of Christ because we still sin. I want you to go with me now to 1 John chapter 1. Would you turn your Bible to 1 John 1? I'm going to begin in verse seven. John says this, but if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another And the blood of Jesus his son cleanses us from all sin. The Apostle John informs us that the blood of Jesus Christ is continually cleansing the believer. The verb here, cleanse, is in the present tense That's significant. John is not saying that the blood of Jesus Christ once and for all cleansed the believer. That is true, but that's not what he's saying here. What he's saying here is that the blood of Jesus Christ is continually cleansing the believer. And we discover why that is. It's because Christians still sin and they need the cleansing blood of Christ. Christ made one sacrifice for all time. The blood of Jesus Christ was shed once for all. We don't believe that Jesus Christ continually shed his blood. It's not true. He shed his blood once and for all. But the cleansing effects of that blood are ongoing for the believer There is a sense in which we have been cleansed once and for all, and there is a sense in which we need to be cleansed daily, and this is illustrated by Christ's washing of the disciples' feet. We need the blood of Christ to cleanse us from our sin daily, and that requires the work of our mediator. We cannot continue in the faith without Christ's cleansing. Jesus said to Peter in very frank terms, if I do not wash your feet, you have no part with me. Verse 8 goes on, if we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. Verse 9, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Verse 9 contains one of the most precious promises for the believer. If we confess our sins, God is faithful and he will forgive. This cleansing is complete. We are cleansed of all sin. That is, of every kind and to every degree. Total cleansing. But what I want us to take note of here is the basis for this cleansing. How is it that God, in cleansing us fully and entirely, is displaying his faithfulness and his justice in doing so. Well, let me just say first, it is not on the merits of our confession. We are told here, if we confess our sin, he is faithful and just to forgive us. The confession of our sin is the condition for our cleansing. But follow me here. It is not the basis of it. There's a distinction between the condition for cleansing and the basis for cleansing. You must confess your sin in order to be saved. If we confess our sin, he is faithful and just. There's a condition there. But that is not the basis of it. Let me illustrate this. I once asked a lady In in a neighborhood near mine once when I was growing up. If she knew for certain that when she died, she would go to heaven. And she assured me very confidently, yes, I will go to heaven when I die. And so I asked her, well, why was she so certain? And she said this, because I confess my sins every night before I go to bed. And after talking with her a little bit more, I discovered that her confidence was not in Christ. It was in the fact that she was confessing her sins every night before she went to bed. Well, let me ask you, what was the basis of her assumed forgiveness before God? It was not Christ, it was her confession. Now, do you need to confess that Jesus Christ is Lord with your mouth? Yes. Romans 10. But the basis of your forgiveness is salvation and salvation is not anything in you, it's all in Christ. It's his blood and his righteousness, his atonement. You see, our the condition here is confession. We need to confess our sins. But it's not the basis of our cleansing. So what is that basis? Well, look at chapter 2, verse 1. My little children, I am writing these things to you. So that you may not sin. But if anyone sins, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous, and he is the propitiation for our sins. There is the basis for our cleansing. The basis for the cleansing that we are promised in chapter 1 verse 9 is found and rooted in our Christ in chapter 1, verse 2. Excuse me, chapter um chapter 2 and verse 1. What is an advocate here in the biblical sense? An advocate is one who is called alongside to help. In some extra biblical literature, It has a legal connotation. You may picture one who represents and defends another in the court of law, such as a lawyer or a defense attorney. The Greek word translated advocate is the word paraclete, and it is used four other times by our Lord in John's Gospel in reference to Who? The Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit. Christ said, I will send, listen to this, I will send another paraclete. So if the Holy Spirit is that other paraclete , who is the primary paraclete? It's Christ. It is Christ. Christ is our paraclete without, seated at the right hand of God. And the Holy Spirit is our paraclete within. This is a beautiful and a precious reality that God has given to me. One who intercedes for me. Who reveals Christ to me within my heart? And who, in a sense, represents Christ. To me. Christ lives in me by virtue of his Holy Spirit. And God has appointed for me one My paraclete without, who is at the right hand of God, and he represents me before God. How precious is that. I also want you to see that the one who represents us before the Father is righteous. It says, and we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. He appears before the Father in our place as one without sin, blameless and undefiled. And he himself is the atoning sacrifice for our sin. He is the propitiation. That is, he is the one who bore in full the wrath of God for all of our sin. And here's the point. When we confess our sin below, there is one above who appears before God, who is the very basis. and foundation for our forgiveness. God looks at him and therefore he is faithful and just. Because of Christ to forgive us of all of our sin. The one who stands at his right hand on our behalf. It is because him and him alone that we experience that continual cleansing and forgiveness that we so desperately need, don't we, on a daily basis. So Christians need the intercession of Christ for the continual cleansing and forgiveness of our sins. Secondly, Christians need the intercession of Christ because Satan continually accuses us before God. Please turn with me to Romans chapter 8 now. Romans chapter 8 and verse 33. While you're turning there, I'm going to go ahead and begin. Verse 33: Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died, more than that, who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. The Apostle Paul raises this question, who is going to successfully prosecute you before God? That's essentially what he's asking. Who's going to be able to prosecute you and condemn you before God? And of course, the implied answer is what? No one. I want you to make I want to make very one very simple point from this text. I want you to know the reason why we will never be condemned before the bar of God. Look at verse 34. There's one reason, or excuse me, there's two reasons given. One, because Christ has died. Do you see that? Jesus Christ is the one who died, and there's a second reason given. What is that? Because he intercedes for us. Here again, we have atonement and what? Intercession. Atonement and intercession. You see, there's a relationship between the atonement of Christ. and his intercession for us. He is our surety. He is the one who purchased our redemption with his blood. And as our intercessor, he ensures that the benefits of that atonement will be fully realized for those for whom he died. He paid and secured that salvation for us, and he is at God's right hand living to see that it is followed through. In the words of Hebrews, he is the guarantor of the new covenant. Christ ensures by his life that those he saved by his death will never be condemned. What a precious truth. Let me say that again. Christ ensures by his life that those he saved by his death will never be condemned. I hope in your heart you're saying, Amen. Praise the Lord. There is my security This passage does not identify those who seek to condemn the Christian, but other passages do. So please turn with me now to Revelation chapter 12 and verse 10. Who is seeking primarily to condemn the believer before the bar of God, before the throne of God? Revelation chapter 12, verse 10, it says this, and I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ have come. For the accuser of the brethren has been thrown down, who accuses them day and night before our God. John informs us that Satan is before the throne of God, not periodically. But perpetually, day and night, accusing the brethren. His very name, Satan, means one who accuses. He is our adversary. He is the one who seeks to prosecute us before the throne of God. And he is continually seeking our condemnation. What does that look like? What kind of charges does he bring against us? And let me just pause here and say, folks, I think we live daily so unaware of this reality. Do we not? We live unaware that just as there is one at the right hand of God interceding for us continually, there is also one who is appearing before the throne of God day and night seeking our condemnation. I'm so thankful that we're given books like Job and its first two chapters that, as it were, pull back the curtains of heaven and allow us to see through. to the throne room at at some of the realities that are taking place and affect things going on in our life You recall the first two chapters of Job. Satan appears before the Lord, and the Lord said to Satan in verse 7, From where have you come? And Satan said to the Lord, from going to and fro on the earth and from walking up and down it. And shortly thereafter, Satan accused Job before God of not genuinely walking in the fear of the Lord, but fearing him for his own advantage. Just listen to this accusation. Then Satan answered the Lord and said, Does Job fear God for no reason? Have you not put a hedge around him and his house and all that he has on every side? You have blessed the work of his hands, and his possessions have increased in the land. But stretch out your hand and touch all that he has, and he will curse you to your face. We know the rest of the story. The Lord tested Job and proved those accusations to be false. Job did, in fact, fear the Lord, and Satan's accusations had no legitimacy. But let me ask you this. What resource do you have when the accusations that Satan brings against you before the throne of God? Are true. When Satan can accuses you of sin that you can confirm by merely looking at your internet history or at a text message that you've sent to someone That was unkind and unloving and hurtful. What recourse do you have then when Satan's accusations Before the justice of God, the holiness of God, are true. Would you turn with me to Zechariah chapter 3 and verse 1? Zechariah chapter 3 and verse 1. I don't want to lose you here. I know our time is limited, but this is such a precious passage of Scripture. Zechariah chapter 3, verse 1. In his fourth vision, he recounts a judicial scene with legal undertones. The accuser, believed to be Satan, seeks the condemnation of Joshua, the high priest, before the angel of the Lord. Zechariah chapter 3 verse 1. Then he showed me Joshua, the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord. And Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him. And the Lord said to Satan, The Lord rebuke you, O Satan, the Lord who has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke you. Is not this a brand plucked from the fire? Now Joshua was standing before the angel, clothed with filthy garments. And the angel said to those who were standing before him, Remove the filthy garments from him. And to him he said, Behold. I have taken your iniquity away from you, and I will clothe you with pure vestments. And I said, Let them put a clean turban on his head. So they put a clean turban on his head and clothed him with garments. And the angel of the Lord was standing by. Joshua, the high priest, represents Israel in this vision. As priest, it was necessary for him to be holy according to the priestly requirements of the Levitical law. You recall all of those mandates given in Deuteronomy and Leviticus requiring holiness from the high priest. But here he stands before the angel of the Lord in filthy garments. The term is descriptive of excrement, symbolizing the impurity of the nation of Israel. And at his right hand, where a prosecutor is to be stationed in a court of law, stands the accuser to accuse him. There's actually a play on words here. The accuser is accusing. Joshua is silent because these accusations are true. Joshua is standing there before the angel of the Lord in filth And there is the accuser standing at his right hand, accusing him before the angel of the Lord. This is dramatic. Then the angel of the Lord speaks To this accuser and says this, the Lord rebuke you, O Satan, the Lord who has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke you. I believe here that the angel of the Lord is the pre-incarnate Christ for a number of reasons. One, because he is distinguished from the Lord of hosts. Both in this chapter and others following, too, because he is regarded as deity, and because of multiple other passages in our Old Testament. The angel of the Lord. Advocates on behalf of Israel and rebukes this attempt to bring God's judgment upon Them for their sin. He rebukes Satan on the grounds that the Lord has chosen Israel to be his own. And he has rescued them like a branch pulled out of a fire. Shall God, who so loved and rescued such a people, condemn them, though they be sinful and defiled? The angel of the Lord orders Joshua's filthy garments to be removed. and he clothed him with clean white garments. He says, Remove the filthy garments from him. And to him he said, Behold, I have taken your iniquity away from you, and I will clothe you with pure vestments. This morning we sang in our service, His robes for mine. This is a beautiful picture of Christ interceding on behalf of God's people. It is a picture of justification. In Christ, God has removed our filthy robes and has dressed us in his righteousness. And though Satan stands before the throne of God day and night accusing us, Will God condemn us? Would God condemn Joshua and Israel? No The angel of the Lord interceded. And Christ as our advocate intercedes for us when we stand condemned by Satan before the throne of God. Christ is there, ever living to intercede. Who shall bring any charge to God's elect? It is Christ who died, and it is Christ who intercedes. I have one more point, but I don't think time will allow it for tonight. So I'm going to save my next point. For next month. I'm on the schedule to continue this series next month, and we're going to continue looking at specific reasons for why we need the intercession of Christ. But I just want to close with a few just devotional thoughts here before we leave. I really want to encourage you. To rely upon Christ's intercession on your behalf I'm gonna sin this week, I'm sure. Not because I want to, but because I know that I am fallen and I have a flesh. And you're going to fall in some way this week too. What are you going to be relying on for your cleansing? What assurance are you going to have that that you are entirely forgiven, cleansed thoroughly? You're going to have Satan whispering in your ear this week that you are not fit to draw near to the Lord. You're not worthy of his presence. God's not going to commune and fellowship with you. You're far from him. There's so many doubts that flood into our heart that I can't even articulate right now that so easily beset us and discourage us. There's so many fears that we struggle with. I really want to encourage you when Satan tempts you to despair Look to Christ, see him there. He's ever living to intercede for you.