If you have your Bibles, would you join me in John chapter two? John chapter two Alexander the Great was one of the world's great military minds. Although he was often outnumbered, he was never defeated in battle. But Alexander had one enemy that he could not seem to defeat, and that was his temper. Once a childhood friend of Alexander who had been faithful to him and worked hard and was one of his generals. was with him relaxing with a group of other men and this friend was intoxicated and began to say a few unfavorable things about Alexander the Great And he was incensed and he grabbed a spear and hurled it at his friend and killed him on the spot. And he was struck with great remorse and a great sense of guilt. Alexander the Great conquered many cities and territories, but it could never seem to defeat his anger. Today we come to a passage of Scripture where Jesus is clearly angry, but Jesus' anger was not sinful. It was not a loss of control. It was just and righteous and the appropriate response to what he saw that day. This morning, as we continue our study of the Gospel of John, we come to the cleansing of the temple. But before we look at verse 13 I want to make some brief comments about verse 12, which is a transitional verse between these two paragraphs. , Look with me at verse 12. After this, he went down to Capernaum with his mother and his brothers and his disciples, and they stayed there for a few days. When it says after this, it means after the wedding feast at Cana, they went to Capernaum. This was about a 16-mile journey. Jesus was there with his disciples, which numbered five or six at this time. And we read of his mother and his brothers. Now, the most natural understanding of this term brothers is that these were children that were born after his birth and were the children of Joseph. This is contrary to what the Catholic Church teaches. It teaches the perpetual virginity of Mary, and it teaches that these brothers were must have been children from Joseph's previous marriage that he brought into his marriage with Mary. But the most natural reading of Scripture and the most natural reading of Matthew 125 and other passages is that after Jesus was born, Joseph and Mary had a normal, natural marriage which produced children, brothers and sisters. Now it gives the impression, verse 12, that this was a brief stay in Capernaum because it says they stayed there for a few days. That is, they stayed there for a few days before they journeyed down to Jerusalem for the keeping of the Passover. But we know from the other three Gospels that Capernaum became the home base of our Lord. It became the city in which he and his disciples lived. for some time. In fact, in Matthew chapter 9, Capernaum is called his own city. I've been to Capernaum. It is a beautiful city situated right on the shores. of the Sea of Galilee. It was a fishing fishing village and an agricultural center, and it was a beautiful location, a central location for his ministry in Galilee. Now before we get into our text, I want to comment on one other event for serious Bible students. And that is, if you know your Bible well, you know that there is a cleansing that's recorded in Matthew, Mark, and Luke at the end of our Lord's ministry, back in the final week, where Jesus enters the temple and cleanses the temple. But in John's chronology, he has Jesus cleansing the temple here at the very outset of his ministry. Now, those who tend not to put great stock in the inspiration and authority of Scripture say, well, there was just one cleansing. It's just that John and the other gospel writers were kind of loose in their handling of details and facts and conversations. And so there are similarities between them. But it was probably that John, for whatever reason, has chosen to put something that happened three years later here in this passage. But I don't think that that is a proper understanding at all. Conservatives have traditionally over the centuries viewed there to be two cleansings of the temple. one at the beginning of this ministry and one at the end of this ministry. There are significant differences. And the gospel writers are very clear in their chronology of events. That makes it impossible to view them as the same event unless you don't believe the scriptures are accurate. Now, today I'm going to be looking at two main things Two broad headings, and that is what Jesus did when he cleansed the temple. We'll be looking at the facts of this passage, going through it verse by verse. And then, more importantly, I want to ask this question: why did Jesus cleanse the temple? And I want us to see five reasons why he did that. So, first of all, what Jesus did when he cleansed the temple I want you to notice in verse 13 that Jesus goes to the temple to observe the Passover. It says the Passover of the Jews was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. We see here that Jesus carefully kept the law. Sometimes people think that Jesus was a lawbreaker. that he broke the Jewish law again and again. There's an important distinction that you must make. Jesus did not keep the hedge about the wall that rabbis had established over the centuries, adding more and more restrictions to things that are not found in Scripture. He didn't keep those things. But he did keep God's law. We see him at 12 at the Passover. We see him here again observing the Passover. It's very likely as a very as a believing Jew that every Passover he went and kept, went to Jerusalem to keep the Passover as the law required. Now the Passover was one of three religious festivals that all Jewish men were required to attend. It of course was the commemoration of God's deliverance of his people. from Egypt. It's recorded in Exodus chapter 12, and it's one of the Bible's great pictures of salvation. Now, one of the things that's interesting and helpful to know about this Passover is that it's the first Passover that's recorded here in John's Gospel We will read another one in John 6. 4, and then a third one when Jesus dies, according to John's chronology, on the Passover. Some scholars think there is another one that's alluded to in John chapter 5 and verse 1, it refers to a feast that may have been a Passover. but we can't know for sure. Now why do I mention that? Why should you even care about that? This is the only way that we know the length of our Lord's ministry. is by counting the Passovers. And it's only John that provides that for us. So we know that Jesus' ministry was about three, three and a half years long by counting the different Passovers. Now what did Jesus find when he came to the temple in Jerusalem? Look with me please at verse 14. In the temple he found those who were selling oxen and sheep and pigeons and the money changers sitting there. What Jesus found that day was merchants selling animals for sacrifices and money changers exchanging various coins. Now, when it says that Jesus found them in the temple, you should not think that he found them in the actual structure of the temple under a roof. It's referring, the word that's used there is referring to the whole temple complex, which here is a reference to the outer courts. The temple set on a piece of land about 14 acres. It was a large complex. Most of that 14 acres was the courtyard around the building of the temple. This was the temple that was built by Herod over many decades. It was the pride and the joy of the Jewish people. It was the only really impressive building that these people owned. And so Jesus comes here, and here he finds that that outer court was being used as a place of commerce. Now we find that there were people selling animals and people exchanging coins. Both of these were to make profit. and also to be convenient for those who were coming. So those who would come, many of them coming from some distance, some of them by boat throughout the Mediterranean world, devout Jews coming for the observance of the Passover. would find it very difficult to bring an animal sacrifice with them that would survive the journey. They would often die on the journey And it would be very cumbersome and difficult to travel long distances with them. So it was much more convenient to go to Jerusalem and buy your sacrifice and then offer it for the Passover. And all Jewish men, 20 years old and older, had to pay a temple tax that was half a shekel. What they would often do is that two men would pay together one shekel covering both of them. But most of the currency at the time, the coinage, had pagan gods. pagan symbols on the coins. The temple authorities would not receive them. So they had to exchange their coins either for Jewish shekels , that were silver or Turinian coins that were rendered acceptable because of the way they looked and the quantity of silver that they possessed. This is why they had money changers. And this had been going on for some time. However, we know historically that it used to be that the money changers and the animal per uh merchants were up on the Temple Mount, not the Temple Mount, the Mount of Olives. Which was about a quarter mile from where the temple was. And people used to do business there, and then they would come to the temple. But now it seems historically that some of the recent high priests said, you know, it would be better if we had it right here on sites. And that's exactly what they did. So think about it. How could anybody worship when there was so much noise And there was the smell of animals, and there was all these merchants that were bartering and negotiating over the price of animals and everything. And this was supposed to be a place where people would pray, especially Gentiles. It would be impossible. It was supposed to be a place of confession, but it would become a place of commerce. So what does Jesus do about it? I want you to notice what he does in verse 15. This is the action verb. Verse 15, and making a whip of cords, he drove them all out of the temple with the sheep and oxen. And he poured out the coins of the money changers and overturned their tables. There's much that could be said about this verse. I wonder what you think about it. I wonder if this verse doesn't fit your understanding of who Jesus is. Let me first of all say that I think we take from this that Jesus was not an effeminate man that's often portrayed in movies. When we read that Jesus was a carpenter, we often think, and I've seen often in paintings, that he was making like fine furniture in his father's shop. Because that's maybe what we think of. That's not what the word reflects. There wasn't much wood in Israel. They weren't making fine furniture. A more literal translation of the word carpenter would be a builder or a construction worker. This is what Jesus did from the time he was probably 12 or 13 up until the time he was 30. My point is he was a strong man. He was a man who commanded attention when he stood up and he formed this whip and he drove them out. We see here that not all anger is sinful. Most often it is, if we're honest. Most often our anger is because we're annoyed by someone, or something didn't go our way , or someone has violated our rights in some way. And often our anger is a reflection of our pride and our selfishness. But Jesus here is angry because they have desecrated his father's house. He has a righteous anger. Notice he was not out of control. This was not a rash act. He took time to weave together this whip. The word that's used here probably is a reference to cords that were used like leaves on these various animals that have been discarded and they're laying all over the floor of the courtyard. And Jesus takes up three of them and begins to weave them together to form a whip to drive out the animals and their merchants with them. But I want you to notice that this was not just like a quiet request that people leave. And that his concern was not just that they leave. Because what do we read? We read that he poured out their containers that had all these coins in them, and he turned over their tables. What does that convey? It conveys contempt for what they were doing. He was angry. What they were doing was wrong. Just imagine what a disruption this would have been. The sound of all those silver coins hitting the pavement in the temple there and the animals bleeding as he drives them out It would have gotten everyone in the temple courtyard's attention. Some disturbance is taking place here But let me ask you a question, maybe you've never thought about before. Why is it that no one stopped him? This is not something that took place for 30 seconds. To get all those animals out, to get the merchants out and the money exchangers out. In this large area, this would have taken some time. Five, ten minutes, ample time for people to react and respond and stop him if they wanted to. We know from Josephus that the temple had at the Passover season 300 temple police that maintained law and order in the temple complex. And I suspect that these money changers who were handling large amounts of money had their own private security force to make sure that someone didn't carry off one of these containers. And the merchants certainly would not have appreciated him offending these tables and bringing their business there at least for this day to an end. So why didn't the police or the Roman soldiers or the merchants or somebody stop Jesus? He's just one man. It's a very interesting thing, isn't it? May I suggest that the reason why everyone obeyed is because his voice thundered with authority and his eyes flashed with indignation. His holy zeal revealed their guilt and kept them from stopping him. And in his anger and in his wrath, he was perfectly reflecting his heavenly father. And then in verse 16, we have Jesus rebuking the merchants in the temple. Look with me at verse 16. And he told those who sold the pigeons, Take these things away. Do not make my father's house a house of trade Very strong statement that he makes here. Jesus was not against animals. But he was saying that they did not belong in the temple precincts. This was not to be a place of commerce But a place of worship. The temple was not a barn, but a building where people worship God And Jesus makes an intentional play here on the word house. Do not make my father's house a house of trade. He's saying you've distorted the very intent of this place. The very way that God has designed it to work, you've turned it on his head. Notice Every word counts. Notice how he says, he doesn't say you've made our father's house a house of trade. He says you make my father's house. He is claiming the special privilege to make such a declaration because he is the only begotten Son of God. He is the Lord of the temple, even as he will later claim to be the Lord of the Sabbath And then we have in verse 17 the disciples' reflection on his actions at the temple. Look with me in verse 17 His disciples remembered that it was written, zeal for your house will consume me. Now we encounter the idea of the disciples remembering often in the Gospel of John. We'll see this as we go through. Look at verse 22. We'll see this next week. It says, when therefore he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered, excuse me, that he had said this, and they believed the scriptures and the word that Jesus had spoken. And in John chapter 12 and verse 16, we read his disciples did not understand these things at first. But when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things had been written about him and had been done to him. Now I cannot prove this and I could be wrong, but I suspect that when it says disciples remembered, in line with these other statements in the book It doesn't mean that on that instant the disciples said, you know what? That reminds me of Psalm 69, verse 9. I think it's saying years later, as they reflected on it after his resurrection, after Pentecost and the Spirit of God was directing them. They said, you know what? That's the fulfillment of that Davidic Psalm when David was being persecuted. And he talks about the zeal for God's house consuming him. That's exactly what we saw in David's greater son, Jesus, that day in the temple. And just as the enemies were always persecuting David, so the enemies of our Lord would eventually persecute him to death. In the Gospel of John, we're going to see one confrontation after another between Jesus and the religious establishments. This is the first one that we encounter. There would be many, many more to come until eventually the religious establishment will conspire together to murder their Messiah. Indeed, his zeal for God would consume him, but by his death we may find everlasting life. Now I want to turn to the second main point. Why did Jesus cleanse the temple? How should we understand this? What made him compelled him to these actions? Number one, the cleansing of the temple demonstrates that how we worship God is very important. Did you know that? How you worship God is very important. In case you haven't noticed. People worship their God or gods in very different ways. The Buddhist, the Muslim, the Hindu have very different methods of worship. And that's because the way they think about their God or their gods is very different. There are also clear differences in the way Christians worship as well. Now, over the years, I have heard many people say it doesn't matter how you worship. As long as you mean it in your heart. I wonder what you think about that statement. Perhaps you would say, you know, I think that's probably right. I think it really doesn't matter how you worship God, as long as you mean it in your heart. If that's your perspective, I want you to know that everything in your Bible says the opposite. Your Old Testament is filled with regulations that God gave to the people of Israel and to how they were to worship him. We have example after example of how seriously God takes it. Remember the golden calf incident in Exodus 32? The children of Israel, when Moses was up on the mountain receiving the Ten Commandments, they're down in the valley and they're having a great party, and they convinced Aaron to make a golden calf. And what people often forget or don't know is that that golden calf was to be representation of Yahweh, the one true God. They were sincere and intentional and they gave of their gold to make this God, but God did not receive their worship because he's not like a calf. And he brought judgment upon them. Doesn't matter that their hearts were engaged. It was wicked. And an abomination before God. Or how about the story of Uzzah when they were moving the ark? You remember that story? This shakes people up. It doesn't seem fair to people. They were carrying the ark and and the oxen went went through a little ditch and and and it shifted and uh and look he was afraid it was going to fall, so he puts his hand up to touch the ark of the covenant just to steady it. And when he touches it, he was violating God's law that said they were he was not to touch it, and he died. He was struck down by God. Even though he was well-intentioned, he was trying to be helpful God gives very specific regulations about his worship. But that raises the question, why does God care so much about how we worship him? The answer is this. The way we worship God reflects on how we think about our God. In other words, the God who has revealed himself in Scripture, our worship should match and be aligned with that God 's. Does that make sense? And I realize that there may be differences in people's religious traditions and people's cultural traditions. If we were to go to the other side of the world, if we were to go to Asia today and be in one of their services, there would be some things that would be very familiar to us. There would be other things that we would scratch our head about But how we worship God reflects on who God is. And what we see here is that we must worship God with reverence. That doesn't mean that our worship should be boring and void of joy. However, we must never think that worshiping God is a casual activity. It is not a form of entertainment. No, we are worshiping, we claim to be worshiping the omnipotent creator of the universe. He is the Holy One of Israel and the judge to whom we must all answer someday. And if we believe that to be true, then our pastors won't sound like a talk show host or a comedian. Cracking jokes left and right and and giving everyone, just making everyone feel really comfortable. and really casual because nothing we're talking about here today is really a a matter of life or death or anything. No, that's exactly what it is. So we must never worship God in a casual, flippant, silly, irreverent way. Because our God is holy. And our God is to be taken seriously. I like the words of A. W. Tozer. He says, with our loss of the sense of majesty has come the further loss of religious awe and consciousness of the divine presence. We have lost our spirit of worship and our ability to withdraw inwardly to meet God in adoring silence Modern Christianity is simply not producing the kind of Christian who can appreciate or experience life in the Spirit. The second reason that Jesus cleansed the temple. In cleansing the temple, Jesus revealed that he desires all people to come and worship the one true God. The court where the animal merchants and the money changers were was the outer court, which was also known as the court of the Gentiles. It was a place for those who were not under the covenantal blessings that they could come and they could learn more and they could pray and worship the one true God. In 1 Kings chapter 8, we read Solomon's great prayer of dedication for the temple. And in that prayer, he prays that people of all the earth May know God's name and may come to worship Him in His temple. It was to be for all nations, all peoples. But over the centuries the Jews lost sight of that. And by filling out the order the outer court with all this commercialism, with all these animals, with all this noise, they were effectively saying to the Gentiles who were seeking the Lord, You're not welcome here. This is our temple. This is a Jewish temple. We don't really want you here. You can be out there with the animals and with the noise and with the loud merchants That's your place of worship. And this angered Jesus because this was contrary to his father's heart. Jesus would say to the Samaritan woman in John chapter 4, The hour is coming, and now is here when true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth, for the Father is seeking such people to worship him. And thirdly, I believe the cleansing of the temple shows that Jesus abhors worship, that seeks, listen carefully, to use God to make money. It was not necessarily wrong for people to buy the required sacrifices or to exchange their money But over time, these services had become a way for the priestly families to make an incredible fortune. There's an ancient record that reveals that in the exchange of money they had rigged things so that they got a twelve percent profit margin. From the exchange of money and people exchanging large amounts of money every day brought great wealth to the religious establishments. And then of course the Passover pilgrims all had to bring a sacrifice. And they had a service there where you could buy the sacrifice. But guess how this would work? There were people who were frugal. There were people who were like, I'm not going to be taken advantage of because the price of their lambs were more expensive than a normal lamb would be. So guess what they would do? They would say, I'm going to bring my own lamb. But this is the problem. In order to bring your own lamb for a sacrifice, you had to go to the inspector who would look over the lamb to find any spots. And guess what? Every single time he found a blemish and a flaw and he said, I'm sorry, this lamb cannot be used as a sacrifice. You're going to have to go over in this line and you're going to have to purchase one of our lambs. You see, there's nothing new under the sun. It's sort of like going into a stadium. You're not supposed to bring your own food. But what are the food prices like at the stadium? They're incredibly expensive because they have a captive audience. And that's what was happening here in the temple. We know that that Annas the high priest uh that he was selling off the the space in the outer court so that a portion of their proceeds would go to him He had it all worked out to line their pockets. And then even outside of the out of the outer court , There had grown up almost a mall. There were just shops everywhere outside of the temple complex. And so when people came to worship at the temple It would often become almost secondary to all of the shopping that they got to do. Because coming to the temple was like coming to a great mall. Where there were shops everywhere, some of the finest shops in all the land. Then we say, was God against capitalism? No. This is the problem. The priests were revealing these men who were to be the great leaders and representatives of the one true God, they were representing, they were demonstrating that their true God was money. And they were using the worship of God to make a fortune. These holy men claimed to hate idolatry, but they were idolaters themselves. This is the great evil of the health and wealth gospel This is why you should not support teleevangelists who live in mansions and fly around in jets. And pray on poor, vulnerable people asking for their donations And making some, twisting scripture to promise that you will get great prosperity if you give to them This is the most embarrassing export that our nation has ever had. The prosperity gospel. That has taken over in South America and Africa and many parts of Asia. It's a great embarrassment for many millions of people in the world When they think about Christianity, they think about the prosperity gospel. It's a quick-rich scheme. And what's so wicked about it is it is saying to people that what really matters is not God and his worship. But what really matters is your health and your wealth and your status in society and your happy relationships This is what really matters. And we can manipulate God to get what we really want. But if they could truly know the truth, what they would really want is God Because it's only God that can give a person contentment and satisfaction and fill the void of the human hearts. It's not by gaining more stuff. It's by knowing the Lord and knowing that you are right with Him. The cleansing of the temple, I think, also symbolically revealed That the old covenant practice of animal sacrifices was coming to an end. Jesus said to those animal merchants, take these away. And this was a foreshadowing that indeed this would come to an end because the Lamb of God in a few years would die on an old rugged cross in Jerusalem, and he would take away the sin of the world. And so the sacrificial system would soon become obsolete. The law was given through Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. And then the coming, the cleansing of the temple was a preview. Of God's coming judgment. The wrath that Jesus displayed for a few minutes in the temple court, outer court that day was a brief glimpse of God's wrath that would pour down on that temple in AB 70. And that would be but a brief glimpse of God's ultimate wrath. That will be poured out on sinners. Do you know what happened to this magnificent temple? That in total took something like 80 years to be completed. It was the pride of all Israel. In A. D. 70, the Roman general Titus would come and he would burn and destroy this temple so that there would not be one stone left upon another. And burning this temple that had large amounts of gold, the gold was melted, and it would run down between the cracks and crevices of the stones, and so the soldiers and other people would pour these stones apart. looking for little scraps of gold that they could take as the spoils of war. Thus fulfilling the prophecy. One stone would not be left upon another. That great temple that was symbolic of the old Judaic religious establishment would be destroyed. It would bring an end to their whole religious order But it was nothing compared to the wrath that God will someday pour out on the world. In Malachi chapter 3 and verse 1 , It says, the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple. And then it goes on to say, but who can endure the day of his coming and who can stand when he appears? And Revelation chapter 6, we read of the wrath of the Lamb. It says that the people of the earth will cry out, fall on us and hide us from the face of him who is seated on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb, for the great day of the wrath has come. And who shall stand. Now, what do you think of this? We like to think of Jesus today is meek and mild and tolerant and whatever else he is, he's not judgmental But that does not square with the Jesus that we read of in this book Yes, he was a God full of grace and mercy for sinners. We'll see that many times in this gospel. But he was also a God of justice and righteousness. And of judgment. We live in a society today that has largely discarded the notion of hell and eternal judgment. Where toleration is the great watchword, the great virtue. But we also live in a society that is very much aware that there are inequities in this world and that there needs to be justice. But the reality is there can be no justice without judgment. And only Christ, the righteous judge, will bring judgment upon the earth. Who are the people that Christ will judge? Listen to the last verse in John chapter 3. Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. And whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. So by the authority of this verse, I want you to know that the clear teaching is that if you're here this morning and you have not put your trust In Christ alone, the wrath of God is right now resting on you. And it's just a matter of time until that judgment will be executed unless you repent and believe the gospel. The wrath that Jesus displayed in the cleansing of the temple is a preview of the wrath that he will slay against his enemies in the judgment. I want to make just a few brief final applications How you worship God is very important. Did you know the Christian's life is a life of worship? We worship God privately and publicly. The Christian should worship the Lord every day. where he spends time in God's word and in prayer. But I don't mean by that that he compartment compartmentalizes his worship to a 15-minute window each day. I mean that throughout the day he lives or she lives in the presence of God That your faith in Christ should permeate and transform every aspect of your life and every event of your life. Because the Christian life is a life of worship. But what we also see in this passage is that gathering To worship with the people of God is important and significant. If you are to follow in the footsteps of your Savior, you will want to gather for worship with the Lord's people. You will give your heart to this. Not because you think you're somehow earning God's favor, but because it's your heart's desire. And that leads me to number two. We should be very serious about spiritual things. I'll never forget, this was many years ago. Not in this church building, but in the old one. An unbelieving man who is visiting someone in our church. Said to me in the lobby, you know, religion is a good thing as long as you don't take it too seriously And he thought this was an axiomatic truth, right? Religion's a good thing. Just don't take it too seriously. I mean, people take it too seriously like those terrorists Blow people up because they disagree with them. So, and I I know that he was kind of trying to chide me. He was much older than me. I was a young man of 34 at the time, and he was saying to me, you take these things way too seriously. I wonder if you agree with that opinion. I wonder if you ever think to yourself, you know, some Christians do take Christianity too seriously. They just need to chill out. That wasn't Jesus' opinion. He was consumed with zeal for his father. And he drove out the money changers and the animal merchants because they were desecrating his father's house. By the way, this does not give license for there to be religious violence. Jesus spoke expressly against that. But it does mean that there should be things, there should be things that grieve your hearts. And dare I say it anger you because they are mocking and showing disgrace and contempt for the things of God. So much of our language in the world today has become so crass and so obscene. So much of modern entertainments, comedians, and so forth mocking God and Christ. And everything that is holy and virtuous, making a joke of it all. The expansion, the erosion of Morality that has been a part of Western culture and a part of the heritage of this nation in just the last 10 and 20 years, so many things that you could not have imagined that would occur have occurred. And not only are things tolerated, they're celebrated. We're told they're virtuous They should grieve us. They should anger us, not that we should hate those who were involved in these things. But we should hate the way they defy and rebel against God's truth. And we should mourn over the judgment that will come upon them unless they repent and believe the gospel. If you're walking with Christ, you will be often grieved by this wicked world. On the other hand, if you're never grieved by anything you see or hear, it may be that you're not one of his children or you're certainly not walking close with him. We finally see here that we must be ready for the Lord's return. Christ is coming again. And the next time he comes, he won't be coming like a little babe in a manger. The Bible says he will come in power and great glory. And he will come to bring judgment and the second coming upon the wicked. This is the clear teaching of Scripture. So how can we, how can a person be ready for his coming We have a hymn that has these words in it. When he shall come with trumpet sound, O may I then in him be found, dressed in his righteousness alone, faultless to stand before the throne. The only way you can be ready is to be found in Christ. Because you have not trusted in your own good deeds. Not thinking that you're a pretty good person, but recognizing that you're a sinful person who deserves The judgment and the wrath of a just God, but you have been forgiven because you have placed all your hope and trust in Christ and his sacrifice for you on the cross. That is your only hope. That is the only way you can be ready. That's the only way you can be sure that you will not need to face his wrath. Instead, he will own you as his own. He will vindicate you. He will receive you to himself. Make certain that you're ready to meet the Lord. Let's close in prayer. Father We pray that you would speak to us today from your word. Help our minds not to be molded and shaped. by this fallen world and the lies that it perpetrates, but help our minds, our thinking our affections to be molded and shaped by your word. Help us to be a people who desire to worship you all of our days in ways That reveal who you are, that you are God of holiness and reverence, a God to be feared, and yet a God to be loved. And help us, Father, to have a burden for those in our society, in our communities that are right now under the wrath of God. And who desperately need to hear the gospel. Help us, Father, to be a light to them and to show them our great Savior. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.