It's good to have you with us this morning on Father's Day. Would you turn in your Bibles, please, to Proverbs chapter 14? It's a wonderful blessing to be a father. And in different seasons in our lives we have different blessings. One of the Blessings of being a father of small children is the admiration and respect That they exhibit when they're really, really young. Some of you dads know exactly what I'm talking about. I can remember when my children were really small and I would come home after a long day and you come in the door and you come in like a conquering hero. They say, Daddy's home, and they all run and they wrap themselves around your legs and they're cheering. And it's like the highlight of the day. I want to say to our young fathers, savor that. Enjoy that because it won't always be that way. Dads have many jobs. We have to kill insects that evoke great terror in the household. But yet are very, very small. We have to chase away the monsters that might be hiding in closets or under beds. But I think every father secretly enjoys doing that, even though it may rob them of some sleep. I can remember at times when Children would have trouble getting to sleep or perhaps have a nightmare and be alarmed and families do things different ways. I'm tempted to go off on a little tangent here, but I'm going to avoid it. We never brought the children into our beds. I would go to their bedroom And I would say, all right, I will stay here and I will be here in the room with you. I'll sleep on the floor. I'd sometimes take my pillow in there and lay it on the floor. un uh until you go to sleep and I'll stay here and you'll be just safe. And what's so amazing about little children is they can be completely terrified, out of their mind with fear, and then two minutes later they can be sound asleep. It doesn't work that way with adults, but it does with little children, and the presence of the father is enough to drive out their fear. And of course, there's a time when children are very little and know very little about the world where they think that their dad is the strongest and the smartest and the most capable man in the world. And they have confidence in their fathers. Every father wants to be a blessing to his children. God has instilled in our hearts a desire to provide and protect and prepare our children for life. But it is a daunting task. How can we give our children what they truly need to succeed in life? Most who contemplate the challenge of fatherhood think of providing education and financial security and basic life skills and indeed these are all important but the most important task of a father is to teach his children to trust and to follow the Lord. Now I wonder if when we were reading our verses together this morning, you detected the text that I was going to preach from. Perhaps you did not because it's not obvious. But it's there. Look with me at Proverbs 14. Verse 26. It says, in the fear of the Lord is strong confidence. And his children shall have a place of refuge. This verse, like many verses in Proverbs, has two lines. And they tell us a very important truth. Now, there are some debate about the reference to the his at the end of the verse and his children shall have a place of refuge. So there are some Scholars who have said what this is saying is in the fear of the Lord a strong confidence in his children, that is, God's children, will have a place of refuge. But this is not how most Bible scholars understand the verse. Most Bible scholars say it's more natural to understand it to be saying, and the the person who fears the Lord will experience strong confidence and his children, that is, that father's children will have a place of refuge. And that's the way I understand it, and that's the way I will be developing this this morning. Now we find this verse in the book of Proverbs. Let me give you about two minutes background on the book of Proverbs. This book. . . is the Bible's preeminent book of wisdom. The word wisdom, the Hebrew word for wisdom, the most common word , literally means skill. A wise person is a person who is skillful in making life choices. And this book explores how it is that we gain that wisdom. This book is divided into four parts, the first nine chapters. contain 15 discussions that a father has with his son. These are divided by the expression, my son. The primary audience is young men. The focus in the section is on receiving wisdom, which is exactly what often a young person does not want to do from their parents. And then in verses 10 through 24, we have the first collection of Solomon's Proverbs. This section is known for its contrast, its antithetical parallelism We have the contrast between the righteous and the wicked and between the fool and the wise. And then in chapters 25 through 29, we have a second collection of Solomon's Proverbs, but they were not compiled by Solomon, but by King Hezekiah, and the emphasis in that section is on relationships. And then we have what's almost like an appendix at the end of the verse. End of the book in chapters thirty and thirty-one, the Proverbs of Agar in chapter thirty, and the Proverbs of Chapter 31 of Lemul as taught to him by his mother with that famous Proverbs thirty-one passage. Now, the verse that we're looking at this morning, Proverbs 14, 26, is found in the second of these four parts. It's in that first collection of Solomon's Proverbs. And this is the section that emphasizes the contrast between the wise man and the fool. And in most of these Proverbs. There's little connection from one proverb to the next, but in this case there is a connection between verses 26 and 27. It's very obvious both of these verses begin with that expression the fear of the Lord. So this provides for us The basis of what we want to explore this morning. And what I want you to see is that a godly father provides a lasting foundation for his children. I'm going to preach you on how to give your children the right foundation for life. And there are three things I want to derive from this verse. The first is this. If you want to give your children the right foundation for life, you must walk in the fear of the Lord. And so, to begin with, we need to explore what does this mean? What does it mean to walk in the fear of the Lord? The fear of the Lord is the most common way of designating a godly person in the Bible And it's one of the key ideas of the book of Proverbs. Turn with me to the opening verses of this book. Proverbs chapter 1, please. I want you to see this. There's a very famous verse that you probably know. Proverbs chapter 1. And there's a sense in which verse 7 actually begins the book. And it says, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. But fools despise wisdom and instruction. And if you turn ahead now to chapter 9 and verse 10, you'll see something very similar. Proverbs 9. 10 says, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the holy is understanding. So the key to living wisely, the key to really navigating the dangerous waters of life All rest in the fear of the Lord. Now, perhaps you would say, Well, Pastor, I don't think this really applies to me today, because I live in the New Testament era, and you're you're reading from the Old Testament that emphasizes the fear of the Lord, but that's not the emphasis of the New Testament. But I want you to know that the New Testament does make many references to the fear of the Lord. I'm just going to read a few of these In Acts 9 and verse 31, it says, Then had the churches rest throughout Judea and Galilee and Samaria, and were edified, walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Ghost. One of the ways to describe this thriving church is that the people in that church were walking in the fear of the Lord. And 2 Corinthians 7 and verse 1 it says, Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit. perfecting holiness in the fear of God. And in Hebrews chapter 12, verses 28 and 29 it says, let us have grace whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear, for our God is a consuming fire. And then in 1 Peter 1 and verse 17 it says, Pass the time of your sojourning here in fear. So the Bible does call on us, even today, as New Testament believers, to fear the Lord. And let me clarify that there are two types of the fear of the Lord. First of all, there's the fear of the slave. This is the person who views God with terror and results in hiding from God. This is based on the ignorance of God and the mistrust of God. Many false religions. have this distorted view of the fear of the Lord. They are seeking always through their sacrifices to appease the gods. Because God is a God, not a God that you love, but a God that you fear, a God who can bring bad things into your life. And so your whole relationship is to try to keep God from doing bad things to you. But then there's also what the Bible presents, not the fear of a slave, but the fear of a son This is an individual who views God with awe and adoration that results in seeking the Lord. This is based on a relationship of trust that results in obedience. So, what does a healthy fear of the Lord look like? I like to think of it kind of like a three-legged stool. There are three essential elements to it. First of all, and primarily it includes a reverential respect for God. You can think of it like a little child who looks up at his dad who stands six feet tall and he seems like he towers above him and he lives in awe of his father and what he can do. He has this profound respect for him. We must never lose our awe of God, our adoration, our respect for him. Secondly, it includes a fear of damaging this relationship It of course includes loving God and and because we love God, we don't want to hinder this relationship in any way. We don't want to disobey him. We don't want to displease him because we love him. Just like a small child does not want to displease his father, he wants the approval of his father. And so he he he seeks to obey, not so much because he's afraid of his father, but because he fears hindering that relationship. And thirdly, it also includes a healthy fear of the consequences that will come if we disobey the Lord. There is a true sense of fearing the discipline of God. That should not be our primary motive. That should not be what compels us day in and day out as Christians. But the Bible does say that it's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. And Hebrews chapter 12 says that if you are a son of God You will be chastened by the Lord because that's true of every son that he receives. So we do not sin casually. We do not say, I'm not worried about what's going to happen to me. A person who expresses that does not know the fear of the Lord. The best way to understand this idea of loving and fearing, I think, again, is the parent-child relationship. Dad, when you come home from work, your child should not be cowering under the bed or hiding in a closet because They're so afraid of you because you're such a demanding and angry and volatile person that their responses to hide from you. If that's what they do, then then you've got a very poor relationship with your children. They should be running to embrace you. That's what a healthy relationship looks like. And that's the way we should feel about our God. But they should have a healthy fear of you when they disobey. And they have to give an account for their actions. So it's very important that we live with the fear of the Lord. So what does it practically mean for a father to live in the fear of the Lord? I just want to mention two very basic things. Number one, a man who fears the Lord lives in the presence of the Lord. He knows that God sees everything that he does, and everything, he hears everything that he says. He is aware of the presence of the Lord. So many people today they live their life as if there is no God, and it's not until perhaps when something striking happens or when they come into a church that they they begin to think about God. But God is always with us. And if a dad is going to fear the Lord, that means that he is aware of God's presence when he's at work. When he's far away from home on a trip, when his children are not around him and his wife is not there, he is aware of the presence of the Lord, and that sense of God's holy presence keeps him from sin. And number two, a man who fears the Lord puts God first in his life. You can't fear the Lord and have him as kind of just a minor place in your life. He's number one. He's far above everything else. Pleasing him and living for him is what your life is all about, and everyone around you knows that. It means that your relationship with God is more important than your career. More important than your job. Having a job is important. God made men so that we find great satisfaction in our work. I'm not going to go off on another diatribe here, but God made men and women different that way. Women can find satisfaction in their work, but psychologists will tell you the emotional impact that a man experiences when he is let go and when a woman is let go is different. Because he finds his sense of self-worth in what he does in a way that a woman does not. God made men and women different. There's a news flash for you today. But man, there's something more important than even your career that helps to define who you are, and that is your relationship with God. And that means that you will not fall into the all-too common trap of becoming a workaholic A slave to your profession, to the office where you're never home, where you're never there for your kids or for your family because you're in this game of trying to please your superiors and climb up the corporate ladder and become well established and respected in your field. No, your family comes before that. But more importantly, God comes before that. It means that God is more important than your hobbies He is more important than your hobbies. It's not wrong to have a hobby, to have an interest that you're excited about. How often I've talked to young people grown up in counseling situations and often in casual conversation, even they'll talk about their dad, or maybe even at someone's funeral, they'll talk about This person and how they were so loyal and they got so excited and so emotional about their favorite football team Or some other hobby, some other area of recreation. It's not wrong to get excited about that, provided that your children also see. That you're excited about the Lord and what He is doing. If you inadvertently, by your emotional response, by the outlay of your money, and by the time that you spend, give your children the impression, you know. Recreation or sports or hunting or whatever it is is really what's exciting and important in life. Church and and all that stuff of doing right, you know, I guess you're supposed to do that sort of like you're supposed to eat your vegetables. But it's not something that that anybody really wants to do. I greatly fear that that is the message that a lot of fathers send to their children. They get so enthusiastic about other some things, but God not so much. And how many parents inadvertently, and I'm starting to meddle here a little bit, teach their children that sports is really what it's all about. And whenever there's a conflict between church and sports, the sports wins out And they will always excuse it by saying, but it's for the family, it's for my kids. You know what? There's something even more important than your kids, and that's the Lord, and He gave you your children. Dads, the most loving thing you can do for your children is to put God first in your life. The best foundation that you can provide is to live in the fear of the Lord. The second thing I want you to see from Proverbs 1426 is this. If you want to give your children the right foundation for life You must find your strength in God. Notice what this first phrase says. And the fear of the Lord is strong confidence. You know, I was thinking about this. That is a really manly verse. And the fear of the Lord is strong confidence. Every man wants to have strong confidence What does it mean? Well this term strong means to be firmly fixed or immovable This word was used to describe the way God established the world of that creation. Think of a firm foundation. Have you ever wondered how those massive skyscrapers in Manhattan are supported? On land that at least originally was rather swampy, well, engineers drove huge metal pylons hundreds of feet deep into the bedrock. That is the kind of sure foundation that your children need in life. And the word confidence describes that which is secure or safe. It can also be used to refer to a fortress. But it does more than denote what is objectively true. It also depicts how one subjectively feels because of that reality. In other words, it's one thing to be safe , is another thing to feel like you're safe. This is one of the big things of security. Part of security is not just keeping people safe. But giving people the confidence that they are safe. And sometimes they're not exactly the same thing This verse includes both of those. One scholar said it is a ground of feeling so secure that one can be unconcerned. In other words, I'm so secure I don't have to worry about these things happening because I have my confidence in God The point I'm trying to make is that before you can give your children a firm foundation for life, you must have a firm foundation for life. If you don't know the Lord, of course, you cannot really fear the Lord, and you cannot lead your children to find a refuge in God's. So then, where do you find your confidence? The Hebrew word translated confidence is used to describe several false foundations of security in the Old Testament. It's used, first of all, to describe confidence in physical strength. In Proverbs 21-22, it's used to describe a walled city. In the ancient world, that was the ultimate defense for a community. They would build walls around the residences. in that community, and there would be a great gate, and that would keep the enemy out from them. It gave them a sense of confidence and strength But many walled cities have fallen in history because safeties of the Lord Man, let me speak frankly. Your sense of security and confidence should not ultimately be dependent on how many guns you have in your house or how much weight you can bench press. Now, those are very manly things, and I'm not against them at all. But ultimately, your sense of confidence is not in the physical might that you have, but in God that you know. Another false area of confidence the Bible mentions of the Old Testament is confidence in political leaders. In Proverbs 25, 19, it says, confidence in an unfaithful man in times of trouble is like a broken tooth and a foot out of joint. You rely on someone and say, this guy is going to solve all our problems. He's like going to be our Savior. You know what you're going to end up with? You're going to end up with a painful sense of disappointment. Like when you have a rotten tooth or a sprained ankle. It's going to be painful. The Bible says, put not your trust in princes. Every political season that we have, I'm always amazed at the naivete that people exhibit in thinking that if we just get this guy in Oh man, all of our problems are going to be gone. He's going to solve everything. It's never worked before. Why would you think it would work now? There's a third thing that people trust in and find confidence in, and that is in financial resources. In Proverbs 31, 25, Job speaks of those who make gold their hope and say to find gold, Thou art my confidence. Men, we need to work hard and provide for our families. However, we must never find our security and our money. Because that is a false security. We must never give our children the impression that pursuing money is what life is all about This is how most lost people live in the United States of America, but it's not the way that we should live. We do not find our identity, our security in material riches. Why is it? Sometimes people think that God's just kind of against us having a nice house or a nice car or anything. That's not the case at all. The reason why God says you should not put your security in those things is because they're not secure. He said, Lay not out for yourselves treasures upon earth where moth or rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal. It's a poor investment. It can be gone in a moment of time. So why would you put your reliance, why would you invest your life in something that will not last? You must find your confidence in the Lord. This is how this term is used repeatedly in the Old Testament. And Psalm chapter 40 and verse 4 it says, Blessed is the man that maketh the Lord his trust. And Psalm 71, verse 5 says, For thou art my hope, O Lord God, thou art my trust from my youth. Jeremiah 17, verse 7 says, Blessed is the man that trusteth in the Lord, and whose hope is in the Lord. Dads, we need to demonstrate to our children that God is in control and that He is worthy of our trust. Every dad wants his children to have a sense of security. But how can we give them that sense We can give them that sense when they can see in our lives that we are confident in God, that He is our refuge and strength. And that we find our security in him. And when they see that dad has his security in God, then they will come to look to your God to find their security as well. If you want to give your children the right foundation for life, you must walk in the fear of the Lord. And find your strength in God. And thirdly, you must show them how to trust. in the Lord. There are two ways that you can show your children how to trust in the Lord. There are more than that, but I want to mention two ways. By your example and by your instruction. Let's talk about your example for a moment. Your children see you as you really are. You know, every once in a while they'll become they'll come out a biography. about a famous individual that has a public persona that everyone sees, but then his children were right about things that the world didn't see. That took place behind closed doors. The children were very well aware of. Your children, dads, see the real you They see you at your best. They see you at your worst. Example is a powerful teacher. Perhaps you've heard the expression, do as I say, not as I do. Let me tell you something, Dads, it doesn't work. They're much more likely to do what you do than to do what you say Proverbs 23, verse 26 has a very amazing message for us. It says, My son, give me thine heart. And let thine eyes observe my ways I think most dads would be afraid to say that. Observe my ways, watch what I do. Look at how I respond to this situation. The idea of that verse, the connection is if you really want to reach the heart of your child, you've got to live God's truth before them. And let me just say that your children do not expect perfection. Every dad is flawed Every father that you've ever known has their inconsistencies, their blind spots, their failures. Because we're human beings. When you're a really little kid, you're not you don't recognize those. As you get older, you become more aware of them. As you become an adult You begin to have a real assessment of your parents. Your dad's not perfect And your children know that. But what your children want is honesty. They want authenticity. What is the most harmful thing for you to do is to be a hypocrite. And that is to demand from your children what you don't demand from yourself. Demand that your children children tell you the truth when you don't tell the truth Demand your children be disciplined when you're not disciplined. Demand that your children give you respect when you don't respect the authority over you. That kind of hypocrisy drives children away from you and away from God's. But I don't want to emphasize the negative. I want to mention two ways that you can demonstrate that God is your refuge and strength. First of all, by the way, you respond to a crisis. Notice it says in verse 26, and the fear of the Lord is strong confidence. And his children, that is the man who fears the Lord, his children shall have a place of refuge. A place of refuge. And that is a refuge is what? A refuge is a place where you go when you're in trouble. A place where you go when you are in a crisis. I'm going to pardon me to use two illustrations from my dad this morning. I remember, and I'm not trying to be sensational with this, but When I was uh in Papua New Guinea, my parents were missionaries. Uh there was a situation when I was, let's see, I would have been about seven. When my life was in danger. My uh uh we had a church there uh at our house. and uh a place in the basement where they would meet. And uh that night my dad was taking back a a group. that uh rode in our truck uh from one of the villages and it's a long story. I won't go into all the details. It was very bad weather, it was pouring rain, the roads were really, really muddy, and to make a long story short, one of the young men Died, fell underneath the wheel of the truck. It was an open truck, and he fell underneath of it and was killed. died and took him immediately to the local authorities, the hospital, but his spleen was crushed and he died. And he was from one of the villages. They lived by different set of rules than we do. And in their system, there was a sense of payback that if somebody from our tribe is killed uh and and you're and and you're responsible for them then we kill somebody from your tribe. So The police authorities tell us you need to go home, you need to pack, and you need to be gone within 30 minutes because people will be coming to burn your house down. And specifically they will be coming to kill your son because it was their son who died. So I remember being sound asleep and being wakened up and my mom uh was frantically throwing clothes together for me and we got into the truck and we left in the middle of the night to go to another mission compound. But I remember my dad saying, it's going to be all right. Nothing to worry about. Just lay down here and go to sleep. And I laid my head down there and I went to sleep. And I wasn't worried at all about things because my dad wasn't worried about things. I look back on it now and I'm like, wow, you know, I could have been killed. They could have burned the house down with me inside. But my dad had confidence in the Lord, and I had confidence in my dad and in his God. So how you respond in a crisis Speaks volumes to your children. It goes back to your core values, to your foundation, to what you really trust in. So dads, in every crisis there's an opportunity for you to turn your children confidence to the Lord and say, the Lord is in control. The Lord's going to take care of us. The Lord's going to provide for us. The Lord's going to help us. You'll see. You can trust in him. Don't forget. To live out your faith before your children. This is closely connected, but also this matter of depending on God in prayer. Have you ever demonstrated to your children that the Lord will provide and that they can trust in Him? I fear sometimes in our affluence that we we lose the ability to ever teach our children that lesson. I remember when I was four or five years old and we were preparing to go to the mission field and money was really tight. My dad had quit his job because we were trying to raise support, but there's always that difficult time for missionaries where you really don't have enough support coming in, but you've got to go out and raise support. And and and we were behind in our bills. We were doing everything we could. And I remember my dad getting the family together, my sister. My mom and we went there and he opened up these bills and he put them on the table. And he said, see, we have these bills that we need to pay, and we don't have the money to pay with it But he says, we're going to pray, and you're going to see that God's going to provide. And we knelt there by that table and we prayed. And you know what? Within a few weeks, money came in from unexpected places. And those bills were all paid. But my dad had the confidence, you know, a lot of parents would say, well, what if I put the bills out there and And nothing comes in. I don't want to do that. But my dad was so sure that God was going to provide that he said, watch this children, watch this. I want you to learn something from this. And I've never forgotten that. We need to teach our children to pray and to trust in the Lord and to expect that He will provide as He has promised. This is one of the ways you can be a refuge for your children. But we not only do this by our example, by our instruction. Look with me at the next verse, verse 27. It says, The fear of the Lord is a fountain of life to depart from the snares of death. We have a great example of contrast here. Fountain of life, the snares of death. In verse 27, we have a sample of the kind of instruction a father should give to his children. Let me show this to you. Look with me at the previous chapter, at Proverbs chapter 13 and verse 14. Proverbs 13, verse 14. The law of the wise is a fountain of life. To depart from the snares of death. Now that verse is identical to 1427, except for the first part it says the law of the wise. And what's that referring to? That's referring to parental instruction. How do I know that? Well, look at the example in chapter 13 and verse 1. A wise son heareth his father's instruction, but a scorner heareth not rebuke. So we have here an example of a father's teaching. So how could we summarize a father's teaching? Well, there's a positive aspect to it and a negative aspect to it. The positive aspect is this. The fear of the Lord is a fountain of life. A father should be teaching his children that knowing God is a delightful thing. It's like finding a fountain of water in a dry and arid landscape. It is refreshing and life-giving and a reason to rejoice. It's a source of joy and hope. I think so often children get the impression from adults that following God may be the right thing to do, but it's boring and miserable. And they say, no, thank you. What we need to portray to our children is that following the Lord is a fountain of life. It's where our joy is found. It's where our life comes from. It's not something we have to do, it's something we want to do. A life walking with God is the only way to truly live. It is the abundant life. The lie of the world is that there are all these wonderful things to enjoy and experience, but God doesn't want you to have them. That's one of Satan's most effective lies, especially to young people. And by the time they've gone headfirst into the world to experience that, by the time they figure it out, they've already, in so many cases, scarred their lives and ruined their lives. Before they discover it's all deception. That's not where happiness and joy and lasting peace come from. It's found in the fear of the Lord and knowing God and walking in his ways. It's like a fountain of life. And then we have the negative aspect of parental instruction. Speaks here of the snares of death. Every Christian father must warn his children that the world is full of traps and snares that will enslave them and ultimately lead to eternal death. If you want to know the sort of topics that a father should discuss with his son, look in the first nine chapters of Proverbs. There are 15 different discussions. Speaks of things like the danger of evil companions. He says, my son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not. He speaks of the danger of sensual women, of strange women in Proverbs 5 and many other passages. And the importance of knowing and trusting in the Lord. That's where we get that wonderful verse, trust in the Lord with all thy heart. And lean not to thy own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. That is a father speaking to his son In my years of service as a pastor, I have discovered that most dads rarely speak to their children about the most important things in life They rarely speak to them about the Lord. That's a very sad thing. How do I know that? Because I've talked to so many young people and asked them. Did your dad ever talk to you about this? Did he ever instruct you in this? Did he ever warn you about this? And the answer almost always is no. I never heard a thing from him about this. Fathers often try to outsource this weighty responsibility to their wives or the Sunday school teacher or the youth pastor. But, dads, your children need to hear this from you. They want to know if your faith is real or just a front and if they can truly trust in the Lord. They long to know how God has worked in your life. They want to know if God is someone on whom they can depend. You don't need to be a theologian or preacher to convey to your children that God is a refuge and strength, a very present help and trouble. Dad, give your children the fortress of a God-fearing father. Many of you know that one of our missionaries that we support is Paul Schleylin. He recently wrote a biography of John Payton, the Scottish missionary who went to the New Hebrides Islands. He went there facing a seemingly impossible task. The missionaries that had gone 19 years earlier In 1839, when they landed on those islands, within minutes they were killed and eaten. And now he was the next missionary to go there with his young wife. Everyone tried to talk him out of it, but he believed that he must go. He went there. He faced great hardship. His wife did die of some disease. They lost their son in the first year. But God was at work. God delivered him in miraculous ways on numerous occasions. He ended up going to another island. There he was able to establish a church and evangelize in time and recruit other missionaries so that a whole chain of islands, the New Hebrides Islands, became a bright spot in the Pacific Ocean. Where people worship God in spirit and in truth. And one of the things, and Paul brings this out in his biography, one of the great shapers and molders of John Payton's life. was the life of faith of his father. His father was not a very educated man. He was a simple man. But he had a strong faith in God. He was a man of prayer. I want to read something from Peyton's biography about his father. Speaks about his father's prayer closet. He says, the closet was a very small room that was the sanctuary of our cottage home. Twice daily, generally after each meal, we saw our father retire and shut the door, and we children got to understand by a sort of spiritual instinct. That prayers were being poured out on our behalf. We occasionally heard the pathetic echoes of a trembling voice pleading as if for life The outside world may not know the source of our Father's radiant smile, but we knew it was a reflection of the divine presence in which he lived. And then he says, though everything else in religion were by some unthinkable catastrophe swept away, my soul would wander back to those early scenes of my childhood, college. and my father's prayer closet and hurl away all doubt by saying he walked with God. Why may not I Missionaries like John Payton come from godly fathers who walked with the Lord and made God their refuge. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, how far we fall short as dads of being the godly example that you've called us to be. We are all inconsistent and flawed and at times hypocrites. But Father, we want our children to trust in you and to walk in the fear of the Lord. I pray that you would help us. To be men who would cast their eyes upon you, men who are flawed men, Father, who do love you, and who do fear you and who do want to follow you And I pray that our children would come to follow you as well as they follow in our footsteps. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.