Give your Bibles please turn to Romans chapter 8. Some of you have heard of the Chinese devotional writer Wachman Ni. He tells a story of a new convert who come came to him in deep distress and said, no matter how hard I try I simply cannot seem to be faithful to my Lord. I think I'm losing my salvation. Watch my knee say to him, do you see this dog here? He is my dog. He is house-trained. He never makes a mess. He's obedient. He's a pure delight to me. Out in the kitchen, I have a son, a baby son. He makes a mess. He throws his food around. He fouls his clothes. He's a total mess. But who is going to inherit my estates? Not my dog, but my son, because he is my heir. You are Jesus Christ's heir because it is for you that he died. This morning we come to a verse of Scripture that tells believers. That we are not only the children of God, but we are heirs of God. Let me remind you that Romans chapter 8 is all about the Christians' triumphant assurance of salvation. Our confidence is not grounded in our religious performance or our perfect obedience, but entirely is due to God's gracious work in our lives In verse 14 of this chapter, Paul grounds our assurance and our identity as the children of God. He says, For as many as are led by the Spirit, they are the sons of God. And when we spoke from that verse, I mentioned that the Holy Spirit leads us in the path of obedience. This is true of all the children of God. In verses 15 and 16, we read how the Holy Spirit confirms that we are the children of God. He frees us from the bondage of sin. He adopts us into the family of God, and the Spirit bears witness with our Spirit that we are the children of God. Look with me. At verses 15 and 16, for ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit itself bears witness with our Spirit that we are the children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ. If so be that we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified together. What exactly does it mean to be A child of God. What are the privileges that we enjoy? Well, that is what Paul is going to bring out in verse 17 in a very concise way. He alludes to the wonderful privileges that yet await us as the children You see, being a child of God is not an empty title. It is our new identity. Now the problem is Is that I think often we don't think of being a child of God as an incredible privilege because of the hardships and the difficulties that we face in the world today. You may not feel like a child of the king. You may not feel like you have any status in this world. Your life is filled with suffering and hardship and problems. But there's something that you must understand. Most of the blessings that you will enjoy as a child of God, most of the benefits of your salvation are still in the future. They have not been fully realized. I hope that you're enjoying the Christian life today, but you don't even know a small fraction of what it means to be a child of God. in the here and now, because that is yet to come. And what is brought out in this wonderful chapter of assurance is that if you are a son of God, a daughter of God, your identity is confirmed, your destiny is certain, and your future is bright. I want to speak to you this morning on the privileges of the children of God. And I want us to see that Christians should rejoice. in the incredible privileges that we have as the children of God. First of all, notice in our text, the children of God are heirs. It says in verse 17, and if children then heirs. The first implication of our status as the children of God is that we are also heirs of God. Let me remind you that adoption was a very important part of Roman culture. That's one of the primary reasons that a wealthy man who had no natural sons would adopt an adult young man because he wanted that man to continue his name, to be his heir, and to inherit his fortune. Therefore, it's not surprising that the first implication of this doctrine of adoption is that we as the children of God are heirs. Now the man who was adopted in Roman culture was instantly given the status as a son, but he did not enjoy that inheritance until his father died. If you are a truly born-again believer, right now, you have the status of being a child of God. But you cannot fully understand all that that means until you die and enjoy your inheritance as a son of the king. So let me mention very briefly five things that we will enjoy as the children of God that are yet future for us. There are more than this. But I'm going to confide to five things very quickly. Number one, you will receive a home. In heaven. That's probably the first thing that we think of. Jesus said to his troubled disciples the night before his crucifixion, in my father's house are many mansions or many rooms is the word. there speaks of heaven with the terminology of our father 's house. Your father's house is probably a place where you feel at home. It's a place where you can rest and enjoy communion and fellowship. And that's what it will be for us in heaven someday, a place of fellowship. And acceptance and love with our brothers and sisters. Number two, we will enjoy a life free from all the problems that plague us in this world. Revelation 21 and verse 4 it says, And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall be no more death. Neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. How many children of God this morning have their hearts in some way filled with sorrow I want you to know that someday that will be gone. How many of you are troubled with chronic pain? If you are a child of God someday, that will be in the past. Thirdly, we will enjoy the most satisfying fellowship imaginable. So often in Scripture We find heaven pictured as a wedding feast or a great banquet. There are several parables that have this imagery. Jesus said, and many shall come from the east and west, and shall sit down with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. And in Revelation 19, we read, Blessed are they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb. And the emphasis in these pictures is not on the food, but on the guests that are present and on the fellowship that we will enjoy. In the ancient world, a meal was not so much about receiving the nutrition, but fellowshipping with others. And the Bible says that someday we will enjoy fellowship in an unbelievable way. Now I know that there's some of you here that that almost seems like a negative to you because you're kind of shy and reserved and you avoid banquets and fellowship halls and places like that. You like to stay to yourself And there are many reasons for that, but I want you to know that you're going to be different in heaven someday. God made us social creatures. And someday you will enjoy that dimension of your humanity in a way like you never have before. And fourthly, we will enjoy being completely holy like Christ. In 1 John chapter 3 Verses 1. And following we read, Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him. For we shall see him as he is, and every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself even as he is pure. Sin will no longer plague and vex our souls. Guilt, shame, remorse, and regrets will be a thing of the past. Number five, we will enjoy seeing Christ in his glory. In John 17, the great high priestly prayer, the last and the highest request request that Jesus prayed for his followers was this, Father, I will that they also whom thou hast given me Be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory, which thou hast given me, for thou lovest me before the foundation of the world. These are some of the aspects of what it means to be an heir of God. All of these gifts All of these promises, all of these experiences will be ours. You have God's word for it. But many Bible scholars believe that when Paul speaks of being heirs of God, he means that in a certain sense we will inherit God Himself. That is that we will enjoy a richer, more intimate relationship with our Heavenly Father than we have ever enjoyed. before. Do you recall God's promise to Abraham? In Genesis 15 and verse 1 he says, Fear not Abraham, I am thy shield. And thy exceeding great reward. What was the great reward? It was God Himself In Genesis seventeen and verse seven it says, And I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee and their generation for an everlasting covenant to be a God unto thee. And to thy seed after thee. You see, the ultimate blessing of the Abrahamic covenant was not the land or even the innumerable descendants, but God Himself. Let me ask you this. Do you remember what the members of the tribe of Levite got for their inheritance? Remember, all the other tribes received a portion of land. In Canaan, the promised land. But the Levites were not given a portion of land. It says in Joshua 13 and verse 33, the Lord God was their inheritance. And since we are a kingdom of priests, the Lord is our inheritance as well. You see, God is the ultimate reward of his people. He is our everlasting portion. But there's a second privilege of the children of God that is mentioned in verse 17, and that is that the children of God are joint heirs with Christ. Now, what is Paul communicating here? Well, Paul is once again referring to another consequence of our union with Christ. The Bible teaches that in a mystical way we are united with Christ so that what has happened to him happens to us and has a lasting impact on our identity. For instance, let me go through some of the statements the scripture gives to us. The Bible teaches that we have been crucified with Christ, Galatians 2. 20. That when Christ died, there's a sense in which we died. It teaches that if we have been buried with Christ, that when he was buried buried in the tomb, there's a sense in which we were buried in the tomb. Romans 6. 4. It teaches that we have been raised with Christ, that when Jesus rose from the dead on the day of resurrection, There's a sense in which we rose from the dead. Colossians 2. 12. It teaches that in some sense we are seated with Christ in the heavenlies. Ephesians 2. 6. And here we read in Romans 8. 17 that because of this union with Christ, that we are joint heirs with Christ. You see, we would never be an heir of God if it were not for the work of Christ This is something that the Apostle Paul brings out in some detail in the book of Galatians. In fact, that's why I had us read from Galatians chapter 4 this morning. He actually begins this very extended discussion. I really debated about whether or not to read this, but I decided that I wasn't going to read about 30 or so verses consecutively. But way back in chapter 3 and verse 16, it says, Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made. He saith not, and to seize as of many, but as of one to thy seed, which is Christ. And then he goes on to talk about that this promise refers to Christ Himself, and we can be part of that by faith in him. He says in verse 26 of chapter 3, for ye are the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. And then in chapter 4, he's going to explore this concept that Paul mentions in Romans 8:17 of being an heir of God Now I say that the heir as long as he is a child differeth nothing from a servant, though he be Lord of all. He's talking about it in a Roman household there might be one of his uh young man that works there as a servant in the household, but he has been chosen to be heir. He has not received all of those privileges and blessings yet because the father hasn't died. But everybody knows he is the heir. Now his lifestyle doesn't differ that much from the servants at that point. Because he hasn't received the blessings, the full blessings yet. That's what it's talking about. He is under tutors and governors until the time appointed of the Father. Even so we, when we were children, were in bondage under the elements of the world. But when the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his son. made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. And because ye are sons God has sent forth the Spirit of His Father into your hearts crying, Abba Father. Look at verse 7. Wherefore thou art no more a servant but a son, and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ. Now I read all of that To point out this thing. We are heir of God through Christ. It's only through Christ that we have this exalted standing. And Hebrews chapter 1 and verse 2 says of Christ that he is the heir of all things. Now in our capitalist society The wealthiest people achieve their riches usually by business savvy. If you think of the wealthiest men in the world today, they are men who founded corporations or companies that exploded in growth, that are household words, and their stock and their investment in that country has brought them billions and billions of dollars But in the ancient world, most people gained their riches by being an heir of someone who was wealthy. You find this kind of plot line in many of the novels by Charles Dickens and other writings of the time about some wealthy individual who dies and leaves a fortune to someone else. And so this idea that is not as common, perhaps, to us in our culture today was very common to people in the ancient world. And so what we see here is that Jesus is the ultimate heir of God. And in him are found all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. We are sons of God only because Jesus is the Son of God, and we are heirs of God only because Jesus Christ is the heir who inherits all things. But since Christ is the heir of God, and because we are united to Christ by faith, we are co-heirs with him. This is our true identity as the sons of God. Now there is a third privilege that is mentioned in our text that you may have never thought of as a privilege. In fact, it's Here kind of phrased in the idea of a condition. Look what it says in verse 17. If so be that we suffer with him. Now, what does this mean if we suffer with him? First of all, let me explain what it does not mean. It does not mean that by suffering we can somehow earn our way to heaven. That we are to somehow torture ourselves and deprive ourselves of basic necessities to please God. That's not what the Bible teaches. We can never earn our way to heaven Salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone. Secondly, this is not a reference to our dying with Christ because that occurred at our conversion. So, what does this mean? It means that every child of God will face suffering in this life And you can think of this suffering as kind of coming in three categories, although there may be some overlap at times. Number one, this is what we most often think of, there's a suffering that comes simply because we live in a fallen planet. There's disease. There's death. There's disorder. There's injustice. There's crime. There's all these things that bring suffering into our lives But this has to mean more than this because lost people live on the same planet and they experience the same problems. This is talking about suffering of the children of God. There's a second element of suffering and difficulty that we face. And this is correction from God. We read about this in Proverbs 3. We read about it in Hebrews chapter 12. Talks about the fact that because we are the children of God and God loves us when we go astray He lovingly corrects us, not to punish us for our sins, because all of our punishment was paid for at the cross, but to correct us and to keep us from the idols that would enslave our hearts. And bring great difficulty into our lives. So he chastens his children. That's another aspect of suffering, and that's something that is Truly part of what the people of God experience. In fact, in Hebrews twelve, he says it's not an evidence that you're not a child of God. In fact, it's an evidence that you are a child of God, that you don't get away from drifting away from the Lord, that he brings you back through his firm discipline, his hand of discipline that he brings into your life. But certainly the primary thing that Paul has in mind here is the suffering that comes by way of persecution. Because of your identity with Christ. We pray this morning for the persecuted church. And you find references to this all throughout Scripture. But this is part of what it means to be a follower of Christ. And because we live in the United States of America, we live in a historic. anomaly where we have religious freedoms, where we have um we have a Christian heritage Because of those things, we tend to think that the Christian life that we enjoy and experience is what people around the world experience. But we are the exception. We are the oddity, if you will. Everyone else in the world is experiencing what most Christians have experienced throughout history, and that is that we are a persecuted minority. We prayed for these countries that are under extreme persecution. That has been the lot of God's people throughout much of church history. That is the norm. Suffering is the heritage of the children of God. It says in Philippians 1. 29, unto you it is given on the behalf of Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake. 2 Timothy 3. 12 says that all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. One writer put it this way, we are joint heirs with the man of sorrows. And therefore we should not expect that we would be exempt from suffering. Now, many of us would perhaps say that we've never faced opposition for our faith. I certainly don't wish this, but that of course could change very quickly. But I want you to also notice that the Bible says that all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. Perhaps one reason why We don't experience uh very much persecution at all is because we are not a conspicuous testimony. We have not set ourselves to live godly in Christ Jesus. We have kind of accommodated the world and its values, and therefore we do not stand out, we are not viewed as a threat, and therefore we receive no persecution. In John 15 and verse 20, Jesus said, The servant is not greater than his Lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you. Following Christ involves suffering for Christ. Jesus said, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. We should not be shocked when the world opposes us because of our faith in Christ. We should not be angered when lost people despise and mock us. Instead, we should do what the apostles did. when they were beaten for preaching the gospel. We should rejoice that we have been counted worthy to suffer for the sake of his name. And God often uses suffering to accomplish his purposes in our lives. When you suffer with someone, it tends to bind your hearts together. You ever notice that when soldiers go to battle, their suffering and hardship binds them together. They become a band of brothers. And if You and a friend are fighting cancer at the same time, it tends to create a close bond, a bond born of affliction. In the same way when we suffer for Christ. There's a sense in which we're suffering with Christ. That he knows our pain and our difficulties. And that makes a great difference. And when believers face suffering, we learn things about God that we would have never have known otherwise. In Philippians 3. 10. Paul says that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his suffering. When we suffering, we experience God's tenderness. and compassion and sympathy in a way that we never really knew before. And God also uses suffering to strip away the idols and to burn out the draws of worldliness in our lives. And he does so so that we can say from our hearts with the psalmist, it is good for me that I have been afflicted. But there is a fourth privilege of the children of God mentioned in our text, the culmination of all things. The children of God, for they will be glorified with Christ. It says that we may also be glorified together. Just as Christ was glorified after his resurrection, so we will someday be glorified. I will say a little more about this point. And then Lord willing in the next Lord's day because it's brought out conspicuously in verse 18. But let me just say for now that this is the ultimate end of our redemptive journey. Turn with me to just a little later in this chapter to verse 28, this famous verse, Romans 8. 28. And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. For whom he did for know, he did also predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called, and whom he called, them he also justified, and whom he justified, them he also glorified. That is the final aspect of our salvation. When we become like Christ, when we are no longer sinful. This is where everything is headed. You see, salvation is much greater and more magnificent than just the forgiveness of our sins. sins and escaping the flames of hell. I think that's how we often think of our salvation. But God has something much greater in store for us. It is nothing less than our gracious glorification, which will occur because of our union with Christ. Now, what I want you to see under this heading is that the Bible consistently makes the link between glory and suffering. Suffering comes first, and then glory. If you were to look up those two terms in your New Testament, you would find them connected together again and again and again. This pattern is very frequent in Scripture. In Luke chapter 4 and verse 26, Jesus speaking to the two on the road to Umah said, ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? In 1 Peter 1 and verse 11, we read the prophets seeking to understand from the scriptures it says, the suffering of Christ and the glory that should follow. You see, we are following that same path in our life. First comes suffering Then comes glory. First Peter chapter 4, verses 11 and 12 said, Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you as though some strange thing happened unto you. But rejoice in as much as ye are partakers of Christ's suffering, that when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding God's plan was for his son to suffer and then for him to be glorified, for him to have the cross and then the crown. And this is the same pattern that God has for us as well. This is part of what it means to follow the master. But this gives us a great key to enduring the suffering of this life, and that is we know that there is glory To follow. You know, you can go, you can endure just about any difficulty, any hardship if you know that there is great reward, that there is great blessing on the other side. And this is part of the key to our endurance in the Christian life that we are to keep our perspective on the glories of heaven. Not on the hardship of this earth. Paul would write in 2 Timothy, if we suffer, we also shall reign with him. Now I want to make some applications here. As we conclude this message this morning. First of all, we should find great assurance in our inheritance. as the children of God. Remember the whole point of Romans 8 is to give assurance to the people of God. And Paul was not the only apostle who brought out this truth. In 1 Peter chapter 1. We hear Peter describe our inheritance. He says, to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you, who are kept by the power of God. through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. And the whole emphasis of that Scripture and of what we're looking at here is that our inheritance is secure. It will never be stolen, it will never decay or rust away, and is protected by the power of Almighty God And let me remind you that our Father will never disinherit his children. Secondly, We should not turn from the Lord when we suffer. One of the great scourges of the modern church Is the health and wealth gospel. The prosperity gospel teaches that it is God's will for all of his children to experience a comfortable, self-indulgent life. And that if you just had more faith, your health problems would go away, your bank account would become full. And you would live a charmed life. Now I think that most people on the surface of that recognize that something's wrong with that. Not only does it not square with their experience, perhaps, but it doesn't seem biblical. In fact, it's the exact opposite. Of what Jesus said. He didn't promise that we would have riches. No, he promised that we would have suffering. He said, In the world ye shall have tribulation. That's what Jesus said. But I want you to know that this thinking still affects doctrinally sound, born-again Christians who would never go to a health and wealth gospel church. It still kind of permeates and seeps into our thinking. And we think about the fact how that we try to make our children's lives as pain free and as um fun as we possibly can, at least that's the way many parents approach it. And so when we go through hardship, when we go through suffering, when we face difficulty, we wonder why God is giving us so much difficulty into our lives. I mean we think to ourselves, I would never treat my child like this. The first thing I'm tempted to say is, well, God's a better parent than you are. But I think we also need to understand that this is not an uh uh an evidence that God has turned away from us or that he doesn't care for us The Bible speaks of suffering, believe it or not, as a gift. It says, unto you is given. And the term that's used there speaks of a gift. When God gives suffering to his children, it's not an evidence of his disfavor or his anger or his wrath against them. It's an evidence of his love for them. And one of the reasons he gives us suffering is because Because he wants God's grace to work in our lives in such a way that we bring glory to his name by the way we bear up under that suffering. By his grace. So that other people will say, you know, I could never face what they're facing the way they're doing it. I wonder why they're able to face their suffering, their difficulty, their hardship in this way. And the answer is because of the grace of God. You see, your suffering is not an evidence that you're not a child of God. It's evidence that you are a son or daughter of God. We have to always allow the Word of God to correct and adjust our thinking, not the culture in which we live. The third application I'm going to make is this: we should not find our ultimate satisfaction here on earth or even in the blessings of God, but in God Himself. God does give wonderful gifts to his children, but we must never love the gift more than the giver of the gift. You know, so often when kids are little and you give them a gift like at Christmas time and they tear open those presents. And they love those gifts and are so excited about it. And you have to teach them, all right now you s say thanks to m to your grandparents, you know, don't give them a hug. Don't thank you for this because they're the ones who bought it. You have to teach them to be grateful. But as they grow up, as they come of age, as they mature, you expect them To not be so entranced by the gifts they are given, but by the person who gives them the gifts. So that they don't go to grandma's house just because she's going to bake some cookies for them, but because they actually love their grandmother and they want to spend some time with her and they enjoy that fellowship because they're adults now. They're not little kids. And so it does in our relationship with God. We should not just be entranced by the wonderful gifts that God gives to us. It must always take our hearts to the God who gave them. This is our spiritual maturity God wants us to find our satisfaction not in the blessings that it gives, but in God Himself. So often I think when people even speak of heaven, they think of it in selfish terms. They want to go to heaven because it will be the end of their pain and suffering. That's true. Talked about that a little while ago. They want to go to heaven and see their loved ones who have gone on before. And that's true. You will have that blessing. They want to go to heaven to see the pearly gates and the streets of gold. It will be an incredible experience But what should thrill our hearts is not these wonderful blessings that are in heaven, but the fact that our Lord and Savior is there, that we will see the King and His beauty. And we will be forever with the Lord. That's what makes heaven heaven, not the streets of gold and the pearly gates. This is the ultimate inheritance of the children of God. But none of this, none of these privileges. are available unless you are truly a child of God. And we become children of God, not by good works. Not by living a respectable life. But by putting our faith and trust in our Savior who died in our place. But as many as received him, that is Jesus, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. It speaks here of salvation as the reception of a gift and as believing on his name that is on the person and character and work of Christ. This is our only hope of salvation. This is the way that we become the children of God. And if we are the children of God, then we are also heirs of God. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, what wonderful blessings await us. What an incredible status we have as your sons and daughters. Help us, Father, to embrace this To find hope and comfort even now when all of those privileges do not seem so real and so tangible to us. Help us, Father, to grasp hold of them by faith. And to live in light of our new identity and our coming glory. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.