If you have your Bibles, please would you turn with me to a very familiar passage of Scripture in John chapter 3. The first lighthouse in history was built on the island of Pharos, right off the coast of Alexandria, Egypt. You may know that Alexandria was one of the great cities of the ancient world. And it had a harbor, but that harbor had some sandbars. underneath the water, and ships would often plow into those sandbars, especially at night, creating great havoc and loss of life So in 285 BC, a giant tower was built. It was at least 400 feet tall. Some authorities say it was over 600 feet. And at the top of this tower, a bonfire was lit every night. And incoming vessels would follow the lights of that bonfire safely into the harbor, and they would be saved. This lighthouse became so famous that you may know that it's listed as one of the seven wonders of the ancient world. And amazingly, this tower stood in place for over 1,500 years until an earthquake knocked it down in 1302. But centuries before this lighthouse was constructed, a pole was lifted high in the desert. And that pole had a bronze snake wrapped around it. And all who gazed at this strange sight were saved from the deadly venom of a viper. This historic incident provides a picture of salvation. This is not a guess on my part. Because as you may know, the Lord Jesus Christ used this incident in the Old Testament to explain the gospel. to a religious man named Nicodemus. In John chapter 3, we have a very interesting conversation that the Lord has with this religious leader. Look with me at verse 1. There was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. The same came to Jesus by night and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God. For no man can do these miracles that thou doest except God be with him. And then we see the Lord's response in verse three. Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God 's Look at Nicodemus' response in verse 4. Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter the second time into his mother's womb and be born? And look at Jesus' reply. Jesus answered, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God, that which is born of the flesh. is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit. Marvel not that I say unto thee, ye must be born again. The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh and whither it goeth, so is every one that is born of the Spirit. And in verse 9, Nicodemus will ask the last of his questions. Nicodemus answered and said unto him, How can these things be? He doesn't understand. The Lord has just pressed Nicodemus with his need to be born again, but this religious leader doesn't get it. He says, how can these things be? How is it possible for a grown man to be born again? How is it that a person is changed spiritually from the inside outs? The Lord does not answer his question immediately. Instead, he rebukes him in verse 10. He says, Art thou a master of Israel and knoweth not these things? Nicodemus was not a novice to the Old Testament. He was a ruler of the Jews. He was a man who made his living. teaching the word of God. He knew these, he should know these things. But this very basic foundational concept of spiritual rebirth was something that he had no experience with. The Lord continues on, and then he provides for him. An illustration in verse 14. He says, And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life You see, it's difficult for us, the natural man. It's difficult to grasp concepts like grace and like faith They're not tangible commodities. And so the Word of God is filled with illustrations and analogies and metaphors. to help us better understand these spiritual truths. Perhaps you're here this morning and you are confused about these things. You hear talk about grace and about faith and about salvation. But what do these things truly mean? How is it possible? to possess eternal life. What does it mean to be born again, to call yourself a Christian? The answers are found. And the words of our Lord here in this passage. This is one of the great gospel texts of the Bible. Now let me hasten to add that this message is not just for unbelievers. It is certainly for them. And I feel absolutely confident that there are people here this morning, unfortunately, who do not know the Lord. In a crowd this size, that is almost inevitable. But the gospel is not just for lost people. It is for the redeemed as well. I was wondering what people thought this morning when we read this passage from John chapter 3, and maybe some people thought here, oh no, here we go. We're going to hear a gospel message. We're going to hear the very basic truths, the ABCs of the Christian life. I know this stuff. I've heard it from since I was a kid. And maybe there was a little despondency, a little, oh, I guess I have to put up with this today in your hearts. I hope that's not the case. There's no thing better than the gospel. And we can never hear it too much. This is why the Lord has instituted communion for his people, because we are so prone to forget and we need to be on a regular basis reminded of the gospel. Because the gospel not only saves us, but it's the foundational truths by which we live the Christian life And so if you are here this morning and you do seriously know the Lord is your Savior, this is for you. This is a reminder, this is a refresher, this is what the Christian life is all about. It's resting on the foundational truths of the gospel. And we need those truths every day of our lives. We must never grow weary of the old, old story of Jesus and his love. What we see in this passage is the exclusive path to salvation. The Bible presents an exclusive path and has no time for the common popular notion that there are many ways to God. Or that God goes by many different names, that people of various religions, that we all worship the same God, and we all have different paths, and they picture God is kind of being the top of the mountain and and uh people from different sides and different perspectives call him different names and they travel up different paths to the peak of that mountain but it's the same up there. That's not what the Bible teaches. Although it's politically incorrect, the Bible teaches an exclusivity. It teaches that there is only one way. And it teaches that that is through the Lord Jesus Christ. Now there are three exclusive truths that I want you to see in this passage this morning concerning our salvation. The first is that salvation is by grace alone. Salvation is by grace alone. And if you can, would you please turn with me back to the fourth book of the Old Testament? the book of numbers. The book of numbers is called numbers because there are many lists and many numbers in this book. And we're going to be looking at Numbers chapter 21. And I want to begin reading at verse 4. The Lord makes reference to this incident, and that's why we're turning there. I'll begin reading at verse 4, Numbers 21. And they journeyed from Mount Hor by the way of the Red Sea to compass the land of Edom. And the soul of the people was much discouraged because of the way. And the people spake against God and against Moses. Wherefore have ye brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness, for there is no bread, neither is there any water, and our soul loateth this light bread, referring to the manna. And the Lord sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people, and much people of Israel died. Therefore the people came to Moses and said, We have sinned, for we have spoken against the Lord and against thee. Pray unto the Lord, and he take away the serpents from us. And Moses prayed for the people, and the Lord said unto Moses , Make thee a fiery serpent, and set it upon a pole, and it shall come to pass that every one that is bitten when he looketh upon it shall live. And Moses made a serpent of brass and put it upon a pole. And it came to pass that if the serpent had bitten any man, when he beheld the serpent of brass, he lived. What an incredible and unusual incident this is. Let me set the background for this a little bit. In the first three verses of chapter 21, we read of the children of Israel battling against the Canaanite king. And after they had won the battle with God's help, they must have wondered how many struggles, how many battles are yet ahead of us. The excitement of the Exodus was long gone. They went around the land inhabited by the Edomites in order to avoid conflict, but yet they still encountered conflicts. And this required them to take a long journey through a barren wilderness. This is still one of the most inhospitable regions of the world today. There's nothing there. And the people began to grow weary and impatient. It says they were discouraged because of the way. The way was difficult. And so the people began to complain again. If you were to compare the wilderness wanderings, the various books, you would find that there are eleven different times the children of Israel complained. and murmured about their difficult circumstances. This is the 11th and last one of those occasions. But there's something different about this occasion. And the other incidents, they did not directly complain to God. They complained about Moses and his leadership. They complained about Aaron. They complained about their conditions. But they didn't really directly complain about God and what he was doing in their lives. But here in verse 5, it says the people spake against gods and against Moses. They questioned his purpose in bringing them out of Egypt. They question his provision for their basic needs, and they were tired of the manna, even though it was a miraculous provision of food. And so God sent fiery serpents to punish them. These snakes may have been fiery because of their appearance, bright colors, you know, nature often Will warn us of venomous creatures by giving them bright colors. And perhaps that was the case with these snakes. Or perhaps they were called fiery serpents because when they bit a person it felt like fire There was a burning sensation. At any rate, we know that this was a poisonous venom because the scripture says that there were people who died. Now what we see here is that this was a just judgment, these people who God has miraculously delivered and provided for and given them victory over their enemies and sustained them in this desert. Even these people that have complained constantly to God, and now they actually directly complain to God and speak against his name. A great expression of ingratitude and disbelief. And so God sends this judgment. And the people come to God. They come to Moses and they ask for mercy and Moses prays on their behalf and God makes provision for their healing. But understand they did nothing to deserve this rescue. You see, salvation is undeserved. The Lord has provided in amazing ways for them. He brought them out of Egypt. It says, with a mighty arm. Remember the ten plagues and how God broke that proud man, Pharaoh. After 400 years of slavery, God set them free. And then the Lord rescued them in an amazing way at the Red Sea, when the waters parted and they walked across on dry land, and then the waters came back together again to destroy the Egyptian army. He guided them by a cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night. He provided manna for them. And yet they questioned constantly the goodness of God. They said, Can God furnish a table in the wilderness? And they say that God had brought them out into the wilderness to exterminate them. They question his goodness, his very intentions. And then there was the golden calf incident , where the whole nation turned to idolatry and sexual perversion. And later we read of the rebellion of Korah when God calls the earth to open up. And swallow up these rebel leaders. And now they directly blaspheme gods. My point is, these people did not deserve to be rescued They deserve to be annihilated because of their consistent disobedience, unbelief, and rebellion. But God spared them. You see, we were all like these ungrateful people. We repeatedly sin and fail God. We repeatedly forget about his incredible deliverances and provision for us. And we complain. And we question his goodness. You see, God's grace is his undeserved favor. There's no one who has ever deserved to be saved. Not even a respectable religious leader like Nicodemus. A person that individuals looked up to and said, now this is a holy man, this is a righteous man. But Jesus said to him, You must be born again. The Bible says, For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Salvation is a humbling thing. It is a gift from God to the undeserving. And salvation is unearned. These people did come and confess to Moses that they had sinned, but that was not the basis of their deliverance. Sometimes people get this confused in their minds, and they think that the basis of their forgiveness is that they acknowledge that they are a sinner or they repent of their sin, and that is the merit for which they are saved, but that is not true. We do have this wonderful promise in 1 John 1. 9. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. But our confession is not the basis of our forgiveness because two verses earlier it says that the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. That is the basis of our salvation. The sacrifice of Christ, not any confession or repentance that we have done. The fact is you can contribute nothing to your salvation. The Bible says that even all of your righteous deeds are as filthy rags in his sight. God is not impressed with your track record, just as he wasn't impressed with this man Nicodemus. There's nothing that you can bring before God and He would say, now this is a really good person. Now this is a really good candidate. Look at what this person has done. That's not the way it works. As the hymn writer put it, nothing in my hand I bring. Simply to thy cross I cling. We bring nothing in our hands. We come as a beggar. Salvation is something that you don't deserve and it's something that you can never earn. What would happen if some of those Israelites, and perhaps some of them did, had rejected Moses ' remedy? And so that's crazy, that talk about looking at a snake up on a pole? And they tried some herbal remedy, something they heard from the local people that would counteract this poison. What would have happened if instead of looking up in faith at that serpent they tried that? The answer is they would have perished. Why would they perish? Because God provided only one remedy for that poison. And it was to look in faith at God's provision. And God has provided only one remedy for our sin, and that is the blood of Jesus Christ. You can't think you can clean yourself up and make yourself presentable to God and thereby earn a standing before him, an acceptance with him, because it's not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy that he saves us. Salvation is by grace alone. I think this probably came as a great shock to Nicodemus. They're a pillar of his religion, as with all man-made religions. Was that by keeping a set of rules, in this case, the Mosaic law, by keeping the law and abstaining from things that were unclean? And making sure that you were ceremonially acceptable before God that a man could earn his way into the kingdom. But now the Lord shows them from an incident in his own scriptures that he is wrong, that it's not by works. This faulty theology did not die with Nicodemus. This is the way all lost people naturally think. They all tend to think that they're better than most people are. We have a group of people going to the detention center today. I've been to detention centers many times in my life and I've spoken to many people there. And you know what I find? I find there's many people there. who even in prison, even for people who have committed violent crimes, and they will tell you, I'm better than most people here, or I didn't really do it. And even in prison, there will be people there proclaiming their own righteousness. That's how stubborn this belief is in the human hearts. I'm good enough. I'm okay. I can do this myself. This is what every man-made religion teaches. This is what Islam teaches. This is what Buddhism is all about. This is what Hinduism holds to. That by following a prescribed method of doing things and living a certain lifestyle, going through certain rituals and religious ceremonies I can become acceptable to God and He will receive me at the end of my life. Christianity says that is not the way. There's nothing by which we can boast and say, look at what I've done. It's only by grace. I've seen polls that say that even most Americans who claim to be born again, okay? Say that a person has to do something to earn their way to heaven. See, we live in a nation where the vast preponderance of people say they are Christians. But if you really question them, what is the hope of your salvation, what is the basis of your faith, you'll find it's well I'm better than most people, and I go to church every once in a while and I Try to stay away from really bad things. And I think at the end I'm going to be okay. If that's the way you're thinking this morning, I want you to know that Jesus says here in this passage, you are wrong. You must be born again. Would you turn back with me, please, now to John chapter 3, where we started? I want you to see secondly that salvation is in Christ alone. In verse 13, the verse preceding our text, we read of Christ identifying himself as the Son of Man. This is how the Lord most often spoke of himself. Over eighty times in the gospel record, he calls himself the Son of Man. The origin of this title goes back to the book of Daniel. And Daniel chapter 7, I want to read this for you. Daniel 7, verses 13 and 14. And I saw in the night visions, and behold, one like the Son of Man. came with the clouds of heaven and came to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him, and there was given him dominion and glory and a kingdom and all people, nations, and languages. should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away. And his c kingdom that which shall not be destroyed. So who do we see this person, the Son of Man, is? Well, he is the king of all the earth, it says here. Describes him as the ancient of days And he has dominion over all, and he has a kingdom that will last forever. You know what we would call someone with those characteristics? We would call them gods. You see, what the Lord was getting at in his discussion here with Nicodemus is this. When Nicodemus started their conversation, he said, we know that you're You're a great teacher of God and you're a miracle worker. And the Lord here is saying, That's not enough. I'm more than that. I am the Son of Man. I am the Son of God. In order to be saved, you have to have a right understanding of who Jesus is. He wasn't just a great example or the world's greatest teacher. He wasn't just a kind of benevolent person. Yes, he was all of those things, but he is God in flesh. The scriptures teach the deity of Jesus Christ, the sinless Son of God. You must also understand that our salvation is best based on the death of Christ. Look with me at verse Verse 14, the Lord makes reference to this. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. He's drawing this parallel. I want you to notice this is the point of comparison in this story. Notice how it's found at the beginning of this verse and at the end of this verse. This expression is used three times in the Gospel of John, and it's used as a reference to Christ's death by crucifixion. This past Sunday night we looked at that in our communion service. That the death of Christ from the cross was not just Something haphazard that happened, something that happened by chance. No, it was God's intended way of his death that he be lifted up That he die, as it were, lifted up among the people, so that people could look to him. It's symbolic of his salvation for all who would come to him and look to him in faith. And it says, just as Moses lifted up that servant, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. This was a divine necessity. This was part of God's great plan of redemption. The Bible teaches that Jesus lived a perfect life. He said in John 8. 29, I always do those things that please my Father. The sinless Son of God. And as the Lamb of God, he died in place of sinners. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 summarizes the gospel in a very concise way. It says, For he hath made him, referring to Jesus to be sin for us. who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Galatians 3. 13 says this, Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law being made a curse for us, for it is written, Cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree. You see, the only way that God, the just judge of all the earth, can forgive sinful people like us is that there had to be a substitute who died in our place, a perfect substitute. And that's what Jesus Christ did. He was the fulfillment of the pictures of all those lambs for hundreds of years that had been slaughtered, those spotless lambs. He was the ultimate Lamb of God. He died in our place for our sins. He bore the curse, the wrath of God that we have earned. Through our transgressions, through our violation of God's holy law, he died as our substitute. This is why Jesus would say the night before his crucifixion, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. There is no other way. Why? Because there's only been one who can be our Savior. No other founder of any faith or any religious leader of the past. Is a path to God because they were all faulty men. They were all sinful themselves They all came short of God's glory. They couldn't save themselves. How can they save others? There is only one Savior that God has provided. Just as Moses provided only one remedy for the snake bite, God has provided only one way of salvation. And it is through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Salvation is by grace alone. And salvation is in Christ alone. And thirdly, I want you to see in this passage that salvation is through faith alone. These dying people did nothing to save themselves. The scripture says they just looked up at this bronze snake on a pole. Now they looked because they were desperate straits. They were dying. They had seen other people die and they knew that if they continued the way they are that they would soon perish. And so they were desperate and they came to Moses and God provided this remedy for them. You see, one of the reasons that people don't come to Christ is because they don't think they need to. They don't acknowledge that they're sinful and they're headed for hell. They think they're okay. I talk to people like this all the time and they'll say, you know, I'm glad that works for you. Glad it helps you out, makes you feel better about yourself, but I don't need that. I feel like I'm okay. I'm not worried about what's happened after my death. You see, we have to be convinced that we are sinners, that we are lost before we will find the Lord's. This is why we desperately need the work of the Holy Spirit, because in John 16, John 16, the Lord says that it's the Holy Spirit that convicts men of sin. He convinces them that they are sinners and that there is a great penalty for their sin that is facing them Notice how this passage speaks of this truth. It uses this term perish. It does doesn't just mean That a person will die is speaking here of eternal death. It's used in verses 15 and 16, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish. Perish, but have everlasting life. This passage Boxes all of humanity into two great categories, those who possess eternal life or those who are perishing. There is no in-between. If you're here this morning, or even if you're not here this morning, and you're listening to this service , By some other means, everyone, all of humanity is either perishing or possesses eternal life. That's what the scripture teaches Let me show you that this is the case. Look at the last verse of this chapter, where John's going to tie up some loose sense and make it clear to the reader: He that believeth in the Son hath everlasting life. And he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. You could put it another way. Everyone either possesses eternal life. Or they are under the just wrath of God. It's one or the other. There's no wiggle room there. There's no middle grounds. Now in this passage we also have one of the great, in fact we have two of them back to back, one of the great whosoever passages The Lord here is reflecting what was said back in that incident in Numbers 21, because in Numbers 21, 8 It says, everyone that is bitten when he looketh upon it shall live. Every one And then in commenting on this passage, the Lord says that whosoever believeth in him should not perish. And then again in verse 16 Whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. One of the great lies of Satan. It's twofold. He works it both ways. He tries to convince sinners that they're really not that bad often. Tries to convince them they don't really need to be saved, that God's going to receive them just as they are. That's one of his great lies. The Bible says he is the father of lies. But then when the Spirit of God begins to work and a person begins to be concerned and anxious about their state before God, sometimes he will switch to the other extreme and say, you know what, you're just too sinful. Look at what you've done in your life. Look how many years you've lived this way. There's no way you can be saved. You're too bad off. Salvation is for religious people. I suspect that there were people that day out in the wilderness who had been bitten more than once by those vipers. Their bodies were full of venom. But you know what? When they looked At the pole, they were made whole. No matter how many times they were bitten, no matter how far gone they were, if they looked, they were saved. Hebrews 7. 25 says he's able to save to the uttermost. The blood of Christ cleanses us from all sin. Now, how was looking up at that pole an act of faith? Well, let's think about this a second. Doesn't it sound kind of crazy to look at a bronze snake and to believe that that would cure you? It's kind of curious. And I'm sure that there were some people there that day when they heard the instructions, they said, Oh, this is nonsense. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to look at that because they didn't believe it was possible. The Bible teaches that this is the way lost people think. It says in 1 Corinthians 1. 18 that the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. There might be someone here this morning who is saying, yeah, this whole thing is nonsense. This whole thing about Jesus dying on the cross and somehow somebody who died two thousand years ago has relevance for me today and somehow he took died for my sins. This is all nonsense. This is religious Superstition. It doesn't mean anything to me. If you're thinking that way, the Bible says it's because you're perishing. Consider it to be nonsense. You see, when they those people who heard those instructions and with desperation looked up. At that pole, they looked in faith because they believed the message that they heard that indeed it would save them. Sometimes people worry about the strength of their faith. You know, I'm sure that that day with that vast multitude, there were some people there that had better eyesight than others. For some people It was a blur and see it very clearly. There were other people who were there that had keen eyesight and they saw it crystal clear. There were some people probably that were up close to the pole. They were maybe just twenty or thirty feet away from it. It was very easy for them to see. But with this vast multitude, there were probably some people that were many hundreds of feet away from it. And they couldn't see it really clearly. They just saw this pole out there and this image wrapped around it. But whether they were close, whether they were far away, whether they had clear eyesight or cloudy eyesight, if they looked. And they believe they were saved. Sometimes people struggle with this And they will ask themselves, did I really mean it? Did I really believe? Was I truly sincere? These are indeed important questions, but I want you to know that you will never find assurance by looking here. You have to look to Christ. And let me say that salvation is more than just intellectual ascent. It's more than just saying to yourself, yeah, well, you know, I suppose that there was a Jewish carpenter who died on a cross about 2,000 years ago. I don't want to go to hell, so sure. What do I need to do? Salvation involves trusting in Christ as your only hope. Just like those desperate people out in the wilderness looked up to that bronze serpent, so you must trust depend on Jesus alone, who died in your place to save you. But let me hasten to add this. What makes faith valuable is not the strength of your faith or the sincerity of your faith so much as it is the object of your faith. The question is, are you looking to Christ? Do you trust Him as your only hope? John has much to say about salvation and his gospel. In the very first chapter in the opening prologue, he has this very significant statement, a familiar passage to many of you. And John chapter 1 and verse 12 he says, But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. Salvation is a supernatural work of God 's. Sometimes we think of it as just an exchange of information. Indeed, there are some facts that we need to know, but it's much more than that. It's a work of God. It's a miracle of regeneration. And it takes place in an instant. It says in Numbers 21, 8 that when an individual looked upon it, he shall live. The instant those dying people looked at that serpent, they were cured. And back in John chapter 3 and verse 15, it says, the instant we believe, we possess eternal life. It's not something that we might have somewhere down the road. Yes, we will more fully enjoy it then, but the moment we believe, John 5. 24 says we pass from death unto life This is a wonderful truth, eternal life, which speaks not just of an unending life. But a higher quality of life, a life with real purpose, a life of communion with God. In John chapter 17, we have in our Lord's high priestly prayer the best Definition of eternal life in Scripture. And this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. Eternal life is about communion with the living God through his Son. And this, of course, is set in contrast again and again in Scripture. With the opposite of perishing. So let me ask you, do you have eternal life or are you perishing here this morning? If you're here this morning and you would say, you know, I just think this is a bunch of nonsense. You're perishing, my friend. You're headed to hell. I hope that alarms you and disturbs you because it should. This is not what I'm saying. This is what Jesus says in his word. If you're here this morning and you're saying, well, I'm trying the best I can, I'm trying to work my way there, I really think that I'm almost at the place where God will receive me. If that's the way you're thinking, you're perishing, my friend. You can never earn his favor. The answer is never. I'm going to try a little harder. The answer is to look to Jesus Have you looked in faith to the Savior? On January the thirteenth, eighteen fifty A 15-year-old boy made his way through a heavy snowstorm to a little church that met on Artillery Street in England. There were only about a dozen people there because of the snow. This young man normally went to another church, but with the snowstorm he knew he would never make it. It was too far away. So he went to this little church. There was only about a dozen or so people there. In fact, the preacher wasn't able to make it to church that morning. And so as people awkwardly sat around wondering who was going to lead the service and what would happen next, an uneducated man decided That he would get up and do his best at preaching the gospel. He was a man who made his living not with his words, but with his hands. And he did not know English very well, but he knew the gospel. And he preached that morning from Isaiah 45. Verse 22 that says, look unto me, and be ye saved all the ends of the earth. And this is what he said. He said, my dear friends, this is a very simple text indeed. It says, look Now looking don't take a deal of pains. It ain't lifting your foot or your finger. It's just a look. A man doesn't need to go to college to learn to look Anyone can look, even a child can look. But the text says, look unto me. He says, there 's the problem. Many are looking to yourselves, but it's no use looking there. You can never find any comfort in yourselves. Jesus Christ says, look unto me. And he repeated himself several times, and after a few minutes, he had nothing more to say. And in a small gathering like that, he saw that one young man sitting in the back there. And he said, Young man, you look very miserable. And you always will be miserable. Miserable in life and miserable in death if you don't obey my text. But if you obey now this moment, you will be saved. Then lifting up his hands, he shouted, Young man, look to Jesus Christ. Look, look, look. You have nothing to do but look and live. It was a very simple message. And that young man that morning looked at Christ. His name was Charles Spurgeon. Became the greatest preacher of his generation. The Lord used the simple man's words to convict him and to draw him to the Savior. The gospel is glorious. The gospel still saves sinners to all who will look in faith. And come to the Savior. Let's have every head bowed and every eye closed The Bible teaches that salvation is by grace alone. That it's in Christ alone. And it's through faith alone. Salvation is not something that you can earn Salvation is not something you can do yourself. You must come as a beggar. And you must come to Christ and recognize that He is the Savior of the world, that He is your Savior, the one who died for your sins, who took the punishment that you deserve. And you come not just with a simple acknowledgment, a nod of the head, but you come as someone who is casting their whole being, their eternal dependence on Christ and Christ. Christ alone, you come in faith, in saving faith. And the scriptures say that the one who does that has been brought by the Spirit and that they will not face the wrath of God, but will have eternal life from them that very moment. So my question to you this morning, as we conclude this service, is, are you an individual under the wrath of God? Or are you one who possesses eternal life? If the Lord has stirred your heart this morning. If you've been troubled because you recognize that you have never been born again, I would urge you to seek the Lord today. Don't let this conviction Pass away. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. I'd encourage you to respond to our invitation. And seek the help that God can provide through His Word. We'd be happy to have a man or a woman, whatever the case may be, open up a Bible. And answer your questions and help you know what it means to be born again. Father, I pray that you would work In our midst today, your word says the gospel is the power of God unto salvation to all who believe. I pray that we would see that today in our midst, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.