I invite you please to turn with me to the book of First Corinthians and to the fifth chapter, First Corinthians chapter five. I have to warn you right off the bat, this is not a feel-good message. There's not going to be a line of people back there getting CDs of this sermon because it just made them feel warm, fuzzy listening to this. There's a lot of things in scripture that do not fit that description, but are necessary and profitable for us. When I was a boy, we often celebrated Thanksgiving at my grandparents' house in Pennsylvania. These were my father's parents. We enjoyed many delicious feasts there. What was odd about these meals was the seating arrangement. There was a dining room table where everyone sat at to eat their meals. And then there was a card table that was placed right up against that table. And at that table, my grandmother would sit and eat her meal with us. You might wonder how that came about. Well, you see, my grandfather was part of a small splinter group that came out of the Mennonite church in Lancaster County originally in the 1850s. They were known as Reformed Mennonites, and they felt that the Mennonite church in the 1850s was getting too liberal, and so they wanted to have uh stricter rules and so they formed their own little splinter group and the laymans were very influential uh in that church uh for many generations Well, when my grandmother married my grandfather, she converted and became a member of the Reformed Mennonite Church, but she soon discovered that the bishop of the church was a notorious womanizer. And so she refused to go back and listen to the sermons of a serial adulterer. The result was that she was excommunicated from the church. My grandfather also left the church for several decades, but then in midlife came back into fellowship with the church of his youth. And that the church ruled that he must not eat with his wife because she was still officially under church discipline. But what did that practically mean? Well, they defined that to mean that you would not eat at the same table with her. And they said it was acceptable, however, for her to eat at a different table right next to you And so that's what they did for many, many years until they passed away. Of course, this kind of clever distinction does not impress God. But the principle of not eating with someone disciplined from a church is found in Scripture. In fact, it's found In the chapter that we look at this evening, it's found at the very last phrase of verse 11 where it says, with such a one know not to eat. Now there are two primary passages on church discipline in the New Testament. The most famous is found in Matthew chapter 18, although it is brief. It gives us the general procedure for confronting someone in sin. The other chapter that's of paramount importance in this doctrine is 1 Corinthians chapter 5. And because we are considering church discipline tonight in our business meeting, I thought I would like us briefly to examine this chapter together. You may recall that we looked at Matthew 18 about a year and a half ago. Excluding a member from the fellowship of the church is one of the solemn and difficult tasks that a church must undertake. This biblical practice is rarely done today because it's out of step with our culture of tolerance and it brings with it often many problems. But the Bible is clear that this is an essential function of the local church. A church without boundaries in time becomes indistinguishable from the world. And so I'd like us to look at this passage. And I want you, of course, to realize that most of you know this, the church at Corinth had many problems. There were divisions there. There was an issue of pride in that assembly. There was the misuse of spiritual gifts, just to name a few. In this first epistle, Paul is addressing an early report that he had received about this church. But we don't have that report. And so Reading 1 Corinthians at times is like listening to one side of a phone conversation. You get bits and pieces and you gather what they're talking about, but you don't know the full conversation. In 1 Corinthians chapter 5, Paul turns to a very serious issue that was brought to his attention in this report, and he confronts it directly in this chapter. The theme of this chapter is very easy to discern, and I would put it in these words. The Church of Jesus Christ must not tolerate egregious sin. It must not be tolerated. Three times in this chapter, Paul calls on the church at Corinth to expel this man from their congregation. I want you to notice this. If you look with me. In chapter 5, and the last part of verse 2, it says that he that hath done this deed might be taken away from among you. And then if you look down to the first phrase in verse 7, it says in a figurative way, purge out therefore the old leaven. Which is a reference to removing this man from the church. And in case you were wondering, that's what his message is. Look how he summarizes this chapter in the very last phrase in verse 13. Therefore, put away from among yourselves that wicked person So what are the reasons that those who are involved in very serious sin should be removed from the church? He gives Two primary reasons in this passage. The first one is because the Lord may use the discipline of the church to save The individual living in sin. Look with me, please, at the first five verses of this chapter. He says, It is reported commonly that there is fornication among you And such fornication as is not so much as named among the Gentiles, that one should have his father's wife And ye are puffed up, and have not rather mourned that he hath done this deed, might be taken away from among you. For I verily, as absent in the body, but present in the spirit, have judged already as though I were present concerning him. that hath done so this deed. In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, when ye are gathered together and my spirit with the power of our Lord Jesus Christ deliver such a one unto Satan for the destruction of the flesh, that the Spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. In these verses, Paul comforts or confronts And provides counsel. Look with me how he confronts the sin in the first three verses. Now, what exactly was the sin here? Well, there's actually two sins that Paul confronts here. There's first of all, and primarily the immorality that was in the church that was in the life of this unnamed individual. But then there was pride in the church that Paul is going to confront in verse 2, where he says, And ye are puffed up and have not rather mourned. Now what exactly was the sin involved here? Paul uses a broad term here when he uses the term fornication. This is a broad umbrella term for all types of sexual sins. The word is pornea. It is the uh origin of our term, of course, pornography. Specifically, Paul was addressing an incestuous relationship. This relationship is described at the end of verse 1 as that one should have his father's wife. Notice that this is not this individual's biological mother. The wording here is very specific. It's a reference to a man's stepmother, we would say today. The likely scenario is that a man's wife died, and so he remarries a woman much younger than himself. In fact, she was very close in age to that of his son. And then this illicit relationship began. Now this kind of sexual relationship was condemned, of course, in the Old Testament, Leviticus chapter 18. specifically mentions this as one of the forbidden relationships that can never be allowed. It is possible that this man's father had died And some commentators speculate that they may even have been married. But the wording in Leviticus 18 is clear that under no circumstances Are you allowed to marry your stepmother and be involved in this kind of relationships? But I speculate there because we don't really know if that Is the situation here or not? What we do know is that this man was in a sexual relationship with his stepmother. This kind of incest was not only condemned in the Bible, it was unacceptable even in pagan Corinth. He says And verse 1, that this is not so much even named among the Gentiles. And this was saying something. Because Corinth was known as Sin City. It was a place filled with immorality. There was a great temple there, and there was a great deal of immorality connected to that temple. They had their own red light district. In fact There was a verb that was coined to corinthonize that referred to living in a immoral and debauched state. And so for this wicked city, for Paul to say, even the residents of Corinth don't accept this kind of relationship, that was saying something. Now let me pause here for a moment and answer an important question concerning church discipline. And that is, how does a church decide What matters need to come before the whole congregation and what matters do not. You know, the reading the procedure in Matthew chapter 18, one could come to The conclusion where it talks about if a brother sin against you, you confront him, and if he doesn't agree, then you get a a witness to come, and then if he doesn't still doesn't change, then you bring it before the church. If you look at that passage in isolation and you were to follow it to the letter of law, we could be having meetings for church discipline every Sunday. A disagreement that people have with each other. This chapter gives us a little more parameters for what should come publicly before the church. Let me mention four important factors about this sin in the church. First of all, it was well known. He says that it was reported commonly. This was not some private matter that this man had confessed. This was something that everybody in the church knew about. Commonly reported in the church and in the community at large. Unfortunately, this kind of juicy gossip spreads rapidly. And we see here a principle that public sin must be dealt with publicly. This was also a scandalous sin. Even people in the world acknowledge that this was wrong. My point is that tolerating this sin was harming the testimony of the church in that community. Number three, it was a continuing sin. It was not a one-time event. It was not something that just happened. It was a continuing relationship. And number four, it was an unrepentant sin. The church, of course, should be patient with those who struggle and agonize over their sin, but not with those who boldly defend their sinful lifestyle and are determined to continue in it. So when should a church publicly exercise church discipline? When it is a public, scandalous sin that continues even after many efforts have been made to call the sinners to repentance. Now look with me at verse 2. Paul rebukes the congregation and says, You are puffed up, and have not rather mourned that he that hath done this deed might be taken away from among you. Now, what exactly is Paul saying here? Well, there's some dispute about that. Some scholars would say that the believers of Corinth so distorted Their understanding of the grace of God, that they were actually proud that this wicked man was accepted in their assembly. Those who hold this view would turn to the next chapter. Turn with me, please, to 1 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse 12. Where Paul here apparently is quoting a common phrase or mantra that the people would say they're at Corinth. Look at the first phrase. All things are lawful unto me, but all things are not expedients. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. This interpretation Is possibly true. And there are many great preachers of the past that have held that view. And I might find in heaven that it's true, but I don't think that's what Paul is saying here. I think it's more likely that Paul is saying that the believers at Corinth were proud not because of this sin, but despite this sin. Paul accuses them here of being puffed up. He uses this analogy several times in the previous chapter. Look with me at chapter 4. 1 Corinthians chapter 4. Look with me at verse 6. And these things, brethren, I have a fig and a figure transferred to myself and to Apollos for your sakes, that you might learn not to think of men above that which is written, and that no one of you be puffed up For one against another. Look with me at verse 18. Now some are puffed up as though I would not come to you. And then again at verse 19. But I will come to you shortly if the Lord will, and will know not the speech of them that are puffed up, but the power but of the power. Now We see in 1 Corinthians that the believers here were proud of their preachers. They were proud of their gifts. But we never read that they were proud of the sin that was tolerated in their congregation I think what this passage is saying, what Paul is rebuking them for, is that they were so proud of the great preachers that they had. and the gifts that they had and that assembly and perhaps even the growth of the church there that they just conveniently ignored this disturbing reality in their midst. Now, some scholars speculate that this man may have been wealthy, he may have been influential, he may have been an eloquent teacher, all that's possible, but the Bible doesn't say any of that. But it certainly would have made it more difficult to remove him from their assembly. But in store, instead of confronting this man, apparently they ignored this man in his sin. And so we come to verse 3. Paul says, For I verily, as absent in the body, but present in the Spirit, have judged already as though I were present, concerning him that hath so done this deed. Paul is telling them, listen, I'm not able to come and be with you at this meeting, but I want you to know that I've made inquiries and I've looked at the facts and I've already reached a conclusion. There's no question that this man is guilty and he needs to be removed from the assembly. And so Paul gives them his advice. Look with me at verses four and five. Paul counsels The handling of the sin in the church. Verse 4 he says, In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, when you're gathered together and my spirit with the power of our Lord Jesus Christ. To deliver such a one unto Satan for the destruction of the flesh, that the Spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. Notice that Paul wants the church to take the action that he mentions in verse 3. This is why we call it church discipline, not pastor discipline, or in this case, apostle discipline. He already knows what needs to be done. But he doesn't just tell them what to do. He says, you all need to make this decision as a body of believers. And he says, this action is to be done in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. This reminds me, and perhaps it reminds you, of that other passage. That deals with church discipline in Matthew 18, where we read in verse 20, it says, For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them. The point that these two passages are making is this. First of all, the church has the authority through Jesus Christ. To discipline people out of their assembly. And in doing this, the church is acknowledging that this local assembly does not belong to the people, it belongs to Jesus Christ. It's his church. And so his name, his reputation, as it were, is on the line. It's a church that he has purchased with his own blood. And so there's a sense in which we must do his bidding because it's his church. It's not for us to just decide what we think would be. a nice thing to do, or what we think would be the wisest course of action. Now verse 5 is the most difficult and controversial and disturbing verse in this chapter where he says that the church is to deliver such a one unto Satan for the destruction of the flesh. Now, what do you think that means? There's a lot of different ideas about that means, but I will say this: none of them are good. Alright? This is not a pleasant thing. This is not a good thing. Let me give you the two main understandings of this phrase. Many would say that Paul could be saying that you should turn this individual over to Satan so that Satan will attack his flesh, that is his body. And perhaps even kill him. But at least his spirit will be saved, because that's what it says at the end of verse 5. The spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. Now many great preachers over the centuries have held this view, but it has some substantial problems. Number one Paul rarely uses the word flesh in this sense to refer to the body. Okay? That's not usually the way Paul uses that term. And secondly, when the Bible speaks of being saved, it speaks of your spirit and soul and body being saved. Remember what it says at the end of 1 Thessalonians. I pray God, your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved. God doesn't just save your spirit. Did you know that? He is victorious and saves every part of you, even your body. I know a lot of Christians think that your body is done with and you'll never see it again after you die. That is not what the New Testament teaches. Your body will be reconstituted and resurrected and it'll come back in a glorious form. And people, when they ask me this, they ask me all kinds of crazy questions about it. Like, you know, how old will I be? And will my eyesight be bad? And will I be overweight? The Bible doesn't address those things. Stop speculating about that nonsense. Just rejoice. You're going to look like you in heaven, but the best you that you've ever seen. Okay? But this is why I think we'll recognize one another in heaven. We're not going to be little robots or angels with wings fluttering. That's not the way we're going to look someday. So I don't hold that that interpretation that it means that you're letting Satan loose on that person's body. I don't think that's what Paul is saying here. I think that Paul is saying that by putting a man out of the church, he is now back in the world which is the domain of Satan. He's in the sphere of Satan. 1 John 5. 19 says that the whole world lieth in wickedness. And there's a reference there really to the wicked one, to Satan. And because he is no longer in the church, there's a certain level of protection that has been taken away from him. The reality is that Satan is not a good master. He treats his subjects poorly. Proverbs 13, 15 says, the way of the transgressor is heart. When you know the truth , And you've heard it for years and years, and you profess to be a follower of Christ, but then you turn away from that truth and you go back into the world, Satan's going to have a heyday with you. Now you might object. Well let me just make this clarification. The flesh that is to be destroyed here is not his fleshly body. But his fleshly lusts. Now you might object and say, well, why would Satan help to bring this person back to God? The answer is because Satan is not omniscient. Remember how his trials in the life of Job actually brought glory to God and vindicated the Lord's claims about his servants? And don't forget the cross, Satan's great hope, the death of the Son of God, actually spelled his doom. So the sovereign Lord can even employ Satan's involvement to bring a sinner back to the Lord, and he has done this in many cases. Now let me remind you in this last phrase of verse 5, it says, the Spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. It's a reminder to us that the goal of church discipline is not to seek revenge or to punish the offender or to really embarrass him. It is not an act of hate, but of love. It is a final effort to see that erring individual saved. Now beginning at verse 6, Paul goes to the second reason why the church needs to exercise church discipline. And that is because the Lord will use the discipline of the church to purify his people. I'm going to cover this section more quickly. In verses 6 through 8, he uses an illustration to explain what he means. He says that they are to purge out the old leaven. Look at verse 6. Your glory is not good. Know ye not that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump? Purge out therefore the old leaven, that ye may be a new lump, as ye are unleavened, for even Christ our Passover is sacrificed. for us. Therefore, let us keep the feast not with the old leaven, neither with the leaven of malice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. Now leaven was not the same as yeast as many people think. It is fermented dough And often a little bit of dough from the previous week was added to a new lump of dough. But if that leaven from the previous week was moldy and corrupt. It would taint the new lump of dough, and it would all go bad, and it would all have to be thrown out. There was no way that you could separate the old leaven from the new leaven. because the old leaven would permeate all of that dough. The illustration brings out the corrupting influence of a little leaven. It's sort of like our saying, one bad apple can ruin the whole barrel. Paul here is saying that serious sin cannot be tolerated in the church. Why is that? There's at least three reasons. Number one, it's a bad example for other believers. Every single believer is an example to somebody else, whether you want to be or not. Somebody is looking up to you. Somebody who may be younger, somebody who may be not as mature in the faith, someone who admires you for your your character, your boldness, they're looking up to you and they're taking their cues. This is what a Christian man looks like. This is what a Christian woman should be. We rarely think of that, but it is the reality. Number two, it's a horrible testimony to the world. In this situation, even the pagans in Corinth would shake their head and say, I cannot believe that guy is in a relationship with his stepmother. And they allow that in that church. They call themselves holy, they call themselves followers of Christ, but look at who their people are. And the third reason that's really brought out in this illustration. Is that allowing sinful people who are living in serious sin It's like an infection within the body. It taints everything. You know, if you get an infection in your body and you let it go, it can affect the entire health of your body. In fact, it can kill you. One infection. And so Paul is saying here that when you allow sin like this to fester and it's not dealt with and it's just ignored and it just continues You are infecting the body. In verse 7, Paul admonishes them to purge out The old leaven. That leaven, as he says from the previous week, throw it away. Don't mix it in with the new lump. You need to start over. And then he says, for Christ our Passover is sacrificed for us. And what he's alluding to there is that Christ's sacrificial death on the cross should have a profound impact on our moral behavior. So again in verses 9 through 13 he advises them to put away this wicked person. Now here in these verses Paul is making a clarification. This call to separation from sinners might make some people think that we should have no interaction with lost people in the world. And there have been Christians who have taken that position throughout the history of the church that we should be secluded. We should live like in a convent or in a commune. Where we have no interaction with the outside world and we build walls around us and we try as best to be self-sufficient and have nothing to do with them. Paul says that's not at all what I'm saying. Now look with me at verse 9. He said, I wrote unto you in an epistle not to company with fornicators. Now, where did he write that? There have been some scholars that try to use a grammatical phenomenon to say we 're actually referring to this book. to what he had written earlier, but there isn't anything that clearly reflects what he's talking about here. What is in view here is something that some people find disturbing, but that is simply put. that Paul wrote a letter to the church at Corinth before 1 Corinthians. And we don't have it. We don't know exactly what he said. But he was telling them, we know at least, he was calling them to separate from the world and specifically from those who were involved in immorality. This is something that he wants to clarify, lest they misunderstand what he said earlier. He wasn't asking them to live in little isolated communities. Look at me at verse 10. Yet not altogether with the fornicators of this world, or with the covetous or extortioners, or with idolaters, for then must ye needs go out of the world. In other words, if a Christian were to take the position, we should have nothing to do with people who are immoral or who are greedy or the other sins that he's mentioned here, then guess what? You would never be able to go to work. You would never be able to go to the grocery store. You'd never be able because there's people all around you in the world. He says that's not what I'm saying. Paul says, what I'm talking about is a professing Christian who is living an habitually wicked life. lifestyle. Look with me at verse 11. But now I have written unto you not to keep company if any man that is called a brother Be a fornicator or covetous or an idolater or railer or a drunkard or an extortioner, with such a one know not to eat. Now, I don't have time to explain all this or go through all these terms and explain exactly what these sins are referring to, but I think you get the gist. And there's somewhat of a disagreement of interpretation here. Is Paul saying that you cannot ever sit down at a meal and eat with this individual? Or is he referring to the Lord's table that he will address in chapters 10 and 11 of this book? Christian scholars have been divided about this. It's not clear. The Bible verse here is ambiguous. It's not definitive about that. Perhaps he wants us to apply it to both scenarios. Does that mean under no circumstance should you meet with someone who's living in sin who says, can we meet and have coffee together? I don't think, in my estimation and understanding, that would be a violation of the scripture, especially if they want to talk about the Lord. I think what this is talking about is that in their culture, sitting down at a meal, which was often a very long and involved process, involved social acceptance. You were saying we are friends, we are peers, there's nothing between us. I accept you the way you are And he's saying in this culture you cannot do that with someone who claims to be a Christian but is le living in clear contradiction of what the Bible teaches. You can't say, Oh, we're good, we're fine, we're great. Don't worry about those Those people at that church who who have put you out of the church. And I just want you to know we're fine, the two of us. You can't give someone that impression because you are affirming their sinful choice and strengthening them and their resistance to the will of God. And you dare not do that. Then we come to verses 12 and 13. For what have I to do to judge them that also that are without? Do not you judge them that are within. He says, listen, it's not my purview to judge every unsafe person in the world. That's God's job. But the church must, to some degree, sit in judgment on people within the assembly. The local church, he is saying, is responsible for keeping its house in order. Does that mean that the church is going to always know infallibly about every sinful situation that's taking place? No, that's impossible. And some things do not come to light until years and years after they occurred. But when the church does know about something that is ongoing, that is egregious, and the person will not turn from it, and they continue in a sinful course, then the church, if it's going to be faithful to the Word of God, must deal with the matter. And therefore, Paul's conclusion, therefore, put away from among you that wicked person. The Church of Jesus Christ has to find the gospel balance between welcoming all sinners, because everyone here is a sinner We're like a hospital. Everyone has some ailment to some degree or another. Some people just have something, they're going to be in there for a day or two, as it were, and other people have a terminal illness But everyone in the local church has a sin problem. So this is not saying that everyone has a sin problem. Please use the back door and get out of the church, because then the building would be empty. We have to be welcoming the sinners, and Paul talks about that actually in Romans 14 and 15, about welcoming those who even have differences with you. But the church must not tolerate those who willfully and boldly continue in the sins of the old life with no desire to repent. Because to do so would bring a contradiction and mocking upon the church of Jesus Christ that he has purchased with his own blood. May God help us to be faithful. Let's close in prayer this evening. Father I pray that you would help us to think soberly about these matters. I pray that you would work in our assembly tonight. That what we would do would be in accordance with your word and pleasing to you, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen