Would you join me please in John chapter 2? John chapter 2. We've been away from the Gospel of John for a few weeks. I am so happy to be back in this book. And this morning we begin what is essentially the body of this book, chapter two. Chapter one is kind of the introduction, preparing the reader for what's to come, and now we come. to chapters 2 through 12, which cover the life of Christ, and 13 to the end of the book, really the death of Christ. One of my favorite things to do as a pastor is to officiate a wedding. When I agree to officiate a wedding, I do the premarital counseling And it's so exciting with every session that we have, you can see the couple's excitement. and enthusiasm for that coming day just increasing a little bit each time. And fortunately for me, we have a lot of weddings here, so I uh I get to do a lot of weddings. Now, this morning, we are going to read of a passage where Jesus attends a wedding. And this is a very well-known passage , the wedding feast at Cana, the turning of the water into wine. And uh before we get into the text, I need to give you some cultural background to help us understand what's going on here because a Jewish wedding. is very different from our Western traditions. So first of all, it was the most important event in their society and culture. Weddings are still important, I hope, to us, but they were far more important in this first century context. It was a really big event. The other thing that's different is that they had a betrothal period that is very different from our engagement period. A Jewish betrothal period was a legally binding marriage agreement. They were married, but not completely. They could only end that relationship either by divorce or death But they were not living together as husband and wife. They had not consummated the marriage During this year-long period of time, the groom was getting things ready for the wedding. And what he would have to do is demonstrate that he could provide for a wife And often what would happen is he would build a room onto his father's house And during that year-long betrothal period, that's what he was doing. He was getting things ready. He was saving money and he was building a room on to his father's house. And I'm not a huge proponent of really early marriages, but historically most young men were getting married at 18 or 19. And most young women were getting married at like 13 or 14 in the Jewish context. I'm not suggesting that young people, I'm just saying that's the way it was in the first century in this Jewish culture And their weddings were very different from ours. The weddings did not take on the weekend, take place on the weekends like ours almost always do, often on Saturday or Friday. Jewish weddings were almost always on a Wednesday. That was the wedding day. And they took place at dusk. So The groom and his men, we would call them perhaps groomsmen, they would leave his house and they would walk through the streets So that they arrived at the bride's home as the sun was setting. They timed it that way. And this was the beginning, this was symbolic of the fact that her old life of living with her parents was now coming to an end. The sun was setting on that, and a new life was about to begin. She would come into the home, they would come into the home, they would be warmly greeted, and then the bride and all of her attendants would come out. And they would process through the streets of that little village. They didn't try to get to the groom's home as fast as they could. And this was a lighted ceremony. Remember the parable of the ten virgins, Matthew 25? Some had the oil, some didn't. That's all part of the same culture. So they had these lit lamps and they would go through the streets and people would come out of their homes and congratulate them and cheer them on and they would take a meandering going through all the streets of the little village until they arrived at the groom's home. And it was considered that when she entered the door of her her groom's home, that that was the beginning of her new life. And that would be the beginning of a great feast. Some of you don't like long wedding receptions. They can take up a lot of time. I want you to know that in their context, the shortest wedding reception that was allowable was about two days. You spent the entire night there and then the next day. And if the family had some means, it would go on for a week. How would you like to have people at your home for a week and you're providing all of their food and all of their hospitality for an entire week? That's the way it was. They they had a culture where people weren't in a hurry to do things like we are in our Western culture They just relaxed and enjoyed each other's company. Another thing that's very different is that the groom and his family paid for everything. The bride did not pay for the wedding at all. Now with that cultural background, I want us to look at this first miracle of Jesus turning the water into wine at Cana. If you compare the four Gospels throughout duplicates, you would find that there were about 35 miracles that are recorded that Jesus performed. That is, however, just the tip of the iceberg. Because we have many other statements that say, and Jesus entered into such and such a village, and he healed all that were sick and all that were diseased. We don't know how many that it was. It could have been more than thirty-five in one day. And John says in the very final verse of this book of John that if Everything that Jesus did were recorded in books. The whole world could not contain those books. In other words, there's a whole lot more that Jesus said. Spectacular miracles that are not recorded in the Bible. But this is the very first one. And John speaks of it as a sign, a sign that points to the identity of Jesus Christ. It's very interesting how the very first sign that Jesus committed, it's not what you would have expected. Most of Jesus' miracles are what? Well, they're miracles of healing Like healing the blind, healing the deaf, healing the lame, casting out demons, even raising the dead If you were writing life of Christ, you would probably want to start off his life with a really spectacular miracle where everyone saw that indeed he was the Messiah. But that's not how it happens. Everything started off with, as you're going to see, a very quiet miracle that did not save anyone's life, but it saved a couple from embarrassment. So I want us to see this morning the identity of Christ in the first sign Let's begin with the setting of this miracle. Look with me in verses 1 and 2. On the third day there was a wedding at Cana in Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there. Jesus also was invited to the wedding with his disciples. In a good story, the writer provides the setting in which the event takes place, and that's exactly what we have here. Notice the timing of event. It was the third day. And your natural question is, the third day from what? The third day from the last incident recorded in this gospel, where Jesus meets Nathanael at the end of chapter 1. And Nathaniel comes to faith in Christ and says, You are the Son of God. You are the King of Israel. Three days. Ago, that's what occurred. And what's happened in between is they have been traveling from Judea up to Galilee. And now the story picks up again Now, the next thing that we read is the occasion of this event. It was a wedding. We're not told who was getting married or how Jesus knew them so that he was invited to this wedding, because it's not necessary for us to know. But what we do see, and preachers have made mention of this for many centuries, is that Jesus' presence at this wedding Sanctifies it, and makes it clear that this is a sacred institution that is worthy of celebration, worthy of honor and protection. And then notice the location of this miracle. It takes place at Cana. Cana was the hometown of Nathanael, the man who came to Christ at the end of chapter one. So perhaps. People speculate there was a connection with Nathaniel, and that's why the disciples were invited to this wedding. We don't know for sure. We know that this was a small village. Archaeologists have discovered the remains, they believe, of this ancient village. And from the buildings and the number of them, it would have been a settlement of less than a hundred people. All right? This is a small place, Cana. You hear sometimes of people talking about that is a one-light town. It's only got one light in it. It was just a tiny little community where everybody knew everyone else. There are more people in the sanctuary this morning than there were living in Cana by far. It was a tiny little agrarian village. And so this wedding would have been the biggest event of that year. And everyone in town knew about it. And perhaps everyone in that village was invited to come. And then we come to an important character in this story, and that is the mother of Jesus Mary. It's fascinating to note that John never refers to her by name. He always refers to her as the mother of Jesus, not as Mary. Perhaps that's because John has other Marys in the gospel, and he doesn't want the reader to be confused. Many scholars speculate that her presence would indicate that she was somehow related to the bride or the groom because she obviously had a key role to play in this wedding And that brings us to the next phase of the story, and that is the crisis and the appeal that prompted this miracle. Look with me, please, at verse 3. When the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to him, They have no wine. And that question is obviously intended to prompt Jesus to do something. Now, before we get into the exposition of this verse, I want to comment for just a moment. On the wines of ancient time. The wine used here would undoubtedly have been alcoholic. I say that because they did not have refrigeration to keep something and to pasteurize things to keep them from fermenting. And so Several days after the grapes were harvested and juice was created, nature taking its course, it would ferment. This was the most common drink in ancient times, and it was almost always mixed with water so that it would go further. And so that also it would kill any germs in their water supply, because most people's wells had contaminated water in it. My point is that you should not equate our wines today with the wine mentioned in our passage. You're comparing apples and oranges. However, I also don't believe that it was grape juices I've heard sometimes. I want to read from one of the most respected New Testament scholars alive, a man by the name of Don Carson. He's written a wonderful commentary on John, and he says this. Wine in the ancient world was diluted with water to between one-third and one -tenth of its fermented strength. something less strong than American beer. Undiluted wine, about the strength of wine today, was viewed as strong drink and earned much more disapprobation. So having said that, I want to move on to the crisis that was present here. And the crisis was that they ran out of wine. Now that may not seem like a big problem to you or to me, but in this shame-honor culture, this was a big deal. How did this happen? I don't know. Perhaps they miscalculated the number of guests. Perhaps people stayed longer than they thought they would. And so they ran out. Maybe it's an indication of the family's poverty. They didn't have great resources For the groom who was in charge of this and financed this to run out of wine and do not have provision for his guest was to bring disgrace upon his family. It was the sort of thing in a small community like this that would never have been forgotten. And so this was a serious matter. There are even ancient Jewish writings that say that the groom could be liable to a lawsuit from the bride's family. if he ran out of wine at the wedding feast. This was a serious matter indeed. And it seems likely that Mary somehow knew this family and she comes to Jesus for help and she says, they have no wine. Now, why did Mary come to Jesus? Well, I think this would probably support the idea that Mary's husband Joseph was already dead. by this time. Church tradition says that's likely. It's not uncommon back then for adults to die in their 40s or 50s. We are used to much longer lifespans. But in their world, many, many adults were cut down in what we would consider to be the prime of life And so since Jesus was her firstborn son, she turns to him. Some scholars have suggested that this request indicates that Jesus had performed miracles before her before. But John says this is the first miracle. I don't think that's the explanation. I think a better explanation is that Mary knew that her son was the Messiah. And she knew from the Old Testament that the Messiah would perform miracles. And so she thought that this was the perfect time for Jesus to demonstrate in a miraculous way that he was indeed the promised Messiah But Jesus does not respond in the way you would have expected. If you had never heard this story, If you had never read this story, you would never have guessed the way Jesus is going to respond. In fact, perhaps you've read this before and it's bothered you. Look with me at verse 4. And Jesus said to her, Woman, what does this have to do with me? My hour has not yet come. Why does Jesus respond this way? First of all, he calls her woman, not mother. Let me first of all say that he is not being disrespectful. He is not violating the fifth commandment, which commands us to honor your father and your mother. There is not a perfect equivalent English word for the Greek word that's here translated woman. So I I can't give you like it has this sense. I've seen all kinds of writers come up with certain combination of words, but none of them fit perfectly. The point is he's not calling her mother. He's calling her woman or lady. A respectful title, but not a term of endearment or intimacy like mother. But then he says something. That again is startling to us. He says, what does this have to do with me? In the Greek text, it literally means what to me and to you? This was a common idiomatic expression that is found several times in your New Testament. And the word, that term expresses a mild rebuke. Jesus is conveying to his mother that now that he has begun his public ministry, their relationship has changed. She's still his mom, of course. But she should not think that she can come to him for special favors as she once did. You might say that now he must be about his father's business. He says, my hour has not yet come. I mentioned you before that John is fond of the number seven, right? This is the first of seven signs. Well, this is the first of seven times that he says, my hour has not yet come. And this is a reference if you trace those references. It's a reference to the cross. That is the hour, the hour for which he was born when he would die for our sins and rise again on the third day. Jesus is saying to his mother, now is not the time for me to demonstrate that I am the Messiah. Jesus will indeed perform a miracle, but it will be done quietly, so as not to draw attention to himself. And I want you to notice that Mary is not insulted or angered, but she yields to his response. And verse 5, we read, his mother said to the servants, do whatever he tells you. And that brings us to our third point, the instruction that Jesus gave for the performing of this miracle in verses 6 through 8. And Jesus gives these servants two instructions. Let me first of all read a word of explanation in verse 6. Now there were six stone water jars there for the Jewish rites of purification, each holding 20 or 30 gallons. John knew that his gospel would be read by many Gentiles who didn't understand Jewish culture, so he includes this word of explanation, because otherwise they would not have known. A Jewish household often kept water pots like this for ceremonial purification. I've seen stone jars like this in museums in Israel. The Jews had developed a very elaborate ritual for hand washing. They would wash all the way up to the elbow. And they would let it drain off, and then they would put more water on, and they would use their fists to scrub into their palms and alternate. one hand to the other. They used a lot of water. Parents, have you ever complained that your children use a lot of water when they wash their hands? Well, the Jews used a lot of water when they washed their hands. But they did not know about germs the way we did. This was not for hygiene. This was ceremonial purity And so as the guests came into this wedding party, there would probably have been a servant there that would wash each person's hands as they came into the feast. These containers were large. They would hold 20 to 30 gallons apiece. You know what a 50-gallon barrel looks like. Alright? So it was somewhere in the range of like half that size. And Mary has told the servants to do whatever Jesus tells them to do. And so his first word of instruction is Fill up those containers with water. There undoubtedly was a well outside. These containers had been virtually drained by washing everyone's hands as they came in. And so now they are replenished. They are filled and it says they're filled up to the brim. And then Jesus gives these servants another command, verse 8. And Jesus said to them, Now draw some out and take it to the master of the feast. So they took it. Now, the word draw out is almost always used for the drawing out of water from a well. And so some scholars have said that Jesus didn't really turn the water into those stone containers and the wine. It was just that little ladle that came out of the well that they brought to the master of the feast That's the only part that was really turned to wine. But I don't think that's true at all because why would he include all the details of them filling the these water barrels up? Why include that detail if it means nothing in the story? And how spectacular would it be if he just turned a little bit of water into wine? So I don't think that that theory is correct. A more natural explanation is that these servants have taken the water from these huge water pots. Only now It is wine. And then we have the testimony to this miracle in verses 9 and 10. And what's so interesting is the understated nature. of this miracle. If you're not reading carefully, you could read right over it and say, where's the miracle at? Look at this. Verses 9 and 10 It says, when the master of the feast tasted the water, now become wine. That's just a little phrase right there. And he did not know where it came from, though the servants had drawn the water new. The master of the feast called the bridegroom and said to him, Everyone serves the good wine first, and when the people have drunk freely, then the poor wine, but you have kept The good wine until now. This was a very discreet miracle indeed. I want you to think about this. Jesus didn't make a public declaration. He could have said, as everyone was milling about at this festival, hey, I want everyone to be quiet. I'm going to now demonstrate to you that I'm the Messiah by turning all of this water into wine. You could have made a big specula of it and wowed everyone there. He didn't do that. We don't read of him putting his hands on these stone pots and praying over them. No. He just willed that it happened. And it happened. Probably most people there weren't even aware that the wine had run out. Not only was Jesus like keeping this young couple from embarrassment, you know, our host today completely ran out of wine, so I'm going to fix that problem. But there's also the fact that Jesus was demonstrating to his disciples that he was the Messiah, but he wasn't trying to gain as many followers as he could. We see often in the early part of his ministry that Jesus tells people not to tell others about the miracle that he has done to them. You ever wondered why that would be It's because they wanted to make him a king, a ruler, and to break off the oppression of Rome. And that was not his plan. Now, we have here this master of the feast We might call him the head waiter or master of ceremonies. He's a person designated to check the food supplies and make sure that everything's running smoothly. Like we will have an individual doing that later today when we have our picnic, making sure that all the supplies are there and that with anything runs out, we replace it. This man doesn't know where this wine has come from. This is just kind of an offhanded remark. But his offhanded remark is the testimony to this miracle. Look with me at verse 10. He says, everyone serves the good wine first, and then when people have drunk freely, then the poor wine. But you have kept the good wine until now. When he tasted it, he instantly knew this is much better than what they've been serving. This is high quality. Because when Jesus does something, he does it perfectly. Now this is not hard for us to understand. When we host people, we generally put out our best, don't we? We put out our best food for them, our best beverages. We want them to be comfortable and to be honored in that way. But what if a whole bunch of people show up that you didn't anticipate and you run out of the food that you were going to serve? You might have to resort to pulling leftovers out of the refrigerator and serving that. And you might use up all of your beverages and all that you have for them is water. That's the sort of what was happening here. This man is rightly surprised because late into this banquet He is given the best wine he has ever tasted. And this unnamed man unknowingly gives testimony to Jesus. With his comment, you have kept the good wine until now. And that brings us to verse 11, the purpose of this miracle. This is John 's summary and interpretive point of this event. He says, this, the first of his signs, Jesus did at Cana in Galilee. and manifested his glory, and his disciples believed in him He closes this story by reminding the reader that this event took place in Cana. Cana is mentioned in verse 1. This is mentioned in verse 11. This is what writers would often do in the ancient world to signify to the reader that this is the end of this unit of thought, like bookends, a marker at the beginning and a marker at the end. We're wrapping things up, he's saying to his readers. And by mentioning a sign, he is saying, this is the first sign. But that would indicate to what? There's more to come. He's saying to the reader, keep looking out, there's going to be more sign posted along the way, pointing to Jesus. Now in the Gospels, there are several different terms used for miracles. One is a word that means power. the power of a miracle in healing a person or even bringing them from the dead. There's a word that has the idea of wonder or amazement. where people see something and they're just startled. Wow, look at what Jesus did. This man hasn't walked in 30 some years and now he's walking and he's jumping. What an incredible miracle. And they're just blown away by this. But John doesn't like to use those terms. He likes to use a term that refers to the point of the miracle. In other words, there's something here going on than just a miracle. In other words, we have like some new signs that we've put up. Actually just the face of the sign. And people can say that's a really beautiful sign. But if they say, I have no idea what it says or what information it gives to me, then it's not accomplishing anything. The purpose of a sign is just to inform and direct people. It's not to draw attention to itself. So the whole point of this miracle is to cause the reader to reflect on who is this man? That turned the water into wine. It points to Jesus As the Son of God. Remember at the end of chapter 1, Jesus says to Nathanael, you're going to see greater things than this. This is the first of the greater things. John tells us this miracle did two things. Number one, it manifested his glory. What glory did Jesus manifest that day Well, in chapter 1 and verse 14 we read, The glory of the only begotten Son from the bosom of the Father. He hath declared him, full of grace and truth. So Jesus is declaring, Jesus' act here reveals that he is indeed the Son of God. But the second thing that this miracle accomplished was that it says the disciples believed in him. You see that at the end of verse 11. Now, let me just first of all say that there weren't twelve disciples at this point. There was five from what we see in chapter one. It's not until chapter six that we know for sure there were twelve. Because we have others that are going to join the band. So it's a small group of disciples. And you might say, wait a minute, I thought the disciples already believed in Jesus. We read about their conversions in chapter 1. Well, how long have they been following Jesus? The answer is just a few days They did put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, but it was an immature faith. It was an undeveloped faith. But now, as they see this miracle, their faith is strengthened and confirmed. And they said, wow, he is the Messiah. He is the Son of God. You see, the Christian life is to be a constant growing in faith and confidence in the Lord's. It's not just that at some point in time you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ and were saved. That is true. But that's not the end of it. You are to continue to grow in your faith and to come to rely more and more on the Savior. Some of you here, you can look back and you can say, I was saved like 30-some years ago. But my faith is so much stronger today than it was then. Because I've learned so much about the Lord and I've seen him help me and strengthen me. And that's the way it should be with every believer. The unfortunate thing is I'm not sure that everyone here could give that testimony. There might be some people here that would say, you know, there was a time 20 years ago, I had a much stronger faith than I have today. Because there's been one difficulty, one devastating event after another in my life, and my My faith has worn away through attrition, and it's very, very weak. My friend, that is not what God wants for you. God wants the trials and the testings of life to strengthen your faith. And one of the things that should strengthen our faith is when we see the Lord answer our prayers. In my own life, there have been so many times that I can think about where the Lord has answered my prayers in amazing ways, and that has strengthened my faith. Given me grace to trust him more. The Christian disciple is one who grows in their faith. stronger and stronger over the years. Now I want to make some more application, three more applications briefly And the first application I want to make here is not my attempt to throw stones at what other people believe, but I do want to bring this out. Because this passage is a basis for something that is erroneous. And that is that some people take from this passage that Mary is our mediator. And that we should pray to Mary. I'm referring to the Roman Catholic Church. If you look in their catechism, they use this reference as proof that we should pray to Mary, and then Mary can take a request to the Lord. But this would be a very poor passage to use for that because Jesus essentially rebukes Mary for coming to him. And basically says she should not do this again. Do not misunderstand me. Mary was a godly woman. The Bible says in the birth narratives of Christ, and it venerates her very high as a wonderful, godly, humble young woman who is the mother of our Lord. So we should not think of her in a negative way. However, she was never involved in her Lord's ministry. She was not one of the disciples. She did not have apostolic authority. She is never called in Scripture the mother of God or the queen of heaven. And she certainly never in any way referred to as a co-mediator or co-redeemer. She was the mother of our Lord But the Bible teaches that there is one God and one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. The second point I want to make is the turning of the water into wine points to the superiority of you could say Christ over Judaism or the gospel over the law or the new covenant over the old covenants. This is a theme that is particularly developed in the first four chapters of John. All of the commentators point this out. The new replacing the old. Wine was often used in the Old Testament as symbolic of joy because it was often part of a festival or celebration. In Psalm 104, verse 15, it says that God has given wine to gladden the heart of man. But the Judaism of the first century was largely a religion of rule keeping and moralism. It was like the stagnant water in those stone pots. It did not bring joy to people. It was not very appealing. And it never really cleansed people. Yes, they used it for ceremonial washings, but it did not wash them away from their sin. Wash them from their sins. As a result, there was no joy in their worship. But with the coming of Christ, everything changed. John is saying here that with the ministry of Christ, a new epoch has begun, a new age. And this new wine is symbolic of that new age. We see this in Mark chapter 2 and Luke chapter 4 Where you read about that the old wineskins cannot hold the new wine because those old shriveled-up wineskins will burst with the new wine. It is saying both by analogy and in symbolism here that something new has come A new beginning. In John chapter 1 and verse 17, we read, For the law was given through Moses, but grace and truth come through Jesus Christ. I'm going to read from two well-respected commentators. The first one is a man named John Stott. He says the water stood for the old religion, like Jacob's well in chapter 4. Rich in Old Testament associations, the wine stood for the religion of Jesus as he changed the water into wine so the gospel would supersede the law. Another scholar named F. F. Bruce says Christ has come into the world to fulfill and terminate the old order and to replace it by a new worship in spirit and in truth, which surpasses the old as much as wine surpasses water. So this miracle, there's more to the miracle than you may have understood It's giving us a portrait here, a picture that something new has begun that will bring joy to the people of God The knowledge that their sins have been forgiven. The wine, of course, representing the blood of Christ that washes away our sins. So Christian worship and the Christian life should be filled with joy. Joy is a fruit of the Spirit. One of the great lies of Satan, especially young people, is that Christianity might be right, but it's just going to make you miserable. If you want to be joyful, if you want to be happy, you have to go to the world where life is a big party But the reality is that the most joyous life that a person can live is a life of trusting and following Christ. And Jesus desires that his people have fullness of joy. This is, I think, demonstrated in the huge quantity of wine that Jesus created here, being like 120 or 180 gallons. Probably a wedding gift, as it were, to this young couple that they could sell. But picture picturing the fact that our our joy is to be overflowing, it's abundance. But finally, I want us to see that this miracle has been recorded so that the reader might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. The groom at this wedding could not solve this dilemma. They had no wine, and he had no way of remedying that. But Jesus here is presented as the true bridegroom who can remove all the shame and all the guilt that comes from our wickedness and our weakness. He is the only one who can quench our thirst. This is the theme that we're going to see further developed in the Gospel of John. In chapter 4, remember, Jesus met the woman at the well, and he told her that he could give her a water that would spring up and that she would never need to draw water again. In John chapter 6, Jesus says, I'm the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall never never hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst again. And in John chapter 7 and verse 37, Jesus cried out before that great feast to a huge crowd of people. He says, If anyone thirst, let him come unto me and drink. So my question to you is have you come in faith? And have you Received the gospel? Has your spiritual thirst been quenched? This is why this miracle has been recorded for us Not so we would know some quaint story about an ancient wedding or talk about the beverage that was served there. No, this is a sign pointing us To our only Savior, the only one that God has provided, and the only one who can quench our thirst and wash away our sins and redeem us. The book of John ends in chapter 20 with this purpose statement. Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you might have life in his name. So let me ask you, do you believe? Perhaps you would say, Well, I'll tell you, Pastor, if I saw spectacular miracles with my own eyes. I want you to know I would believe But it's hard for me to believe just on the basis of some ancient book. Well, I want to read something to you from the end of our Lord's public ministry in John chapter 12. This is like the summary of the end of his life before we move to the crucifixion narrative. It says in John chapter 12 And verse 37, though he had done so many signs or miracles before them, they still did not believe in him. Your problem of refusing to trust in Christ is not due to the fact that somehow you just didn't live in the time of Christ and you didn't see these miracles. Now the problem is that you will not believe. People do not reject the gospel because of a lack of evidence. They reject the gospel because they don't want to believe. And they know there's implications of that. And they don't want to accept what comes with that, which is that Jesus then is your Lord and you must follow him. Chapter 3, John 's going to say that men love darkness rather than light, and therefore they will not come to the light. So my friend, my question for you this morning as I conclude is this, have you come to the light? Have you come to believe? Has your thirst been satisfied Because Christ is your Savior and you are trusting in Him alone for your salvation. Or are you still thinking that you can do it yourself? Or that you don't even need a savior. Because you reject all the teaching of Scripture. My friend, Christ is the only answer. Have you put your trust in him alone Let's close in prayer. Father , thank you for your word. Thank you, Father. that it exalts our Savior who has died for our sins. I pray, Lord, for those who might be here this morning Who are attending here, perhaps have been attending for some time, or perhaps only recently, but they have never put their faith and trust in Christ They do not want to believe, though you have given them your word and abundant evidence for them to believe. Oh Father, I pray. that your word and its truth and your spirit would pierce through their resistance And that they would come to yield to you and be saved today. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.