Give your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Hebrews chapter 11? Hebrews chapter 11 Ronald Reagan tells a story in one of his memoirs from his childhood He was taken to a shoemaker by his aunt to get a new pair of shoes. And the man asked him, do you want square-toed shoes or round-toed shoes? Reagan was a young boy and he couldn't decide. So the shoemaker said, I'll give you a couple days After a few days, he saw the boy out in the street and he called him in and he said, So what's it going to be? Round-toed shoes, square-toed shoes? And he said, I still can't decide. And they said, okay. He said, come back in two days. Your shoes will be ready. And so when Reagan went to pick up his shoes, one shoe was square-toed and the other was round-toed. And the cobbler said, I did this on purpose, young man. Because if you don't make your own decisions, someone else will. And Ronald Reagan said he never forgot that lesson. Life is made up of many choices. Some days you come to a fork in the road in which you make a choice that will change the direction of your life forever. I'm sure you could probably think of such a day, maybe when you met your spouse. Or when you discovered the career that you wanted to pursue, or perhaps when you believed the gospel As we return to the book of Hebrews, we come to the section that deals with the life of Moses. In verse 23, we read of the remarkable faith of Moses ' parents in hiding him in disobedience of the king's command. But between verses 23 and 24 we have 40 years that have passed. Moses ' life very conveniently divides and the three sections of 40 years. In his first 40 years, he was a prince in Egypt In the second 40 years, he was a shepherd in the wilderness. And in the final 40 years, he was a deliverer of a nation. Dwayne O'Moody, the evangelist, said that Moses lived his first 40 years thinking that he was a somebody. And then the next 40 years he learned that he was a nobody. And then the last 40 years, he learned what God could do with a nobody. Now there were two pivotal vents. that mark the end of one phase in his life and the beginning of another. The first event we're going to consider this morning took place after 40 years when he was 40 years old. This is when Moses rescued a Hebrew slave from his brutal Egyptian taskmaster. The next life-changing event took place at the burning bush when God called him to deliver his people from the bondage of Egypt. This took place when Moses was 80 years old. Reminder to us that God is not in a hurry to prepare us for what He's called us to do. This morning we're going to focus on that decisive choice that Moses made at the age of 40 to turn his back on Egypt and to identify with the people of God. The passage that we're looking at in verses 24 through 27 has four easily identifiable parts. First, we have the negative aspect of his choice in verse 24. This is what Moses refused to do. Next, we have the positive aspect of his choice. This is what Moses turned to do in verse 25. Then in verse 26, we have the reason why Moses made this choice. And finally, we have a summary and application of what the writer has just said. in verse 27. Now, because this passage is so rich and significant, we're just going to look at the first two verses in this section, verses 24 and 25. And so our sermon is going to have two points. We have what Moses refused to do, and then what Moses did instead. Now let me remind you of why this message was significant for the original audience that received it. The author is writing to Jewish believers who were tempted to go back to the world of Judaism because following Christ was so difficult and dangerous. And the author is exhorting them not to do this. And he brings before them the example of a man that they would have all admired, this man, Moses. His point is that Moses didn't take the easy way out. He followed God's call for his life, even though it put him in grave danger. And removed much security and temporal blessings from his life. Moses turned his back on the world And identified with the people of God, he bore the reproach of Christ. This is the way the just live by faith The reality is that the course of every life is determined by just a few key choices that you make. Our choices reveal who we are, and they determine the direction of our lives. The preacher Warren Wearsby put it this way. Life is built on character. Character is built on decisions. Decisions are built on values, and values are built on faith. This entire chapter provides many illustrations of the facts that in different situations and in different settings, the just live by faith. And that living faith will demonstrate itself in those choices that we make. The choices that we make as believers are to be pleasing to God. It says in verse 6 of this chapter, without faith. It is impossible to please him, for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. So let me ask you this morning, do the choices that you're making in life, are they pleasing to God? And do they reveal That indeed you have a living faith. People with a living faith make choices that are pleasing to God. But what kind of choices are pleasing to God? Well, we have two examples here. The first point that I want to bring up is this. People with a living faith choose to reject the world. Look with me, please, in Hebrews 11, 24. By faith, Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Verse 24 is a simple verse made up of two parts. In the first phrase, we are told when this life-changing choice was made. It's put this way: when he was come to years. This phrase indicates that Moses ' decision was not made when he was a child or even a rebellious teenager. No, Moses made this deliberate decision when he was a full grown adult. In fact, he was 40 years old. And even with delayed adolescence today, a 40-year-old person should be considered an adult. Then in the second half of verse 24, we are told what Moses did by faith. He refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Now everything in verse 24 is a concise summary of what is recorded in Exodus chapter 2, verses 11 through 15. So would you please keep a finger here in Hebrews 11 and turn with me to Exodus chapter 2. Exodus, of course, is the second book in the Bible. Exodus chapter 2 and verse 11 gives us the backstory. And it came to pass in those days when Moses was grown. surrendered in in Hebrews come to years, that he went out unto his brethren and looked on their burdens and spot and he spied an Egyptian smiting in Hebrew one of his brethren. And he looked this way and that way. And when he saw that there was no man, he slew the Egyptian and hid him in the sand. And when he went out the second day, behold, two men of the Hebrews strove together, and he said to him that did the wrong, Wherefore smitest thou thy fellow? And he said, Who made thee a prince and a judge over us? Intendest thou to kill me as thou killest the Egyptian? And Moses feared and said, Surely this thing is known. Now when Pharaoh heard this thing, he sought to slay Moses. But Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh and dwelt in the land of Midian, and he said And that begins the second portion of his life when he would live for 40 years in the wilderness. Now, we can gain some real insights on this passage by actually turning to Stephen's sermon. In Acts chapter 7, which gives us a wonderful summary of Hebrew history. Turn with me, please, now to Acts chapter 7. And here we're going to discover some things that we would not know from the historic account in Exodus chapter 2, Acts chapter 7. And I want to begin reading at verse 23. Acts 7, 23. And when he, Moses, was full forty years old, it came into his heart to visit his brother and the children of Israel. And seeing one of them suffer wrong, he defended him and avenged him that was oppressed and smote the Egyptian Verse twenty five, for he supposed his brethren would have understood how that God would by his hand deliver them, but they understood not And the next day he showed himself unto them as they strove and would upset them one again, saying, Sirs, ye are brethren, why do ye wrong one to another? But he that had that did his neighbors wrong thrust him away, saying, who made thee a ruler and a judge over us? Wilt thou kill me as thou didst the Egyptian yesterday? Then fled Moses at this saying, and he was a stranger in the land of Midian, where he begat two sons So what are some things that we learn from this passage that we do not learn from Exodus chapter 2? Number one, we learned that this happened when Moses was 40 years old. Soul. Secondly, we learned that when Moses went to see what was happening, that Moses went to see what was happening, this was not just uh a random situation that occurred. Moses was out, he was investigating the situation of the Hebrews because he cared for these people. We also learned that Moses intended to Hebrew slave be a very good idea. would serve notice to all the Jews that he was their promised deliverer. This was not a random act of violence. But Moses ' way of demonstrating his break with his old identity and the beginning of his role as the deliverer of his people. But that's not the way his kinsmen, the Jews, viewed his actions. They saw him as a violent and arrogant man, not a deliverer of God's people. You see, Moses wasn't ready to lead the people to the promised land yet. God had to refine his character And God had to send him to the backside of the desert for 40 years to live in obscurity. And he would teach him valuable lessons so that Moses would then be. Ready to fulfill his life's calling. So when Moses Made this decision to defend this Hebrew slave and to slay this Egyptian oppressor. He was essentially burning his bridges behind him, and he would never go back to the old life. But what exactly did Moses reject in turning from his old life? Well, this extended passage in Hebrews, and I invite you now to turn back with me to Hebrews chapter 11. This passage tells us that he rejected three things. Number one, he rejected his position as the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Now, this phrase is not just referring to his relationship to his adopted mother. This was an actual title. It was an exalted title. Of Egyptian royalty, sort of like the Prince of Wales or the Duke of York. He turned from this title. That provided so much status in Egyptian culture. Now we are not certain exactly Who was Pharaoh at this time? The Bible does not reveal this. Bible scholars have made many suggestions over the years. Some Speculate that the Pharaoh at this time had no son, and that Moses may have been heir to the throne. That means he could have become the next Pharaoh If that is so, then Moses refused the most powerful position in the world. Why do I say that? Because the Egyptian Empire was at about its zenith at this time. And Pharaoh was at the head of that empire, and so he was the most powerful man in the world. And so if if Moses would have been heir to that and then eventually become that, he would have been the most powerful man on the planet. And yet in this decision, he turned away from that incredible status. But even if that was not the case , And it was not that Pharaoh that some people speculate that it was. He still gave up a great position and a great status in the royal family. Acts chapter 7 and verse 22 says that Moses was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians and was mighty in words and deeds. Jewish tradition says that Moses was a brilliant student. Like in the Egyptian academies, he was like top of his class, and that he was a military hero who had already proved himself on the field of battle. He voluntarily surrendered this position of great power and esteem to lead A group of difficult, complaining slaves through the wilderness. There's something else that he gave up. Tells us that he gave up the pleasures of sin for a season, season. In the next verse. Egypt was a wicked place. It was a place of entrenched idolatry. And indeed Moses was exposed to so many temptations in this pagan society. As a man of power, he could have whatever he wanted. He was brought the finest foods and the best clothing in the ancient world. Egyptian court life we know was utterly immoral and wicked, but we should not assume that up until this point that Moses was living a wicked life. Neither should we make the assumption that anyone serving in a powerful and wicked place is out of the will of God. Why do I say that? Well, do you remember a man sometime earlier who also served in the Egyptian court life? Yes, his name was Joseph. And that was exactly where God wanted him to be. Was he surrounded by idolatry and temptation? Yes, he was. But God strengthened him and enabled him to withstand that temptation and to be faithful in that place. Joseph was called to Egyptian court life. to preserve the people so that they would come out of Canaan, they would come to Egypt, they would live in a little separate quarters called Goshen. And they would go from an extended family in three centuries to a nation. It was like an incubator where the people of God would grow, and they were relatively set off from the pagan idolatry of the Egyptians because they lived in their own little community. But God's call was for Moses to leave the royal court life and deliver his people out of Egypt back to the promised land of Canaan. The reason why it was wrong for Moses to remain in Egypt is because it was not God's will for his life. The third thing that Moses rejected was the possessions of Egypt. In verse 26, we read that he rejected the treasures of Egypt. The treasures of Egypt is a way of expressing, you might say, unlimited wealth. What do you think of when you think of individuals who possess almost unlimited wealth? Well, perhaps today we would think of someone like Elon Musk Who recently bought Twitter for $44 billion? This is more wealth than some countries have in their national treasury. One individual. We know something of the treasures of Egypt from the 1922 excavation of King Kut's tomb, the famous death mass that everyone has seen in pictures before. It's comprised of over 22 pounds of gold. It's worth at least $2 million. I say this to make this point. When Moses turned his back on Egypt, he turned his back on a huge fortune. He had more than financial stability there. He had financial indulgence for the rest of his life. So, what is the message of Hebrews telling us? Is it telling us that we are to live in poverty? That we cannot have a nice home and a nice car and live like just about everybody we know lives in America No, though the Bible does not teach asceticism. Asceticism is a pagan philosophy that teaches that if you're really going to be holy and pleasing to God, you need to be miserable. You need to have a very poor diet, nearly starve yourself to death. You need to sleep like on a stone floor. And you need to live in absolute poverty. And because you're so miserable, it's obvious that you're holy. And the presupposition behind this philosophy is that matter, like flesh, is inherently evil. But spirit is good, and that suffering is a good thing, and that pleasure and luxury are necessarily bad things. This is not what the Bible teaches. Contrary to the way some people have thought over the centuries, the Bible teaches that God has given us richly all things to enjoy. However, often following God's will means that we will give things up And we will limit ourselves because of what God has called us to do. We are never to allow the values of the world to control us. The Bible uses the term world in different ways. Sometimes it refers to planet Earth Sometimes it refers to the Gentile world or just the inhabited world. But often, in the New Testament, especially It is used to refer to the predominant worldview of lost people that is antagonistic to God And everything that he stands for. This is not hard for us to fathom. This is the secular world view. That we live in. We live in a society that has this predominant thought: we will not have God to reign over us. We're going to live life on our own terms. We're going to live life our ways. I don't care if you want to be religious, but don't tell me how to live my life or what God wants me to do. And what we find in Scripture is the world hasn't changed. The values that motivate and captivate the hearts of lost people. 2,000 years, 4,000 years are exactly the same today. Perhaps the best summary of this is in 1 John 2 and verse 16. for all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life The lust of the flesh, speaking of sensual indulgence. This is the mindset of let us eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die. This is sometimes called hedonism. The pursuit of pleasure for pleasure's sake. This is the party lifestyle, right? Just grab as much joy and pleasure out of life as you possibly can, because it's not going to last for very long. There are many, many lost people who live this way. Some of them in a more refined way, some of them in a very crude way. And then there is the lust of the eyes. This is living your life dominated by appearances, by the superficial. Wanting to have a certain status, wanting to have the approval of others. Living life for financial comfort and security. Is it wrong to labor and work with your hands? to provide for your family and provide a little nest egg so that you have some security for the future? No, it is not. The Bible gives us example of the ant in Proverbs, who lays up food for the winter. God has given us resources to carefully manage and steward. But when that becomes the whole purpose of our life and why I exist, and the thing that gets me up every morning is my pursuit of financial security, then you are living your life. For something that's foolish, are you not? Your whole life is just to provide more stuff and and more security for yourself, and yet your life is very great. Then we have the pride of life, which has the idea of materialism, of living for things This is the American way, is it not? Our great problem is we don't have enough place to store all of our stuff. I'm amazed at the amazing amount of things that people possess. And you know, the more stuff that you gather, the more you have to take care of it, the more you have to ensure it, the more you have to maintain it. And very quickly it goes from being something that helps you accomplish the goals of your life To you become a slave of your possessions. I've got to clean these things and take care of these things and manage these things and sort these things. And before you know it, you're not really doing anything in your life, but dealing with your things And that's a foolish way to live your life. Moses walked away from the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. When he stood up that day against that Egyptian oppressor, he was making a clean break with the world. Let us not forget the writer of Hebrews was writing to a small band of suffering Christians who were about to lose their world if they continued to follow Christ. And so this message, this example of Moses would have been very relevant to them. Perhaps you're thinking I'm so glad that the Lord doesn't ask us to turn from the world when we come to Him. But you would be wrong. Listen to the words of Jesus. If any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whosoever will save his life shall lose it, and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it. For what is a man profited if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul. People with a living faith choose to reject the world And secondly, people with a living faith choose to identify with Christ and his people. Verse 25 gives us the positive aspect of Moses ' choice. Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. You see, Moses didn't just turn his back on Egypt. He embraced the people of God. This verse further explains the difficulty of Moses ' choice. You see, it's not just that he rejected Egypt and decided to become one of the Hebrews. Verse 25 says he chose to suffer affliction with the people of God. To identify with the people of God meant that he would have to deal with the suffering that came along with that. Now, the Greek word that's translated to suffer, affliction with is found only here in the Bible. It speaks of mistreatment, of being systemically oppressed. Again, this is all a matter of status. It's not just, you see, that Moses, when he left the royal courts, went down to become a commoner, an ordinary citizen. No. He went below that. He went from nobility to slavery. And with that identification with the slaves He opened himself up to oppression and suffering and danger as well. We have here kind of reverse, you've heard of rags to riches. This is from riches to rags. We learn in Acts chapter 7 that Moses knew God's destiny for his life at this age. How did he learn about God's calling on his life? Well, the Bible doesn't say specifically. It could be that God told him in a dream or vision. But I think it's more likely that his parents told him when he was a boy. We don't know how long Moses lived with his parents. Conjecturalness is quite broad. Some say that he lived with them until age three, some say he lived with them until age twelve. We don't know if Moses made frequent trips home after he went to live in the palace. That's perhaps possible, but the Bible doesn't say. But what is clear is that Moses ' parents had enough time with their son. To teach him the great values of life. To teach him about the one true God, Yahweh. To teach him about God's calling on his life, that he was not just any boy, that God had put him in the palace for a reason. And that God was going to use him someday to be a leader of these people and to bring them out of the bondage of Egypt. Now it would be easy to read this narrative. And to think that Moses ' choice to defend a Jewish slave was simply a matter of ethnic identity, that he saw someone beating up on his kind, the Jews, and that's why he did what he did. But that is not the case. The fact is that Moses, in most respects, was an Egyptian. When Moses fled from Egypt and went into the wilderness of Midian, the people there described him as an Egyptian. You know why? He looked like an Egyptian. He talked like an Egyptian. And because of his education, he thought like an Egyptian. Everyone assumed he was an Egyptian. But although Moses had much in common with the Egyptians, he worshipped the God of the Hebrews, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He had a true and living faith. It's interesting that when Moses would lead the people out of Egypt and into the wilderness , And the people again and again would complain and gripe and say, oh, we want to go back to Egypt. We want the wonderful food of Egypt. Things were so much better in Egypt, you never get one sense for even a moment that Moses ever wanted to go back to Egypt, even though he had a life of royalty in Egypt. Egypt. The reason is because Moses had left the world Forever. So let me ask you: Do you identify with the people of God? You may think that's a very irrelevant question. But it's not Do you like to be around Christian people? Or would you say you actually prefer to be around unsaved? people. Where do you feel more at home? Perhaps there's some people here this morning that are thinking I can't wait to get out of the service because I want to be around people who think and act the way I do. And right now I feel a little constrained and restricted and judged being around all of these Christian people. I would much prefer To be with the relaxed company of lost people If that is the way you think, it's probably very likely it's because you don't know the Lord's. The primary evidence the Bible gives for a believer in the New Testament is that we love the brethren. We love our brothers and sisters in Christ. I know that there are Christian friends that can be annoying. I know that. But one of the evidences of being a follower of Christ is you love to be around Christian people. You love to worship with them. You love to sing with them. You love to hear the Word of God. You like to study the Word of God with them You love to grow with with them and as iron sharpens iron to sharpen one another and edify one another And so you take advantage of every opportunity to gather with the people of God because they are your kind. You ever heard the expression, birds of a f a feather flock together? Christians love to be with other Christians. So worshiping and serving with the people of God is no small matter. You probably know there's a growing movement in our society of people who call themselves Christian but have absolutely no affiliation with any church. Sometimes they have slogans like, I love Jesus, but I hate the church. They consider their faith to be a private matter, and sometimes they've had really bad experiences. Sometimes in churches that are not sound at all, which have a very unhealthy atmosphere, and they react to that. I can understand that. But I want you to know that this viewpoint is completely contrary to the teaching of the Bible. This is not historic Christianity In the early church, a person who stopped gathering with the Lord's people in the Lord's day was demonstrating that they didn't believe the gospel. This is exactly what the author of Hebrew warns about in the previous chapter, in Hebrews chapter 10. He says in verse 23, let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised, and let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works. not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. This is not a message and a clever way for me to try to get you to come out more often to church and put a guilt trip on you. That's not what I'm trying to do at all. Because you can come to church with a bad attitude and say, oh, a preacher says I gotta be here, I guess I gotta be here, or it's gonna give me a call or something. That's not real worship. And that doesn't solve the problem. The question is, why don't you want to worship with the people of God? I know there can be reasons that people don't gather. But sometimes when I when I was first in the ministry, it was like this great mystery to me. Why is it that people don't want to come to worship? I mean, I talk to them and they have so many clever excuses. And they just go through one after another after another. And finally it dawned on me, you know why they don't come to church very much? Because they don't want to. And when we don't really want to do something, we can come up with a lot of reasons why we shouldn't do it. The Apostle John writes in 1 John 2. 19, they went out from us, but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us. I say all that to say this. You cannot grow as a child of God unless you are plugged in. in to a sound gospel preaching church. It's not going to happen. Whether you like it or not and you're antisocial, you need the people of God. You need their input in your life. You need their help. And you need to help them. That's the way God designed it to work. You may say, I don't like that plan. I'm kind of a private person. I like to keep to myself. I understand that, but that's not going to work in your spiritual life. I'd like to move to some points of application. I'd like to address those are young people, perhaps in their teens and twenties. You know, a lot of you have come from Christian homes and you've been taught the gospel, the time you were really small, you heard from mom and dad, you heard in Sunday school, other programs. And it's very easy to just kind of go along. You know what your parents want you to do. You know what would be pleasing to them. So you make a profession of faith. Yeah, I believe. Yeah, okay. I raised my hand. But then as life continues and you mature and you grow, and we say in our and in our society, you come of age and you begin now to more maturely look at the world and look at life and start making decisions for yourself Sometimes people say, I don't really think I believe this stuff Sometimes that manifests itself maybe in high school, even middle school. Sometimes it doesn't come later until they leave home And perhaps they've been in an environment where their parents have been very protective of them and what they're exposed to and the message of the world. Then they finally get out in the world and they hear all of these contradictory messages that are exactly the opposite of everything they've been taught. And there comes a time when they come to a fork in the road. Am I going to follow the world? Or am I going to follow Christ? And it becomes a real test of what do you really believe? Because sometimes the world and its message is so enticing. It seems like a no-brainer. The world offers so much that is enticing and interesting and attractive. And it seems to bring so much pleasure and happiness. And sometimes Christianity and the message of the gospel seems so restrictive and so boring and And so unattractive to people. And so, and then there's the intellectual side. They hear arguments and they hear positions and perhaps they go to a college and they hear a message where it seems like all the really smart and well respected people Don't believe like mom and dad and like the people in my church. They believed exactly the opposite, and they seem to have good answers and good positions that I've never heard of or thought of before. And so they jettison their faith, or the faith that they claim to have, and they go off into the world. Sometimes young people will go for a time after they leave home into the world, but then God graciously open Opens their eyes and they say, this is not all it promised to be. And it's empty. And it brings bondage and it brings addiction and it brings sorrow and guilt and shame. And they reveal in turning back to Christ that they possessed a faith of their youth that had not entirely died away, but was still there in the hearts. But sooner or later, young person, your faith will be tested. To see if it's true and legitimate, it can withstand the sufferings of life that may make you question things, or the enticements of the world that lead you So have you come to that fork in the road? Have you cast your lot in with Christ and the people of God? Do you have a living faith? That is grounded in the promises of the gospel and will never be worn away? Or do you have only a second-hand faith that will evaporate? The instant the world's views come into your ears or the adversity of life settles down on your soul. Christ is the only one who can satisfy The next application I want to make is this. True saving conversion involves both faith and repentance. I'm not saying that I believe that Moses was converted in this act when he was 40 years old, but I do think that this is a intentional and beautiful picture. Of faith and repentance here. Because in our trusting in Christ, there is a negative and positive aspect The native aspect of conversion is known as repentance. This is not a work. But it means to turn or to a change of mind. It involves turning the direction of your life. The positive aspect is faith. In the person and work of Christ. In Acts chapter 20 and verse 21, Paul describes conversion as repentance toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. And you can't really have one without the other. You see, Moses could not obey God's call and remain in Egypt. The Prada could not come home to his father without leaving the far country. And you can't receive the gift of salvation while still clutching to your cherished sins and saying, I want that, but I want this too. No. You must repent. And believe the gospel. Second, Christians naturally identify with the people of God Paul writes to the believers at Thessalonica that he didn't have to give them a whole lot of instruction about loving one another because the Spirit of God taught them this. One of my favorite preachers of the past who died in nineteen eighty-one was the Welsh expositor Martin Lloyd Jones. He was a brilliant doctor who quickly rose in the ranks of his profession. He had an uncanny ability. To make the right diagnosis by looking at the individual and listening to their symptoms In his mid-twenties, he was chosen to become the chief clinical assistant to Lord Hoarder, who was the physician of the British Royal Family. And Lloyd Jones was being prepared for that prestigious position. He had a stunning career before him. Great status in society, financial security , a wonderful future. But God saved him, and God called him to preach Most of the Christians he turned to for advice all told him, stay where you are. God can use you in a great way as a doctor and the upper echelons of society. One day in 1926, he went out with some of his doctor friends. To see a play. And as they came out of the theater, he saw a ragtag Salvation Army band coming down the alley playing Onward Christian Soldiers. And he says that he felt the Lord saying to him, These are your people, not the ones that you were with tonight. And that evening he chose to turn from the world and to identify with the people of God. And he would become A greatly used preacher of the gospel for many decades to come. The third point I want to make and final point is this is that we must be honest, the scriptures are honest, that following Christ sometimes can be costly. We rarely ever talk about this today, at least in 21st century evangelical America. It's like we have been subtly influenced by the health and wealth gospel. The Health and Wealth Gospel teaches that God wants you to have a really good life by the world's standards, that you would have abundant wealth and great health and a wonderful family and a strong marriage. And if you just contribute this amount, you can have that And that message, which in its crude forms we reject reject, still subtly has had an influence in the way people think, especially in this nation and now around the world, it's our most embarrassing export. And it's the idea that if you come to Christ Things are going to get so much better. Your problems will evaporate. Because God really wants you to have an easy and comfortable life. But Jesus said, if you're going to follow me, you need to count the cost. And for these believers in the first century, this was a very real thing Identifying with the people of God, continuing to gather for worship, would open them up to arrest, a loss of job. Exile, perhaps sent to some wilderness location, and eventually even death. You talk about a powerful mode To walk away from the gospel, to walk away from Christ. Yes, following Christ can be costly. But it's not nearly as costly as rejecting Christ. And this is what we're going to go on to see in the days ahead. The Bible does not teach that if you trust in Christ, all your problems will go away. But you will have the most important things in life. You will have pardon for sin and a peace that endureth Thine own dear presence to cheer and to guide, strength for today, and bright hope for tomorrow. Blessings all mine with 10,000 beside. If you're here this morning and you don't know the Lord as your Savior, won't you trust in Him? Yes, there may be some things that you must give up. There may be some relationships that will be strained. But oh my friend, it will be worth it. It will be worth it to follow Christ. Let's close in prayer. Father We thank you for your word. We thank you that it is always what we need to hear. We thank you for the example of Moses, who turned his back on the world And turned his face towards you and your people. I pray that you would help us to understand these basic truths Of the Christian life, and to respond in faith. And Father, for those here today who are yet caught in the clutches of sin and the bondage of the world, I pray that you would open their eyes and soften their hearts and convict their spirits that they would not be at rest until they come to rest in you. You and in the work of Christ alone. For it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen