Grow in your knowledge and understanding of this great book of the Bible, we're coming to a passage of scripture that is probably the most well-known passage in the book of First Thessalonians. So you probably recognize this, but most of the time people know it kind of out of its uh setting. They know it because it is a significant end times passage. And and it's often just not carried, the context is not carried with it. So we're going to be studying it this evening and probably in all likelihood will be in 1 Thessalonians 4, 13 through 18 next Wednesday as well. So this is just a passage that has a lot that we need to study and a lot of information that's very valuable for us. Let's do our memory verses for this month. And if you would join me in standing while we put these two verses to memory, 1 Thessalonians 5. 7 through 8. And as we'll look at this passage of scripture tonight, we'll find out that these verses that we've been memorizing in 1 Thessalonians 5 are actually connected Intrinsically with 1 Thessalonians 4, 13 through 18, they are a unit. And we'll see that as we go through this over the next couple weeks. But let's say the reference, then the verse, two times. 1 Thessalonians 5, 7 through 8. For those who sleep sleep at night, and those who get drunk are drunk at night. But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation. 1 Thessalonians 5, 7 through 8. For those who sleep sleep at night, and those who get drunk are drunk at night. But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation. I remember our theme or the the layout of the book of Thessalonians, it has two divisions, the first th three chapters. is a look back at God's work among the Thessalonians and the work of the missionary team as they brought the gospel to Thessalonica. And it's filled with It's filled with praise to God for the way they received the gospel by faith and the transformed lives as they turned from worshiping idols. They turned to God. From idols to worship and serve the living and true God. There's a radical transformation that took place in their lives. And Paul is rejoicing in that, along with the missionary team, Silas and Timothy. And then in chapters 4 and 5, there's a forward look where Paul, throughout the entire book, he has ended each chapter with a reference to the second coming of Christ. the return of the Lord. And in chapters 4 and 5, there's a considerable amount of teaching on the return of the Lord. And he's urging them to grow in holiness. To grow in love, to grow in diligence, to be watchful, to be sober, because the Lord is returning. So that brings us to our theme for the book of 1 Thessalonians. Continue to grow in faith, hope, and love. in light of Christ's imminent return, that he could return at any moment. We're coming to this passage of scripture in chapter 4, verses 13 and following. I'm just going to read through these just to to Have them in our minds fresh this evening, and then we'll begin to evaluate them over the course of this this evening. He says, but we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers about those who are asleep, that you may not grieve as others do, who have no hope. For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again Even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord That we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command. with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound of the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive, who are left, We'll be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so we will always be with the Lord. Therefore, encourage one another with these words. As we look at this passage of Scripture, this part of the epistle returns us back to what we saw in the first chapter of 1 Thessalonians. How they had turned to God from idols. He says in verses 9 and 10 that they had turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God and to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. And so this expectation Paul has been implanting in the Thessalonians from the time that he planted the church there in Thessalonica, even as he's writing this epistle, he's implanting within them an expectation that you turn. To God from idols, and you're waiting for God's Son from heaven, Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath. And we saw when we were looking at these verses in chapter 1 that the wrath to come is not referring to the wrath of hell. but to the period of wrath that that Jesus will unleash on the inhabitants of the earth by breaking the seals The title deed, the seals for the title deed of the earth in Revelation 6. This is otherwise known as the day of the Lord, otherwise known as the tribulation. And nothing has brought perhaps more comfort to the hearts of Christians over the past 20 centuries of the church than the awesome prospect of the return of Christ. It's true that believers often have differed about the details about the return of Christ, the timing. Is there the millennium they come before the millennium or after the millennium? Before the tribulation, after the tribulation. But the true heartbeat of every child of God is, come, Lord Jesus. Come, Lord Jesus. This should be on our lips on a daily basis when we pray, Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. This is one of the passages in the New Testament where the rapture of the church is perhaps more clearly addressed, more specifically addressed, than perhaps any other passage of Scripture. There are several that deal with the rapture for 1 Corinthians 15, John the church. 14. But this is probably one of the ones that deals with it most clearly. And it's addressed not so that we can debate. But so that we can find comfort in these truths, that our hearts will be comforted in the light of this. Just just by way of background, I know there are there are differing views within our assembly, and just to put us all on the same page about what we mean, what I mean when I when I say certain terms. There are a variety of different views about the end times. This is just a kind of a comparison of millennial teachings that are orthodox, that are in the orthodox strain of Christianity. The the first, I would say maybe a millennialism. Ah meaning no, it's a negation, millennialism, that there is there is no millennium. There's refers that that there's no literal. millennium, no thousand years where Christ literally reigns on earth. Rather, they see the millennium as being fulfilled in a spiritual promise, a spiritual kingdom. So they'd say things like Revelation 20 is just a recap of the entire book of Revelation. and that the a thousand years is only symbolic of a long, indeterminate period corresponding to the length of the church age. And that the binding of Satan that's found in Revelation 20 refers to the fact when Satan is bound currently because of the victory of Christ on the cross. So that's that's one view. Ommillennialism, that seems to contradict what we read in other places where where uh Satan is a roaring lion. roaming about seeking whom he may devour. People who hold to this position will say he has a long leash. And that's why he's on he's chained. He's just on a long leash. That seems to beg uh uh Credibility at that point. Postmillennialism, which essentially teaches the existence of a literal millennium, and it results from the spread of the gospel. They believe in a Roughly a thousand-year reign of the church, that Christ reigns through his church, through his people, as the church progresses and the gospel is spread throughout the lands. And then Christ will come at the end of that thousand-year reign of the church where the world is largely Christianized, largely evangelized. This view believes that the world and governments will be Christianized, whether through mass conversions or through rulers institutionalizing Christian values, thus the word post. millennial. It's after the millennium that Christ returns. And the binding of Satan is at some undeterminable future time is due to the preaching of the gospel. The gospel is so powerful that Satan is, as it were, bound. And it will neutralize the devil. And some well-known, well-respected adherents to this are B. B. Warfield. Jonathan Edwards and R. C. Sproul, they would hold to a post-millennial view. It's a very, very well respected view. Premillennialism, pre-meaning of course, before the millennium, teaches that Christ will come back before a future literal millennium in which He will reign bodily on earth For that period of a thousand years. This millennial reign is preceded by the rapture of the church. And although there are various views held by those who are premillennial, about when that rapture will take place. This view, premillennialism, is the official view that our church holds. We have it in our Constitution. This is what we teach here. We do so because we believe that this best explains not only the numerous Old Testament passages, including that of the biblical covenants, but also because of a literal grammatical interpretation of the teaching. teachings of Christ and of the apostles and passages like John 14, 1 Corinthians 15, this passage that we're looking at here, uh 2 Thessalonians 2, Romans 11, and such So these passages we believe best are explained by a premillennial position. Now, so if you look at this chart here, we have premillennialism, that the rapture comes. Then there's the tribulation, and then the second coming, where Christ literally comes physically to the earth and he reigns for a thousand years. Now there are different views about the rapture. We'll talk about that in a moment. Some are pre-tribulational. Some are mid-tribulational and some are post-tribulational, believing that Christ will come at the end of the tribulation. But all of those would be considered premillennial. That Christ returns prior to the millennium. Postmillennialism means that this church age ushers in the millennium through the preaching of the gospel, and that Christ comes at the end of the millennium. And amillennialism means that that the symbolic millennium, which is the church age, and the second coming. comes at the end of that time. Those are the three, well you the main orthodox views about the millennium. And I said that as a church we are premillennial officially, though there are people that are within our assembly that have differing opinions on these things. We're also Pre-tribulational. Officially, if you read our church covenant, you'll see that. And there are, again, there are a variety of different views about the tribulation when Christ comes. during the whether the rapture comes before, during, after, pre-Wrath. There's a variety of different opinions, but they fall largely into three main views. The post-tribulational rapture believes that Christ comes after the tribulation, at the end of the seven-year uh tribulation period where the wrath of God is poured out on the earth. Mid-tribulation believes that Christ comes in the middle. Some view this is pre-wrath, prior to the outpouring of the wrath of God. There's differing ways of looking at that. And then there's the pre-tribulational rapture position, which teaches that the second coming of Christ will take place in two stages. First, the rapture, and then at the end of the seven-year tribulation. Christ will bodily, physically return to the earth and set up his kingdom on earth. And so there's these are the differing views that we have when we come to a passage of Scripture. scripture like this. And it's very difficult, if you've come to a passage of scripture like this, to come to it without some sort of Bias. You hold a position, you've been taught a position, and you come and you read the passage of scripture and you interpret that passage of scripture through a lens, not intentionally. We just interpret things as we've been taught, and we interpret it through a lens. And so, you know, I've tried to look at this passage of scripture without a lens, but I can't. I I am who I am, and this is this is the this is the the lens that I have, but I've tried to look at it as unbiasedly as possible, and I hope that we can look at the scriptures and let the scriptures speak for themselves and um And come to the best understanding of this passage of Scripture. The importance thing, well, two things, as we begin to examine this passage of Scripture, and it is a remarkable passage of Scripture. I want us to see that the unit of thought begins in verse 13, and it goes all the way down to chapter 5, verse 11. The chapter divisions in our Bible aren't inspired. They were added later. But the unit of thought continues right on through chapter 5, all the way down to verse 11. And that's made clear by two things. First of all, by the repeated instruction. If you look at the end of verse 18 of chapter 4, he says, therefore encourage one another. with these words. And then at the end of chapter or chapter 5, verse 11, he says the same thing. Therefore encourage one another. And build up one another just as you are doing. So we have this repeated instruction: encourage one another with these truths. But secondly, you have another aspect, the teaching about those that are asleep. Or who are dead in Christ, and those who are awake, those who are alive in Christ, is found in both sections. If you look at, again, just going back a little bit further into your text, In verses 14, he says, for since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen Asleep. If you look just back one verse earlier, we do do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep That you may not grieve as others do who have no hope. Then he talks about whether those who are alive or who are asleep. That same truth is brought out in verse 10 of chapter 5, where he says, reading it beginning in verse 9, for God has not destined us for wrath. but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us, so that whether we are awake, alive at the return of Christ, or asleep, in the grave at the time of Christ, we might live with Him. These two realities connect this This teaching begin in verse 13 of chapter 4 all the way to the end of chapter 5, verse 11 So I want us to see this. This is a unit. But secondly, I want us to understand that the key element, the key teaching that Paul is trying to get across to the Thessalonians. . . Is that they're to be comforted by this? This teaching is designed to be a comfort. And if we come to 1 Thessalonians 4, just for the sake of debate and arguing , We're missing the main message. And I think many times people come to 1 Thessalonians 4, 13 through 18, and all they're focused on is winning a position. And if you walk away just with that, you've missed the main point. It's designed to be a comfort. It's designed to be an encouragement, and we are to be encouraging one another. with these truths. And I hope that as we we study this, that that will be the reality. So I want us to see this evening, this passage brings comfort. For several reasons. We're just going to look at a couple of them tonight. First of all, because for believers, death is sleep. For believers, death is sleep. We just sang about it is not death to die. It is not death to die. The song is teaching basically that because of Christ, we live. The key unlocks the door, and we go into true life. Through death, because Christ has conquered the grave for us. He begins in verse 13. We do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep. That you may not grieve as others do who have no hope. For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. When we read New Testament books, it's always important to try to understand the events that precipitated the writing of the New Testament books. books. Paul didn't just sit down one day and say, you know what, I just feel like writing. I'm gonna write the Thessalonians, see what they have. I'll just figure something out to write. He's writing in response to a situation on the ground. He's writing because of what's going on in their church. These books were not written in a vacuum. So it's helpful to be able to take a step back and go, what was the Apostle Paul, or what was Peter, or what was James or what was Jude trying to address when he wrote this book? They're written to real people and to real churches to address real issues that they were facing. However, sometimes when we're reading these these epistles, it's kind of like you're listening to one side of a phone conversation. Have you ever done that? You want to know? Someone calls your wife and you're like, I wonder who's she talking to? And you're listening, you're trying to piece together the conversation to figure out who is she talking to. Or you're listening to a co-worker at work on the phone, you're like, I wonder, wonder what he's talking about. Now you probably would never do that, never eavesdrop on a phone conversation. But maybe some people would. And you're trying to piece together the conversation based on the half of the conversation. that you have. That's kind of how it is when we come to the any New Testament epistle, we're trying to piece together the the overall conversation that the apostle is having with the church that he's writing to or the individual that he's writing to based on the half that we have. It seems likely that when Timothy came back And he reported to Paul and to Silas about the church in Thessalonica. He gave a good report, a glowing report, but it seems very likely that there were some questions that either they had or concerns that Timothy addressed to Paul and that these are the basis for the writings that Paul has. We see that when he begins, but we do not want you to be uninformed. This is a a whole change of conversation. He's been talking about Walking in brotherly love. Walking in purity. Now he says, I want you to know something I want you not to be uninformed about this important topic. So Paul starts off this new topic probably in response to something that Timothy had reported. And he says, we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers. He's writing friendly. This is a loving letter. He's not rebuking them, but there's something that they were uninformed about. There's something that they didn't understand. Or they didn't have a full understanding of. And so he's writing to correct and to give them more information so that they can have a proper and a full knowledge of these truths. He uses this, Paul uses this phrase frequently throughout his epistles. There's several different examples of it. He does it with regards to spiritual gifts in 1 Corinthians 12. Now concerning spiritual gifts, brothers, I do not want you to be uninformed. And so he gives teaching about spiritual gifts. And this is the launching pad. There's something you don't know. There's something I want to correct you on, and I'm going to do it now at this point. Also about God's plan for the nation of Israel in Romans 11, 25. He says, lest you be wise in your own sight, I do not want you to be unaware of this mystery. This is the same exact word, uninformed. Brothers, a partial hardening has come upon Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. He says, I want you to know these things, because these are going to be essential for you to have a proper understanding. of our Christian life. Also about association with the people of God, not guaranteeing salvation. Just because you go to church, just because you associate with the people of God, it doesn't guarantee you have salvation. He says in 1 Corinthians 10. For I do not want you to be unaware or uninformed, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea. Then he goes on to say, following down verse six, nevertheless, with most of them, God was not pleased. They were, as you could say, baptized with Moses through the Red Sea. But they weren't believers. God was not well pleased with them. So association with the people of God doesn't guarantee that you are a child of God. So this is a common phrase that Paul likes to use. He wants to clarify certain things so that they have a proper and a full understanding. He begins by saying, I don't want you to be uninformed, and the topic that he doesn't want them to be uninformed about is about those who are asleep. Those who are asleep. To be asleep is a euphemism, obviously, to describe death. Primarily in the New Testament, it's referring to the death of Christians. The reality is that the Greco-Roman world had a very, and the world today has a very hopeless view of death. A very hopeless view of death. Even though in the Greco-Roman world it wasn't unusual for them to say something about sleeping to refer to death. We do it today. Think about what we put on tombstones. What's the typical thing we see? R. I. P. Rest in peace. And so we try to use a euphemism, something that feels nicer than just to say, you're dead. And so we use a word like rest or sleep that seems to soften the idea. Here's an example of a first century BC Roman poet. Lucretius, he said, no one awakes and arises who has once been overtaken by the chilling end of life. That'll get you up in the morning. That's encouraging. You know what? That's it. Live for this world. But is that not how most of the world looks at death? You only live Once. So live it up. You might as well have it have it go big now. Go big or go home because you only live once. There's an example of a pagan tombstone from that period of time that says, I was not, I became, I am not, I care not. That's the mindset of the Greco-Roman world. That's the mindset that Paul was writing into. The Thessalonians were living in. That's how they viewed life and death. But for the Christian, there's a much more hopeful view about death. And that's why Christians have often chosen this term sleep to refer to death. Because for the Christian the body sleeps. The spirit lives with Christ. The body is asleep in the grave, and it's awaiting a resurrection. It is awaiting being awakened by Christ. We see this in numerous places. In Psalm 13 in the Old Testament, David says, Consider and answer me, O Lord my God, light up my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death. It's how David described it. John chapter 11. We've been going through this in our Sunday mornings with Pastor Laman. He says, after saying these things, he said to them, our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep. And the disciples like, well, if he's fallen asleep, then I'm sure he's going to get better. Let's not go back to Jerusalem. We're going to get you're going to get killed there in Jerusalem. And then later Jesus clarifies, Lazarus has died. When I say he's sleeping, I mean he's dead. Oh. In Acts chapter 7, when Stephen is being martyred, in verse 60, says, and falling to his knees, he cried out with a loud voice, Lord, do not hold this sin against them. And when he had said this. He fell asleep. That's just it's a helpful way to understand the reality of our Our hope in Christ. For the Christian, the body sleeps, the spirit lives on with Christ, and our body awaits. an awakening, a resurrection. In fact, the word that we have for where we bury people , cemetery, comes from the word that's used in this passage about sleeping. Comes from the word that means basically a sleeping place or a dormitory in Greek. And so Christians chose to name the place where they buried their dead dormitories. cemetery, because they say they are awaiting the resurrection. It's where they are sleeping. Now when we think of this idea of sleep, Pastor mentioned this a few weeks ago when we were talking about this passage of scripture in John 11, but Paul's not expressing what's commonly called soul sleep. There are many who hold an opinion of the idea that soul sleep that once you die you just You go to sleep. It's like when you go to sleep, you don't remember anything that you're you experience during the night unless you have vivid dreams. You just sleep, and they say you're just in a soul sleep. That is not what the New Testament teaches. The Bible is very clear that for Christians, we don't experience soul sleep. The body sleeps. The soul returns to the Lord. And lives with the Lord. We can see this in numerous places. In 2 Corinthians 5, verse 8, Paul says that when a believer is absent from the body He is at home with the Lord. So to be absent from the body isn't to be soul sleeping, it is to be present with the Lord. In Philippians chapter 1 We have this great passage. He says Paul's describing, you know, I'd rather die and be with the Lord than to live on and st suffer through the challenges that I'm suffering here. I'm hard-pressed between the two. My desire is to depart. and be with Christ. For that is far better. They said, but I know I need to stay here. There's work that needs to be done. And the Lord has me here yet for a time. You can think about the thief on the cross. Jesus didn't say, you know, today you're going to die and you're going to sleep. Don't worry, at the end you'll be resurrected, it'll be fine. He said, today you will be with me in paradise. For the Christian, we don't experience soul sleep. We experience life with Christ. The body sleeps in the grave. The body dies. What exactly, though, does Paul not want the Thessalonians to be uninformed about? He says, I do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who have fallen asleep. And I think there's there's a couple things that are going on here. It's it's he doesn't express it specifically. He doesn't say, here's the question I'm trying to answer. So we kind of have to piece it together, like the phone call that you're hearing part of. You kind of have to piece it together and say, what is he specifically trying to address? He says, this is the passage of scripture that we often use at funerals. If you ever preached at a funeral, if you ever stood beside a graveside and had to give a few words of comfort. To a believer, this passage where he says, We do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep, that you may not grieve as others do who have no hope. If you've ever been to a graveside of someone who is not a believer, you know there's a hopelessness that is experienced there. But for the believer, Part of our testimony that we give when we come to a funeral of a believer that has a clear testimony is the fact that we do grieve. We do sorrow. Death is a real enemy. But we don't grieve like the world grieves. We don't grieve like those who have no hope. We have a real, living hope. 1 Peter talks about that we have been born again to a living hope. We have a living hope because we have a living Savior who died and rose again. And Paul's going to bring that out in this passage of Scripture. So one of these elements that he's probably addressing is a reminder, don't go back to the way of life that you lived as a pagan. Remember, these are people who turned to God from idols. There's Jewish believers that weren't served worshiping idols. There are Gentile God fearers. that accepted Christ in Thessalonica, but specifically he says that many of them were those who turned to God from idols to s to worship and serve the living and true God. And there's a pattern of thinking that doubtlessly they had just naturally imbibed and the way they grieved death was something they had to relearn. You know, the thinking that you have before you come to Christ doesn't just instantly change when you come to know Christ. We have to renew our mind. We have to take scriptural truths and apply it to those realities of our lives. And so Paul's telling them: we don't grieve like those who have no hope. Don't do that. Many times at a Tanzanian funeral. I can remember a pastor, or many pastors, standing up and giving a warning to the church that's there. We don't grieve like others. And I don't want to see it today. And he's teaching them, we have changed And it should impact how we grieve the loss of a loved one. And that many times as they would walk past the casket, those who didn't know Christ would collapse in absolute despair and screaming and wailing that would take place. And that's why these pastors would say, if you're a believer and this person is a believer, we don't want to see that. We don't have that type of hope anymore. We have a true hope, a living hope. And so Paul's probably addressing something like that In the community there in Thessalonica. But it's it's not just that. It's more than that. It's definitely part of it. It's also kind of hard to believe that they didn't know anything about the resurrection. So it's not like he's saying, let me tell you about the resurrection. You've never heard about the resurrection before. But the resurrection is real. I can't imagine that. I can't imagine Paul came into Thessalonica and stayed there for months and preached the gospel, and these people got saved, and they didn't know the resurrection. Remember, he began preaching in the synagogue. And Jewish believers have a clear, confident hope in the resurrection. You remember in that passage in John 11 when Jesus is speaking to Martha? I think I I have this in the slide, actually. Boom, I do. Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. And Martha says to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. This was the common hope of the Jewish people. Yes, we're going to rise again. There will be a resurrection. They knew that from their Old Testament. And Jesus is telling Martha, no, no, no, your brother's going to rise again today. There's something else that's going to go on today in the life of your brother. But the fact that Jesus rose from the dead was an essential part of the preaching that Paul had when he went to Thessalonica. There's no way he could have preached the gospel to them without saying, by the way, The guy who died on the cross also rose from the dead. That's an essential element of the gospel. You don't preach that, you don't preach the gospel. Let me just bring you to this, 1 Corinthians 15. This is Paul again. Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preach to you. That Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the scriptures. the scriptures. He said, this is the gospel I preached. So I know the resurrection was part of their understanding. Probably very clearly they they remembered this word these words from from Jesus that Paul had reminded them, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die yet shall he live, and everyone who lives and believes in me, shall never die. I'm pretty confident they had an understanding of this reality. I can't I really can't fathom the the idea that the Thessalonians didn't know about the resurrection. So when Paul says we don't sorrow as those who have no hope. He's not saying, by the way, there's this thing called the resurrection I forgot to tell you about. You were uninformed about the resurrection. No, that's not the issue. He clearly told them about it. There's more to it. But it includes that. Remember. We don't sorrow as others who have no hope because of the resurrection. However, as we continue to follow Paul's argument, The biggest issue at stake seems to be the relationship of those who have died in Christ to the rapture. Will those who have died in Christ participate in the rapture, or will they miss out on it That's why Paul takes time to explain that the dead in Christ do not miss out on the rapture. The rapture doesn't happen, and those that are alive at the time of Christ's return are taken up into heaven to meet the Lord in the air, and the dead in Christ just stay dead. He says, no, no, no, no. You have misunderstood. He's informing them about some of the order of the events so that they can have a proper understanding and find comfort in that reality. I think the idea, at least part of the idea here, seems to be the idea that if you love someone and you you're looking forward to something special, maybe a wedding, maybe a vacation that you've anticipated enjoying together for a long time and you're looking forward to this day and and someone you love has to miss out on it because they're in the hospital. There's a sorrow. There's a grief that comes as a natural. I really wanted you to be a part of this. Well, the rapture of the church is infinitely greater than a wedding. Or a f uh a vacation. And he's saying, I don't want you to sorrow as those who have no hope. I want you to understand, of course there is the resurrection, but when does this resurrection happen? It happens prior, just prior to the church being raptured. They don't miss out on it. They actually precede the church And I want you to be informed about that reality. The fear seems to be that they were afraid that they would be Left out. They would not be able to participate in some of the events that come immediately after. And again, I don't think the idea is like they were afraid that they would be like two minutes later. They're going to miss out on the first two minutes of of the return of Christ. That's just going to be terrible. But the idea they're going to miss out for an extended period of time and the events that follow the rapture of the church They would miss out on the marriage supper of the Lamb, the returning with Christ in glory. They would miss out on those realities. D. Edmund Hebert said about their grief. The grieving is not just over their temporal loss. Wait, wait, wait. I have a slide. The grieving is not just over the temporal loss of believing loved ones, but rather indicates that they feared that those who failed to live until the coming of Christ. Christ would be at an irreparable disadvantage at his return. They thought there was a peculiar advantage attached to survival until the end time. And they might have gotten that from Daniel 1212 if you read that. They fancied that those who had departed would miss the blissful reunion, or at least come behind those who lived until the Parocia, meaning the coming of the Lord. Thus their grief was not just a natural sorrow for their own loss, but grief for the supposed loss of their loved ones once or sustained by their death before the return. And I think that is an important element that we will see as we continue to march through this passage of scripture. Wow, that clock is right. We're not going to make it nearly as far as I thought we were going to make it tonight. Wow. I'm going to look at this briefly here. What is the basis for the believer's hope? And Paul brings this out in this passage of Scripture. We do not want you to be uninformed brothers about those who are asleep, that you may not grieve as others do who have no hope. And there are a couple important realities here. The first reason he says is, for since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. The first reason for this hope is the gospel, the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. It's interesting that Paul doesn't use the word sleep to describe Jesus' death. He describes it as death. Jesus died. He didn't just Sleep. He experienced the fullness of death for us. And I don't think that's an accident. I think he intentionally chose to speak of Jesus' death as dying. He didn't just swoon in the tomb. He died. And he experienced the fullness of death so that we don't have to. And it's through Jesus that we have this hope. He says, since we believe, he's saying the faith that the Thessalonians embraced about Christ has enormous impact for how they view the death of their loved ones. how they view death in general. It's not just that we believe these things and it doesn't impact our lives. We believe these things and it changes everything. It changes our lives and if it doesn't There's something wrong with our faith. Our faith has a massive impact on the way we look at death. Death is a real enemy. It's the last enemy, the Bible says, to be defeated, to be utterly annihilated. But the Bible teaches that Jesus took the stinger away. Death is like a bee that has lost its stinger. Where's the sting? It is no more. Because Christ took it himself. That's what the gospel that we believe. That impacts everything. It changes how we grieve. It's okay to grieve. It's okay to have sorrow. It's okay to feel the loss. Remember Jesus at Lazarus' tomb, what does he do? He wept Jesus wept, even though he knew moments later he was going to raise Lazarus from the grave. He wept because of the reality. of the pain that Mary and Martha and Lazarus experienced. He wept for the sorrow that they were experiencing. He wept for the reality of the millions and billions who would die yet. He wept. There's a real weeping. There's a real sorrow. But there's not a hopelessness in our sorrow. Death is still an enemy, but it's a defeated enemy. The second reason for this hope is related significantly. It's our connection with Christ's resurrection. He says, even so through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. We'll look at this more in more detail probably next week, but this is not referring to necessarily a believer's position in Christ. He uses a different word here, saying through Christ. Paul is saying that it is the resurrection of Christ to kind of like punch the hole through death. And when we die as the believers, we we go into life through Jesus. We are entering into life through him. Death is not the same because of what Christ has done. Paul speaks about this in 1 Corinthians 15. But he says, in fact, Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. Notice how he uses that word, asleep. There it is again. For as by a man came death, by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ. Shall all be made alive. All who are in Christ shall be made alive. And so we, through Christ, have this great hope. We are way past time. There's so much I want to say. We're going to just stop here. And if you would like, you can bring those notes back again for next week because we're going to be right here. And first Thessalonians chapter four, moving on. We might even get to verse seventeen next week. We'll see. Hopefully we will But I hope this is an encouragement as you think about the reality that we do sorrow, real sorrow, at the death of our loved ones, but we don't sorrow like the world sorrows. We have a Savior who has conquered the grave. And it is not death to die for those of us who know Christ. It is actually to hear the key unlocks the door. And to enter into the presence of our Savior and to experience the fullness, the trueness of life that He has prepared for us through Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for these beautiful promises. I pray, Father, that they would indeed be a comfort. And Lord, that you would sink these realities deep into our soul. soul. Thank you for our Savior Jesus Christ, who conquered the grave for us. And it's in his name we pray. Amen.