If you would, you can take your Bibles and turn to the book of 1 Thessalonians. We're going to continue on there. I put out a new memory verse. for this week. So I hope you got that. It's continuing on in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 in our memorization of this passage of scripture that's quite quite beautiful, quite significant as well. It's the the second half, you might say, of the first part of this uh teaching that the Apostle Paul does on the return of the Lord, the rapture of his saints. And we see that beginning in chapter 4. And going all the way through chapter 5. And so we're looking at that. But our memory verse, let's go over two memory verses. We'll go over our memory verse that we've been working on. 1 Thessalonians 5, 7 through 8. And then if you have your card, we'll work on verses 9 through 11. So we'll say this through twice tonight. Just One last time to get that kind of sunk into our head. And then Lord willing, tonight we'll also go through this once, this new verse, once. Actually, it's when I say new verse, it's actually three verses. And uh I just it's a good unit, so it's kind of hard to divide it up, and and we're just gonna try to do all three verses. It's not too much. But let's stand together and do 1 Thessalonians 5, 7 through 8. 1 Thessalonians 5, 7 through 8. For those who sleep sleep at night, and those who get drunk are drunk at night. But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation. 1 Thessalonians 5, 7 through 8. For those who sleep sleep at night, and those who get drunk are drunk at night. But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation. Let's do our new memory verses which aren't gonna be up there this week. So if you have the card, they're here. If not, it's it's in your Bible actually. First Thessalonians five, nine through eleven, so you can look it up there and you could Memorize it right out of your Bible. I know it's a crazy thought. But let's try this this evening. 1 Thessalonians 5, 9 through 11. For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. who died for us, so that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with him. Therefore, encourage one another and build one another up just as you are doing. Excellent. Thank you. That's where we're going to be going in the next weeks ahead. We're going to be looking at 1 Thessalonians 5 in our study, and we will be memorizing those three verses together. Just by way of quick reminder, where we are, the division of the book of 1 Thessalonians has two main divisions. The first three chapters are backwards looking. at what the Lord has done among the Thessalonians about Paul and his missionary team, Silas and Timothy and their ministry among them, the character of it, the nature of it, the entrance. that they had among them. It wasn't with fanfare. It wasn't with um rhetorical flourishes. It was in great humility and in fear, as they had just been beaten and imprisoned and and uh in one sense, run out of town in their previous uh in in Philippi, and so they came with the wounds that they bore, and they came with that reality, but they came with the joy of the Lord and the message of Christ. And so he's thankful for what God has done among them, how they turn to God from idols to worship the living and true God and to wait for his son from heaven. He's also reminding them about how they acted amongst them and and what they the character of their life was so that he could by the example of their lives he could refute the accusations that were being brought against him that Paul and Silas and Timothy were really there just to gain from them. And he says, look at the example of our lives. Is that consistent with how we lived among you? And he said, you yourselves know. Over and over again, he said, you yourselves know, you yourselves know. You know how we lived among you. But then these last two chapters are forward-looking. Because of what Christ has done, because Christ is coming again, how ought we to live? We ought to live with this pursuit towards the love of Christ in our lives. We ought to be pursuing, growing in holiness. And in love and in diligence. We talked about diligence at the end two weeks ago, and that we ought to be watchful and we ought to be sober because Christ is coming again. So the theme is continue to grow in faith, hope, and love in light of Christ's imminent return. And one of the things that we've mentioned Just by way of reminder is that throughout this book, every chapter ends with a reference to the return of Christ Chapter 1 ends by saying, you are waiting for his son from heaven. And every chapter ends with some reference to that. Chapters 4 and 5 are no exception to that. The imminent return of Christ. It's one of those things that's interesting. Many people say don't teach new believers eschatology. You shouldn't teach young Christians eschatology. It's not really good for them. Paul didn't agree with that. Paul was in Thessalonica for probably no more than six months, maybe a little bit more, but not much more than that. And he taught them a great deal of eschatology because eschatology helps us have the right perspective as we face trials in our lives. And so that's something just to keep in mind as we consider the importance of it. It was important Paul Taught a great deal about the doctrine of salvation. He taught a great deal about many other doctrines, but he did not shy away from eschatology. In fact, it was a major part of his teaching. We looked at the three different views of the millennium, premillennialism, which which we as a church teach. There are others in our assembly who may hold to different opinions. post-tribulationalism or post-millennialism or amillennialism, but we're teaching from a premillennial perspective. And it's a perspective that as I read through this passage, it seems to fit well not only with that, but with a pre-tribulational rapture. So just catching up to where we are, we talked about the the mindset of the Greco-Roman world that death is just The end, and there is no waking after that. But Paul is describing, he's writing to them, and he says in verse 13 of chapter 4, we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers. about those who are asleep, that you may not grieve as others do who have no hope. He says Christians grieve, but they grieve differently. Death is still an enemy. But it is not a hopeless enemy, because for the believer to die is to go into the very presence of the Lord. And the body remains here, but the spirit goes to the Lord and is in the very presence of the Lord. And he says, so we don't have a hopeless faith. But not only that, we have the hope of the resurrection. We have the hope of when Christ returns, we will be resurrected in our glorified bodies and we will join with him. And he says in verse 14, For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so through Jesus God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord, that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound of the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive who are left will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so we will always be with the Lord. Therefore encourage one another with these words. If you remember last week, when we look began looking at this passage, we mentioned that chapter 4. 13, all the way down to chapter 5. 11 is a unit. And you can see that by a couple things. One is the fact that he he ends each of these sections by saying, encourage one another with these words. But also by the fact that he's talking about those who are asleep, meaning they have died in Christ, and and those who are alive as those who are awake. He speaks about that in uh verse four and or verse fourteen and verses fifteen he says for since we believe that Jesus died and rose again even so through Jesus God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep Those who have fallen asleep in Christ, who have died in Christ, our bodies sleep in the grave while our souls return to the Lord. That same type of verbiage as we're looking at in our memory verses. Chapter 5, verses 9 through 11 are found at the end there as well, where he says, in verse 10 of chapter 5 Well, read verse 9. For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. who died for us, so that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with him. Therefore, encourage one another. and build one another up just as you are doing. So we see this these same thoughts are being brought together in a unit. Verses verse 13 of chapter 4 all the way down to verse 11 of chapter 5 are one unit. But he's speaking to those who are grieving, they're uninformed about something. They're uninformed, we talked about last week About the state of the dead in Christ. Not that the dead will be resurrected, but that the dead will be resurrected at the return of Christ. that there's going to be something. Their fear was that somehow the dead in Christ would miss out on something. The dead in Christ were somehow disadvantaged. That's actually kind of helpful to try to understand Paul's teaching on eschatology because our proper understanding of the rapture has to explain In what way the dead in Christ could be disadvantaged? What way could the dead in Christ be disadvantaged if you didn't understand that they were resurrected at the time of the rapture? Now, the Bible is very clear that at the second coming of Christ, when Christ returns to the earth and sets his feet on the earth, there is a resurrection. At that same time. And that was not unknown to the Jewish people. Remember we talked about even with Martha, when she spoke to the Lord at after the death of Lazarus, and she says, Your brother, he says, your brother will rise again. She says, I know my brother will rise again at the last day. That was common knowledge. So there's some way in which their misunderstanding would cause a disadvantage If they uh didn't understand this properly to those compared to those who would be alive at the time of the rapture. So if we understand the rapture as prior to the tribulation, then we can see how there would be a disadvantage. They wouldn't be able to partake in some of the events that the church partakes in, the marriage supper of the Lamb, the returning with Christ in power and glory when he returned. There would be a disadvantage to those who are dead in Christ in that regard. So that seems to make sense with what we're describing here. Remember we talked last week, it's like listening to half of a phone conversation. And you have to take half of the phone conversation and piece in what you know that would help clarify these events. But the main point of this whole passage, it's repeated twice, we've seen it here twice already this evening, is that we are to be finding comfort or encouragement. Through these truths, there is a message of encouragement or comfort. He says it in verse 18 of chapter 4. He says it in verse 11 of chapter 5. And so we saw last time when we were looking at this that we are to find encouragement because for believers, death is sleep. There is a resurrection of the body. And then the the but before that the believer goes to the very presence of the Lord and his body sleeps, but that is not the end. It is not the end. But the second point is there is comfort because resurrected believers participate fully in the rapture. Resurrected believers participate fully in the rapture. And so beginning at verse 15, he says, for this We declare to you by a word from the Lord that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep. So he's saying here, there is no disadvantage for those who have died in the Lord. We those who die in the Lord, Fanny Crosby, till my raptured soul shall find rest beyond the river. There's no disadvantage for Fanny Crosby because she's sleeping. Her body is in the grave. Her spirit is with the Lord. But she will participate fully in the rapture. There's no disadvantage for those who have died in Christ. He says, for this we declare to you by a word from the Lord So the question comes in, when did the Lord say this? Right? This is something that the Lord spoke. This we say to you. By a word from the Lord. There's three possible ways we can understand this. And we're just going to look at all three of them kind of quickly. Perhaps this refers to some unrecorded teaching. of Jesus that was still present in the first century. Paul may have heard it, other disciples may have heard it. There are many things John says that were that Jesus said and did that were not recorded in the gospels. He said perhaps All the the earth couldn't contain the books that would describe what Christ said and did. So there were many other events and teachings of Jesus that were not preserved for us by the Holy Spirit. What we have preserved for us was what God viewed as sufficient. for us. Perhaps this is some unrecorded teaching that that was still present in the first century. And we see that. Like for example in Acts 20, 35, there is an example of a re a teaching of Jesus. In Acts 20, 35, if you look it up, that is not recorded in the Gospels. But it is recorded in the book of Acts. But it was not in any of the four Gospels. It's a teaching of Jesus while he was on earth that's not recorded in the Gospels. There's many, many examples of that, but we actually see one in Acts 20, 35. I don't think that's it, but it's a possibility. It could also refer to an application of Christ's teaching in the gospel, and I'm going to try to find where we need to be here. Wait a second. Okay, yeah, we're getting we're getting right here. Very close. Here is where I want to be. It could refer to an application of Christ's teaching from John 14. We do know that there can be a lot that is discerned from what Jesus says in John 14 about his return. If we read this passage, he says, Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me. In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself that where I am Where I am, you may be also. So we have in this teaching of Christ some teaching about his return. The fact that Christ is going to his father's house. We read in verse 28 of this chapter that he says, I am going to my father, and you should be happy. For me that I'm going to my father, for my father is greater than all. So you should be rejoicing with me that I'm going to my father. I'm going to heaven. When Stephen was martyred, he said, I see the Son of Man seated at the right hand. I see Jesus seated at the right hand of the Father. I'm sorry, standing at the right hand of the Father. He is in the very presence of the Father. He went to the Father and he says, In my Father's house are many rooms. And he says, I'm going to prepare a place for you. And if I go to prepare a place for you, I will come again to receive you to myself, that where I am, there you may be also. So there's some significant teaching that parallels what we read here in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 13 through 18. You can actually see some of the parallel terms that are used. The idea of trouble and sorrow are found in both of these. In order, in fact. This is all in the order that you'd find in both of these passages of scripture. The idea of believing. Jesus urges them to believe. You believe in God, believe also in me. God and me, Jesus says, and then Jesus and God in verse 14. I told you these things and He says, I say to you, come again. I'm going to come again. The coming of the Lord. Receive you to myself. You'll be caught up to myself. To meet the Lord. You can see how one is Paul speaking about what Jesus said, and the other is Jesus speaking, to be where I am, ever to be with the Lord. You see that there's significant parallels between what Jesus says in John 14 and what Paul says in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. So that is one possibility. And Jesus comforts them by saying that he is going to his father's house to prepare a place for them. One of the encouraging things is that he is giving a message of comfort. And Paul takes that same message of comfort in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and says, I want you to understand what Jesus said. This we declare to you by a word from the Lord. So he comforts them by saying that he is going to my father's house to prepare a place for them. He comforts them by saying that he will come again to take you to myself. And he comforts them by saying that we will be with him. Forever. These are great messages of comfort that we ought to be encouraged by. So one possibility of what he means by, we declare to you, by a word from the Lord, is that some unrecorded teaching of Jesus. Another possibility is that he's talking about John 14. And I think that's the one that makes the most sense to me. But it also could be a private revelation given to Paul, where there's even more details given to Paul. privately. It would fit well with what Paul said about the rapture. You know, you talk about this in in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. He says, Behold, I tell you a mystery. We shall all sleep, we shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet, for the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed. The idea of a mystery in the Bible is not something that's spooky, but something that was previously unknown. It's something that was previously unrevealed. And so we see this the idea of the rapture, if you read the Old Testament, you'll find that there is only a larger understanding of the coming of the Lord, but not the full understanding of a rapture that leads to it that is prior to the tribulation, where the second coming where Christ puts his feet on the earth. But this seems to be a mystery That is revealed in the New Testament. Christ first reveals it in John 14, and then more fully in 1 Corinthians 15 and 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and Revelation chapter 3. We do know that Paul received direct revelation from God. There were things that Paul received that were specifically given to him. In Galatians chapter 1. He says that his doctrine he didn't receive from any man, nor was I taught it by men, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus Christ. So Jesus came specifically to the Apostle Paul and taught him the doctrine that he taught, the gospel he taught, was given to him directly. From Jesus Christ. And in 1 Corinthians chapter 11, and he gives the information about the Lord's Supper, the Apostle Paul was not there at the Lord's Supper. Obviously, he was still opposed to Christ. But he said, For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you. That the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread, and he begins to explain the whole event of the Lord's Supper. He says, I received this Teaching directly from the Lord. The Apostle Paul did receive additional revelation that was given to him. But I think most likely what we're finding here is teaching that maybe is expanded, but primarily based on what Jesus says in John 14. And what he's doing here is he's giving a corrective to their to their thinking. He's giving a corrective to their thinking. Those who are dead in the Lord are actually in a priority position, you might say, because they go slightly before those who are alive. So if you think that there's an advantage to those who are who are still alive at the return of Christ, he says actually The dead in Christ are slightly ahead of those who are alive at the return of Christ. And so he's correcting their thinking. The dead in Christ are in no disadvantage compared to those who are alive. at the time of the rapture. He says here in verse 15, For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord, that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord. will not precede those who have fallen asleep. Now, some have read this and they've said, we who are alive, Paul thought he was going to live to see The rapture. Paul thought that he would be one of those that was raptured. I don't think that Paul knew that. I think Paul hoped that. I think Paul had the expectation that it was possible that he might participate in the rapture, that he didn't see anything that would that could that was necessary to happen before the rapture would take place, and it could happen at any moment. Paul didn't think that there were certain prophetic events that had to take place beforehand. He was waiting expectantly. That's why throughout the book of 1 Thessalonians, he's telling them, you are called to wait for the Son of God from heaven. He has them almost as it were on tiptoes, eagerly expecting the return of the Lord. He mentions it five specific times in this short epistle. For Paul, he believed that it could happen in his lifetime. Now we know it didn't happen in his lifetime, but he believed that it could. It was possible. This is the idea of immanency, that it could happen at any moment. But he also knew that it might not happen in his lifetime. And we see this as we read the rest of his epistles. Paul is just saying, I am currently alive, and I am still living with the expectation that I may be one of those. who are raptured. In Philippians 1 23, though, he says this I am hard pressed between the two, to die or to remain. My desire is to depart and to be with Christ, for that is far better. So Paul says I don't know. There's a real possibility that I am going to die before the coming of the Lord. And I really kind of want to. I'm ready to go. I've been through a lot, and I'm ready to be in the presence of the Lord. In fact, interestingly, in 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verse 14, he says, And God raised the Lord and will also raise us up by his power. So what is he saying there? It seems like he's saying, I anticipate I'm going to die and I will be resurrected. So Paul didn't believe that he was going to be, but he believed that he might be one of those who is raptured. But he also believed that it was possible that he would die and not be raptured. You know, there is an apostle That was absolutely certain that he would not see the rapture. Do you know which one that was Peter, exactly. The Lord had told him how he would die. So Peter knew that he would not see it in his lifetime. But the others were not given that information. Of course, Jesus says of John, if it's my will that he stays alive till I return, what is that to you? And then they had that false rumor that began to be spread about him. But every generation of Christians ought to be living with the hope of the imminent return of Christ. Paul did. And he labored to get the Thessalonian believers to live with that same hope. Because when we live with that expectancy, It transforms the way we think and the way we live. When we speak of the priority of the resurrection saints, it's important to realize that the Thessalonians were not afraid that they're dead in Christ. might be resurrected a minute or two after them and miss out on the first couple minutes of the return of the Lord. Now they were concerned that years might elapse, significant time might elapse. And that they might miss out on significant events associated with the return of Christ. So when they say, I don't want you to grieve as others who have no hope. I don't want you to think that those who are dead in Christ are somehow disadvantaged. No, they're not disadvantaged. In fact, they are in a priority position. They will actually precede you just slightly. You need not fear for those who are dead in Christ. That's why Paul could say, for me to live is Christ, to die is gain, because I go in the very presence of the Lord, and then I experience the resurrection at that same time. But we have these events that then he describes getting in verse 16 that continue on to the end of this chapter the events that are associated with the rapture. And I've been using this term rapture pretty loosely or pretty consistently in this teaching. And I do so because it really comes out of these verses that we are reading. There's some people that will say the word rapture isn't found in the Bible. And It's true but not true. It is found in this passage of scripture. It's in if you read where he says in verse 17, then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the in the clouds. That is the word that in the Latin was translated rapturo. It's the Greek word harpazzo, and it means a snatching away by force, a catching up. And it very easily could be, and in some translations it is translated, rapture, but here it just is just it's described. It is a catching up. But there are many terms that are found that are not found in the Bible that are actually described in the Bible. Terms like the Trinity. Very clearly taught in the Bible, but the term Trinity itself is not taught in the Bible. The word rapture, I think, actually we could we could say it it is, in the sense that it is based off the Latin When Jerome translated the Bible into Latin, when he used this, when he came to this verse, he used the word rapturo. The word rapture, the English word rapture, comes from that, from the Latin word. And so this is where we would find that. But it's also a word that's found in a few other places. There are other raptures, physical raptures. That take place in the New Testament. Are you aware of that? This same word is found two other places of a physical rapture. For example, in Acts 8. And when they came up out of the water, this is the baptizing of the Ethiopian eunuch. The Spirit of the Lord carried away, Harpazo, that same Greek word, carried Philip away, and the eunuchs saw him no more. And went on his way rejoicing, but Philip found him found himself at Azotis. That's I just would love to have been Philip. Well Well how did I get here? I thought I was in the baptizing this guy, and then I'm boom, I'm in another city How did that happen? Just instantly caught away. It's that same Greek word. Or to the Apostle Paul in 2 Corinthians chapter 12, where he's describing being. Taken up into heaven. I know that this man, he's describing the third person, and I know that this man was caught up into paradise, whether in the body or out of the body. I do not know. God knows. I had this experience. I don't know if I was literally in my body or I was not literally but I I don't know. But I had this experience. where I was caught up into paradise. And it's that same word, harpazzo, that we find here in chapter 4, verse 17. So this is where the word rapture comes from. When we speak of the rapture, it is a biblical doctrine. It is taught in Scripture. Now, people can have honest differences of opinion about when the rapture occurs, but you really can't have an honest opinion about that it occurs. It is clearly described here. We have here events then that come at the time of this rapture. It says in verse 16, for the Lord himself will descend from heaven. With a cry of command. The Lord will descend from heaven. So when Christ comes, he will come from heaven. Where we read in, if you go back to chapter 1 in verse 10, He says that they've turned from God to God, from idols, to serve the living and true God and to wait for his son. From heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath to come. So we have this expectation that Paul has already been teaching about in this epistle. He says he is coming from heaven. This fits very well with what we read in John 14, where Jesus says, I go to prepare a place for you. I'm returning to my Father. to prepare a place for you. And if I go, I will come again to receive you unto myself. I will take you to myself. As we noted when we studied that verse, 1 Thessalonians 1:10, and we'll see it next week as we continue to chapter 5. We're told that God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us. So that whether we are awake at his coming or asleep at his coming, we might live with him. This is what we're the verses we're memorizing right now. That whether we are awake at his coming, meaning alive, or asleep at his coming , we might live with him That's what Jesus taught in John 14, and what Paul is encouraging the Thessalonians with. The Lord will descend. The Lord Himself. He's not sending agents to do that. He's not sending angels to do that. He is himself. Coming to do this with a cry of command. It's a very reminiscent of what Jesus taught and what happened in John 11, 43. Remember, we've been talking about John 11 on Sunday mornings, Lazarus and the resurrection. Christ stood outside the tomb of Lazarus, and the Bible says he cried out with a loud voice. The Greek word is megasphone. Megaphone. He cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out. The pastor made the comment that if he hadn't said Lazarus, then everyone would have come out of the grave. That's the reality. This loud command that he gave to Lazarus, and Lazarus came out of the grave. And so we find when the Lord returns, he comes with a cry of command. Those who are in the grave, he will command they be resurrected. And they will come out of the grave. And not just out of the grave, they will meet the Lord in the air. Their bodies will meet the Lord. They will come and they will join together. Revelation 118 says, Jesus says, Fear not, I am the first and the last and the living one. I died, and behold, I am alive forevermore, and I have the keys of death and Hades. Jesus says, I have the power over the living and the dead. And when I command the dead to rise, they will rise. Because I have that power. He also describes with the voice of an archangel. The only other passage that teaches us about an archangel is in Jude. Pastor Tobin is teaching on that and it calls Michael an archangel. Michael is an archangel. We're not sure if Michael is the only archangel. He's the only archangel that is specifically designated in the Bible. However, in Daniel chapter ten Verse 13, it calls Michael one of the chief princes. One of the chief princes. So it may be that there are other archangels We don't know. Michael and other chief princes who are archangels. But the only one that is specifically designated as an archangel is Michael. So it may be Michael. It may not be We also have and with the sound of the trumpet of God. Some see this as referring to the voice of the archangel, that it sounds like a trumpet. It is so loud and so commanding that it it sounds like a trumpet. Others see this as referring to the seven trumpets that sound in Revelation 8 through 11. Which culminate at the midpoint of the tribulation just because the word trumpet is used. I don't think that fits best, but uh There are those who hold that opinion. It seems clear that this is parallel to a passage we just looked at a few minutes ago in 1 Corinthians 15, where a trumpet is mentioned in connection with the rapture. In 1 Corinthians 15 There we are, fifteen fifty-one, where he says, Behold, I tell you a mystery, we shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet, for the trumpet will sound And the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed. So the dead will be raised, and we who are alive shall be changed. If we read that passage clearly, that there is A trumpet that sounds, and the dead are raised, and we compare that with what we read in 1 Thessalonians, that makes sense. And then there's also a last trumpet for those who are alive. So there's two trumpets that are being described in this passage of scripture. So it was the sound of a trumpet. That brings, that connects or coordinates with the dead being raised and those who are alive being raptured. The sound of the trumpet in the Old Testament was something that was used to call a solemn assembly. Those who were to come and be a part of the assembly would listen for the trumpet blast. It was also an event that was Describing the the the presence of God. When you read in Exodus chapter 19, when the Lord came down on Mount Sinai, there was loud trumpet blasts that grew louder and louder and louder, and the people feared. In Joel 2, a trumpet is described to signal the day of the Lord. So the trumpets are associated with the coming of the Lord. Trumpets are associated with the convocation of an assembly. They're also associated with the very presence of God. And it seems here very clearly as well that a trumpet will sound when The dead are raised, and those who are alive are caught up with the Lord. Then the dead, he says, in Christ, will rise first. And this is an answer to the fears of the Thessalonians. Their fear that the dead in Christ would somehow miss out on the rapture of the church and the glorious reunion with Christ. He says, no, no, you've misunderstood it. They're not in a disadvantage. They actually Rise first. And if you go back to what we read in verse 14, it says, for since we believe that Jesus died and rose again. Even so through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. What seems to be described here is that the The spirits of those who have died in Christ return with Christ, their bodies are resurrected, they meet in the air, and now have glorified bodies. He says the dead in Christ return with him. And then they are caught up and joined together. He said the dead in Christ rise first. They knew that there would be a resurrection at the end of the age, so it seems that their concern was not primarily about that. Again, it was that they would be somehow disadvantaged. And as I look at this, it seems to argue against a view of the rapture that is at the same time as the second coming of Christ to earth. when he will descend all the way to the Mount of Olives and when there there will be another resurrection. The point of Paul that he's making here, we don't sorrow as others. But we also don't sorrow about the dead because we they're in some disadvantaged position. Actually, they meet the Lord in the air slightly before those who are alive and remain. And lastly, he says, we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with him in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord. This is the great message of hope and comfort that Paul is relating to the Thessalonians. This is what is designed to keep them from grieving as others who do not have this same hope. This coming is is described as in the air. We'll be caught up together with him in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord. According to John 14, if you go back to John 14, what Jesus says, so I will come again to take you to myself, that where I am, there you may be also. I go to prepare a place for you. And I'm going to take you to myself to that place that I'm preparing for you. So there's there there are differing opinions about this. Some view this as if this happens at the same time as the the return of Christ to the earth, the saints are then the dead in Christ are resurrected, the saints then are raptured, they meet the Lord in the air, and they do a U-turn. And they come back and they they come to the earth with the Lord for the millennial kingdom, for the judgment of the of the ungodly on the earth. But as I look at this, what makes the most sense is that this is prior to that we return with the Lord to the place that He has prepared for us, and then we enjoy the marriage supper of the Lamb. And then we return with him, as the Bible describes, at a later date for that ultimate time when he steps foot on the earth. The second coming involves a physical descent all the way to the earth, where Christ defeats the armies of the earth that have gathered around Jerusalem. Zechariah 14 mentions that in great detail, giving specific reference to Place locations. To make it very clear, this is not a metaphor or an analogy, but a very realistic place. It's also what is described in Revelation 19. Some have seen this as Christ being raptured. Oh, I just I just mentioned this. I'm sorry, I'm going back to that. But just as Jesus promised, he will come again and take us to himself. Just as Jesus promised, that where he is, there we will be also. We will be with him. We will always be with the Lord, never again to be separated from our Lord. That is the message of encouragement and comfort that Paul intends to give to these Thessalonian believers. Christ is coming again. And it may be very soon. Paul lived with the expectation that it may be in his lifetime. And he wanted the Thessalonian believers to live with the expectation that it may be in their lifetime. They were waiting for his coming from heaven. And they were to live expectantly in the anticipation that they would be perhaps that generation that would not face death. And be raptured to meet the Lord in the air. It is a comforting truth. And we're going to look at why it's a comforting truth, Lord willing, in the future. even more, but it's also a purifying truth. It's a truth that ought to make us live differently day by day I want to be found watching. I want to be found faithful. I want to be found ready at his return. How does that affect the words that I speak? How does that affect the actions that I do? How does that affect the places I go? How does that affect how I interact with my wife and my children? How does that affect how we interact with one another? I want to be found, watching and waiting, so that I can joyfully anticipate his return. It should have a purifying effect on us. But it also ought to have a comforting effect when we face the trials of this life. And we know that he is coming again. And we are to be in expectation that it could be. It could be this year. It could be this week. It could be before we wake up tomorrow. Paul lived with that anticipation. We ought to live with that same anticipation. Christ said it. We ought to bank our eternal destiny on it. And ought to change how we live our lives. Let's pray. Father, thank you that you did not leave us without comfort. You gave us great encouragement As we read these verses, we are strengthened and encouraged to live faithfully and with great expectation. Father, I pray that you would help us to have the attitude of Fanny Crosby, to have the heart of the Apostle Paul That we are living with a daily anticipation of the return of the Lord. I pray, Lord, that it would Be a comfort, but also a purifying reality in our lives. That we would turn from sin, that we would choose words that are pleasing in your sight. That we would have attitudes and actions that glorify you, so that we might be found ready and watching when Christ returns. Thank you that he is even now preparing a place for us. And Lord, we pray, come quickly. In Jesus' name. Amen.