Give your Bibles, please. Would you turn me to with me to 1 Peter chapter 1? So good to have you here today. There's a certain age that children reach when they become fascinated with certain facts. They become fascinated with what is the biggest and strongest and fastest thing in the world. I can recall at about the age of eight or nine becoming very interested And finding out, for instance, who was the tallest man in the world or who held the major league record for most home runs. Now back in my day, if a young person had a question like that, they would consult perhaps the Guinness Book of World Records, or maybe they would look in an encyclopedia article. I can vividly remember looking at a book that we had in our home that had illustrations of the seven wonders of the ancient world. And in there it had illustrations of the great pyramid at Giza, the Hang Gardens of Babylon, the statue of Zeus at Olympia, the Temple of Artemis. The Mausoleum of Halicarnus and the Colossus of Rhodes and the lighthouse at Alexandria. These wonders of the ancient world fascinated my mind. Now maybe I was just strange. I'm hoping there are other people who can remember times in your life where you just wanted to learn those facts, those amazing, wonderful facts of the world. And as amazing as these ancient wonders were There's something that's far more amazing that comes out of the ancient world, and that is the gospel of Jesus Christ. This morning I want us to pick up where we left off seven weeks ago. Seven weeks ago, we were making our way through the book of 1 Peter. And we paused in our study to commemorate the 500th anniversary of the Reformation. And so we studied the five solas, and then we had a Thanksgiving service last week. And so now we return to the book of 1 Peter. We are in the really the first paragraph. of the body of this letter. It begins in verse 3 and it runs through verse 12. And the theme that is obviously presented in these verses is the greatness of our salvation Peter is writing to suffering Christians. It hasn't reached its zenith yet, but it's just getting started. They're being scattered throughout the world. They're being tossed out of synagogues. They're being disowned by their own. Official government persecution is on the horizon still when Peter wrote these words. But Peter is seeking to ground his hurting readers in the truths of the gospel. He begins on a note of praise in verse 3. Blessed be God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope. by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you. Who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. And what he really emphasizes here in these verses is the permanence of our salvation, that it's not going to fade away. It's not going to be taken from us. It is reserved in heaven for God's people. And this was a wonderful, consoling truth to these hurting believers who were losing their earthly inheritance, who were losing their homes. who were losing their health. They had something they could cling to that they would never lose. And that was their relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. In verses 6 and 7 he continues, wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, you are in heaviness through manifold or through various temptations or trials. But the trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. He says, yes, you are going through a time of testing, a time of trial, but you need to look ahead, you need to focus to the glory that awaits. And then he brings it down to this personal relationship of the believer with the Lord Jesus Christ, verses 8 to 9, whom having not seen ye love, and whom though now ye see him not, yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory, receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls. Now I want you to notice that Peter picks up this word salvation with which he concludes verse 9 And he's going to explain it further, speaking of the greatness of it in the verses that follow. He says in verse 10, of which salvation? The prophets have inquired and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you, searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify when it testified beforehand the suffering of Christ and the glory that should follow. Unto whom it was revealed that not unto themselves, but unto us they did minister the things which are now reported unto you by them that have preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Ghost set down from heaven, which things the angels desire to look into. So what is Peter doing in these verses? He's reminding his readers of the wonder of their great salvation. He is demonstrating to them the incredible privilege they have to be the children of God. He is countering the tendency that we all have when we are suffering. When we're going through a time of affliction to feel sorry for ourselves. Do you know what it is to feel sorry for yourself? And just to have a pity party and to count all your troubles, name them one by one, and they just keep piling up And before you know it, you've convinced yourself that you have the most miserable life on the face of the earth. Seems like everybody you know has a better circumstance than you do. It's very easy to fall into that trap. And so Peter counters that human tendency By telling them, listen, you are not a disadvantaged people. You are those who have been given the greatest advantage imaginable, the blessing of salvation. And once again, we see here that the apostles would always turn the attention of their readers to the gospel. Have you ever noticed that? Whether you're reading the Epistles of Paul or the Epistles of Peter, whoever you're reading It doesn't matter. When people, the people of God have a problem, you know what the writers do? They turn them back to the truths of the gospel. They take them back to their doctrinal foundation Because this is where we remember who we are and what God has done for us, and we also remember what our certain destiny will be: to be with the Lord forever. This is what we must remember when we face a time of suffering. So are you a child of God? Then you should rejoice. Despite whatever circumstances you may face, you are one who has been greatly blessed The wonder of our salvation should encourage Christians in our suffering. And there are three things I want to bring out about the wonder of our salvation in these verses. First of all, the wonder of our salvation is revealed through the search or the ministry of the prophets. Search is mentioned twice in our passage. It's mentioned at the beginning of verse 10, of which salvation the prophets have inquired and searched. Diligently, and he's going to pick that up again in verse eleven, searching what or what manner of time You see, the prophets were not passive about what they preached or wrote. No, they were keenly interested in the many prophecies of the Messiah and the salvation that he would bring. These words in verse 10 of inquired and searched diligently indicates that these holy men were really interested, that they investigated, that they carefully searched into these prophecies. And how did they do that? Well the word that's used here, it's a word that's used often in scripture for the searching of other scriptures. The prophets looked at the writings of other prophets. They looked at what they had written earlier. They compared Scripture with Scripture to determine what is the Scripture talking about in this prophecy. They left no stone unturned. Now what specifically were they fascinated about? Look at the end of verse 10. who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you, that is those New Testament believers Now, John chapter 1 and verse 17 says the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ. This does not mean that there was no grace in the Old Testament. We read that Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. But God's favor was demonstrated in the era of Christ. In a unique way. I would encourage you to keep a finger here in 1 Peter. We're going to look at two scriptures in the Gospel of Matthew, the first book of our New Testament. So turn with me, please. Now to Matthew Chapter eleven. Matthew Chapter Eleven I want you to notice what our Lord says here. Matthew chapter 11 and verse 11, our Lord referring here to John the Baptist. Jesus says, Verily I say unto you, among them that are born of women, there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist. Notwithstanding, he that is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. What does that mean? Notice what he continues to say. For from the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven suffereth violence, and the violent taketh by force. For all the prophets and the law prophesied unto John. That is, John the Baptist was in essence the end of the Old Testament, the end of the Old Revelation. And if ye will receive it, this is Elias which was for to come. He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. Now turn with me two chapters ahead to Matthew chapter 13, please. Matthew chapter thirteen, verse sixteen Our Lord speaking here again says, But blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears, for they hear. For verily I say unto you that many prophets and righteous men have desired to see those things which ye see and have not seen them. and to hear those things which ye hear and have not heard them. You see, the New Testament saints are blessed. They were the privileged of God. These early believers that faced persecution were tempted to believe that they were just born at the wrong time, a time of oppression. and persecution. But Peter counters that line of thinking by saying, no, you are not the disadvantaged. You are the advantaged. You live in the New Testament era. You live in a time when we have a fuller understanding of the gospel, the time where Christ has come. Where the grace of God has been brought to pass in a different way. And this grace not only saves us, but it enables us to face suffering. Remember, it was Paul who learned this lesson who said, My grace is sufficient for you. And so did Peter at the end of this book of 1 Peter, you don't need to turn here, but in conclusion of 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse 10, he says, but the God of all grace who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus after that ye have suffered a while, make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. And then in verse 12 he concludes, this is the true grace of God wherein ye stand. The same grace that saves us, that same unmerited favor, will enable us to face any suffering that God brings into our life. This is the primary teaching of the book of 1 Peter. And this is a wonderful truth for us to remember. Now, looking back at our text, I want to get more specific into verse 11 where he says, of these prophets. searching what or what manner of time of Christ which was in them did signify when it testified beforehand the suffering of Christ and the glory that should follow. These prophets were driven to find out when will this occur? Now there is a theological debate. In this verse that centers into a more broad field, about how much did the Old Testament states really understand about Christ and the gospel. There are there's one school of thought that says they understood very little. They saw signs and shadows and they had a little glimpse here and there and they understood some basic principles, but they really didn't know much about it at all. There's another school of thought that says they knew a great deal. In fact, they knew just about as much as we do. I think the answer is somewhere in between there. I do believe that they that this passage is not saying that they were searching what in the sense that was is this the Messiah or someone else? Most Bible scholars think that this is saying that they did know this was the Messiah, but it's saying they didn't know the circumstances in which the Messiah would come, or more specifically, the time in which he could should come. Isn't this what we always have a question about? You talk about the Lord's return. What does everybody want to know? When is he going to come? That's the only question they want to know. When is he going to come? And it was the same way with the prophets. They would read about this, and they may have been thinking, maybe this will happen in my lifetime. Maybe what I'm writing about I will actually see. They were very eager. to see the fulfillment of this. And so I think that's what this is reflecting. Now, it seems to me that we see some important truths here. I think that this view is confirmed by the words of our Lord on the two to the road to Emmaus on that resurrection day. Do you remember? That passage in Luke chapter 24. Remember those two unnamed individuals that Jesus walked with? He said to them, Oh fools and slow of heart to believe, all that the prophets have spoken And then it says, beginning at Moses and all the prophets, expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. Jesus believed that the Old Testament scriptures all pointed to him and to his work of redemption. And that's what we read about here in verse 11. This was the focal point of the prophet's revelation. You see, the Old Testament is not about all those wonderful Bible stories, the great heroes of the faith like Moses and David, those are wonderful stories, and we should indeed teach them to our children, but we should never think of the Old Testament as just this wonderful repository of children's Bible stories. I think sometimes Christians think that way. The Old Testament is not a book primarily of life principles. Sometimes people think that way. You know it gives you wisdom on the book of Proverbs of how to deal with your money or how to deal with people. or how to use your time wisely. And indeed, those things are found in the Word of God, but that's not the reason it was written. It wasn't written for you to have a more efficient life. It wasn't written for you to have a better family. That's not why God gave us His Word. That's not what the Old Testament is all about. The Old Testament points us to Christ and specifically, according to this verse, his suffering and the glory that should follow. It's all about the cross and his resurrection. Now it's fascinating to consider that the Jews, and not just the unbelieving Jews, not just the Jews that opposed our Lord, but all the Jews, as best we can tell were not looking for a suffering Messiah, were they? They were looking for a Messiah that would come in power would come in grandeur. A Messiah that would right all the wrongs and all the indignities that they had suffered from the hand of foreign oppressors. You know, the the land of Israel is like a little land bridge And all around them were these great powerful world powers like Egypt and Babylon and Assyria. And they were always doing battle. And in between all of them was this little land bridge of Israel and so they would march through and fight this nation and then uh another generation later this nation would march through Israel and Israel was just like trampled upon. No one took them very seriously. This really insulted the Jews' national pride. They longed for the day when their Messiah would come and he would reign in power. And he would cast off all the pagan powers that surround them and defeat them. And then people would see how great they truly were. And as they studied the Old Testament scriptures, they somehow missed the suffering of the Messiah that would come first. Now, instantly, we probably all think of what? We think of like Isaiah 53. In fact, Peter is going to quote from Isaiah 53 and chapter 2. But we think of that detailed prophecy and all the details that tells about our Lord's suffering and death of the cross And I think we're tempted to be harsh on them and say, how could they not see that? I mean, it's as plain as the nose on your face, those prophecies that the Messiah would come and suffer. You know why they didn't see that? Because they didn't want to see it. We tend to see in Scripture what we want to see in Scripture. We tend to see in scripture what we think tells us the path that we want to go in. But God's plan for his son was first suffering and then glory. First the cross and then the crown. And this is God's pattern for us as well. This is what Peter says in his epistle. I've mentioned this to you before, but turn with me if you would to chapter 4, 1 Peter chapter 4. I want you to see this pattern. First Peter chapter four. And verse 12, Peter writes, Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you as though some strange thing happened unto you. But rejoice inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's suffering, that when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding joy. Peter in essence is saying the same pattern that our Lord followed of suffering and in glory, it's the same path that we must follow. So often Christians think that God has somehow lied to them or failed to them because when they got saved, they thought their Christian life would just be one smooth highway to heaven. They wouldn't have any roadblocks or any bumps in the road. It would be a wonderful experience. And sometimes preaching gives that impression. But it didn't work out that way. There was disappointment. There was illness. There were unexpected turns. There was family problems. And sometimes people think, well, I I guess God's not really true to his word. No! The scriptures tell us in all Of its truth from the beginning to end, that first there's suffering and then glory. This earth is not our heaven. This is not our reward. This is not our rest. And so should we expect that we will have a different path to trod than our master, the beloved son of God? So what glory did Jesus experience after his suffering? Well, it started with the resurrection. We read of his glory at the resurrection. We read of his glory at his ascension. As he ascended up into heaven to be at the right hand of the Father. And we read in Scripture that someday we will see his glory when he returns. It says he will return in power and great glory. suffering and then glory. This is a wonderful truth that we must remember. The wonder of our salvation is revealed through the ministry of the prophets. And secondly, the wonder of our salvation is revealed in the preaching of the gospel. Look with me. In verse 12 of 1 Peter chapter 1, Peter continues, unto whom it was revealed that is to the prophets That not unto themselves, but unto us they did minister the things which are now reported unto you By them that have preached the gospel unto you, with the Holy Ghost set down from heaven, which things the angels desire to look into. And that verse has all kinds of pieces that fit together in some ways awkwardly, and that's why we all got lost when we read that together. But it's saying that the prophets who searched diligently came to the conclusion that a large part of what they were writing was not for their immediate audience. the people of Judah. But it was for the people of God in years to come when the Messiah would come And he would die for their sins. Now we have a reference here to the apostolic preaching. He says, you've had reported unto you by them who preach the gospel unto you. Now what do we mean by the gospel? What does it mean for someone to preach the gospel? We use these terms so often, I wonder what we really think of it and how we would define it. In 1 Corinthians chapter 15, you don't need to turn there. I will read for you. But in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 we have A description of the content of the gospel. This is what Peter writes. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preach unto you. which also ye have received, and wherein ye stand, by which also ye are saved, if ye keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless you have believed in vain. He says, this is what I preached unto you, for I delivered unto you first of all that which I received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures. This is the essence of the gospel, the death and resurrection of Christ of Jesus Christ. This is what the apostles preached again and again. If you were to go through, if we had the time and we were to look at every sermon in the book of Acts, and we don't have really probably complete sermons, we have little excerpts of sermons. But if we were to look at those summaries of apostolic preaching, we would see in every single one of them a reference to the death of Christ and the resurrection of Christ. The death of Christ and the resurrection of Christ. Paul says that the gospel is the power of God unto salvation. In Romans chapter 1 and verse 16, there is an inherent power in the message of the gospel. He goes on, of course, in that famous passage in Romans chapter 10, and says that the reason why gospel ambassadors are sent out is because people will not believe unless they hear the gospel. And therefore, New Testament preaching will include the gospel. That will be the focal point of it. Now, in 1 Peter, excuse me, 1 Corinthians chapter 2, the Apostle Paul Tells us something. This is a very dear passage to me. 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse 1, Peter, or excuse me, the Apostle Paul says, and I, brethren. When I came to you, came not with excellency of speech or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God. For I determined not to know anything among you Save Jesus Christ and Him crucified. That was His message. And I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling. And my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom. but in demonstration of the Spirit and in power, that your faith should not stand in wisdom of men, but in the power of God. You see, the gospel is the content of New Testament preaching. But you know what? Lost people grow weary of hearing the gospel. It's what they need to hear. But often they have an adverse reaction to the gospel. And the Apostle Paul speaks of this in some of his final words to Timothy He says in this great charge to Timothy, I charge thee therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ who shall judge the quick and the dead in his appearing. and his kingdom preach the word, be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine. Verse three, why? For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. But after their own lust shall keep to themselves teachers having itching ears, and they shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned unto fables. This is something that should be of significance and relevance for us. There are so many preachers in the world today. We have access to more preaching than any generation ever has because we have access to the internet. We have audio recordings. You could listen to a different sermon every hour of every day for the rest of your life. And so what kind of preaching is really gospel preaching, New Testament preaching, is healthy preaching? What we find here from this passage in 1 Peter and from many other scriptures is that the gospel is the core of the message. That doesn't mean that every message is a John 3. 16 salvation message. But it means no matter what topic, what issue is being preached upon, what passage is gone to, it always comes back to the gospel. And this is what we must understand. The message that we read in Scripture, the sermons that we read of in Scripture, are always rooted and centered on the gospel. So do you know how to evaluate preaching today? If messages that you hear are focused on social injustice or environmental responsibility, the gospel is not at the core. If the preaching is all about solving your emotional problems or unlocking your hidden potential, the gospel is not at the core. Many so-called Christian preachers today really do not preach the gospel. They may call themselves evangelical, but their preaching is not the good news. Spurgeon had as his motto on his pulpit, we preach Christ and Him crucified. And he said that whenever he found a text to preach , He would always make a beeline for the cross because he knew that New Testament preaching is gospel preaching. Now, New Testament preaching also is empowered by the Holy Spirit, and that is brought out in our text It says that you preach the gospel with the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven. In fact, This is the second time the Holy Spirit's mentioned in this passage in verse 11, where it speaks of the Spirit of Christ. You may have never thought of this before, but the reference there to the Spirit of Christ is a reference to the Holy Spirit. It's the Spirit that represents Christ. And it's the Spirit that empowered the prophets to write Scripture, and it's the Spirit that empowered the apostles to preach the gospel. And this is what we find throughout the pages of Scripture. Paul, in that passage that I read from you in 1 Corinthians chapter 2, speaks. even of the demonstration of the spirit, though he came to them, he says, in weakness and fear and in much trembling, he says, it was in the demonstration of the spirits. What does that mean? What does spirit-empowered preaching sound like? Can we recognize that? Well, Paul says that he didn't come to them with excellency of speech. That doesn't mean that Paul was illiterate. He was a brilliant man. Doesn't mean that Paul slaughtered the language and was filled with grammatical errors and everything. He wasn't reveling in an anti-intellectual approach. But he's saying that he did not come to them and use oratorical skills To try to convince them of the truth of the gospel. People didn't walk away saying, I tell you what, that apostle Paul can really preach. He is an incredible orator. He's like those Greek orators we've heard before. That's not what people were saying Holy Spirit empowered preaching points men not to the preacher, but to God. I always remember this story. I've heard it many times, but in the late 1800s, when an American tourist would come to London They usually went to hear some of the great preachers, and one day there was a American who went and in the morning he went to hear Joseph Parker, a very famous eloquent, powerful preacher at the city temple. We went to hear him preach and he came out in the morning and he said, What a great preacher! And that evening he went to the Metropolitan Tabernacle and he heard Charles Spurgeon preach and he came out and he said, what a great God That's the way we should think. That's what Holy Spirit empowered preaching does. It turns people 's attention to God and to his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. There was an inherent authority in the message. Now I want to turn your attention to the third point of our message which will be the briefest. And it's found in this little tiny phrase that concludes verse 12. And that is the wonder of our salvation is revealed in the interest of the angels. It's revealed in the ministry of the prophets, in the preaching of the apostles and in the m the interest of the angels. He says, which things the angels desire to look into. It's kind of like almost seems like an afterthought. Oh, by the way, this too. This is very interesting. The word look into has the idea of bending down to investigate something, looking at something carefully. We might sometimes think that angels know everything, but they don't. The word angel has the idea of messenger. The angels we read of in scripture often bringing the message of God But they didn't always understand exactly what that message meant or how it was going to be fulfilled. Everything was not revealed to them, but they were inherently curious about this. Now they probably knew more than we do because they've been around a long time. But they don't know everything. And just like the prophets of old long to see God's salvation fulfilled, so the angels of heaven are eager to see God's master plan completed. And we see them involved in our Lord's ministry. When our Lord was born , we see the incarnation. We have the angels coming as a triumphant choir. And I know that there's a debate whether or not they spoke these things, glory to God in the highest, or whether they sang these things. I like to think that they sang these things. You can disagree with me. That word can be taken either way. But there was a whole bunch of angels there, and they were really loud, and they were very, very interested in the message they were proclaiming. They weren't just going through the motions of things. Oh yeah, by the way, unto you is born this day in the city of David, the Savior is Christ the Lord. Pass it on. It wasn't like that. They were thrilled Because they are watching, the scripture says, what's taking place on earth and how God's plan is being fulfilled, and they've been waiting for thousands of years. For this day to come, for the fullness of the time, and now, finally, the Messiah has been born. And they triumphantly announce this message. We see them, of course, ministering to our Lord in the temptation. We see them at his resurrection and ascension. The Bible speaks repeatedly of their interest in the redemptive plan. One of the most suggestive verses. Is in Luke chapter 15 and verse 10 where it says, there 's joy in the presence of the angels over one sinner who repents. By the way, if the angels rejoice when a sinner repents, so should the people of God, right? One solitary Person coming to faith in Christ brings joy in heaven. Because the angels are not just employees doing their job. They are invested in what they're doing and they're so excited when God's work moves forwards. We read something of this in Ephesians chapter 3. Paul says in verse 8, Unto me who am less than the least of all saints is this grace given that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. and to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery which from the beginning of the world hath been hidden God who created all things by Jesus Christ to the intent that now unto principalities and powers in heavenly places might be known by the church the manifold wisdom of God. It's saying that the angelic beings are watching what's taking place. And then in Revelation chapter 5 we read something that perhaps you've never caught before. You remember this wonderful scene of worship in heaven? When There's this great chorus that cries out, worthy is the lamb that was slain, in Revelation chapter 5 and verse 11. John writes, And I beheld and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne and the beast and the elders, and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand and thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. And every creature which is in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and such as are in the sea and that are in them heard I saying, blessing. and honor and glory and power be unto him that sitteth upon the throne and unto the Lamb forever and ever And who is it that is going to join in that incredible chorus? It is, it says, the voice of many angels. Why were they there lending their voice? Because they have an interest in God's plan of redemption. But there is a sense in which you and I have a better understanding of redemption than they do. Now the Bible speaks of angels as being superior to human beings in many ways. They are stronger, they are older , they're wiser, but they're not made in the image of God. And they were never redeemed from their sins. They do not know the joy of being forgiven. They can watch God's glorious plan unfold. They can lift up their voices and sing praise to God and say, Worthy is the lamb that is slain, but in some sense they can never fully experience. What we enjoy as the people of God. There's a song that perfectly summarizes this truth about the angels. I haven't heard it in years It's usually a song that a soloist would sing. It was written by a man named Johnson Oatman. And it says this, holy, holy, holy is what the angels sing. And I expect to help them make the courts of heaven ring. But when I sing redemption's story, they just fold their wings. For angels never felt the joy. That our salvation brings. Peter here is bringing out That we have a great salvation. It's what the prophets were so interested in. They were searching the scriptures to figure this out. It's what the apostles were preaching. It's what they heralded. It's the only sermon they had. Christ has come and he's died and he's risen again. And it is something that the angels desire to look into. We need to rejoice. That we are the beneficiaries of this great salvation. So let me ask you this morning, have you felt the joy that this salvation brings? Do you know that your sins have been forgiven? Do you enjoy This priceless gift of salvation. The gospel is rooted in the person and work of Jesus Christ. I encourage you. to consider these claims. This is the greatest blessing that any human being can enjoy. This is the only way to have that peace that passeth all understanding and the assurance that you have a home in heaven May God help you to seek the Lord if you don't know him. And if you do know him, may you rejoice despite your circumstances, despite what difficulties you may now face in life because you have the glory that is yet ahead. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you so much for your word We thank you for our great salvation. I pray that you would help us to be ever mindful of this. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.