64 this evening we are marching through. It's amazing when we think about the book of Isaiah and the theme of Isaiah, return and rest in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. And we continue to look at uh the the second half of the book of Isaiah. I remember when we were talking about chapter 40, and then we got all the way up to 48, and it seemed like we still have a long way to go to get to chapter 66, but we are knocking on the door. Though I say that, and I still think we have probably nine more lessons, possibly ten, before we're done the book of Isaiah. But we are marching through the book of Isaiah, we're in this last section where we see the anointed warrior, and we find this comfort through eschatology, the study of last section. things and we're finding God's comfort as we realize that He is sovereign over the entire course of human history. Nothing is happening apart from God 's sovereign direction and plan. And so we are encouraged then to come to him and pray towards that end. Because not only is God sovereign over these things, but he has determined sovereignly to do In accordance with prayer. He's ordained the end as well as the means to that end. And one of the ways that God has determined to work is through the prayers of his people. If you remember, we looked back at chapter 62, where the Messiah says, For Zion's sake, I will not keep silent. And for Jerusalem's sake I will not be quiet until her righteousness goes forth as brightness, and her salvation as a burning torch And he describes there this salvation. Not only is it a physical, political salvation, but he says, the nations shall see your righteousness. They shall see the nation of Israel transformed into a land of people that have been born again, who have been made righteous through the grace of God in faith in Christ Jesus. Then he says in verse 6 of the same chapter, On your walls, O Jerusalem, I have set watchmen, all the day and all the night. They shall never be silent. You who put the Lord in remembrance, take no rest, and give him no rest until he establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in the earth And so we see that the Lord has established watchmen, the idea of watchmen who aren't watching necessarily for an invading force, but are actually calling out to God. to do what he has promised to the nation of Israel and the city of Jerusalem, and they are to give the Lord no rest. meaning to be interceding on behalf of this nation to the Lord continually. And then in chapter 63 we began and we saw this mighty warrior coming in crimson garments from Basra and from Edom. And he is described as one who is speaking in righteousness and mighty to save. And he's coming from the battle with blood-stained garments, not his own blood, but the blood of the enemies that he has trodden under his feet. He has been victorious over all of the enemies of God. And he says that with his own arm he has purchased salvation. And so we see that this Messiah is coming to establish his kingdom and righteousness because he has been victorious. But then we have this this not yet aspect. This has not yet happened. And so we are brought back to the prayer of the watchman. In 63 verse 7, all the way to the end of chapter 64, is a prayer Where the watchman is praying for God to do what he has said he will do. For God to bring in this everlasting righteousness. for God to be merciful to the nation of Israel, for God to glorify his name in the redemption of his people. And we looked at this. There were four aspects that we saw last week. We saw the watchman's remembrance as he remembers what God has done in the past. And then the watchman's heartfelt complaint. Where he he bur unburdens his heart to the Lord and he pleads with the Lord, even describing in chapter 63, verse 17, O Lord, why do you make us wander from your ways and harden our hearts? so that we fear you not, describing the fact that God, because God has removed his gracious presence from them, they have gone off into sin. Now beginning in chapter 64 , We have the watchman's humble confession. And it is a powerful passage of Scripture. Let's just read these first five verses. He says, O that you would rend the heavens and come down, that the mountains might quake at your presence, as when fire kindles brushwood, and the fire causes water to boil. to make your name known to your adversaries, and that all the nations might tremble at your presence. When you did awesome things that we did not look for, you came down, the mountains quaked at your presence. From of old. No one has heard or perceived by the ear. No eye has seen a God besides you, who acts for those who wait for him You meet him who joyfully works righteousness. Those who remember you in your ways. Behold, you were angry, and we sinned. In our sins we have been a long time. And shall we be saved? We'll stop there at this evening. But we find this. Desperate plea from the watchman. He is pleading with humble confession of their true condition. And we see the watchman here desperately pleads for God's intervention. The watchman here is teaching us that true prayer, true prayer, is a cry of personal inability. of personal inability. He describes or he begins this chapter saying, oh that you would rend the heavens and come down. That phrase, oh that, it's it's it's really like a cry of the heart. It's one simple Hebrew word, but it has this idea of if only or would that you had done this It's almost like a cry of the heart or a sigh coming out from him. It's a cry of a person who has reached the end. of their own resources, reach the end of their own ability, and they're desperately pleading with God to intervene. Have you ever prayed that way? Where almost just without even thinking, out of your mouth comes this, oh God, I need you to do something. I need you to work in this life or in my life or in this situation. That's the heart of this watchman as he's praying. Oh, that you would do this, God We need you to work. There is nothing that we can do. And he says that you would rend the heavens and come down. The idea of tearing open the heavens and coming down in a tangible, powerful way. Some have seen this as the watchman crying out for God to come in a physical form. And there's a sense in which that's true, because he's calling for the Messiah to come and to be like that anointed warrior who marches with the blood-stained garments. He's saying, God, would you rend to the heavens and come down as this victorious warrior? But I think there's a sense in which he's asking God not just to come down in physical presence, but for God's power to be evident in a very direct way. It's the watchman saying that we desperately need the Lord's intervention. What we need, we're powerless to bring about by ourselves. And if you don't do it, God We have no way of accomplishing it. The fact is, we need God to intervene in our lives. We need God to intervene in our history. And there's a sense in which the watchman is crying in discontent. I'm not happy. I'm not content with things as they are. God, you must do something here. And he knows that the reason why things are as they are is because God has stepped back. God has been absent and his grace has not been evident to them Why is it that we don't pray? Or we don't pray like this? Why is it that oftentimes we don't have the desperation in our prayers? I think there's several reasons for that. But most often it's because we really don't sense a need for God. We are not brought to that place of personal inability. God, if you don't do this Then there's nothing that can be done. God, I'm powerless against this situation. I'm powerless to change a heart. When we reach that place of desperation, then we become fervent prayers. But not until then. And we see an example in this watchman of someone who has reached that place of desperation and he is fervent, he is energetic, he is crying out in desperation. But too often we're not desperate for God to work. We're Overall, things are pretty good. We're doing okay. We can handle most things that come our way. We're comfortable in our state of life, and we're somewhat confident in our own ability. And so we don't pray. And when we do pray, we don't pray like this. We pray kind of perfunctor, obligatory prayers, but not fervent prayers The watchman is fervent in his praying because he is desperate for that which only God can do. And for only that which only God can give. I was reading not too long ago in my devotions in Genesis 34 when Jacob is returning. After over 20 years in Padan Aram with his uncle Laban, his father-in-law Laban, and he's about to meet his brother Esau. After these 20 plus years in the foreign land, when Jacob fled to Padanaram, he fled because Esau, his brother, was preparing to kill him. Because he had tricked him out of his birthright and stolen his blessing from him. And now as he's returning back to his homeland , He has just received word that Esau is coming to meet him with 400 men. Now remember, he left, and Esau says, I'm going to kill you. And now when he's coming back in, Esau has word that he's coming, and he's coming with 400 men. I don't know how you would respond to that. That's probably not the welcome wagon. It is probably not people there coming and saying, hey, make sure we carry all your luggage for you. It's people that are coming, 400 men, to attack him and to get revenge. The night before they meet, the Bible says that Jacob wrestles with a man. And we later learn that this man is actually God. Who has come down in human form? If you've ever read that passage of scripture, it's one of those passages of scripture that makes you scratch your head a little bit and go, hmm. Hmm, what is happening here? The Bible says that they wrestle until the breaking of the day. I don't know if you've ever done any wrestling. But if you've ever wrestled, you know it is the most exhausting sport you can be involved in. In the NCAA, wrestling is there are three periods. The first period is three minutes, the second two are two minutes. Grand total of seven minutes. If you've ever wrestled, I remember wrestling and walking away and my arms are like jello and you're like, I couldn't lift my hands if I needed to after the end of just seven minutes. But he wrestled with this man who is God in human flesh till the breaking of the day. And earlier in that day, he had asked God to bring him safely back to his father's house. And he prayed in that prayer in accordance with the promises of God. Lord, you have said you will bring me back. And I am trusting in this. Do this. And the Lord tests him in this wrestling to see whether he is really desperate for God, whether he is really dependent on God or not. And then this wrestling day is breaking, and the Lord says to him, Let me go, because the day is breaking. And he says, I will not let you go unless you bless me. Wow. I mean that's audacious. That's pretty bold. God, I am not letting you go until you bless me. And God graciously changes Jacob's name from Jacob, which means supplanter, to Israel, which means prince with God or victorious with God. Because he desperately and tenaciously clung to God and sought from God that which only God could do. That is an illustration. That is an example of what our praying is to be like. We see that God delights to answer prayer from one who sees his own inability and tenaciously depends on God for what only God can do. God calls us to pray this way. This is a quote from Martin Lloyd Jones on this passage in Genesis. And Martin Lloyd-Jones is a faithful, godly, powerful preacher of the 20th century. And he said, taking hold of God, laying hold upon him. pleading with him, reasoning, and even beseeching. And I say that it is only when the Christian arrives at that position that he truly begins to pray. That it is only when a Christian arrives at that position that he truly begins to pray. If that's true, how much of our praying is not praying? There's a great example here in the scriptures of a tenacious prayer. Oh, that you would rend the heavens and come down, that the mountains might quake at your presence. So the watchman is here teaching us to pray in the light of the awesome power of God. It's interesting as you read this, it's written, this first phrase, oh that you would rend the heavens and come down, it's written in like a desiring of God to do something in the future. But it's actually written in past tense. The entire first verse is past tense in Hebrew. And every commentary agrees with that. But every English translation translates it this way. But it's written in the past tense. And it makes sense if you go back into like verse sixteen of the previous chapter. Remember this is all one prayer. He says Your holy people held possession for a little while. Our adversaries have trampled down your sanctuary. We have become like those over whom you have never ruled, like those who are not called by your name. Oh, that you would have rent the heavens and had come down, that the mountains had quaked at your presence. He's saying, God, if you had been here, if you had come down, we wouldn't be where we are. And so the most accurate translation of this is actually, oh, that you had rent the heavens and had come down when the mountains quaked at your presence. And he's saying, God, because you were absent, this is what has happened. The implication is that the reason they are in the state they are in is because God has not intervened in a powerful way to change their hearts. The reference to the mountains quaking and the fire kindling brushwood and boiling the water is really what we read in what you'd read in Exodus 19 on Mount Sinai. Again, I was just reading this in my devotions this week. I was reading Exodus 19, I think Monday morning, and then I flipped open to Isaiah 64. And I read Isaiah 64. I'm like Wow. I was sitting next to Nicole and I just said, this is exactly what he's talking about. I just read Exodus 19, and now I'm reading Isaiah 64. This is the exact parallel that he's bringing up. In uh Exodus nineteen, God is appearing to the nation of Israel on Mount Sinai just three months after they left Egypt. And there in Exodus nineteen we read these words. On the morning of the third day there were thunders and lightnings and a thick cloud on the mountain, and a very loud trumpet blast, so that all the people in the camp trembled. Then Moses brought the people out of the camp to meet God, and they took their stand at the foot of the mountain. Now Mount Sinai was wrapped in smoke, because the Lord had descended on it in fire. The smoke of it went up like the smoke of a kiln, and the whole mountain trembled greatly And so the watchman here says, Oh, that you had rent the heavens and come down, that the mountains might would have quaked at your presence, as when fire Kindled brushwood. I remember God the story of what you did when the people of Israel came out of the land of Egypt. Now you met on the the top of Mount Sinai and fire came down and it kindled the brushwood and it burned everything that was there. Oh that you had done that again. And we wouldn't be where we are. The whole idea of mountains trembling. When you think of mountains, we don't have a lot of real mountains around here. We have Western Maryland, but they're not real mountains. They're kind of like hills. But mountains are things that are Stable, seen as like powerful, but in the presence of God, when God comes down on them, they shake and they tremble when God approaches When God came down to the people at Mount Sinai, the people were filled with terror. The Bible tells us that even Moses trembled. That's a demonstration of God's power. That same power on display is what the watchman desires to see again. God, do this again. In Exodus 20, if we continue to read, after he gives the Ten Commandments, we read these things, is now when all the people saw the thunders and the flashes of lightning and the sound of the trumpet and the mountain smoking. The people were afraid and trembled, and they stood far off and said to Moses, You speak to us, and we will listen, but do not let God speak to us lest we die. Moses said to the people, Do not fear, for God has come to test you, that the fear of him may be before you, that you may not sin. I like it. He's saying, God says, Don't fear, don't fear. I want you to fear me. I'm not here to destroy you, is what he's saying essentially, but I want you to fear me, to know the type of God who is calling you into worship. We come to this idea of fire. He says in verse 2, as when fire kindles brushwood and the fire causes water to boil. Fire is a frequent symbol in the Bible of the presence of God. When God comes, there's often a manifestation of fire. Fire is that which Purges or purifies. You think of Isaiah 6 when you have the Isaiah being commissioned and you have the seraphim around the throne of God crying out, holy, holy Holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The word seraphim means burning ones because they're in the presence of the burning, purifying presence of God. But fire is a symbol. When Moses first met the Lord in Exodus chapter 3 and verse 2, it says, the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire. out of the midst of the bush, he looked, and behold, the bush was burning, yet it was not consumed. So we have Moses approaching the holy ground, and the bush is burning at the presence of God. In Exodus 13, verse 21, when the people of Israel were brought out of the land of Egypt, there was a pillar of fire that went before them to give them light, and it was described as the presence of God. In Exodus 24 , Verse 17. Exodus 24 says, Now the appearance of the glory of the Lord was like a devouring fire on the top of the mountain in the sight of the people of Israel. They saw this massive flaming, devouring fire, which was the presence of the Lord. In Isaiah verses 29, or chapter 29, verses 5 and 6, this is a passage that speaks of the ultimate day of the Lord's return to rescue and redeem Jerusalem. And he says, but the multitude of your foreign foes shall be like small dust, and the multitude of the ruthless like passing chaff. And in an instant, suddenly, you'll be visited by the Lord of hosts with thunder and with earthquake and a great noise, with whirlwind and tempest, and the flame of a devouring fire. It's interesting when he describes it, he says, suddenly, in an instant and suddenly, when God rends the heavens, there is an unexpectedness to it. Even when God works in our lives, oftentimes we're going around in our daily lives, we're asking God to work, and then all of a sudden He does. And we're shocked at it. And we see the mighty hand of God. How many times have you seen God work in your own heart and you're going through your week and you come to church and you're sitting under the preaching of the Word of God and all of a sudden He speaks to you and He punches you in the gut and you go, Oh That came out of nowhere. God works in a sudden way, but when he comes again, it will come in an unexpected way. Isaiah speaks of the awesome fiery presence of God in Isaiah 33 as well. He says, Hear you who are far off, what I have done, and you who are near, acknowledge my might. The sinners in Zion are afraid. Trembling has seized the godless. Who among us can dwell with the consuming fire? Who among us can dwell with everlasting burnings? When we went through Isaiah 33 several months ago, I wrote in our notes these words. Isaiah is making reference to the warning of Moses in Deuteronomy 4, verse 24, where he warned them not to provoke God to wrath with their sin and idolatry. For the Lord your God is a consuming fire, a jealous God. The warning they had known now became a truly fearful reality. Similarly, many will fear and tremble when they stand before the great white throne judgment, and realize that the one they had scorned and disdained is the Almighty Judge of all creation. And I wrote this, have you ever tried to get close to a raging fire and realized that you cannot even get close to it? God's holiness is such a burning holy heat. That we as sinners cannot even begin to approach him. Isaiah saw this reality in Isaiah 6 when the seraphim covered their feet and faces in his presence. And Isaiah himself cried out, Woe is me, for I am lost, for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. And then I wrote, God is not a God to be trifled with. He is exalted and holy, and he demands holiness from each one of us. When God comes and he rends the heavens , he will be coming with a mighty demonstration of his power. He describes fire kindling the brushwood. And fire causing the water to boil. The power of fire being the evident uh point of his illustration, but also the purifying nature. It is the boiling of water that purifies the water. It is the fire that purifies and purges that which is not clean. God is a holy God. And is is holiness that he demands. And the watchman here is praying, Lord, would you come like this? But the watchman also teaches us to pray for the glory of God's name. He says in the latter part of verse 2, to make your name known to your adversaries, and that the nations might tremble at your presence. Six times in this prayer by the watchman, the mention of God's name is found. The focus of his praying is for God to be magnified, for his attributes to be seen, for his power and his awesome holiness to be on display. To the very nations who are mocking and standing in opposition to him, to those who are living and rejecting him, he says, Lord, may your name be known among them. When Christ rends the heavens and comes riding on a white horse with a two-edged sword from his mouth and he redeems the nation of Israel, it will be to make known the mighty power. and the righteousness of God and to make his name known. When we pray for God's name to be made known, Through the preaching of the gospel in every corner of the globe. We are praying in line with this prayer. When we pray for God to rend the heavens and to save Yemenis and Bhutanese and Israelis and Palestinians and Iranians and Hindus and Muslims and Catholics and Mormons and for God's glory to be known and his name to be exalted. This is in line with this prayer. Because we want the powers of darkness to be defeated. We want our God to be exalted. We want his name to be magnified. Remember, this is what we looked at in the missions conference theme from Malachi chapter 1 this year. For from the rising of the sun to its setting, my name Will be great among the nations, and in every place incense will be offered to my name and a pure offering, for my name will be great among the nations, says the Lord of hosts. We are called to pray earnestly for the fulfillment of what the seventh angel said when he blew his trumpet in Revelation 11. The kingdoms of the world have become the kingdoms of our God and of his Christ. Do we pray for that Lord, speed that day when the kingdoms of this world have become the kingdoms of our God and of his Christ. When the stone that is cut without hands topples that giant statue of the world's kingdoms, and he establishes his kingdom on earth Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Do we pray earnestly for that? This watchman is desperately pleading for God's intervention towards that end. But what encourages the watchman is the awesome character of God. Because when he looks around him, there's not a lot to encourage him. In the nation of Israel, as he looks The nation of Israel is taken captive. The temple has been destroyed. There's not a lot that encourages him. But he remembers some things about God. He says in verse 3, when you did awesome things that we did not look for, you came down, the mountains quaked at your presence. So he remembers the unexpected mercy of God. The reference seems to be primarily to the awesome display of God's power in the redemption of Israel from Egyptian slavery. Again, just reading in my devotions this past week about the ten plagues. That was an awesome display of God's power. That God worked mightily through Moses when he brought them out of the land of Egypt. Through the Red Sea into the wilderness. He provided them with manna and water from a rock, and he provided them with quail in the midst of the desert. And he protected them from their enemies. And he kept their sandals without holes for the entire forty years they wandered in the desert. But prior to that, the people were slaves under the hand of cruel taskmasters, and they cried out to God for deliverance, and he heard them suddenly. In Exodus chapter 2, It tells us that during those days, those many days, the king of Egypt died, and the people of Israel groaned because of their slavery, and they cried out for help. Their cry for rescue from slavery came up to God. But the reality is they did not know when he was going to answer. They didn't know how he was going to answer. But when he did come to answer, he answered suddenly. And that's what he describes here. He says, When you did awesome things that we did not look for, we didn't know you were going to do this. We cried out to you. We didn't even know how you were going to answer. But you came in an unexpected way, and you worked mightily a deliverance that no one anticipated. We should be even more encouraged because we have seen that God has rent the heavens and the sending of his son to take on human flesh. When the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, born under the law. And he came and he conquered the grave when no one was looking for a savior from sin. When they were looking for a savior from Rome, he conquered our greatest enemy. And he will come again, and he will rend the heavens again. But before he does, he is calling to himself people from every tribe and tongue and nation. And so we need to pray expectantly for the work of God. He remembers God's unexpected mercy, but he also remembers the unimaginable mercy of God. He says in verse 4, From of old no one has heard or perceived by the ear, no eye has seen a God besides you who acts for those who wait for him. The watchman prays, remembering the way God has acted in the past. And he says that there is no God who acts so mightily on behalf of those who wait for him. The idea of waiting on the Lord. Maybe you've wondered, what does it mean to wait on the Lord? Well, it means to have a humble faith, a dependent faith, a faith that is willing to commit for the long haul. To continue to believe, to continue to pray, to continue to pursue the Lord, even when everyone else has given up. That's why our Lord taught us to pray and not to faint. And he gave us that illustration. Then he said, But when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on the earth? It's a question that's designed to prod us. To provoke us, will we be found faithful? Praying, pleading for God's intervention. I think it's interesting that this verse is actually quoted in the New Testament in 1 Corinthians 2, verse 9. It's quoted loosely. The Apostle Paul makes reference to this and he kind of takes a little bit of liberty with it under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, but he says, none of the rulers of this age understood this. For if they had, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. But as it is written, what no eye has seen, nor ear heard, nor the heart of man imagined. And that's where I get our Unimaginable mercy from. If you wonder, where did you get that word unimaginable mercy? It's from this. What no heart of man imagined, what God has prepared for those who love him. What Paul is saying here is that no one has ever imagined the way God would work out his redemption. Who could have imagined a God who would incarnate himself, who would be born of a virgin? Who would die a vicious death, bearing our sins for himself? Who could ever imagine that? Who could ever imagine a God who would take sinners and make them his children and allow us to inherit with his son? No one would have imagined that. So that encourages us. How bold could we be in our praying? As bold as you can imagine, as bold as you can think, you can pray Paul tells us that no one could have imagined all that God did for us in Christ. Therefore, we should not feel restricted in our praying. That's why we sang the song tonight. You are coming to a king. Large petitions with you bring. For his grace and power are such, none can ever ask too much. Ephesians 3. 20 tells us now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think, according to the power at work within us. Essentially, you can't out-ask God. Pray fervently for God to send revival. Pray fervently for God to send out laborers into his harvest field. Pray fervently for God to save your neighbor. Pray fervently for God to be glorified in every nation of this world. Pray fervently for God to save Israel and to make Jerusalem a praise in all the earth. Pray fervently for personal sanctification, which is essentially what Ephesians 3. 20 is talking about. Pray fervently. You cannot ask too much. So he remembers the unimaginable mercy of God. No one has seen a God who works in this way. And then he remembers the unrelenting mercy of God in verse 5. He says, you meet him who joyfully works righteousness, meaning you you help or you come to the defense. of him who joyfully works righteousness, those who remember you in your ways. Behold, you were angry, and we sinned. In our sins we have been a long time. And shall we be saved? What is the problem? that is keeping back God's mercy to Israel. As the watchman writes, Why hadn't God rent the heavens like in previous times? He says here, God meets him who joyfully works righteousness. God comes to the defense of one who works righteousness. So the implication seems to be pretty clear. It's because they haven't joyfully worked righteousness. One of the things that the Bible teaches us is that praying that grips the heart of God is the effectual, fervent prayer of a Righteous man. This is the testimony of Scripture. Just put together a few. Let's see if I can. . Oh, there we are. A few verses that tell us this. The prayer of a righteous man has great power as it is working. Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way. showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel, so that your prayers may not be hindered. If you are not rightly related to your wife, you cannot pray. In any effective way. In that same book, for the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayer. In that same book in the next chapter, the end of all things is at hand. Therefore be self-controlled and sober-minded for the sake of your prayers. What is the implication? If you're harboring sin in your heart, you cannot expect God to hear and answer your prayers. So what is the problem with the nation of Israel? They sinned. In the face of God's anger, and they continued in their sin. He says, Behold, you were angry, and we sinned. You were angry because we sinned, and we sinned. We continued to sin. In our sins we have been a long time. And shall we be saved? The situation is bleak. Can a change be made in the hearts of men that will turn away God's anger? If it is to be found, it can only be by the power of God. God Himself will have to satisfy his anger, because we are powerless in ourselves to do so. Remember Isaiah when he cried out, Woe is me, for I am undone, for I'm a man of unclean lips. What happens? God sends a s a seraphim or a seraph and he takes a coal from off the altar and he places it on Isaiah's lips, and he says, With this you have been cleansed. And again, the idea of fire, cleansing and purifying. The watchman prays and asks, Shall we be saved? Is there hope? The force of the question is to bring us up against the nature and character of God And as we'll see, our God is a God who abundantly pardons. Exodus 34, verse 6 says, when Moses, when the Lord appears to Moses, and he says, the Lord. The Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness, keeping steadfast love for thousands. Forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, but who will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the children's children to the third and fourth generation We see God is a God who is rich in mercy, but he is also a God who is faithful to judge. But he delights in mercy He multiplies the expressions of his mercy, and he does so in the beginning to say, this is what I desire to do. Psalm 30 verse 5 says, For his anger is but for a moment. And his favor is for a lifetime. Psalm 136, 23, and 24 says, It is he who remembered us in our low estate, for his steadfast love endures forever. And rescued us from our foes, for his steadfast love endures forever. And it is this truth that the watchman will begin to pray about And base his prayers on as he comes into the last part of his his prayer, beginning in verse 6. But the beautiful truth about God that this question is designed to slam us up against. Is that God's mercy and love and compassion are greater than his wrath. That God's mercy and love and compassion are greater than his wrath And he wants us to pray with that confidence. I am a God rich in mercy. I am a God who is known to have steadfast love that endures forever. Plead with me on the basis of my steadfast love. And you will not be disappointed. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you are an awesome and holy God. Who are we that come into your presence? We are sinful. We are weak. We are but of a moment. You are of eternity. If by power of strength and by your grace we live to a hundred years old, Lord, that is but a dot. on your eternal nature. And Lord, we live and move and have our being from you. Make us humble before you. Help us, Father, to pray like this watchman prayed to plead with you for the great works you are doing in this world, to rest in your sovereignty to cling tenaciously to you, Father. I pray, Father, you would teach us to pray. And that you would rend the heavens and come down, that your spirit might work in our lives, and that your son would return for your great namesake Speed this day to pass and use us to exalt your kingdom until that day comes. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.