If you've been attending our church for a while, you know we are going through the fruit of the Spirit, so you can go ahead and be turning to Galatians 5. One of the greatest missionaries of the 19th century was a man named John Payton. He was a Scotchman and he took The gospel to the New Hebrides Islands in the South Pacific, a place that was renowned for being inhabited by cannibals. In fact, The missionaries that preceded him several years earlier met that fate. And so it was a very audacious Move to take your wife and to go to these forbidding islands. But that's exactly what he did, and God did a great work. God spared his life on many occasions. Many thousands of people in various islands were converted. Churches were established. It's one of the great chronicles in Mission's history. In his biography, he often points to the influence of a godly father. His father's name was James. He was a simple man, but he had a profound walk with God. He was a great man of prayer. And every day he would go into this little prayer closet in their little humble abode and spend great amounts of time praying, especially for his children. He also set a great example of church attendance. His son John recounts the fact that in 40 years of his adult life before he passed away, that his father only missed church on three occasions. He said one was because of deep snow. Another occasion was because of thick ice. And the final occasion was because of a cholera outbreak. But apart from those three Sundays, every day he trekked with his family the four miles to their little Presbyterian church in the country, and there they worshiped God. His father left a legacy of faithfulness that he would never forget. This morning we come to the fifth fruit of the Spirit. The last item in verse 22 of Galatians 5, it says, But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace. long -suffering, gentleness, goodness, and now faith. Now what exactly is Paul referring to when he speaks here of faith. This particular Greek word is of course a very, very significant theme in the New Testament. This word is found some 244 times. And it's used in three different ways. If you were to go through all 244 of these references , which you're welcome to do. You would find that they will fall into one of these three categories. That is not my observation, but the observation of everyone who I know of who's ever done that particular exercise. The first and the most common way this word is used is of the act of faith or believing. When the Bible says that we are saved through faith, it is referring to the act of believing. It's referring to that first sense and the most common sense of the way this term is used. The term faith is also used to describe the content of that which is believed. When Paul says at the end of his life, I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith. He's not saying I have continued to believe. That's true, of course. But he's saying that I have declared and defended the treasure of the gospel. When we find in the book of Jude that we are to earnestly contend for the faith, it doesn't mean that we're fighting to believe. It means that we defend and we scripturally declare exactly what the Bible teaches, what it is we are to believe. And then the third way that this Greek word faith is used is described the quality of being faithful or reliable. And this is the way that virtually every Bible teacher understands this seventh fruit of the Spirit that we are examining this morning. You see, when the Spirit of God is in control of your life, it will be demonstrated by being faithful to what God has called you to do. I mentioned earlier today that everyone admires this quality of faithfulness. In fact, we want it in others. We like it when people are loyal and reliable and dependable. We value that. The fact of the matter is, this is because this is an attribute of God. Over 60 times Think that's Tommy want to check that out. That is our baptistry, I believe Perhaps it's not being faithful today. I don't know. Supposed to be heating the water up for this evening. Anyway, over 60 times In the Bible, we read that God is faithful. It's an amazing thing. The Bible, we read that, we sang the hymn today, Great is Thy Faithfulness comes from Lamentations chapter 3. Lamentations chapter 3 records the prophet's response to the destruction of Jerusalem. But even in the midst of that destruction, he says, Great is thy faithfulness, God is faithful. Just like the rising of the sun every day. So God's faithfulness is great. God's faithfulness is incomparable. In Psalm 89, verse 8 it says, Who is like unto thee? Thy faithfulness is round about thee. There's nobody as faithful as the Lord. His faithfulness is immeasurable. In Psalm 36 and verse 5 it says, Thy faithfulness reaches unto the clouds. We have that as one of our praise choruses. And in Psalm 89 and verse 2, we read that his faithfulness is everlasting. And in 2 Timothy 2. 13, we read that God's faithfulness is unfailing. He abideth faithful, it says. And this Sunday after Thanksgiving, it's certainly appropriate for us to reflect on God's faithfulness. The Bible says that because God is faithful, we as his children are to reflect that quality. We are to be faithful. And of course, there are so many different areas in which this works out in our lives. We are to be faithful to our spouse. We are to be faithful to our obligations, to our employer. We are to be faithful as citizens of this country. We are to be faithful as witnesses for Christ. We are to be even faithful to suffer for the Lord. Faithful it says even unto death. So the Bible says a great deal about this, and because it's such a broad theme, a preacher has one of two choices. Either he can try to say a little bit about everything. Or he can try to say a lot about one of those aspects. And I've chosen the latter route this morning. I want to talk about just this one area of being faithful in serving the Lord. And I want us to turn to a passage that powerfully illustrates this for us, and that is Matthew chapter 25. So would you turn with me, please, to Matthew chapter 25? This is known as the parable of the talents. It follows right on the heels of the parable of the Ten Virgins. This parable It 's all about being vigilant, watchful, and ready for the Lord's return. That is the parable of the ten virgins. And notice the first words In verse 14 of Matthew 25, the first word is for, which means there is a connection between the preceding parable and this one. And this is the link, the parable the ten virgins tell us in unmistakable terms that we are to be ready for the Lord's return. But then the parable of the talents tells us what this readiness or preparedness looks like. Watching for the Lord's return doesn't mean that we stand around gazing up into the sky. It means that we are busy and faithful in serving the Lord. So what is it mean that we are faithful in serving the Lord until it returns? Well, this parable is going to instruct us. I want to bring four truths about faithful service out of this parable. And I want us to see that every Christian should faithfully serve the Lord with the resources that God has given to you. The first thing I want you to notice is that God graciously gives to every believer some resources by which they can faithfully serve the Lord. Every single one of you here. have some resources. Let me show this to you. The story here is of a wealthy man with considerable wealth and he goes away on a long trip. And this man goes away, we might say, for several years. This isn't just a few-week journey. He calls his servants together. These are not uh people who sweep his floors. These are um much more competent servants who handle his affairs who take and manage his other servants and his money and make investments. And I want you to notice, let me begin reading here at verse 14. For the kingdom of heaven is as a man traveling into a far country who called his own servants and delivered unto them his goods. I want you to notice that these are his servants. And his goods. They all belong to him. And this money that he is giving to them is not for their enjoyment. It's not a Christmas bonus. It's not something for their own maintenance of their lives. He'd already amply provided for them, undoubtedly. But this was money that he is giving to them for investment purposes only, that they might further enrich him. Now, a very important consideration for us here is to understand what is in view here when it says in verse 15, and he gave five talents to And gave unto one five talents, and to another two, unto another one, to every man according to his several ability, and straightway took his journey. What is this talent? It was an ancient unit of measure that measured weight. And depending on the area and the culture, it could be anywhere from 58 pounds to 80 pounds. And of course, the value would depend on what you are weighing. Was it copper? Was it silver? Or was it gold? There's a big difference between 80 pounds of gold and 80 pounds of copper. We are not told what the commodity is. That of course is not necessary for us to understand the story. Now, a common value that we find in ancient writings assigned to this, to a talent, is 6,000 denarii. That would be the equivalent of what a worker would earn in 20 years of labor. Okay? So you want to think of a nice round number? Some of you here have been working for 20 years. If you have, think about this. How much money have you made in the last 20 years of work? All right? That is the equivalent of one talent. Now, what is this unit supposed to represent? Well, the passage does not say specifically And I think it's because the Lord wants us to make broad application. In other words, if the Lord said it had to do with the natural gifts that God has given to you, then we would say, well, you know, I don't have any of that. If it said money, then we would say, well, I don't have much of that. So we'd find a way to excuse it. So he uses a very, very broad term that I have found probably the best way to describe it, to include everything, would be resources. Okay? That includes the money that you have, the things that you own, like a house or car or a boat or a motorcycle. It includes the time that you have, it includes the skills that you possess. It includes the natural abilities and gifts that you have been given and that you've developed over the years. It includes all of that. Now what's confusing to us is of course the word when we speak of talent we're only talking in English about one specific thing, right? By the way, the English word talent comes from this Greek word. But over time the word talent has been narrowed in the English language, so we're talking about someone who has been given special gifts and abilities, like in music or whatever it might be. But originally the term was much broader. we might use the term resources. Now what's interesting here Is that in this parable, these resources are not evenly distributed, are they? One guy gets five, another gets two, another gets one. Have you noticed that resources are not evenly distributed in the world? Have you ever observed that? If you've lived on planet Earth for more than just a very brief time, you will observe that. Some people have great resources. They have multiple residences, and they have trouble keeping track of the number of vehicles they possess. Well then there's many people in the world that don't have any. They're happy to have a bicycle. They don't have a roof over their head. Great, great disparity. This is true in every other realm too, right? It's true intellectually. Some people are very, very, very bright, and some not so much. Some people are very athletic and others are not at all. Some people are incredibly musical. And some people can't carry a note in the bucket. And you know, you can look at this in a conglomerate way as well. You know, some people seem to be talented in just about Everything. If you do you know people like that, no matter what they try, they're good at it. They're good musically, they're good athletically, they're good with money. Whatever they touch, it seems, turns to gold. They're just talented. And then there's some of us who Don't have much talents. God has distributed things differently. And you know what? He has the right to do that. The master had the right to give one guy five, another guy two, another guy one. God has the right as the creator of the universe to go out these gifts, these talents, these resources as he sees fit. You might say, I don't think that's fair. Well, you know what? One of the things that we see in this parable is this principle that's Mention elsewhere in Scripture to whom much is given, of him shall much be required. You know So if you're one of those people that's like good at everything that you do and you've got incredible resources and talents and skills and abilities, you know what? God expects a whole lot more out of you. Than he does of those who do not. So we should not be envious of them. There's always the other side of the coin But the point that I'm trying to make here in this opening segment is that every servant in this parable was given resources. In fact, they were given a lot of resources. The guy who only got one talent, he still got A working man's wages for 20 years. That's a lot of money to invest. You see, there's no one who can say, you know, Lord, I would serve you. I don't have anything. I have any resources. I don't have any time. I don't have any money. I don't have any skills. I don't have any talents. Nobody can say that. Not a single person can use that excuse. Because God has given us so much. Let me use one illustration, one point of application. I suspect that the vast, vast, vast majority of adults here own a car, right? That's a resource. You know, most people in the world don't own a car That may have never occurred to you. If you were to go to a third world country, you would be amazed. You'd see along the roads everywhere people walking and carrying things and riding bikes and everything else and you would feel almost conspicuous being in a car because hardly anybody has a car. But over here, you know, we think we're roughing it if you don't have three cards in your garage. Things are tight. All right, you've got a car. That's a resource that ultimately has been given to you by the Lord. Are you using it for the Lord? Maybe I've thought about that before. Well can you use, how could you use a car to serve a Lord? Well you could use it to visit our shut-ins. You could visit, like some people have done, to take people to doctors' appointments who can't get there and don't have family at that particular time that can help them. You could pick up people in your area who maybe are shut-ins or who can't get out, and you could bring them to church. That would be an incredible blessing to them. All of that just because you had the resource of a car. You probably never thought about your car as an incredibly valuable resource. But it's a resource that's God's given to you that most people don't have. But as prosperous Americans, we never think about that as something special or a vehicle by which we can serve the Lord. My point is that God has given to everyone something that you can use to serve the Lord The second point is this. God desires that every believer use those resources for his glory. Look with me now at verses 16 through 19. It says he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same and made other five talents, and likewise he that had received two, he also gained other two. But he that had received one went and digged in the earth and hid his Lord's money. After a long time the Lord of those servants cometh and reckoneth with them. This first servant is eager to please. He's a go-getter. He gets started right away. The idea of traded here probably indicates that he invested this money into some type of business. You know, if you have 20 years of wages, you can sink that into starting a business. And that's what he did. And over several years he doubled his money. He was given a large sum of money, the equivalent of a hundred years of wages. But he wisely and shrewdly and industriously use that money to produce another hundred years worth of wages for his master. And notice in verse 17, it says this, and likewise he that had received two, he also gained other two. The guy who had the two talents, he went in and he also, over a period of time, doubled his money. Now the third serpent has a vastly different response. He didn't use his master's money to make more money. He didn't even invest it to get simple interest, to get a little bit back. No, he dug a hole and he hit it in the ground. His response is very revelatory. It reveals the way he thought of his master and the gift that he had been given. By digging a hole in the ground and putting that gift in there, he was living as if he had no master, as if he had no resources. Both of which, of course, were not true. You see, he didn't have the right to bury that talent because it wasn't his to do with as he pleased. As I mentioned earlier, it was given as an investment. It was given for him to enrich his master, to give glory to his master. So that people would say, look, this guy has such skilled people underneath of him that they're able to invest his money and to gain even more wealth. What an incredible man this guy is. This is a very telling picture here. So what resources have you buried in the grounds? Do you handle your money, your time, and your talents as if they were your own to do with as you please? This passage reminds us that they are not our own. It reminds us, as Paul says in 1 Corinthians 6, that we have been bought with a price. The whole purpose of this giving of gifts was so that they would enrich their master and thus his glory. Whatever time or talents or gifts or skills that you possess, they belong to the Lord. Your time belongs to the Lord. Your resources belong to the Lord. The Lord desires that you use these gifts to advance his kingdom and bring him glory. And notice in verse 19 We read that there was a day of reckoning. After a long time the Lord of those servants cometh and reckoneth with them. After a long absence, I suspect several years, the master finally returns and he wants to settle the accounts. He calls each of these servants in one by one. What did you do with that large sum of money that I gave to you? This is a picture of the reality that every single human being who has ever lived must someday give an account before their creator. The Bible teaches that those who have never put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ will be condemned at the great white throne judgment. Those who are saved will also give an account as what is called the Bhima judgment. I want you to turn with me to 2 Corinthians chapter 5 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 10. Paul here is writing to believers. He begins by saying, for we must all appear, that is, all believers must appear at this judgment, before the judgment seat of Christ. That every one may receive the things done in his body. That is a reference to the time that you have lived on earth According to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. Now this is an important Explanation I want to give. It's not saying that you are going to be judged for your sin. If you are a believer, your sin was judged at the cross. And it has been forgiven. The scriptures say there is no condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus. The word bad here is a Greek term that has the idea of worthless. It's worthless, not that it's inherently evil and wicked, but it's worthless. It's not, it's, it doesn't amount to anything. In other words, you can spend your time, you can spend twenty years of your life not necessarily doing wicked, horrible things, but engaged in things that are absolutely worthless in light of eternity. They don't count for anything. And the fact is, there are a lot of things that we do that are worthless So the Bible teaches that every single believer will someday give an account For the resources that God has given to you, what you have done with them What have you done with the skills, the talents, the opportunities, the time, the money that He has brought into your life? Did you take them and multiply them and invest them and use them for his glory? Or did you dig a hole in the ground and say, I'm going to put it in here? This is something that we rarely think about. You rarely hear about this today in contemporary Christianity. The idea of giving an account, the idea that God is going to, as it were, evaluate your life of service for Him. You may say, well, I don't like the thought of that. That makes me feel very uncomfortable. Did you know that guilt is a God-given emotion? We live in a society today that says if any time you feel guilty, it's a bad thing and someone's done something evil to you. That's not true. God designed us to feel guilty. Guilt is a healthy emotion. Just like pain keeps you from doing things that are harmful to yourself. Guilt can help you keep from doing things that are harmful to you spiritually. You're going to have to give an account someday. Account for the resources that God has given to you. The third thing I want you to see, and I invite you to turn back with me, please, to Matthew 25. And you may have picked up on this in our reading, but God expects us to prove our faithfulness by serving Him in small areas. Before he gives us greater responsibility, look with me at verses 22 through 23 It says, and so he that had received five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliverest unto me five talents. Behold, I have gained besides them five talents more. And his Lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Thou hast been faithful over a few things. I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord. And he also that had received two talents came and said, Lord, thou deliverest unto me two talents. Behold, I have gained two other talents beside them. His Lord said unto him, Well done. good and faithful servant. Thou hast been faithful over a few things. I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord. In case you didn't notice, those verses are identical. He says the same thing to both of these servants. The first gained five more talents, the second gained two more talents, but they both received the same words of affirmation. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. He didn't say to the guy who brought in five more, man, you really did well, and to the next guy who got two more, you did okay. He said to both of them, well done. This is the point I want to make from that. God is not going to evaluate us on the basis of how successful we have been. He's going to evaluate us on how faithful we have been. You see, they were both faithful, so they both got the commendation of well done, good and faithful servants. It was not the amount that they were able to produce, but their faithfulness they showed with their master's resources. And I want you to notice the reward. What was the reward that they were given? Do they get a little bonus? You know what the reward was? They were given more responsibility. They were given more opportunities to faithfully serve the Lord. Did you know it works that way in the Christian life? You know what happens if you're going to be faithful in serving the Lord, you know what will occur? The Lord will provide more opportunities for you to faithfully serve Him. That's a very important principle that comes out of this. Now the problem That I encounter often is that people don't want to start out by being faithful in the little things. No, they want to move right up here. They want the promotion. What do I have to do for a pastor to be a Sunday school teacher? Well, maybe come to Sunday school. It's the first thing sometimes I say. We want to start out at the top. But God wants us to be faithful in little things. And when we demonstrate that we are faithful in little things, then he will, as it were, promote us and give us greater responsibility. This is a principle you find all throughout the Scripture. You want to be a missionary? Why don't you start out by being faithful and evangelizing here in Carroll County? Want to be a deacon? Why don't you start serving by going out and faithfully visiting the sick and the shut-ins? You want to be a Sunday school teacher? Why don't you teach your own children every night after dinner? And sharpen those skills of opening up the Word of God. God will provide, it is my experience, God will open all kinds of doors for you. If you are faithful in the little things. Sometimes people get upset and they say, you know, I just, I don't know why nobody's offered me a position around here. Well, have you been faithful in the little things? I'm telling you, if you are faithful in little things, God will open up One opportunity of service after another. I'm reminded as I was preparing this message of the great Baptist preacher John Albert Broadis. You've probably never heard of his name. He taught homiletics at a Southern Baptist school that was originally Located in Greenville, South Carolina. In fact, you can go and drive there and there's a broadest street where he used to live there to this day. As a young man, a very gifted teacher, wonderful dynamic preacher, he was given the awesome responsibility of training these young men to preach and teaching them how to preach. And in 1861, he basically lost all of his class. He was just starting out, and the Civil War began, and all of his pupils enrolled. to fight in the cause, except for one student who was blind and therefore could not enroll as a soldier. And so the leadership said, listen, you just cancel the class, you know. There's no point in having a class for one student, one blind student. But he said, no, this is what God has called me to do, and I'm going to be faithful in doing it. And I'm going to prepare my lectures. and do my research and put together my notes as if I had a thousand students out there that I was teaching And that's what he did, even though he had only one student before him. You've ever had one student before? Remember when I started out teaching Sunday school? When I was in seminary, I went to a church and the pastor says, we have a Sunday school class where you teach. I said, Gray, I went there, there was one student. It's real hard to make application when there's one student. You know? Some of you out there haven't been faithful to the Lord. There's only one person out there. But anyway, to get back to my story, so he faithfully prepared these lectures. And in time they became published as the preparation and delivery of sermons or messages, something like that It became the standard textbook for homiletics for over a hundred years, and tens of thousands of thousands preachers, perhaps hundreds of thousands of preachers over the years, including this one here, were taught to preach from that textbook because that man was faithful in teaching that one student. God wants you to be faithful to little things. Hudson Taylor said, faithfulness in a little thing is a great thing. One of the things he would do with his missionary candidates is he would give them some little menial task to do. And if they didn't do it faithfully, then he was not interested in having them join his mission. Things like shining shoes, little chores like that. If they thought that they were too good for that or they weren't faithful in doing those little menial dashs, he had no time for them to serve as a missionary Faithfulness in a little thing is a great thing. And fourth and finally, from this passage, I want you to notice that God will judge us according to how we have faithfully served Him. Look with me now. the conclusion of this verses 24 and following. Then he which had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art a hard man reaping where thou hast not sown. and gathering where thou hast not strawed, and I was afraid and went and hid thy talent in the earth, and lo, there thou hast is thine. His Lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant Thou knewest that I reap where I sow not, and gatherest where I have not strawed. Thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the exchangers, and then at my coming I should have received my own with usury. Take therefore the talent from him and give it unto him which hath ten talents, and unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance. But from him hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath, and cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. The fate of this last servant is troubling, isn't it? This man who hid his talent in the ground begins to make excuses for not faithfully using his master's money. He essentially says, if we were to put it in 21st century language, you're so difficult to work for. You're such a hard man. You're so strict and so demanding. I can't work under this kind of pressure. Essentially, he's saying, it's your fault, not my fault. This is a classic example of blame shifting. A very bad habit, by the way, of every time you're brought up short, you instantly blame someone else for it. But notice this master will have none of it. He doesn't say, well, you're right, I've been a little bit harsh lately. No. He calls him a wicked and slothful servant The reason for his behavior was not because of his master's demands, but because he was lazy and disloyal. In verses 26 and 27, the master challenges his logic. I don't have time to fully explain this, but the master, I don't think, is saying, you know, I am that kind of person. There's a parallel in Luke 19 with the parable of the pounds, which is very similar to this. He's not saying, you know, I really am a hard man. I really am a difficult man to work for. I'm not very generous. I'm incredibly sh selfish and I treat my employees horribly. He's not saying that. He's saying, if that were indeed the case. You still should have invested the money, perhaps all the more, because you know I'm a demanding person. We see here this principle, by the way, which I don't have time to develop of use it or lose it. What happened to that talent he buried in the ground? He gave it to the guy that had the ten talents. You may say, well, that doesn't seem fair. Why did he get it? Because he's already demonstrated that he's faithful and he's going to take that talent and he's going to double or triple it. Because that's the kind of guy he is. He's faithful. Now what's really disturbing to us about this parable is how it concludes in verse 30. Cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. What does that mean? Make no mistake about it. That is a description of hell. This servant was cast into hell. So is this passage teaching that if you don't faithfully serve the Lord, you're going to be sent to hell? No, it's not. That's not the point of it. We know that salvation is not by works. It's by grace that we have been saved through faith. The Bible's crystal clear about that. If you're here this morning, perhaps you don't normally attend here, I want you to know that salvation is not based on what you do, but what Christ has done for you. And you should not walk out of here and say, well, I guess I guess I've got to try a little bit harder that maybe I'll be saved and not go to hell. No, that's not what this is teaching. You know why this guy was cast into hell? Because he really didn't know the master. His master was not the way he described him as a hard man. As a selfish man? As a mean-spirited man? That's not who he was. Why did he have that view of him? Because he didn't know him. He didn't know him. He had no relationship with him. There's kind of the reverse of this in Matthew chapter 7. Some of the most fearful verses in the Bible. He says, and many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? Have we not Cast out devils and done many wonderful works in that name, then Jesus will say unto them, What? I never knew you. You see, the issue is not what you've done. Those people did things That were spectacular, at least in their viewpoint. And Lord says, I never knew you. This guy puts his resources in the ground. And by his own description of his master demonstrates that he didn't know him. He didn't know him But there is often a connection between how well we know the Lord and how faithfully we serve Him. You see, we do have a master and lord who will hold us accountable, but he is not demanding and harsh. He is faithful and gracious and generous and kind. We've noticed these attributes even in the fruit of the spirits. So let me conclude this morning by asking you, are you faithfully serving the Lord? And I mean this in the broadest possible way, not just in the necessarily the local church context, but just as broadly as you can think of. If you ever heard the name of John Eglin, he's not very well known. He was a tailor. And one day he got up on a winter morning in the January of 1850 to looked out his window and there was snow on the ground and snow was falling He thought of staying home, but then he remembered that he was a deacon in this little Methodist church where he had been serving the Lord for many years. And he thought to himself, if I don't go, who will? And what if people show up and there's no one there to conduct him service? So he put on his boots and his hat and his coat and he walked the six miles. To that little Methodist church. And when he got there, there were very few people there. There were 12 church members, most of whom lived close by. And one visitor, a 15-year-old boy, but who would preach. He was the only deacon there. So he decided the preacher couldn't come because he was snowed in. And so he decided that he must preach. And so he opened up his Bible and he began to, as it were, stream of consciousness preach. And when he had a weak point, he just yelled louder. And after repeating himself again and again in a most inarticulate way, after ten minutes, he finally brought it to a conclusion. But the visitor who came that day was converted, and his name was Charles Spurgeon. And he became the greatest preacher of his generation and brought many thousands of people to the Lord All because one man was faithful to the responsibility that God had given him to do. Faithfulness in a little thing is a great thing. Let's close in prayer. Father, we are a blessed people. You have given us so much. You have abundantly provided for our needs. We have abundant resources at our disposal. And so I pray, dear Lord, that you would help us To be reminded again this morning that we are to be faithful. And we are to remember that these resources, these gifts, these talents are not our own. For yet we are your servants. And therefore, I pray that you would use this message to motivate us, challenge us, to be more faithful in our service to the Lord Father, we thank you for your word that it speaks to us. And I pray, Lord, for those here today. who are not your children. I pray that they would see that they cannot begin to be faithful, that they can never expect to hear, well done, thou good and faithful servant. until they have come to see that they are a sinner in desperate need of a savior and that they put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ who is faithful and just to forgive them of their sins. We thank you for this time that we've been able to spend together. I pray that you would help us To leave here today rejoicing. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.