We are in Isaiah 63. Well, Lord willing, tonight we'll be finishing up this chapter of Isaiah 63, but We began and I well oh let's go through this. I'm sorry the theme return and rest in Yahweh For he alone is salvation. I uh my goal is that on your deskbed, if someone asks you, what is the theme of Isaiah, you'd be like, Return and rest in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. You won't be able to forget it. It's it's in there permanently. And we are Near and yen, look at that. That's sixty-fix chapters. We are in sixty-three. We'll be we'll be getting into we'll be at sixty-four, Lord willing, tonight. So we are right up to the end here. But we have this this message of comfort through eschatology. And chapter 63 and into chapter 64 is a prayer. for God to bring about what He has promised with regard to the nation of Israel. If you remember chapter 62, we saw the Messiah's unquenchable zeal for Jerusalem. He said in the beginning of chapter 62, for Zion's sake I will not keep silent, and for Jerusalem's sake I will not be quiet. until her righteousness goes forth as brightness, and her salvation as a burning torch. And then in verse six of that same chapter, he says that he set watchmen on the walls of Jerusalem. And they were they were established for the purpose of putting the Lord in remembrance and giving him no rest. until he establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in the earth, making it a righteous nation. Then in the beginning of chapter 63, we have a vision of the Messiah coming as an anointed warrior. And he's approaching Jerusalem in stained garments, crimson stained garments. which is the sp the spattered blood of his enemies as he comes victoriously to establish his kingdom on earth, a kingdom of righteousness, a kingdom of justice, a kingdom of peace. And he will rule with a rod of iron as he has promised. But then we come to verse 7 of chapter 63, and it's the reality that that is not yet. And we are still the watchmen on the walls called to pray, to intercede for God to bring about what He has promised. We are to give the Lord no rest. until he does what he has promised. And from 63. 7 all the way to the end of chapter 64, there is a prayer by one of these watchmen. It's penned by Isaiah, but it's not Isaiah, you might say, speaking, because It's penned by Isaiah in the voice of someone who has seen the destruction of Jerusalem, who has observed that the temple is destroyed. And he's writing from that position of the temple already having been destroyed. And he's crying out for God to see and to work. If you remember, last week we noticed that this watchman's prayer has four main parts to it. We said that the watchman The watchman has a remembrance, which we looked at last week from verse 7 through 14. He remembers all that God has done, how God redeemed them from the hand from the land of Egypt, and how he worked in a mighty way in their lives. And he showed his glorious arm, and he made for himself an everlasting name, and he brought them into the promised land like cattle going down into a well-watered valley. God graciously worked in their lives. And from that vantage point of remembrance, the watchman now has a heartfelt complaint. Lord , Why are you doing nothing now? Why does it seem that you have abandoned us? And that's where we're at this evening, verses 15 through 19. And it's not very many verses, but there's a lot in here that demands our examination this evening. So this section of the watchman's prayer is balanced or it is punctuated by two questions. Let's just read this and you'll probably pull them out very quickly as I read it. He says, look down from heaven and see, from your holy and beautiful habitation, where are your zeal and your might? The stirring of your inner parts and your compassion are held back from me, for you are our Father Though Abraham does not know us, and Israel does not acknowledge us, you, O Lord, are our Father, our Redeemer from of old, is your name O Lord, why do you make us wander from your ways and harden our hearts so that we fear you not? Return for the sake of your servants, the tribes of your heritage. Your holy people held possession for a little while. Our adversaries have trampled down your sanctuary. We have become like those over whom you have never ruled, like those who are not called by your name. So when we come to this portion of this Watchman's Prayer, we have this first question, where are your zeal and your might? In a real sense, the watchman is asking, where are you, God? Where are you? In our life, in our existence, it seems that you are absent. Where are you? You don't seem to notice what's going on. And there is a cry for divine attention. Pay attention to us. and to our situation. Look down from heaven and see us. Look down from heaven and see the state that we are in. And the watchman is praying for God to take notice of them from heaven. He says, look down from heaven and see from your holy and beautiful habitation. Now, he's not insinuating that God doesn't actually see, that God doesn't actually know what's going on among his people. But rather that God doesn't seem to be doing anything about it. That God seems to be absent or distant or unaware of what's happening from a human perspective, it's as if God doesn't see. We know the Bible tells us very clearly The eyes of the Lord are in every place, keeping watch on the evil and the good. There is nothing that God doesn't see. In Psalm 139, the Bible says that the day the night is is is just like the day to God's. Nothing is hidden in darkness. If you were to go to the ends of the earth God is there. There is no place where God is not. There's no place where God's observation is not available. There's no place where God doesn't know what's happening. But he's saying, it's as if you don't see us. It's as if your eyes are closed to us. Have you ever felt that way before? You're praying and it feels like God, do you see me? Do you see what's happening? And you're not theologically saying, God, are you not omnipresent? Are you not omniscient? You're saying, God, it it feels like You're not here. It feels like you're not aware of what I'm going through. It feels like you've closed your eyes to me That is the way the writer, this watchman, is praying. Look down from heaven and see. Deuteronomy 11, verse 12, describes the fact that God has a special attention for the promised land. He said that it's a land that the Lord your God cares for. The eyes of the Lord your God are always upon it. from the beginning of the year to the end of the year. Now if you read something like that, you might be tempted to say, are there lands where God's eyes are not upon it? Well, no. No, that's not the case at all. What is he saying there? He's saying God has a special attention and a special affection for the promised land, because it is the land from which his son will rule. It is the land that God has chosen. It is the land where his chosen people have inherited. So God has a special affection, a special attention. It's not like there's parts of Antarctica where God's like, yeah, I haven't looked at that recently. That's not the case at all. He's saying that there is a special attention that he gives to this land because it is unique. In Exodus chapter 2, when the nation of Israel is in Egypt, they're under Egyptian bondage, and they cry out to God. And there's something very instructive for this. They cry out to God, and the Bible says that their cry reaches to heaven. And again, it's not that God didn't hear their cries previously, but there was a earnestness, there was a pleading in their crying That got the special attention of God. In verses 24 and 25 of Exodus 2, it says, And God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob. God saw the people of Israel and God knew. I read that this morning in my devotions. And I'm like, oh, this is perfect. I'm going to add that to my notes for tonight. Again, it's not that God did I make a covenant with Abraham, M, Isaac, and Jacob. I feel yes I did. I should No, God remembered we looked at this in Genesis eight when God remembered Noah means God took action on behalf of God took action on behalf of the children of Israel in the land of Egypt to redeem them from slavery. And it says God saw the people of Israel, meaning he saw their affliction, he took action on behalf of them, and he He knew what was taking place and he acted in a unique way in history because of their affliction, but also because of the way that they prayed. For the Lord to work. It kind of reminds me though of times when I was a young father and my children wanted to get my attention. If you have multiple children, you know that there are times when as a as a parent there are There 's pleas from multiple directions from children to get your attention. Daddy, look over. Daddy, Daddy, Daddy, Daddy, Daddy, Daddy, Daddy. And sometimes you become skilled as a father going w I mean this isn't skill. Ignoring some of them and knowing which ones you need to pay attention to at what time. But then there are times when a ch when a child would say, look at me and I can remember a time when my daughter took my face Well, that was weird. Took my face and moved it to look at her. Look at me. Like, ah, you want my attention. And that's kind of the idea of this prayer, where the the watchman is saying, Lord, we need your attention. I am desperate for your eyes to be on me. And the situation that is taking place in our land. It's not that God doesn't see, but there's a desperation to the prayer. The appearance of the circumstances that God may appear to be far away. He says, look down from heaven and see from your holy and beautiful habitation. It's almost like he's saying, God, you are in heaven, but we are on earth. You are in a holy place, but we live in a wicked place. Lord, you live in a beautiful place, but we are oppressed, we are defeated, we are enslaved, we are impoverished. Lord Hear us. Kind of reminds me of that old Bette Midler song, God is watching us from a distance, which is blasphemy. But there's an aspect in his praying where there's an earnestness. Lord, look at the situation we are in. He is not speaking blasphemy. He's saying, Lord, look at us. The situation is desperate. Hear our prayer. The beautiful thing is that our God is not distant from us. And he proved that. He did not stay in heaven. Philippians 2 reminds us that Jesus, though he was in the form of God, did not think that his equality with God was something to be grasped or clung on to. But emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, and being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. A God who is with us. A God who knows our weaknesses. A God who knows what it means to be human. A God who entered into our sorrows. And took our pain and our sin so that we could be rightly related to Him. What an amazing God we serve. But the reality is there are times when we we pray and we feel this way. And we can bear our souls before God. We can come before God very much like this watchman prays. Our Savior is the only one who has ever been abandoned by God. He's the only one who can say, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And because he has been forsaken by God, we will never experience the forsakenness of God. So we can come to God with great boldness, but we can also come with great confidence. Because he has entered into our weakness. He has been forsaken so that we don't have to be. What amazing savior we have. But he asks in the latter part of verse 15, where are your zeal and your might? The stirring of your inner parts and your compassion. They're held back from me. The word zeal is a word that's most often translated jealousy. We have it in Proverbs 6, verse 34, speaking of the jealous husband, for jealousy makes a man furious. And he will not spare when he takes revenge. Speaking of what happens when a man finds out that his wife is adulteress. And he says, that man will not spare. And that passionate anger is not wrong. It's God-designed. It's proper passion for one with whom you have a covenant relationship. And it's a word that is used to speak of God's passionate action on behalf of his people. In Isaiah 37, if you look back At Isaiah 37, God tells the people of Judah that Sennacherib will be allowed to invade Judah. He's going to come and surround Jerusalem. He will come right up to Jerusalem. But God says he will not let him lay siege against Jerusalem. He says, therefore, thus says the Lord concerning the king of Assyria. He shall, I think I might have this. No, I don't. I don't have this verse on my slides here. He shall not come into the city, or shoot an arrow there, or come before it with a shield, or cast up a siege mound against it. By the way that he came, by the same he shall return, and he shall not come into the city, declares the Lord. Which was an amazing prophecy because Sennacherib was annihilating city after city, including Lachish, which was the second largest city in Judah. And he had totally annihilated Lachish. And he comes to Jerusalem and it looks like Jerusalem is next. And God says, no. He will not come in here. He will not shoot an arrow here. He will not build a siege ramp against it. He will return by the way he came. And even to this day, historians try to figure out why did Sennacherib turn around. I read an article that was like five years ago in the in the The Guardian, and it was trying to explain why Sennacherib turned around from Jerusalem. And what happened to his soldiers? They know that a vast decimation happened to his soldiers, and they can't figure out why And the theories are maybe there was rats that came through the land and the rats brought a disease and it killed off his soldiers in vast numbers. Or it could be just what the Bible says. That God sent an angel and destroyed 185,000 of his soldiers in one night, and Sennacherib 's army was decimated, and he turned around and he went back to his land. where he was ultimately killed. But in Isaiah 37, 32, there's this verse. God says, For out of Jerusalem shall go a remnant, and out of Mount Zion a band of survivors. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. That's the word we're looking at here. Where are your zeal and your might? God says Sennacherib is not going to take this city. And the zeal, my jealousy, my passion for Jerusalem will mean that it will not happen. What an amazing, what an amazing thing. In the Exodus, we looked at in Isaiah 63, the description of the zeal of the Lord. working to split the Red Sea, provide water from a rock to bring manna from heaven, quail into the land enough to feed the people. To lead them by the pillar of cloud and pillar of fire, to bring them across the Jordan into the promised land. The zeal of the Lord was on display in the Exodus. And in the conquest of the land. The zeal of the Lord was on display in the deliverance of Jerusalem from the Assyrian invasion. But he says, where is your zeal now? Where is your zeal now, God? We are decimated. We are destroyed. Have you ever had a close relationship that went sour? And you start to realize something's changed and you can't figure out what has changed. There was a closeness. But there's an absence now, there's a distance, the closeness is gone. This is what the watchman is describing here. He says, God, something has changed. What has changed? God, you used to be zealous. You used to have a jealousy for us, but it appears that you don't anymore Once your zeal worked mighty deeds for us, but now it seems like you don't even see us. What has gone wrong? And the last half of this verse is beautiful. He says, the stirring of your inner parts and your compassion are held back from me. The watchman says that God's compassionate heart towards them has been restrained. The encouraging thing I think about this is that he's saying, God It's not that your passionate and your compassion and your emotional desire for us is gone, but it's restrained. There's something that is restraining your affection for us. You have restrained it for a reason. The implication is that God has not changed. His love for them has not changed. His covenant with them has not changed. What has changed is them They have changed, God has remained the same, and therefore this has happened. You go back to verse 8 in this prayer, he says, For he said, Surely they are my people, children who will not deal falsely. He had every expectation by the way he lavished his grace upon them, bringing them out of Egypt and bringing them into the promised land and establishing them, giving them the kingdom like Solomon's kingdom, that they would be a faithful people. That they would worship and love him and trust him with faithful obedience, but they have not. Therefore, his unchanging character has resulted in him restraining his heart of compassion for them. It's very much like a parent who's forced to exercise tough love on their child. It's not that they don't love their child, but they're restraining their inner Affections for that child because what is best for them is not affection, but actually harshness. And God is exercising tough love on a rebellious people. I began reading the autobiography of Solomon Ginsburg, who was a Southern Baptist missionary, a Jewish man in Brazil, and it's titled A Wandering Jew in Brazil. And he's one of the men that I give an illustration of when we were going through Isaiah 53, who was led to the Lord by reading and hearing the preaching of Isaiah 53. And he said, when he first began to read the New Testament and see the rejection of the Messiah, he said, I realized for the first time the reason for the terrible history of the Jews. the suffering and persecutions they had gone through and even were still enduring. And he says this before the Holocaust, before World War II. But he's saying the zeal of the Lord, the affections of the Lord have been restrained. And he said, I didn't understand why until I read the gospels. And then I understood why God's affections had been restrained. This is the expression of that reality in prayer. Why, O God, have you held back your heart of compassion for us? You are our true father. The watchman appeals to God on the basis of their covenant relationship. He is their father and they are his children. This is the most significant passage of Scripture in the Old Testament with regards to the fatherhood of God. Where God claims, or the Father of God is claimed by the people of Israel. Three times in this passage he says, you are our Father, O Lord. God Himself is the one who brought them into existence as a nation. God is the one who called their father Abraham out of idolatry, out of the Ur of the Chaldees. And made a covenant with Abraham and with Isaac and with Jacob. God is the one who brought them out of Egypt. God is the one who established them as a nation. God is their father. And he says, though Abraham doesn't know us and Israel does not acknowledge us, most likely what he's saying there, Abraham of course is the father of the nation. Israel is Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Jacob's new name is Israel. He's the father of the twelve tribes. So in a real sense, these are the patriarchs, the founders of the nation, and he's saying, even if Abraham and Israel don't recognize us, You are our true Father, because you are the one who called them. You are our Father. You are our Redeemer. And this goes back to the idea of the kinsman-redeemer. Even if Abraham and Israel reject us, God, you are our kinsman-redeemer. You are the one who will redeem us because you are the close relative. You are the Goel. This is the relationship we find in the book of Ruth, where Boaz is the kinsman redeemer for Ruth. And he says, God, it's not Abraham. It's not Jacob. It's you. You are our redeemer. He says, our Lord is our redeemer who redeemed us. Can it be that he would ever leave us like this? We can say the same thing when our Savior taught us to pray, our Father who is in heaven. Hallowed be thy name. What an amazing relationship we have had in Christ. Our Lord is our Redeemer, who redeemed us through his blood and has adopted us into his family. Could it be that he would ever Leave us in the bondage of our sin? No. He is faithful. He who calls you is faithful. He will surely do it. He is faithful. He is our Redeemer. He is our Father. And we can pray in this way when we come before the throne of God. Verse 17 is one of these verses that really is challenging. We're going to spend probably the majority of our time here this evening looking at this verse. He says, O Lord. Why do you make us wander from your ways and harden our heart so that we fear you not? Have you ever read that verse before? And said, hmm. I hope Pastor preaches on that sometimes so I find out what it means. I was talking with Pastor Lehman about this today, and he said You know, if I bet if someone were to praise this prayer in our Wednesday evening prayer service, someone would take them aside and rebuke them. Say, you shouldn't pray that way. God doesn't make you sin God doesn't make you wander from your way from his ways and doesn't harden your heart. Is that not true? We would probably, if someone prayed like that in our group tonight, we'd say, uh-uh, uh, uh, that's not right. But here it is in the pages of Scripture as an example for us. What are we supposed to learn from this? Well, important things that we need to think about when we're studying hard passages. We looked at a hard passage in our Sunday school class the last two weeks. in 1 Peter. And when we did, I said a couple things are important to understand when we come to hard passages in the Bible. When we can't say for certain what a passage does mean, we can say what it doesn't mean. That is very helpful for us when we're going through passages like I'm not exactly sure what that means. But I know it doesn't mean this. And that's helpful. So it doesn't mean that we are not responsible for our sins. This passage doesn't mean I'm off the hook. How do we know this? Well, we can look down just a few verses later in verse 5 where he where he talks, or even verse 6, we have all become like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like polluted garments. We fade like a leaf, and all our iniquities like the wind take us away. Or we can go back to Isaiah 53 6, which we quoted this evening in our prayer or in our in our memory verse time. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way. We are like sheep that have strayed away from God. So it doesn't mean that we're not responsible for our sin. It doesn't mean that God also is the author of sin. That God is somehow the one who is the author of our sin. James 1. 13 is an important verse to remember. Oh, there's our there's uh Solomon Ginsburg. I forgot to put his quote up there. Stunning looking fellow. James 113. Let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted as evil, and he himself tempts no one. God is not the author of our sin. So we know it doesn't mean that we're not responsible. We do know it means that God is not the author of our sin. Secondly, when we can't say for certain what the details of a difficult passage mean, we can understand the main point of the passage, and that's really helpful as well. The main point is that they desperately need God to work a transformation in their hearts. They are desperately needing God to intervene. So there are some important realities to help us understand this verse. It's important to understand God, the watchman is not a Rather, he's wrestling with God. Very much like Jacob wrestled with God. He's wrestling with God in the realities that he is seeing on the ground. And he's expressing his utter dependence upon God to bring about a spiritual transformation apart from God working Nothing is going to happen. We say, Brethren, we have met to worship and adore the Lord our God. And that song says, All is vain unless the spirit of the Holy One comes down. Pray with all your power while we try to preach the word. We are dependent upon the Lord to bring about spiritual transformation. The reality is we are powerless to bring about a spiritual transformation. We could call this human depravity. We could call this human inability, but the Bible is unequivocal in this reality. John chapter 6, Pastor's gonna preach this in a In a while. John 6, verses 63 through 65. It is the Spirit who gives life The flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life, but there are some of you who do not believe For Jesus knew from the beginning who those were who did not believe, and who it was who would betray him. And he said, This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father. No one can, no one is able. The word there literally means able. No one has the power or the ability to come to me unless it is granted to him by the Father. Apart from the gracious work of God, no one can come to faith in Christ. That's why it's all is vain unless the Spirit of the Holy One comes down. We are dependent upon the working of the Spirit to bring this about. First Corinthians 2. 14 says, the natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able. to understand them, because they are spiritually discerned. If there is discernment, biblical discernment and understanding of the gospel it is because the Holy Spirit has given that discernment. The natural man is in a state of inability. To understand the truth of the gospel. We are dependent upon God to awaken our eyes and our souls to our great need. Romans 8 7 says, For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law, indeed it cannot Does not say will not. It cannot. The natural man is in a state of enmity against God. Ephesians repeatedly asserts that we are dead. In our trespasses. Our moral state is not neutral to God. Because we are sinners, we are bent towards rebellion. We are bent in the direction of rebellion against God. God does not force us to sin, but apart from a divine act of God, we will not choose to love and obey God The natural state of our soul, apart from the gracious, life-giving power of God, is death. Jonathan Edwards has a good quote in his book, The Freedom of the Will, that might be helpful in understanding this. He says, there is a vast difference between the sun 's being the cause of the light and warmth of the atmosphere and the brightness of gold and diamonds by its presence and positive influence. And it's being the occasion of darkness and frost in the night by its motion whereby it descends below the horizon. The motion of the sun is the occasion of the latter kind of events, but it is not the proper cause, efficient or producer of them, though they are necessarily consequent on that motion. Under such circumstances, no more is any action of the divine being the cause of the evil of men's wills. You get that what he's saying there? The sun is the cause of light. The absence of the sun is the cause, you might say, of darkness and cold, but you can't say the sun caused the darkness and the cold. You can't say the sun caused night because it went below the horizon. It's the absence of the sun that caused the darkness in the night. In a similar way, our hearts are dead, our souls are dead, we are in darkness, we are bent towards evil, the absence of God's um Restraining grace, the absence of God's common grace in our lives is what brings us to sin and to reject Him. But we can't say God is the cause of our sin. It is the absence of God's working that causes us to sin. It is the removal of God's grace that causes us to sin. We can't say the light of the sun is the cause for the lakes to freeze in wintertime. No, it's the absence of the direct light. That causes the lakes to freeze. It's interesting in Genesis chapter 20. We do know that God works to keep people from sin. Abimelech, when he took Sarah into his harem. In Genesis 20, verse 6, God says, it was I who kept you from sinning against me. By my gracious acts, Abimelech, I kept you from sinning against me. So in one sense, God even removes his restraining common grace in the face of sin to punish us with greater sin. We see this in Romans chapter 1, verses 26 and 27. For this reason, God gave them up to dishonorable passions. Because they had rejected the true and living God and worshiped and served the creatures rather than the Creator, God gave them up. He removed his common grace. To then have dishonorable passions, for the women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to nature, and the men likewise gave up natural relations with women and were consumed with passion for one another. men committing shameless acts with men and receiving in themselves the due penalty for their error. So God's removing of his restraining grace, of his common grace, actually results in greater sin. He has He has given them up. That phrase is used twice in Romans 1 in this passage. Giving them up to their natural heart 's desires to do things that aren't even convenient or appropriate. So we do know that God's restraining grace can be removed to bring about our sins. So in that, I believe the sense in which he is saying here Why do you make us wander from your ways and harden our hearts so that we fear you not? You have removed your restraining grace so that we don't turn back to you. And then there's this other element, the element of judicial hardening. It's impossible to look at this passage of scripture. Without thinking back to Isaiah's commissioning as a prophet in Isaiah chapter 6. Remember Isaiah 6, where Isaiah sees the vision of the Lord high and lifted up in the seraphim crying out, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts? And Isaiah recognizes his his brokenness in the face of such unapproachable holiness, and he says, Woe is me, for I am lost, for I am a man of unclean lips, and I live in the midst of a people of unclean lips. And then God sends it one of the seraphim and he takes a coal off the altar and he puts it upon his lips and he says, With this you have been cleansed, picturing the altar and the sacrifice that Christ himself would Pay for us. Then God says, whom shall I send? And who will go for us? Then I said, hear him I send me. And that's where most messages in Isaiah 6 stop. I mean that 'll preach right there. But the next part doesn't preach so well. And he says, go and say to this people, keep on hearing, but do not understand. Keep on seeing, but do not perceive. Make the heart of this people dull, and their ears heavy, and blind their eyes, lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their hearts. and turn and be healed. What? You know what? This is the most quoted verse from the book of Isaiah in the New Testament. Not Isaiah 53, not Isaiah 7. 14, not Isaiah 9. 6, Isaiah 6, 9 and 10. The most quoted verse in the New Testament of the book of Isaiah. And Isaiah says, How long, O Lord? And God says, Until cities lie waste without inhabitants, and houses without people, and the land is a desolate waste, and the Lord removes people far away, and the forsaken places are many in the midst of the land. And though a tenth remain in it, it will be burned again like a terebinth or an oak, whose stump remains when it is felled. The holy seed is its stump. Wow, that's a comforting commission. But the Lord Himself quotes these verses in Matthew 13. When he speaks to them in parables, and they say, Why are you speaking to them in parables? And Jesus says, because what Isaiah said, or what God said in Isaiah chapter 6, verses 9 and 10. You will indeed hear but never understand, you will indeed see, but never perceive, for this people's heart has grown dull, and with their ears they can barely hear And with their eyes they have closed, lest they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their hearts and turn and I would heal them. This is what Jesus said. We find this quoted the very last passage of the book of Acts, when Paul is finishing up Arguing and debating in the synagogue, he quotes Isaiah chapter 6, verses 9 and 10. Reminds us of what we see in Romans chapter eleven. I believe I have that in our yeah, no I don't. Do I? No, I'm sorry, I don't have Romans eleven verse eight, but it says, God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that would not see and ears that would not hear, down to this very day. And he's quoting Isaiah 2910. The reality, Isaiah's preaching was much like wind on an icy day that causes the bridge to freeze even faster. You ever seen those signs? Go back to that Bridge freezes before road surface. You ever been a I went across to a bridge this this winter and the roads were fine, but the bridge was icy and I hit the brakes and I was like, whoa, let off the brakes. Hit it again, that starts sliding. The bridge freezes before the road. Isaiah's preaching was like the wind going underneath the overpass, hardening their hearts, causing their hearts to turn icy. Jesus' preaching was much the same way. Paul's preaching was much the same way. And to this very day, we are told in Romans 11 , There is a hardening on their hearts. And so this prayer is, Lord, come Help us remove the deadness of our hearts. Your absence. The absence of your common grace, the absence of your convicting grace, the absence of your Holy Spirit working in our lives has caused us not to fear you. And what does he say? Return. Return for the sake of your servants, the tribes of your heritage. God, return. We desperately need you. If you don't do this, then we're helpless. But he argues from what point? God, we are your people Your name is intricately and intimately intertwined with us. We are your people. You have made promises to us. You have made promises to Abraham and to Isaac and to Jacob and to David. You have made promises. God, work. Do we pray like that? Do we pray boldly? God, remember your promises. You promised God, you said you would do this. Do it. Bring in the fullness of the Gentiles. You promised you would. May the gospel be preached in all the world because you promised it would. Bring people to yourself from every kindred and tribe and tongue and nation. You said you would. God, we are desperate for you to work. If you don't do it, then we have nothing we can do. Brethren, we have met to worship and adore the Lord our God. Will you pray with all your power while we try to preach the word God help us. So what James talks about, the effective, fervent prayer of a righteous man, not just God, bless those missionaries. God, we need you to work, to open blind eyes, to soften hard hearts. We desperately need you to empower your word. We need you, God, to send out laborers into your harvest field. If you don't do it, we have no hope. But I think too often we don't pray earnestly. We pray half-heartedly. And the watchman here gives us an example of storming the gates of heaven. And making an argument before God based on his character and his promises. And it's an example for us, To pray like this. It is appropriate for us. Jesus told us to pray, Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. It's not just. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us a day or daily bread. That's not the idea. It's in earnestness. Crying out to God. Do we plead with God to stop hardening our hearts and make us wander from his ways? God, change us. Make us holy. We need you to do this. This is what we learn from this passage. Let's pray. Father, I thank you for your word. I thank you that you are a God who invites such storming of heaven. Can you teach us to pray this way? Help us, Lord. Change our Our complacency to earnestness. Come, Lord. Be zealous for your people again. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.