Well it's good to be with you all again. I hope as we uh I hope that the song we've been singing, those of you who've been with us for the past six weeks, you know, we've been singing that song. at the at the uh as our second song for this whole series. I hope that even in the process of this study and going through it, that that song has resonated more and more and deeper thinking of maybe even the audience or the church that Jude is writing to, that they would be singing this in a sense in response to this letter that Jude has written them. But welcome to the last uh lesson on the book of Jude. It's been a blessing, and I appreciate Pastor's um exhortation there. It's been a blessing for me to go through this book to Let's really dive into some of the questions and the ideas in here, and I hope it's been rich for you as we've thought about this study. So tonight we're going to finalize this study. So just a few verses to go through for the end of our study. And then I want to turn our attention at the end to just some big picture thoughts, applications. There's so many things we could talk about in the light of Jude. But again, as letters end in the New Testament, we're all familiar with how many letters end, whether it be a final reading to some people that maybe Paul is writing to, notes, directions, other elements, maybe a benediction. The letter of Jude ends with a doxology. A doxology is a statement of praise to the glory of God. While we've learned through this letter that some in the church who've crept in, have blasphemed, who've put trust in their dreams, who are distorting the gospel, Jude intends to draw the readers of this letter in their hearts back to the central fountain of grace and mercy, the one who has all the power, the center of the gospel once for all delivered to the saints. And the doxology is the right way to do this. Of course, that is Jesus Christ. So, as we think about doxologies, just a little bit of a preamble here before we get into the verses tonight, doxologies in the New Testament follow a very specific format, and I've included this in your notes Jude's doxology is heralded by most scholars as the greatest doxology in the New Testament by its use and its key terms, and we're going to get into some of that here. But there are a few other doxologies. Obviously, if it's the best, we've got to have some that are, you know, lesser, even though they're all wonderful, praises to our Lord. There are a few different forms that happen in the doxology that helps us understand what is a doxology. This is not just Paul's or Jude's or Peter's kind of just way of giving praise, there is a formula to how the doxologies work. The format looks like this. There is a call to God. The center of all praise. And he's addressed in a dative case, which means we'll get into that in a second, it's kind of the to who this is offered to. There's a culmination, there's usually some other phrasing, which we'll see here in these examples, but then there's a call to the glory and honor ascribed to God So it's to God, the glory and honor ascribed to him. There's also some indication of an endless duration of this praise. Because God is timeless, our praise to him is endless, and then it ends in an amen. And so if we look at some examples, we look at Romans 16, this is one of the other doxologies, you know, now to him, there's God. who 's able to strengthen you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery that was kept secret for long ages. but has now been disclosed through the prophetic writings and has been made to all nations according to the command of the eternal God to bring about the obedience of faith, to the only wise God be glory forevermore. So there's the glory for more through Jesus Christ. Amen. So there's our four elements of a doxology. We can see there's a lot of other things in the doxology, right? It's not just God give the glory forever and more. I meant. That'd be the short kind of doxology. But they all have different elements, and those elements in the doxology typically speak back to something that the author has been working through. There's kind of a closing context that doxology. There's usually a tie. They may not um key in on the exact same things, but certain phrases, maybe it extends an idea, maybe it fulfills an idea that the authors were bringing up. As you think about Romans and just what Paul's been talking about in the book of Romans, this kind of makes sense to you in that way. If we look at Ephesians, another one. Now to him, here's that call to God, who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think according to the power at work within us. To him be the glory in the Church in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever Amen. So here again, here's that formula. To God, to the glory, for all generations, forever and ever, and then Amen. So when we see these common attributes, it helps us to then put those into a certain bucket. And as we look at a doxology like Jude's, we can understand, okay, what's common to a doxology and what is specific to the doxology. of Jude's. So that's where we're going to jump in here tonight. So doxology is the last two verses of the book of Jude. And again, I didn't want to rush this last week just getting through it because there's a lot in here, a lot we can meditate on and think about. But let's get into it. Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy. So we see this call to God. This in our format of the doxology. To him, of course, this is referring to God Himself. the center context in this entire doxology. And it follows this doxological format. To him is in the dative. I put a little note in here about what the dative means. It's not to Greek out on you here, but Basically, it just indicates the object to who or what benefits or receives the action. So as we're giving this glory, it's going to God in the doxology. It's not speaking about someone else or someone else's praises. All this doxology is focused towards God. And that's the importance of that dative case. But to him who is able to keep you from stumbling This is the first of his kind of oppositions, how he kind of speaks to who is this him, what are the powers that he has. He says to keep you We are reminded here of God's keeping power, of his power for the saints. If we think back, if you look up in your scripture, if you look, if you've got Jude in front of you, look back to Verse 2, verse 1, you're going to see that God the Father is kept for the Lord Jesus Christ. That is basically he's bookending that thought, right? He's kept in Jesus Christ. Now here he's able to keep you from stumbling. That in verse 1, this is the position of faithfulness in Christ. That we are kept in Christ. And we talked about this in the first lesson. He also uses this same idea of keeping in the scripture in this book in verse 24. That's what we're talking about here today. But this word, keep here, this one, is a different, it's a different. actual verb in the Greek than what is in the front first part. The one here is a different word, phalaso. It actually began translate it into protect, keep, safe, or guard. So in a sense here, what Jude is saying is that this is a guarded, a complete keeping. This is a kind of secured status He's one who's able to secure us from stumbling. It's not in some sense that he might at some point keep us. No, he is keeping us. It is a complete keeping. And Christ is the one who is able and all might empower to keep us from stumbling. He is the determinative strength and the will of God that upholds his decrees. See, there's the glory So it is his glory that no power can take us from him. John 6. 37, many of you are familiar with this? Verse it says, All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out. For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day. For this is the will of my Father that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in Him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. This is the keeping power of our Savior. We know it is of the Father's love to ensure this protection of the saints. Says this again in 1 Peter. He says, Be sober-minded, be watchful, for your adversary prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to vower. Resist him, firm in your faith, knowing that he that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world. And as you've suffered a little while, the God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. That is a keeping power of our Lord. God is the keeper of his men, of his people. There is no power that can take them away from God. See there's something that doesn't um come up much in the news as we have many conflicts around the world. But in the war in the Ukraine What's happening behind the scenes as Russia aggressively pushes in to the Ukraine is that Russia is citizenizing or making citizens out of those people they've they've captured their lands. In a sense, it's either by coercion or by force, they're making the people who dwell in those lands become citizens of their country or be deported or worse. See, in the way of the world, might makes right. If you are the victor, you are the captor, you claim anyone you want through strength. Once they have control of the land, they have control of the people, they can be snatched out of one government into another. But no power will claim us once we are in Christ's hands. We are kept by Him. No power on this earth or in the underworld can take us from Him. That is the awesome reality of the security of God, that we are kept firmly in Him by the power and authority of God that have no equal Even man's decisiveness is not a greater power than God. He is the one who is able to keep us. But it says here, keep you from stumbling. This stumbling here is not a condition of sinlessness, as some may interpret it, but it's one of being preserved from apostasy. This is the great promise of our Savior who keeps us. He keeps us, he keeps us from apostasy. This is the great stumble. This in a sense, this out of falling out of the tracks, out of the camp into apostasy. He keeps this reality away because of his strength. But that does not ensure an easy life, does not ensure a sinless life, but one that is preserved and kept by our Lord Philippians 1. 6 says, He who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. He will keep you from this. This is part of his keeping power. And that's just one of the many things we're praising him for in this doxology. But he continues He says, and to present you blameless. This phrase to present is also used to translate into stand, which is kind of an interesting way of thinking about it. When we stand something up, we're presenting it to people. Romans 14, 4 says, Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls, and he will be upheld, for the Lord can make him stand. The Greek here, if we rendered it out to make it a little more lengthy, kind of in a more literal sense, it says, to make you stand before the presence, his presence without fault. I like the kind of condenseness or the simplicity of the ESV, but I think it kind of misses some of the nuance a little bit. The Nasv says, and to make you stand in the presence of his glory, blameless. Another great way of saying that. But it's he who's able to present, because he keeps you, he has that power, he has that control, it's his his sovereignty in that he's also able to present you then blameless at the end of time. And of course, blameless. Otherwise rendered without fault, without blemish. It's a theological thread that ties back together to the Old Testament. And we talk about that faith once delivered for the saints. This idea of the blamelessness without blemish ties back to our Savior. We know that the Levitical sacrifices were to be held and the offering were to be without blemish. In Leviticus 1 it says If his offering is burnt offering from the herd, he shall offer a male without blemish. And of course, this carried, we're doing a very concise biblical theology here, is carried on to Christ. The final sacrifice for our sins. Hebrews 9, he says, how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without blemish to God? Purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God. Peter says, with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. And this now, by extension, Christ's blamelessness, without blemish, without spot, has been transferred to us. Paul says in Colossians, he has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him. That's 1 Colossians 1. 22. We are blameless, not because of our actions, but because of the sacrifice of Christ, who is the atonement for our sins, that we by his blood enter into the presence of God. Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless, this is all the work of God. All the work of Christ. We don't have a little part of this. This is all the work of God. Because we're presented blameless before his presence. This is where we're going to stand in the presence of God, and we'll stand in front of him with great joy. This is the disposition we will have because of his sacrifice. because of his offering. To use the emotion of gladness is some completion here, is to this recognition of the work done. We're presented finally in great joy after all of this life as we stand before the Lord seeing the unraveling of all of his promises, all the scriptures coming true. We see the final aspect, the only thing we could possibly have. in our hearts, in our emotions, would be great joy. Great joy. And that's what Jude's bringing to promise for us. And because of who he is, who keeps us from stumbling and present us blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy, we will be brought there. One thing about this great joy, as we think about this and we think about the context of Jude. Is that this great joy also stands in contrast to the great judgment that will be experienced by many who will not stand before Christ? We've talked about the theme of judgment in the book of Jude. It is plentiful. I believe Jude is using this as a contrast here to draw us to realize that the great joy for those who persevere, in contrast to the great judgment and the great Agony that they will feel for those who do not stand with the Lord So in this section, this first verse of the doxology, it is God alone who has the power to save and to keep us in his grace It is also the Lord who sat by his sacrificial atonement is the one who will present us blameless before God in that day with great joy. Christ receives all the glory because of what he has done for us in the atonement and what he has done in keeping us blameless by his grace alone. What I see also in this, before we get to the next verse, is Jude drawing us back to those gospel truths, and touching back to that gospel once for all delivered to the saints. Anchoring it back in what the truth is, which is the gospel, as Christ is a center. It is in his grace and his power that all things consist. Outside of the truth of Christ is apostasy. Those found in him will be kept indoor because of his grace alone. It will not be of human cunning or wisdom, but by the gospel of Jesus Christ that we will stand in that. Last day. And he finishes with this last line To the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority before all time and now and forever. Amen. We see our last two elements here. We see the glory, or the last three elements, the glory, the forever aspect of the doxology and the amen being brought out here in this last verse. He says, to the only God, our Savior. This line actually stands in opposition for that, or opposition, sorry, meaning side by side with the one of him who is able to keep us. And this works in a sense to continue to build up this presentation, this doxology, this praise of glory to our Lord. Reminds us of the one, the one who we're able to give great praise to. See Jude here, as you read this, our only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ, our Lord , Jude has a , he's not putting together anything besides a Trinitarian God, the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. He illuminated the Father and Christ while calling Christ our only Master and Lord Here are only God and Savior through Jesus Christ, interchanging there. Verse 20 puts together a pretty orthodox understanding of the Holy Spirit. So Jude is Trinitarian in the way he views God. Even though he's calling our only God, to the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ, this reference seems to be pushing towards God the Father. Since obviously he's calling out Jesus Christ second. Some commentators believe that maybe he's trying to contrast the kind of monotheistic god of Christianity to the polytheistic gods of the pagan world, kind of making that distinction here, which is probable. Others would say that he's maybe building up contrast to the Gnostics. We talked a little about this maybe two or three lessons ago, how Gnostics had different levels and different views of spirituality. Again, it could be true as well. But as they're both true may be true, the idea of an only God, a monotheistic God, is an Old Testament reality that persists in the New Testament. God is one. We know this through various verses. Deuteronomy 6. 4. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. But even through the New Testament, 1 Corinthians, there is no God but one. Or in James 2, you believe that God is one, you do well, even the demons believe and shudder. Seeing though he's calling together this singular God, he's still understanding that there is a Trinitarian nature in this. But he says, our only God, our Savior. And just by position, he's kind of linking it back to God the Father. Now that's something that maybe for some of us here kind of Shakes you a little bit. You're like, well, don't we usually call Jesus Christ our Savior? He's calling God the Father our Savior here. Actually, throughout the New Testament, Savior is applied to both God the Father and Jesus Christ. You can look it up. It's in a couple different places Now, even though it seems like it's linking it here, um, but in you know in light of some of the the kind of thought about God and just how He's kind of building up this grand view, this doxology for our Lord. It can be widely understood here that our Savior, as he talks about the only God, is talking about the Godhead as well. in terms of the Trinitarian God, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, as he brings together that. But when we think about the act of saving being ascribed to both God the Father And Jesus. This maybe is kind of hard for us to wrestle with. We're pretty confident, you know, Jesus saves. We sing that song. But how do we kind of put together this idea of, well, God the Father being part of the saving work, but Christ is the saving work? There's a doctrine called inseparable operation, which basically means that in all of creation the works of God are unified in the Godhead. The best way to understand this idea is that it's kind of understanding the opposite of it, in a sense that in the Godhead, no person of the Godhead works independently. They're always working together. The three are always working to preserve their unity. They don't delegate to elevate. They're working together They're always present with each other, and that's part of their unity. All three are working together. Yes, as Jesus suffered and died on the cross, it was the Father's will that put him there and the Spirit that enabled Christ to go and suffer. Because of that. There's always this unity of those of the three of the of the Trinity working together. So we're not Stepping off in the theological rough waters by saying God the Father is our savior. No, it's actually very clear that it's part of God the Father's saving action. Even sending Christ. So it's not wrong to apply this title to God the Father by any means. He's talking about the larger context, God, the only God, our Savior. He says, through Jesus Christ our Lord. This is where he gets sharper. This is where Jude starts to build in a crisp Christology. This Jesus Christ our Lord echoes back to verse 4 in his proclamation on who Christ is. He's indeed our Lord. He uses this term six times in the epistle. As always the name given to Jesus Christ, our Lord, our Lord. The implication is that God is our Savior. through Jesus Christ our Lord, giving Christ his direct responsibility in a sense of what he did in that aspect In contrast to any other mode or religion in the world, salvation or saving faith does not come through works, through deeds, through offerings, but only through Jesus Christ our Lord. That is the only way if it is a concise Christology. So as he builds this up, he's going to use this to kind of Move into these this last section, this kind of high-exalted doxology here. Judah is going to now get into a set of attributes of God that really echo back. It's the epistle we've gone through. Building on the connection in this verse, it is through Christ and the effective work of God that all these attributes are acknowledged and he's given his full glory in this doxology. Through Christ, through Christ, these attributes come to their full bearing. So we're going to walk through these. The glory. Glory is an attribute of God's divine nature. His glory is on display in all of his other attributes, as to describe him glory is to declare his infinite greatness in all of his excellencies. Glory signifies the honor, resplendence, and beauty that is ascribed to God for his saving work. One commentator says that it refers to the public reputation or fame of someone. And he emphasizes such a glory must be publicly expressed and proclaimed. What a wonderful way of thinking about the glory of God. It's not just that you know that God is glorified, but it's such a glory that it requires you to express it, to proclaim it. That's giving glory to God. Ascribing him that glory. It's not just, yeah, I know God's great in here. No, that glory bursts forth in proclamation. It's publicly expressed and exclaimed. And he says the majesty. This word majesty is actually only used three times in the New Testament. It is the description of his power and greatness. It is the highest, sorry the highness that is beyond all human comprehension and all power and beyond all human power. In a sense, it's the majesty of his power Hebrews 1. 3 says, He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After making purifications for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. Again, that idea of the highness of his power and his greatness is majestic. Fourthly, or sorry, thirdly, Dominion. Dominion and authority kind of link together a little bit here. Dominion refers to how God's power is manifested in action. So we've talked about his glory and his majesty, that he's got this greatness that needs to be ascribed to him, and that his majesty is the highest of all things. But here in his dominion, because of his glory and because of his majesty, he has dominion over all things. He has the ultimate victory over the conflict with evil. Jude makes use of this idea throughout the letter, but back in verse 4, he says, long ago we're designated, God has been working this dominion over all of time. It's not like he came to power one day. His dominion has been over all things from all time. In verse 7, he uses about God's rightful punishment for evil. And in verse 10 and verse 15, this idea of dominion has set forth in Judah his power and what he controls. His dominion ensures that the victory of God over evil in a sense he controls all of the world. But then he links in authority. Authority also rendered his power, sometimes relates to his power over all things, but indifference to dominion The authority has to do with his freedom to do as he wishes because he's the creator of all things and they're all subject to him. So by combining these two, what we're basically saying is he has the ability, he has the dominion, he has the ability to be over all these things, but he also has the authority, the moral right To be over these things and to do whatever he pleases because he is high, majestic, awesome God. So you're declaring he has all the ability to do it and he has every right to do it. Perfect. Perfect will of God. This similar idea pertains to the judgment of man for his sin, but also ties into Jude's use of the apostate's authority. Back in verse 4, talks about the apostates who denied the Lord. They denied this authority. They denied that he had the moral right to make these calls, or even if he had the power to do it. So again, here's Jude talking about the dominion and the authority, going back to those guys who were denying that power and authority. He's making sure to leave on a high note. Or verse 8, when they've just straight out rejected authority. The apostates in verse 8, they've rejected the authority of God. In verse 10, they blasphemed. If you look at verse 10, these apostates they blaspheme God in the sense they're declaring that his power is not as great as he is. He doesn't have the moral authority. Judas putting him back up where he belongs in a praise of glory. Or even in verse 11, when it talks about Korah's rebellion, again that rebellion against authority, the rebellion against his moral right to do these things. Judah is laying this up for us to put God back on this place where he belongs in full glory. These apostates have tried to take him down from this praise of glory. And then he ends with his call of time in the doxology format. It says, before all time and now and forever, this doxology is the only one that uses this triple chronological sequence. Before all time speaks to the eternality of God. Before all time He could have just left it there, but he elaborates further. The eternality of God and Jesus Christ, the working out of his dominion and authority over the course of time, he's been before all time. The faith once delivered to the saints is a faith that was in the plan of God from before time and is now and is forever. This is the majesty of God's ways, the highness of his ways, the glory of his ways. His glory pre-existed, his glory is now, and his glory will be forever. There will be no dethroning of the Lord, no usurping, only glory, only majesty forever. And that is worth a hearty amen. That is our Lord, the one who has the glory, the majesty, the dominion, the ability, and the authority, the right. To be praised and to be over all creation. And he has been, he is now, and he is, will be forever. Amen. Of course, we know that the amen is the resounding affirmation of the words spoken. When we say amen, we are agreeing and affirming what this taxology says to us. What sweet words we have in this doxology. It's a fitting cap to the end of this letter. This discourse he's presented to the saints who are undergoing this trial of false teachers, these apostates in the church, they're causing damage, they're recklessly tearing down souls, shipwrecking faiths. filling them with lies, sending them to destruction. But in the face of it all, it is Christ Our Lord, who is preserving and keeping you from falling into this apostasy, and will do so in a way that presents you with great joy at his appearance It is because of who he is that allows you to trust in these promises. You know, as I reflect on this doxology, thinking about this lesson, it's incredibly hard to add anything to this doxology. It's beautiful. We just explain it. We just say it It's a wonderful meditation, even just to speak out loud, as I repeated it over and over this past week, just thinking to myself, Oh, what wonderful praise this is to remember who our God is. In the face of trial, in the face of persecution, these promises spoken in our hearts helps us to think and to put God in the right place in our hearts and minds. So that's my only admonition for this section, is that we would take these truths to heart by placing our trust fully in Christ and His work Again, human cunning and ideas or physical will not sustain you in a fight against evil. It is only Christ who is doing this work in your life. And it is not Christ of your creation or Christ the moral teacher. No, it is Christ of the Scriptures who will present you blameless to God, save from the great wrath of judgment awaiting those opposed to God. See this joy contrasts that great destruction that's coming. And those who will be in Christ will be in great joy. And that is our promise, that is our hope, that is if we put ourselves under the yoke of Christ because of who he is in his glory, his majesty, and his dominion, and his authority So as we wrap up our study of Jude, I have just three three thoughts for us. As we kind of walk away from Jude, what do we take from this book? How do we kind of synthesize this down to something to think about to what we can learn from this. There are many, many lessons we can learn from this book. But I want I like things we can practically use and and think through. Obviously our theme to contend earnestly for the faith, this is clearly a call that Judas making for his people Believers must actively guard and defend the truth of the gospel against distortion. This is a call for every Christian to be grounded in sound doctrine and refuse compromise. But how do we do this? Well, we do this by building yourselves up in the most holy faith. In a sense, we know the Word of God. Not just be able to repeat it, but to know it deeply, to be trusting in its promises. It's so much easier to recite a verse when we know it's a verse that our lives are hanging on, not just one that's a good trivia verse The one that we've internalized as a promise to ourselves when we face struggles or challenges. We build ourselves up on those kind of, on that kind of word, on that kind of promise. So to know the Word of God. But we also do this by keeping ourselves in the love of God. We talked about this last week, this obedience. As we follow in the Lord, we keep ourselves in the love of God, we keep following Him, trusting and obeying, seeking His will in our lives, this helps us to contend. But also, as we talked in this study, Jude is not scared to talk about the consequences of sin and the weight of God's judgment, which really is the fear of God. The beginning of knowledge is the fear of the Lord. This should be part of our understanding as we think about, oh yes, all the wonderful promises of the Lord, but also the great weight and reality. of sin and what Christ came to die for for us. That will help us to earnestly contend for this faith. Because this is what we do to build ourselves up in this word, to be able to contend. Another takeaway for us to think about is to beware of false teachers and ungodly influences. As we mentioned in the first study, the book of Jude is also called sometimes the Acts of the Apostates. We learned a lot about what these apostates do, how they think, what they're character was like, many things that they did, but also what they're really what their character was, how they uh viewed life, how they indulged. But if we take the first admonition to contend for the faith to build ourselves up, then we are in the place to do this better. We are wise. Cunning, thoughtful. We can do this. We can test every teaching against Scripture. This is the Berean, right? To be able to test everything against the Word. This is what we must know. It is this discernment as we grow that we can test these things in Scripture, we will not be drawn aside. Otherwise teachings we know tickle the ears. That sounds good. That kind of fits the way I like to live. But no, we must rest on the authority of God, his word, his truth, and test everything against it. This also means refusing to follow leaders who contradicts God's word. Right? If we hold to that dogmatically, then we understand who is leading by God's authority If you were here on Sunday, I was talking about the verse from Timothy, and really that power, which is the authority of God's word. That is the power that a true gospel leader, whether it's a pastor or even just a dad at home, leads with, with the gospel authority, the gospel power. And also to pray for discernment. You know, this uh we don't have, you know, Jude doesn't make any you know implications that you know those who were teased away, or those in doubt were were immature believers, we can maybe make assumption of that. But as we grow in discernment, we grow in the wisdom of the word, it creates that buildup for us that we're less likely to be teased away into false thinking. But praying for discernment as we think through things. And the Lord has blessed me in some of that through my life. leading us to leave certain churches, having certain discernment about the Word of God and its implication and application out. But as just for false teachers, this idea of ungodly influences is avoiding slippery slopes. And this is, you know, this could be a sermon in itself. But how quickly we walk past slippery slopes in the sense of maybe not the direct aspect of sin or the direct aspect of false teaching, but we we uh invite in Temptations, we invite in heretical ideas at times, or we live comfortably with them in syncretism. We should avoid these in our lives. These are things that will eventually grab hold, could distort us, could weaken us, would keep us out of the love of God, which Jude calls us to stay into. You know, there's many books, many uh good Christian leaders have written about that idea of just protecting yourself, keeping hedges around yourself. But this is something we all need to think about. What are the things in our lives that you know are just maybe three degrees disconnected from something that might be evil? So we be careful about this and avoid slippery slopes. And lastly, show mercy to those who doubt. I don't know how this affected you as we reviewed this last week. But this is probably one of the bigger takeaways for me as we think about how to handle, you know, we have false teachers and apostates. But what do we do with those who are stuck in the middle? Those who maybe have been influenced by false teaching. Maybe they go to a church that Their neighbor invited them to and they've just been going and they've been under that. They are a sheep. They're a tender lamb being pounded on by false doctrine. By false teaching. Do we cast them out with the false teacher? No, I think the Lord is instructing us here through this letter that we are to show mercy to those who are shaking, to those who have doubt. But we must be careful. We know there are those who are false teachers who should be left alone, but there's those that we are to go to rescue, those we are to confront, those that we are to show mercy to. But we must be very careful. With prayer and reliance on the Holy Spirit for discernment is the first thing we need as we build up these three ideas of building ourselves up. You know, being aware of false teachers and ungodly influences, and then to then with that information know how to show mercy to those who are just stuck. Stuck in wrong teaching, stuck in wrong influences. Pray that we use this sermon. The word built up in us could come pouring out to bring the word. The word brings life. The word is what draws people to man or to God So I pray that we would be people of the word and use this in this context. We're to restore the doubting or the wavering believers to truth. They may be having part of knowledge but wavering in some. This is the mercy we can show them to go after them, to bring them the truth. And also to keep an internal mindset of Christ and his coming. I would think of that song, Rescue the Perishing. Right? We are to go about the Lord's work in that same way. Think about being a firefighter for the Lord. There are those that are in a burning building and they might not even know it. And we should go for them. We should go after them just as the Lord left the 99 for us. And we should seek after them. Show mercy to those who doubt. Encouraging those who are just lost in that. Not false teachers, that's different. Those who are expounding their own views and trying to drive people towards darkness, but those that are stuck. in doubt. Show mercy to them. Well, thank you. This has been a great study. I hope and pray that this will be encouraging to you and to think about these great truths in the book of Jude. It's been an absolute blessing. Let me close this in prayer. Father, I thank you so much for this book, Lord, that has challenged, has opened our eyes, that charged us to think about many truths. That we are to be very careful, Lord, in this world of false teachers, Lord, that there are those who are seeking after their own gain, Lord, who are headed to destruction, but this is not news to you. This is something that's been before time, Lord, that we should be both diligent in contending for the faith in ourselves, Lord, to build up, to keep ourselves in the love of God. But Lord, to show mercy, to identify those false teachers and apostates, Lord, that we would know the true faith, the faith once delivered for the saints, Lord, that we would hold true To that amazing gospel, Lord. That we would identify those false or fake things, Lord, the things that are unauthentic to your word and truth. That you would give us that spiritual discernment, Lord. That we would be strong in you, because we know, Lord, that you are the one that keeps us, sustains us, and all glory and majesty, power and authority are yours. Before time for now and forevermore. Amen.