Keep your Bibles, please, would you join me in John chapter 11? John chapter eleven We're returning now to the Gospel of John here in 2026, and we come to a very significant paragraph. There's an Eastern legend about a Hindu woman whose only child had died. And so she went to see. A holy man, because she wanted him to bring back her child from the dead. And so he told her to go To all the homes in her village and ask them if there was anyone missing in their family, if a loved one, a parent or brother, or sister or child had died. And as she went from house to house, she found that she could not find a home that death had not touched. And so eventually she came to understand that her child would not return because death is universal. Death is universal, but Jesus has the power to defeat death. The Bible reveals that Jesus has conquered death through his resurrection. But before this climactic conclusion in the life of Christ We have a miracle that is a preview of his resurrection to come. It is the seventh sign that John provides for his readers in the first half of this book. I've mentioned to you before that the Gospel of John, the first twelve chapters are structured around seven signs or miracles. that John has placed in his gospel to convince his readers that Jesus is indeed the Christ, the Son of God. And this is the seventh and climactic and last one. We have the turning of the water to wine in chapter 2 and the healing of the nobleman's son in chapter 4. Healing of the layman by the pool of Bethesda in chapter 5, the feeding of the 5,000 in chapter 6, Jesus is walking on the water. in that same chapter, and then the healing of the man born blind in chapter 9. And finally the raising of Lazarus from the dead. And it could be argued that John saves the most spectacular miracle, the most convincing miracle. the most difficult miracle to explain away for last. And this is revealed in several ways in our text. First of all, There is a lengthy lead up to this event. There are three paragraphs before we come to the healing. And John is preparing his readers that something really spectacular is about to occur. And he's giving them little hints and signs. It's coming. Wait for it. And then secondly, it is a demonstration of his great I am statement in this chapter in verse 25 where he says, I am the resurrection and the life. He doesn't say he's the one who performs resurrections, although that would be true, but he's saying that within himself He is the resurrection and the life. He has authority over death, and he's going to demonstrate that. That's also the longest record of any miracle in this gospel. And so these observations lead us to conclude that John has kind of like saved, you might say, his strongest argument for last. So that his readers will come to believe that Jesus is who he claimed to be. Now, what exactly does this teach us about our Lord? Well, certainly it proves that he is the Son of God, but more specifically, it declares and demonstrates his authority over death. When I preach from a paragraph like this, I read it again and again and again and again And I study and then I read it again and again, and I'm trying to see what is it that pops out at this chapter? And what I came to realize this week is that Jesus comes to this tomb like a warrior. Ready to face death. He comes with a resolute attitude. He comes as a man of action, giving commands like a general. He's saying things like, take away the stone and Lazarus come out and unbind him and let him go. And he comes with courage and confidence. that indeed this miracle will occur. Because he thanks his father for the victory before Lazarus has ever stirred back to life. In this concise account of the raising of Lazarus, we see the authority of Jesus over death. And this is good news because death is our great enemy. We need a hero, someone who can defeat this great foe. And Jesus is the one who gives us victory over death. I want to bring out three points from this passage. First of all, Jesus demonstrates his authority over death by his resolute determination. Look with me at verse 38, please. Then Jesus, deeply moved again, came to the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone lay against it. Jesus has come back to Bethany specifically to raise Lazarus from the dead, and nothing will keep him from fulfilling that purpose. He returns, as you may recall, to a scene of great sorrow. Lazarus has died four days earlier, and their Jewish culture people remained for a long time after the funeral to weep and to mourn and to comfort, usually for at least a week. And so there's all these crowds of people there, mourners there supporting the family, specifically Martha and Mary. Jesus comes and meets Martha and she says, if only you had been here, my brother would not have died. And then he meets Mary and she says the same thing. This is what these Godly women have been thinking about, if only Jesus was here, his life would have been spared. And we see in this passage some five weeks ago when we went through the earlier passage, we talked about how this is one of the most descriptive examples of our Lord's emotions that we find. Look with me at verse 33. When Jesus saw her weeping and the Jews who had come with her also weeping, He was deeply moved in his spirit and greatly troubled. And then we come to verse 35. Jesus wept. And now we come to verse 38, and it says, then Jesus deeply moved again, which is a reference back to verse 33, where the same term is used. You may recall if you were with us five weeks ago that I mentioned that this is a word that's not that commonly used. It originally referred to the snorting of a horse. It refers to, it's translated as groaned in the New Testament, in the King James Version. Expresses a very strong emotion. Some people think it's just expressing his grief, which was certainly there because we read in verse 35 of him weeping. But many translators, both ancient and modern, see that this word is often used in the context of anger or indignation. And I think that that is truly what's taking place in verse 33 and again here in verse 38. What was Jesus angry about? Some people say it was the unbelief of Mary and Martha, who should have known better. Who should have known that all hope was not lost because Jesus had the power to raise their brother from the dead. But we don't find Jesus rebuking these ladies. And so I don't think that's what he's angry about. I think that Jesus is angry with death. And with the pain and sorrow and disruption that it causes in our lives. And of course, ultimately death is a result of sin. The Bible says in Romans 5 that through Through sin came death. And Jesus sees the devastation that death has brought here. And so he's angry at death, and he's going to come and defeat death. Now we tend to think, because of our experience and the experience of everyone that we know that death is just a normal part of human life Because everyone that you've ever known has died or will die. But the reality is death is not an essential part of our humanity. Remember, Adam and Eve were made to live forever. And so our instinctive reaction when someone we know dies, especially if they're young and and it and it's quick is we're shocked and we're dismayed and we're upset because we instinctively know something's not right. Death is like an intruder that's broken into our lives. And this instinct is correct because we were made to live forever. And so Jesus has come to conquer death. He conquered death through his own resurrection. He said moments earlier, I am the resurrection and the life. He says, and we read Paul in 1 Corinthians 15, the last enemy to be destroyed is death. And in Revelation chapter 1 and verse 18, we read that the risen Lord has the keys of death in Hades. And in Revelation 21, we read these very comforting words. God says that he will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more. Neither shall there be any more mourning, nor crying, nor pain, for the former things have passed away. You see, Jesus here is not just deeply moved by death. He's going to do something about it. And so Jesus comes to this tomb and he issues this command, take away the stone. Let me take just a moment to say that Lazarus is buried in a cave, a stone cave. This was a common way that people were buried in Judea. It's the type of tomb that Jesus was buried in. It tended to be the way that wealthy individuals were buried. Remember. The grave that Jesus was buried in was given by Joseph Arimathea, a wealthy man. I've said to you earlier that there's all kinds of indications that Martha and Mary and Lazarus were from a wealthy family. So they have a very nice tomb. Now you've probably always visualized the tomb, and there's only uh one body in there, but often these were family tombs, and so they would accommodate like eight tombs. graves. There would be shelves that were carved into the stone on both sides and in the back of the tomb. So it's very possible that there were other dead bodies in this tomb where Lazarus was. And then there was a channel that was carved out, and a stone, a round stone, was placed there like a lid that could be rolled back and forth into place and seal the tomb so that animals would not get in there and disturb the bodies. And so Jesus comes to this cave and he says, remove the stone. But there is an objection. Let me first of all say that Jesus didn't remove the stone to make it easier for him to bring back Lazarus from the dead. He did that so that people could see. He wanted them to see with their own eyes. And notice that Martha objects to this order in verse 39. Martha, the sister of the dead man, said to him, Lord, by this time there will be an odor. for f he has been dead four days. Apparently it has not occurred to her that Jesus is about to raise her brother from the dead. She probably assumes that Jesus wants to have one last look. with his close friend Lazarus, kind of what we call today experiencing closure, and that's why he's asked for the stone to be removed, but that wasn't the reason at all. Jesus has come to conquer death. Now this is an interesting thing for us to consider. When Jesus comes to meet Martha, and this chapter is recorded in verse 22. She says, I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you. And she's absolutely right, and that's a great statement of faith. But now we see her a short time later, and she doesn't expect Jesus to raise Lazarus from the dead at all. She's not anticipating that at all. How can she seem to show so much faith a few moments earlier and now an absolute lack of faith? How do we explain that? Well, I think we should understand this really well because we do this sort of thing all of the time. We know certain truths. We have them in our head. We might even say them with our mouth, but we don't apply them to our situation. And so when someone is going through a crisis, we might share Romans 8. 28 that God works all things together for good. We might say to them, fear not, God is with you, Isaiah 41, 10. We might tell them to cast their burden upon the Lord. Wonderful promises, 1 Peter 5. 7. We give them these promises. But then when we're facing the crisis , We tend not to remember those truths and we respond in unbelief and we find ourselves filled with stress and with worry and with anxiety. Because our problem seems so much larger than the promises of God in the moment. And we have our focus in the wrong place. Those promises are still true. But we're not living. We're not relying on those promises. We're not interpreting our problem through that lens. And therefore, it doesn't feel like the promise is true. It feels like our problem, our crisis, is so much greater than those words on a page. But that's not the case. We're so often like Martha. Martha is horrified of the idea of this grave being opened. Seeing a body that's beginning to decay and that smells badly. But let me remind you of the background, in case you were not here with us earlier, Jesus has intentionally delayed coming to Lazarus's grave. Remember, a messenger came and told him that he's gravely ill, but Jesus didn't leave right away He remained in ministry for a little bit longer before he returned. Why is that? If I can put it this way, Jesus wanted Lazarus to be good and dead. He wanted there to be no question. Now in the Gospels, as we compare the four Gospels, we'll see that there are two other times that Jesus is recorded to raise people from the dead. There was the widow of Nain's son. Remember, he saw this funeral procession as he's traveling, and he has compassion on her, and he stops and he brings her son, her only son, back from the dead. And then there's the case of Jairus' daughter. Now, in both of these examples, Jesus brought these individuals back from the dead on the day they died. And although I don't have scriptural proof for this, I suspect that the religious leaders explained away these miracles by saying, well, these people probably weren't really dead. In the ancient world, they did not have doctors who came and checked their respiration and their pulse and and made sure that they were dead and then had a proclamation that they were dead. They didn't have that sort of thing. Scarily, a lot of times they got it wrong and the person really wasn't dead. They were unconscious. And so they might revive sometime later. And so this is the way skeptics, opponents of our Lord explained away very likely those other miracles. But it's very difficult to use that explanation. for someone who's been dead for four days and whose body is decaying in the tomb. That explanation won't work. And Jesus has waited intentionally because he wants this miracle to be convincing that no one can just give a simple explanation to dismiss it. Now notice how Jesus responds to Martha in verse 40. Jesus said to her, Did not I tell you that if you believed, you would see the glory of God? Now we do not read of Jesus saying these exact words to Martha in his conversation that's recorded by John earlier in this chapter. So how do we explain this? Well there's two explanations, two possible explanations. One is that John simply didn't record what Jesus said there. We should never think that the Bible in its conversations, in its sermons that it records, that every single word that was said is recorded there. No, no, no. We know that these are often summaries. But I think a better explanation is that Jesus is referring to what he told his disciples in chapter 11 and verse 4. Notice what it says. Jesus said. When he got news of Lazarus' illness, he says, this illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. And what I suspect is that that word lodged in the hearts and minds of the disciples, and when they got back to Bethany and they saw Mary and Martha, they shared what Jesus said to them. And this is what Jesus is referring to. That death would not be the end of this event, but instead God would be glorified through it. But instead of remembering his promises, she focuses on the problem Isn't this so often what we do and what causes so much turmoil in our hearts? We focus on the problem instead of the promise of God. But what's amazing is that despite her unbelief, Jesus is going to demonstrate his authority over death and bring her brother back from the debt. That brings me to my second point. Jesus demonstrates his authority over death in his prayer of thanksgiving. Look with me at verse 41, please. So they took away the stone, and Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. And I knew that you always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around that they may believe that you sent me Jesus here prays by lifting up his eyes towards heaven. We see in the Gospels Jesus in many different postures In this posture, he's looking up to the heavens, probably with his hands extended. We see the same posture in John chapter 17 in the upper room at his great high priestly prayer. And Jesus addresses God as Father. That doesn't seem strange to us at all. But this was always something that distinguished him from the religious leaders of his day. If you look through the Old Testament, the great prayers of Abraham and David and many others, they did not address God as Father But when Jesus came, do you remember how he taught his disciples to pray? Our Father, who art in heaven. That doesn't seem strange to us, it seems very familiar, but that was revolutionary. in their day, to address God as Father, this is the way Jesus prays And notice what's unusual and striking about this prayer is that Jesus begins by thanking the Lord for hearing him. You might say for already answering his prayer. And yet Lazarus has not been raised from the dead. This prayer reveals the absolute confidence that Jesus has that Lazarus will rise from the dead. Jesus is not there, you know, saying under his breath, I hope this works. He's not begging the Father to answer his prayer. He has absolute, total confidence and assurance that Lazarus will come forth from that grave because the Father always hears and answers his prayer. Now perhaps you would object to that last statement and say, what about Jesus' prayer in the garden? Remember when he's being tempted? And he prays that the cup of God's wrath might be spared him. Well, I would suggest you look at the whole prayer where Jesus says, not my will, but thine be done. There is a wonderful point of assurance that I don't have time to develop here. But the Bible tells us that right now Jesus is our heavenly intercessor. And that he prays for us. And you know what? Every one of Jesus' prayers for us are answered because the Father always answers his prayers. That's very comforting. Now what Jesus here is doing and praying out loud is he wants to know He wants the people there to know that he is doing the will of his father, that he's not some magician giving some kind of incantation, but that he is doing the will of his father and accomplishing the mission for which he has been sent. It's an illustration of what Jesus said in John 5. 19, where he said the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. And what does the father do? The father brings forth life. And the son is going to do that. The Father is the giver of life, and so the Son will follow his example. There were a lot of people there that day. And so Jesus wants all of them to hear what is about to transpire. He prays out loud. He does not mumble. He does not speak quietly. So that only those really close could hear. He wants everyone there. to hear. Because Jesus wants everyone to recognize that he is the promised Messiah. who was accomplishing the miraculous signs that his father sent him to do, and he's demonstrating his authority over death. And finally, Jesus demonstrates his authority over death by commanding Lazarus to come out of the tomb. We come now to the climax of this entire chapter. You might even say the climax. of the first half of this book, because this is the seventh and climactic sign, and this is where Jesus performs his most spectacular miracle. Look with me, please, at verse 43. And when he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out. I think it's interesting that he said this with a loud voice. We read on several occasions that Jesus spoke with a loud voice earlier in this book of John. In chapter 7 and verse 37, on the last day of the feast when there are thousands of people surrounding him, he says, If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. A great invitation for all those present to believe. And two times when Jesus was hanging on the cross. We read that he cried out. He said, first of all, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And he said, Into thy hands I commend my spirits. Usually when people die, they're not speaking anymore. Or if they are speaking, it's very, very weak. It's very, very low. But Jesus died not like a victim. He died as a victor, and so even in his final breath, he cries out scripture and he says it loudly for all to hear. And now at the tomb of Lazarus, he cries out with a loud voice, not because he needed to speak loudly to raise the dead. but so that everyone could hear his authoritative proclamation. What a dramatic moment this must have been I think the wailing stopped. The sobs were quiet. Everyone's eyes were focused on that dark, empty cave and the opening of it. They wanted to see what would happen with this proclamation. Now I want you to notice the authority that Jesus demonstrates by issuing this command. Jesus didn't run into the tomb and begin some chest compressions. He didn't do that. He didn't do what Elisha did with that young man who died, remembering the widow came and then he went back and up to his bedroom. and he lay on top of him to warm up his body and he breathed into his mouth and life came back to this boy. He didn't do anything like that. He just issued a command. And Lazarus came from death to life. It has often been said by preachers over the centuries that if Jesus only said, come out, And did not address Lazarus by name that all the dead and all the world would come out of their tombs, because Jesus has authority over death. Now look with me at verse 44, the concluding verse of this paragraph. The man who had died came out, his hands and feet bound with linen strips, and his face wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, unbind him and let him go. As everyone is looking at the opening of this dark cave, they suddenly see A figure come out wrapped almost like a mummy, stumbling, shuffling his feet because they have been bound. And I suspect that there was an audible gasp of those. Because they had just witnessed a miracle unlike anything they had ever seen before. He couldn't walk well because his feet and hands were bound, and so Jesus calls for bystanders, unbind him and let him go. And that is the end. of this great miraculous account. We will see the response to it in weeks to come. If this event was made into a movie or TV show, We would see Lazarus' tearful reunion with Martha and Mary. We would hear from Lazarus himself because we'd all be curious about what he had to say. And where he has been, where his spirit has been for these four days. We want to know these sort of things. But I want you to know the Bible was not written to entertain us. Or to answer our curious questions. It is meant to instruct us so that we will come to trust in Christ more. And the focal point of this miracle is not Lazarus. For Jesus, who has the power to call the dead to life. Now, I would like to make just a few points of application from this text. The first one is this, God does not need our help, but he delights to involve us in this work. It's important to keep that balance. We should never think that God is kind of indebted to me. I mean, if it wasn't for me and what I would do, things would fall apart and his whole plan would be ruined. Anyone who thinks that way has way too high a view of themselves. But on the other hand, we should never think, since God doesn't really need my help, I'm not going to help or do anything, because he can do it without me. What am I talking about? Well, I'm talking about from our text, Jesus says, take away the stone and unbind him and let him go. Jesus could have done both of these things himself. He didn't need to involve bystanders, but he did involve them. We see here that he delights to use our feeble efforts to accomplish his purposes. And preachers throughout the centuries have seen this as a powerful illustration. It is only God and His power that can bring someone from death to life. It's only God who can bring someone the miracle of regeneration But God can involve our efforts, first of all, to help prepare the way Sometimes people thought about the removing of the stone as illustrative of removing hindrances and roadblocks that people have. Sometimes questions that they have that seem like insurmountable problems like I can't trust in God or I can't believe there's a God because how could you ever answer this? One of the big things that I hear all the time from people is, what about all the suffering and evil in the world? There can't be a good God who's looking out for people. Just look at the world sometime. And they think they have an ironclad argument that nobody in the world can answer. And it's not true. It's not true. So sometimes we can, with God's word and God's truth, we can remove some of these stones that hinder them from coming to the truth, and we can let the light come in. And on the other hand, preachers have often seen Lazarus coming forth as like the picture of a new believer. They're all bound and wrapped up. And they desperately need discipleship. They need someone to unravel those garments on them so that they can walk in newness of life. And that's something that God wants to involve us in. Every single believer should be involved in evangelism and discipleship. where you're trying to bring people to Christ through your witness and answer their questions and tell them God's truth. But also trying to mentor and decipher and help people put off the old man and put on the new. Because people need help. They need a guy, they need someone to explain things to them and answer their questions and give them suggestions and tell them that's really not a good idea to do things that way. So my question for you this morning is, are you involved in this great work? Are you involved in evangelism and discipleship? Is there anyone in your life right now that you're praying that God would enable you to give them the gospel? They're on your prayer list. Is there anybody right now that you would say they're a new believer, they're an immature believer, and I am discipling them? I am mentoring, whether it's formal or informal, but I have a relationship where they come to me with questions and I seek to give them my time and my answers. God delights to involve us, even though he can do it without us. Secondly, we see here in this passage that even Christians need to grow in their faith Martha knew the Lord well. He often stayed in her home. She heard him teach in her house. She had a great privilege that most people in Judea did not have. And yet at this moment of supreme crisis, she responded in unbelief. And what we see here is that we are all a work in progress You must never, ever for a moment think, you know, I've kind of got this Christian life things figured out and mastered. I can just go and autopilot for the rest of my days because I've gone just about as far as you can go. If that's the way you think, I want you to know you haven't gone far at all. Because a person who has actually progressed far in their sanctification will not think that way at all. So the point is we need to constantly be growing. We need to constantly be learning, and God will sometimes send a crisis into our life to remind us: you know what? Your faith is still really weak. You still tend to lean to your own understanding. You still tend to doubt rather than trust when a real problem enters your life. And so you must go on. You must go further. You must grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Thirdly, this passage is a great comfort to believers who have lost loved ones who were also believers. We know that Christ has conquered death, that death is not the end, that we will see our loved ones again. That God has a wonderful plan of redemption that goes beyond this life into the next. What a comfort this is for all of our loved ones who have gone before. But finally, this miracle is intended to bring people to trust in Christ. The record of this miracle is both a preview and a parable. This resurrection is in two ways a preview. First of all, it is a preview of Jesus' resurrection that would take place in just a matter of days from this point. This is a foreshadowing, if you will, that soon the one who said, I am the resurrection and the life will defeat death himself. And let me just make a distinction real quickly here. The resurrection of Lazarus and of Jesus are not exactly the same. Sometimes people, theologians will talk about Lazarus as a resuscitation in the sense not that he wasn't dead, but Lazarus was raised to die again naturally. But Jesus was raised to never die. His resurrection was of a different class. And that's why the Bible can call him the firstborn of all creation, the first to rise from the dead. In that sense, in this unique type of resurrection that he would experience. But there's another way that this is a preview. The Bible says that there will be a great resurrection coming someday. At the second coming of Christ. Jesus said earlier, see if this sounds familiar with this text. In John chapter 5 and verse 28, an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out. Goes on to say in the next verse that the unrighteous and the righteous, they will all be raised, but one to death and one to life, one to eternal death, one to eternal life. Sometimes Christians get things a little confused in their minds. This is one area that often Christians don't have their thinking exactly correct, and that is they think that When they die and their bodies put into the grave and they're buried, that that's the end of their body. You know, they will talk about it as an old, worthless shell, but my spirit and my soul will live forever. That is true. But the Bible says something that's even more sounding than that. And that is the day is coming when God will bring that body. He will bring all those molecules back together. I don't care how many centuries have gone by since they died. He will bring all those molecules together and he will raise that body and it will join with your spirit and he will give you a glorified body, but it will be your body You see, when Jesus redeems us, he redeems us body, soul, and spirits. The devil's not even going to get your body, ultimately. Your body will be raised and it'll be the best version of you. People always want to know what why look like, why I have to wear glasses, blah blah blah. I I don't know. I don't know those things. But I do know it'll be the best version of you, and I don't think anyone is going to be really like dis disappointed and say, you know, I just don't really like the way my body looks. First first of all, because those kind of narcissistic thoughts will be of the past and not the way you will be thinking in heaven. And secondly, God always exceeds our expectations in the work that he does. But I also said that this is like a parable. This is a miracle what takes place. At conversion. The Bible teaches that everyone is spiritually dead until God uses his word to bring them to life. It says in Ephesians chapter 2, we were dead in trespasses and sin. But the Bible says in several different places, like in 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse 22, being born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable through the living and abiding word. of God. How do people come from being spiritually dead, whether non-responsive, not interested at all in spiritual things to now? God all of a sudden gives them an interest in these things and these things seem real to them. How does this happen? It happens through the preaching of the Word of God. The Spirit of God takes the Word of God and He uses it to work in their lives. This is why it says in Romans chapter 10, how shall they hear without a preacher? And faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of Christ. This is why we preach the Bible here. This is why our missionaries go out with the gospel. They don't go with their ideas or how to live a better life or how to have clean water. They go with the gospel because it's the gospel, the word of God. that saves people. And so John has recorded this miracle so that those who would read it would come to believe that Jesus is The Son of God. And you'll notice in the very next verse, in the next paragraph, verse 45, it says, Many of the Jews therefore who had come with Mary and seen what he did, believed in him. John has demonstrated that Jesus has provided abundant evidence that he is the Son of God, the Savior of the world. And what Jesus said to Martha and to his disciples is true. If you believe, you will see the glory of God. My question to you this morning is have you come to believe, come to trust, come to depend on Christ alone as the one who died for your sins and rose the third day. the one who is your savior. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you for our Savior, that He has conquered death, that He demonstrated it in the raising of Lazarus and in His own resurrection. We thank you, Father. That we can trust in him to conquer death in our own experiences, in our own lives. And I pray, Father, for those that are here this morning, who perhaps are lost in their sins, I pray that today they would see that Jesus is worthy of their trust That he is the only one who can call the dead to life. They would see as in a way like those people that day at the tomb, the unmistakable evidence of his authority over death. authenticating his claims to be the Son of God. I pray that today they would put their trust in him And Father, that you would show them your glory. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.