If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me please to Mark chapter 15? Mark chapter 15. Many years ago There was a mom and dad who were struggling to teach their son the importance of being on time like many energetic boys. He would go outside and play with his friends and he would lose track of time and he would come home late for dinner. And so his parents one day warned him that if he did that again , He would, he might not receive a dinner at all. And sure enough, next week he came home running into the house. And his heart sank when he saw all of his family seated around the table. They'd already started. And at his place there was a plate with just one slice of bread. And he was very hungry. He sat down, dejected. But then something unexpected happened. His father, who had his plate completely loaded down with food. took his plate and exchanged it with his son, and put the plate with just one slice of bread in front of him. His father took his son 's punishment. This morning, as we prepare to receive communion, I want to speak to you about the great exchange. And we're going to look at this theme through the life and events of one man that we encounter in the crucifixion narrative, our Lord, named Barabbas. Turn with me, please, to Mark 15, if you're not already there. I know we've read it already, but I would like to read it again starting at verse 6. Now at the feast He that is Pilate used to release for them one prisoner for whom they ask. And among the rebels in prison who had committed murder in the insurrection, there was a man called Barabbas. And the crowd came up and began to ask Pilate to do as he usually did for them. And he answered them, saying, Do you want me to release for you the king of the Jews? For he perceived that it was out of envy that the chief priests had delivered him up. But the chief priest stirred up the crowd to have him released, for them Barabbas instead. And Pilate again said to them, What shall I do with this man you call the king of the Jews? And they cried out again, Crucify him. And Pilate said to them, Why, what evil hath he done? And they shouted all the more, Crucify him. So Pilate, wishing to satisfy the crowd, released for them Barabbas, and having scourged Jesus, He delivered him to be crucified. This event took place During the trials of Christ right before his crucifixion. The Gospels record, if you put the four of them together, there were six trials. Three of them were Roman and three of them were Jewish. We're looking at our Lord being tried before Pilate. And on at least five occasions that morning, Pilate tried To let Jesus go. He knew that Jesus was innocent. He did not want to have him executed. But the religious leaders and the crowd pressured Pilate to condemn him instead. First Pilate tried to argue that this was simply a Jewish religious matter and none of his concern. We read in John chapter 18, verse 31, he says, take him and judge him according to your law. But the religious leaders wanted Jesus to be crucified, and they did not have the authority to do that themselves. So they needed Pilate to condemn him. When Pilate hears that Jesus is from Galilee, he sends him to Herod Antipas, hoping that he will deal with this thorny issue. But Herod sends him back to Pilate. Pilate then has Jesus flogged, hoping that this brutal act will quench their bloodthirst, but it does not. Pilate again tries to release him, but the people kept crying out, let him be crucified. Pilate responds, what evil has he done? And they just say all the louder, let him be crucified. Finally, Pilate thinks of one last way to release Jesus. It had become customary for Roman authorities to release a Jewish prisoner at the Passover. And the Jews were celebrating Passover on this very day. It was a remembrance of God's deliverance of his people from Egypt. And so deliverance from bondage, it would make sense that this became a custom delivering a prisoner from jail. Pilate cleverly plans to put these people in a situation where they would exonerate Jesus by their own choice. Rather than just releasing Jesus, he gives them a choice between two prisoners. The alternative to Jesus is this man, Barabbas. He is a wicked and dangerous man by anyone's estimation. Pilate assumes that these Jews would certainly prefer to have Jesus released than Pilate. But he was wrong. He underestimated their hatred for Jesus. And so They cry out, release to us Barabbas. This exchange of prisoners, Jesus for Barabbas. Illustrates for us the beauty of the gospel. Now don't misunderstand me, Barabbas was a real historic individual. But he is providentially inserted into the crucifixion narrative by God to provide a powerful picture of salvation. I'm going to preach to you this morning on the Great Exchange. The first point I want you to see is that Barabbas represents us all. As fallen sinful people. The name Barabbas means Son of the Father. And most scholars think that this is probably an indication that his father was a rabbi. Because one of the titles, the honorific titles that people gave the rabbi was Father. This is why Jesus says in Matthew 23, call no man father. And so this is probably indicating that his father was a rabbi. And I suspect That his father prayed daily for the deliverance of Israel from the oppression of Rome. And his son heard this day after day, and he became weary and impatient of it. And he said, I'm going to do something about it. I'm going to do see what I can to throw off the yoke of Rome so that we are no longer a vassal states. And so he joins with a group of terrorists to try to violently Create so much problem that it's no longer worth Rome's time and energy and resources to have control of little Judea. Now I want you to look at verse 7. It says, Among the rebels in prison who had committed murder in the insurrection, there was a man called Barabbas. So we're told several things about this man. First of all, he's a rebel. Then he's an insurrectionist, which would mean that he was a terrorist. Who was trying to overthrow the authority of Rome, and we find that his crime was murder. Apparently, in one of these violent demonstrations, people were killed. We also read that he was a robber in John's Gospel and also in Mark and Luke. In one of the early sermons in the book of Acts, in Acts chapter 3, Peter says, you denied the holy and righteous one. And ask for a murderer to be granted unto you. And that murderer is a reference to Barabbas here. Now, Bible scholars debate about how popular Barabbas was with the common people. And perhaps we can't know absolutely for certain. Some people think that Pilate's asking the people to choose between these two was an indication that he didn't know how people felt. That he was a freedom fighter, a patriot in their eyes. And therefore it was an easy decision for them to go for Barabbas. But I don't know that that's the case because we read here in Scripture that the chief priest, that is, the members of the Sanhedrin who were present, had to stir up the crowd to cry out Barabbas. Obviously, if Barabbas was so popular , they wouldn't need to do that. And they would know how the people felt, and it would be an easy thing. I suspect that when there was violence and people died That Barabbas was no longer really considered a great patriot in their eyes. I mean, after all, did he really think that his little gang was going to be any match for the great power of Rome? The only thing he was going to do is bring more difficulty and repercussions and more restrictions upon them because of his own violent acts. So Barnabas was a notorious sinner. He had broken God's law. Perhaps in his mind for a good cause, but it was murder nonetheless. And he was a thief. A lawbreaker. And like all of us, he was fallen and hopelessly sinful. We see here that he is a representative, as it were, of all of us. But it didn't just in this story Confined to Barabbas because we see that the crowd, when they have to make a choice between Jesus and Barabbas, which from our perspective looks like a really simple choice to make, and yet the people choose Barabbas. It shows the fallenness of all mankind. There is some evidence that Barabbas' first name may have been Jesus or Joshua, a very common name. And if it was, it would make the choice all the more striking. You could choose Jesus Barabbas or Jesus of Nazareth. Let's think about these two. One man was a murderer and a thief, a terrorist. But who is Jesus? Well, in Acts chapter 10 and verse 38, it describes him as one who went about doing good. For three years he had healed the sick. He'd opened the eyes of the blind. He'd restored the hearing to the deaf. He had enabled the lame to walk. And on at least three occasions, he had brought the dead back to life. So think of that contrast. One who brought the dead to life and the other murdered those who were alive. Now perhaps you're thinking of yourself that if I were in that courtyard with that crowd , I would have called out for Jesus to be released. I would have lifted up my voice in his defense. But my friend, I suspect that if you feel that way, it's probably because you don't know your own heart very well. Before you came to Christ and you were around all these other individuals, I suspect you would have called out for them to deliver Barabbas. There are two indications in the crucifixion narrative of the world's complicity and sinfulness in the crucifixion of Christ. One is here when they cry out, let him be crucified. And this text is clear, they said it again and again like a chant, let him be crucified. And the other is that when Jesus was hanging on a cross, the crowds who came in and out of that city gate Hurled abuse at Jesus. They mocked him. They laughed at him. And the Bible records that all representatives of humanity did this. The thieves on the cross nailed on either side of him did this. The Roman soldiers did this. The chief priests did this. The crowd did this. Jews did this. Gentiles did this. Young and old, rich and poor, every representative of humanity that was there, that was coming in and out of that busy thoroughfare, they mocked the Son of God. This is why the songwriter says, ashamed I hear my mocking voice call out among the scoffers. We are all like Barabbas. And we are all like that crowd. We are sinful. And we will always make the wrong choice apart from God's grace. Secondly, we see that Barabbas represents us all as those condemned to die. We're not told about his trial. It must have happened recently. Everyone knew of his crimes. It was not a difficult case to prove. And because of the seriousness of his crimes, he was condemned to be crucified. The most brutal form of death. imaginable. The Romans did not show mercy or tolerance to their criminals. And so there was no chance of him getting out through some legal procedure or some technicality. Perhaps pilot intentionally scheduled. this crucifixion on the Jewish Passover to show these religious leaders that he was in charge and to show all the visitors to Jerusalem that this is what happens when you oppose Rome. My point is that Barabbas was like all of us. Apart from God's grace, we were condemned to die. The Bible says the wages of sin is death. The Bible says, whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. If you're here this morning without saving faith, this is your current state. According to John chapter 3, verses 17 and 18, you are condemned already. Right now, you're in a state under the sentence of death, like someone on death row. It's not that you have just a few issues. No, you are hopelessly lost. Thirdly, Barabbas represents all of us who are the undeserving recipients of God 's grace. Just imagine if you were Barabbas, condemned to die. Looking forward in most years to the Passover, which was in many ways like our Christmas or Thanksgiving, when a family would gather together and you had fond memories. And it was just a wonderful family time, a time of remembering God's blessing. But this year would be different. It was the announced day of his crucifixion. He must have known that there was no hope that he would be released. But then he is brought forward and he is told that Pilate has released him. And that another criminal will die in his place. He must have been dumbfounded. He was a very dangerous man. And he didn't do anything to earn this. He didn't lodge an appeal with the governor. He wasn't released on good behavior. He had not paid his debt to society. He was completely Passive and ignorant of this transaction. And the reality is that none of us can do anything to save ourselves. We don't earn it. We don't turn over a new leaf. We don't try a little harder. We're saved by grace alone. I wonder if you know this. This week there was a man doing some work outside here at our church, a contractor, and I went and spoke to him. Talked for a while, and then as we're getting ready to leave, I asked him, Sir, can I ask you a question? If you were to die today, would you go to heaven? And very quickly he said, oh yeah, I would go to heaven And I said to him, why do you believe you would go to heaven? And he said, because I'm a really good person. He said, you can ask any of my friends. They will tell you I'm a really good person. And I said to him, you know, your answer is very popular. I hear it all the time. But I want you to know it's the wrong answer. And I told him that unless he came to see that he was a sinner and was under the judgment of God, and unless he repented of his sins and cried out for God to save him, he would perish eternally. This is the way human people naturally reason. I'm good enough for God to receive and forgive. But that's not what the scripture teaches. And if you're here this morning, and as I asked that question, what came to your mind is, I'm a good person. I try to do what's right. If that's the answer that comes to your mind, my friend, you are lost because that's the way lost people think. And it's the wrong answer. We are all like Barabbas. We have nothing to offer God Fourthly, Barabbas represents all of us who are released from the sentence of death by the death of a substitute. Everyone knows that Jesus was crucified between two thieves. We often see along roadsides and places, three crosses. We know that there were three crosses. And we know that Jesus was in the center of those three. Now, I cannot prove this. This is some speculation, but it's very reasonable speculation. But listen to me for a second It is very likely, Bible scholars say, that the two thieves that died on either side of Jesus were part of Barabbas ' game. Why do I say that? Well, think about two lines of evidence. Number one, what do we call the guy who was converted? We call him the thief on the cross, right? And what was one of the crimes that Barabbas was charged with, of being a thief or a robber? Okay? And think about, is it just a coincidence that these two thieves were crucified with Jesus on the day when Barabbas was scheduled to be crucified. See, that day the reason why there were three crosses is they were going to Execute everyone who is involved in this crime of insurrection that's mentioned here in chapter fifteen And so I think the evidence would lead us to conclude that that central cross between those two thieves was. From Pilate's perspective and others' perspective, that was the cross reserved for Barabbas. But that's not what happened that day because God's plan was that Jesus, the Messiah, the Son of God, would die on that cross. We read that he was set free And then Jesus was prepared for crucifixion. We read here in verse 15 that he was scourged. That was not the kind of whipping that most of us would be familiar with. This was A weapon that was used that had all pieces of glass and stone and metal on these little tendrils that came from the main whip, and it was designed to lacerate and open up human flesh. And Jesus received 39 of those stripes. Those stripes were intended for Barabbas. That was what would have happened to him that day. And then there was that shameful march to Calvary, up through the narrow streets of Jerusalem. This was part of what they did with people who were executed. They were mocked. People would throw things at them. They would hurl abuse at them. They would spit at them. This was all part of the punishments. before the crucifixion. That walk that Jesus took bearing his cross was supposed to be the walk for Barabbas. And then when those spikes were pounded into Jesus' wrist and ankles, they were a fitting punishment for Barabbas' crime of murder and robbery. You see, everything that Jesus endured was as a substitute. He endured the shame, the scourging, the agony, and the death that Barabbas deserved. But this was not just the case for Barabbas. Jesus died for sinners like you and me. This is the essence of the gospel. This is what makes Christianity different from all other faiths. They don't have the concept of someone dying for your sins or being your substitute. Isaiah 53, 6 says All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. Romans 5. 8 says, but God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Galatians 3. 13 says, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse. for us. First Peter 2, 24 says, He himself bore our sin in his body on the tree that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been healed. 1 Peter 3. 18 says, For Christ also once suffered for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us. To God 's. This is the gospel revealed in the Old Testament and the New Testament that Jesus took our place He bore the punishment that we have earned with our sinful conduct. And he died that we might live. People often wonder and speculate whatever happened to Barabbas? Did he walk along The side of the streets when Jesus was on his way to Calvary? Was he there at the cross to see the shame and rebuke that Jesus endured? Did he come to Christ? We don't know. The Bible doesn't say. But what's more significant is this. How will you respond? to the reality that Jesus died in your place. We're so curious about how Barabbas responded Because it was real. It was right there in front of his eyes. My friends, it's just as real for us. The question is: how have we responded? Have we responded in faith? And we put our trust in the sacrifice of Christ. This is what we're going to symbolize in communion this morning. Christ's death for us. If you're here this morning and you don't know the Lord as your Savior, I would urge you And exhort you to seek him today, to trust in him today. Let's go, the Lord, in a word of prayer. Father. We thank you for our great Savior. We thank you that He bore the wrath That he took your just punishment that we have earned And he died in our place, that we might be forgiven, that we might have a home in heaven. Help us, Father, to never get over the gospel, but always be amazed. And I'm founded by your great plan of redemption. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.