Give your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to John chapter 1? John chapter 1 Frank Lloyd Wright is considered by most people to be the greatest architect that America ever produced. He designed over a thousand structures over a period of 70 years. Once when he was young and unknown as yet. He was competing with other architects for a large project. And so he had an interview with the owner of the company. And he asked Frank Lloyd Wright why he should hire him to design the building. And he replied something to the effect Because I'm the greatest architect in the world. The man thought he was laughing. But Frank Lloyd Wright was absolutely serious and he said, sir, if you hire me, you'll find that's true. He liked his gumption, and so he hired the young man, and he discovered that indeed he was telling the truth In the New Testament, we frequently read of the supremacy of Jesus Christ. Just months ago, we finished an in-depth study of the book of Hebrews, where you may recall the keyword is better. Jesus is better. than the angels, then Moses, then the law, then Joshua. You could go on and on. He's better than anything Judaism or the world have to offer. And several years before that series, I preached through the book of Colossians, and there we found the unmistakable supremacy of Christ as the major theme. And today as we conclude this magnificent prologue of John's Gospel, we come to yet another passage that demonstrates to the reader That Jesus stands alone. He is superior to all others. I was speaking to an unbeliever several months ago in a gospel conversation and I encouraged her as we parted to began reading the Gospel of John. She said that she would. Sometime later I saw her again and asked her if she had read the first chapter and she said that she had. And I asked her to tell me what she thought, and I could tell that she was hesitant to share that with me. And I said, listen, you're not going to offend me. Tell me what you think. And she said, well, this man Jesus just seems so arrogant. He claimed to be God and he called people to sacrifice everything and follow him. And I said to her, it would be the epitome of arrogance if it wasn't true. But Jesus is God in the flesh. He is the only begotten Son of God. One of the reasons why arrogant people irritate us. is because we know it's not true. We know that they're really not all that, and that they really do have weaknesses and insecurities and fears and shortcomings like everyone else. And arrogant people tend to treat other people condescendingly and very poorly. But Jesus was not arrogant. He was the humblest man who ever lived. He treated people with kindness and love, but in truth. Now the whole introduction to John's Gospel, which covers the first 18 verses, is all about introducing the reader. to the person who is the subject of this book, and that is the Lord Jesus Christ. And the main point that he is making is that this person is the incarnate Son of God. He begins with some of the most amazing words ever written. Telling us that He is the Word, He is God and He is with God, that He is the creator and sustainer of all things, that He is the origin of all life and all lights. And he is the one to whom every human being must respond. And we will all respond in one of two ways, either in rejecting him or receiving him by faith. And then in verse 14, John the writer goes back to this title, the word that he opened the book with. And he makes clear to the reader that God became man in the person of Jesus Christ. One of the most remarkable verses in the Bible is verse 14, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory. Glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. And then what we have in verses 15 through 18 is the conclusion. of this introduction to the incarnate Son of God. And what John wants the reader to understand is that no one can compare with him because he's in a category of his own. Unless you see Jesus as uniquely excellent, you will never come to trust in Him So I want to preach to you this morning on the unique excellence of Jesus Christ. Because Jesus is uniquely excellent, he is worthy of our trust. The first point I want to make comes from verse 15. It is that Jesus Christ is superior to all the other spiritual leaders. Look with me at verse 15 of chapter 1, please. It says, John bore witness about him and cried out, this was he of whom I said, he who comes after me ranks before me because he was before me. We were introduced to John the Baptist back in verse 6. And now we come to him again. Let me remind you that in the Gospel of John , This individual, John the Baptist, is always referred to as simply John. He's not the writer of this book. He's not John the Apostle. But John never refers to himself by name, and so he feels no need to call him John the Baptist. He just calls him John. Now, throughout this gospel, we will encounter this remarkable individual several times, and the thing that we always see about him is him revealing that he is inferior. To Jesus Christ the Messiah. Why did the gospel writer feel the need to make this clear to his readers? It's because apparently there were still some in the first century who thought that John the Baptist was a rival of Jesus. And perhaps some even thought he was superior to him. And so all of the gospel writers are very clear and very emphatic, that's not the case. But why would anybody think that John the Baptist might be superior? Let me give you three reasons very quickly. Number one, because he baptized Jesus. And in their day and age when someone baptized you, it meant that you were usually a disciple of that person. So many people thought Jesus must just be a disciple of John the Baptist. But that of course was not the case. John the Baptist was also about six months older than Jesus and began his ministry before Jesus. And in this culture, older was always better happens to be the opposite of our Western culture. And then John the Baptist was a compelling personality. He was loud, eccentric and controversial. He wore strange clothing that reminded people of the prophets of old. He had an eccentric diet. He drew huge crowds. The Pharisees said in envy, the whole world has gone after him. And so the gospel writers are constantly reminding people that though John the Baptist was a great man, the last of the Old Testament prophets. He was just a forerunner, a herald for the coming of the Messiah. Now look specifically at what is revealed to us in verse 15. The first phrase we read is that John bore witness about him. What's interesting about this is it's in the present tense. Like John the Evangelist is saying that he can still hear the voice of John the Baptist in his head. John the Baptist was long dead when this was written. But what John seems to be indicating is that his ministry of pointing to Jesus, the Lamb of God, was still taking place in Every time people read through the Gospels, they would encounter his testimony where he's basically always saying, don't look at me, look at him. And what did John the Baptist say about Jesus? Well, he says here, he who comes after me ranks before me. That is, he is saying that Jesus' ministry is far more significant and important than my ministry. And in just a few verses he will say, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. John the Baptist was a great prophet, but Jesus is a great Savior. Now look with me at verse 15. John the Baptist says, because he was before me. Now, how could Jesus be before John the Baptist when people well knew that John the Baptist was just a little bit older, about six months older than Jesus. Well what John is alluding to is what's found in the opening words of this gospel. Look at chapter 1 verse 1. In the beginning was the word He is saying that Jesus the Messiah is the great I am, the self-existent one, the one who has always been and always will be. So in verse 15, we see that Jesus is superior to all other religious leaders. It's helpful and useful to have models, to have examples, to listen to good Bible teachers, and to follow their examples as they follow Christ. But we must never set anyone anywhere close to the plane that the Lord Jesus Christ is on. No matter what they have accomplished, no matter how many people have been saved under their ministry, no matter how faithful they have been for so many years, no one comes close to our Savior. And so we must always reserve a special place in our thoughts and in our hearts for Him. Now this leads me to my next point, and that is that Jesus Christ is the source of all spiritual blessings. I want you to notice what it says in verse 16. For from his fullness we have all received grace upon grace. A very short verse. but a very significant one. Now in my Bible translation, I have the ver verse 15 in parentheses. It means that it's a parenthetical statement. That doesn't mean that it's unimportant, but it means that in some way the editors believe it has interrupted the flow of thought. in this passage. This is the way human beings always communicate. Now let me remind you that all punctuation First numbers, parentheses that are in your Bible are not in the original text. They've all been added by translators and editors to help us better read the scriptures. It's not evil or wrong. It's useful and helpful. But we must never like base a theological argument on a period or a comma or something like that because it's not in the original. But I do think the translators have this right. Verse 15 is a parenthetical statement, and let me demonstrate that to you. I'm going to read verse 14, and then I'm going to read verse 16, and you'll see that one flows right after the other. Look at verse 14. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. Now verse 16. For from his fullness we have all received grace upon grace. There are two connections between verse 14 and verse 16. First of all, there's the term full or fullness, referring to what is in Christ. And then, of course, there's the word Grace. Alright? In verse 14 we read he was full of grace and truth. And in verse 16, we read that we have received grace upon grace. So What is verse 16 communicating? Well, it is communicating that all that the believer needs is found in Christ. From his fullness. Now Let me remind you of what is meant by grace and truth at the end of verse 14. The author John here is referring to the attributes of God that were revealed to Moses in Exodus 34 and verse 6, where God hid him behind the rock and Passed before him the Shekinah glory so that he could see the glory of God. And the last two attributes in that list are described or translated as steadfast love and faithfulness And in the New Testament, here they're translated same concepts as grace and truth. And these two encapsulate the way God deals with his people. He deals with us in steadfast love and faithfulness, or in grace and in truth. And all of this is found in Christ The term fullness in verse 16 might remind you of some verses in Colossians. In Colossians 1. 19, we read, For in him that is in Christ, all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell. And then in Colossians 2. 9 we read, for in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily. Now look with me again at verse 16. The idea of fullness is that in Christ there is an inexhaustible spring of spiritual strength. It's like a well that you can dip a pail into and pull it out, and the water level hasn't gone down any. And you can keep coming to that well and keep getting fresh water out of it, but it's never going to run dry. The water level is never going to go down. It's always going to be there because it's fed with Springs from below. Now I want you to know who is included here. It says, he says, by way of testimony, from his fullness we have all Received. What does he mean by all here? He certainly is including all of the disciples. He used that sense of the word in verse 14 just a little earlier. But clearly he is referring that this is the experience of all true believers. All true believers will give testimony. That in Christ they find grace to strengthen them for whatever they may encounter in life. Now we have to address this last phrase in verse 16. Grace upon grace. What does that mean? It's a little tricky because the preposition that's translated upon is one that John only uses this one time. It's literally the word auntie, and it means in place of or instead of. So grace in place of grace. That sounds awkward. So no Bible translator really translates it that way. Instead they kind of interpret what it means. And our translators have said grace upon grace. So there are different ideas about what this might mean because of this unusual preposition. Some scholars think it means that God shows grace to us because he first showed favor to his son. That is certainly true. That is correct. But I don't think that's what John is saying here. Some Bible teachers think it means grace in proportion to the grace that is found in Christ. And since Christ is full of grace. He is an inexhaustible well of grace. That is true again, but I'm not sure that's what John is saying here. Other scholars have suggested that it means that grace given under the old covenant has been replaced instead of or in place of the grace provided by Christ. And those who hold this view would look at verse 17 and the contrast that's found there. However, I think that the most common view Of most scholars, of most commentators, is likely the correct one. And that is that God gives us new grace For every problem and obstacle and temptation that we face in the Christian life. In other words, it's sort of like the manna. Remember in the Old Testament, Exodus 16, we read they were to gather manna. But we're asking, were they able to store it up in a big bin and container and keep it for the rest of the week? That'd be very efficient, right? Were they able to do that? No, no, no, because it would rot. God says no. You've got to go out and you've got to get fresh manna every morning You cannot store it up. The only day they could do that was, of course, the day before the Sabbath, because they weren't supposed to gather manna on the Sabbath. But my point is this is like that With every difficulty and challenge that we face, God gives us a fresh supply. Of grace to enable us to face that difficulty. This is the testimony of all God's people. In fact, as I say this and as I'm preaching this, I see on many faces people like, yeah, I know exactly what you're talking about. That's exactly what I've experienced in my life. This is true of every believer. This is essentially what we find in 2 Corinthians 12, 9, where Paul says, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. Is that your experience? That in your difficulties, in your trials, in your problems God sustains you by his grace. It doesn't mean it was easy. It doesn't mean you didn't suffer. It doesn't mean you didn't cry. It doesn't mean it wasn' Heart, but he sustains you with new grace for every trial. This is found often in our hymns that we sing. We're going to sing a hymn at the end of this service that I picked out because of this one verse it has in it. But I was thinking of all these other hymns that have verses that are similar that reflect this truth. But this hymn says O Christ, He is the fountain, a deep, deep well of love. The streams on earth I've tasted. More deep I'll drink above. There too an ocean fullness, his mercy doth expand, and glory, glory dwelleth in Emmanuel's land. Now the third point that I want us to see this morning that shows to us the superiority of Christ is found in verse 17, and it is that Jesus is superior to Moses and the law. Here we find in verse 17 one of the clearest contrasts between the old and new covenants found in Scripture. Look at verse 17. For the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. Once again, we find in this New Testament book A helpful reminder of how to distinguish between the old and new covenants. Let me first of all say that Moses was a great man. He was a spiritual giant. The Bible records God speaking to Moses more than any other individual in Scripture. He had a close relationship with the Lord that was unique among all the Old Testament leaders. He is frequently called a man of God and the servant of the Lord. He was the author of the first five books of the Bible, which are the foundation for everything else. But what Moses is most famous for is what? He's most famous for the law. The one who carried down those two tablets, which were the essence and the center of a larger law system. Now, these two terms, law and grace, are not mutually exclusive. Do you know what I mean by that? In other words, there was grace in the Old Testament. We read Moses, Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord, and many other passages. And in the New Testament, we do have law. We read of the law of Christ. So they're not mutually exclusive, like one is exclusively law and the other is exclusively grace. There is some of each in both, but they're characterized by law and grace. The Old Testament was filled with righteous obligations and demands for obedience. The law revealed God's holiness and justice, but was never given to be a way of salvation. It exposed humanity's sinfulness and our inability to meet God's holy standard. The law condemned to death. But it never saved a soul. It demonstrated our need of a savior. It was The way pointing to the coming Messiah in shadows and symbols We read in Romans 3. 20, for the works of the law, no human being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes the knowledge of sin. But in the incarnate Son of God, we find one who perfectly fulfilled God's righteous requirements. He did something the law could never do. He made full atonement for our sins. We read in Hebrews the blood of bulls and goats could never truly provide atonement. It never really offered the forgiveness of sins. Those sacrifices were symbolic, temporary, and ineffective in dealing with our transgressions. But the death of Christ Was a manifestation of God's faithfulness to his covenants and his grace The death of Christ on the cross is the greatest manifestation of the steadfast love of God and his faithfulness to his promises. Jesus Christ is the spotless Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And so throughout this Gospel of John, we are going to see again and again That Christ is superior to all of these Old Testament persons and symbols and laws. Because they all were intended to point the reader to him and not to be an end in themselves. And fourthly, Jesus Christ is the only way to know God. Look with me At the last verse of the prologue, verse 18, no one has ever seen God, the only God, who is at the Father's side. He hath made him known. Let's consider this first phrase. No one has ever seen God. John the writer is going back to the Old Testament narrative of Moses in Exodus 33. Remember. In Exodus 32, you have the golden calf incident. Moses was up on the mountain receiving the law. Everything was great, but the people were down below. Involved in idolatry. Moses comes down. He's horrified with what he sees. He breaks the Ten Commandments. He literally breaks them. He's so discouraged that in the next chapter, he doesn't want to go on. And he asks the Lord to show him his glory. And God responds in verse 20 by saying, You cannot see my face, for no man can see me and live. The point is that even though Moses had a uniquely close relationship with the Lord, he never truly saw him face to face. No one can see the glory of God in its essence. Why is that? Because of who we are and because of who he is. The glory of God is so powerful that it would kill us to see God in his full, resplendent glory. Now we do have many passages in Scripture that sometimes people point to to say there's contradictions in the Bible that says that people saw the Lord. But they're never talking about seeing his full glory. They may have seen a vision of God. They may have seen the Shekinah glory. But they did not see his radiant splendor. Now, this phrase: the only God is a little confusing, I think, in its translation. Because you might think at first that it's just referring to the Father But it's not. The word is translated only actually has two parts to it and it means only begotten. Now we talked about this term. I don't usually use Greek terms, but it's the term monogenase. It's used four times in John's Gospel. And it's very, very important. And it tells us two very important things about Jesus. Number one, he's one of a kind. He's unique. There's no one else like him. That's in the idea of the term only. But there's a second part to it, and that is that he always exists as the eternal Son of God. The Father and Son have an eternal relationship with of Father and Son. He was not, he did not become the Son of God in Bethlehem. He has always been. the Son of God because that we the Bible teaches the eternal sonship of Jesus Christ. Now the other thing that's interesting here, it says that he is, it says in verse 18 that he is at the Father's side. And you might have a note in your Bible, perhaps I do, that says, in the Greek it says, in the bosom of the Father. And this literal translation reveals a little bit more of the tenderness and the intimacy of the relationship that's conveyed in this verse. And again, it's setting in contrast between Moses and Christ. Moses saw the glory of God to some degree. But he didn't see the full glory of God. But Jesus is God. And he dwelt in the closest possible relationship of affection with his father. And now we come to the final phrase in this prologue. He has made him known. That is, Jesus has made the Father known. The verb made known here means to interpret or fully explain or disclose. This is a word that is often used for expositional preaching. It's the origin of our English word exegesis or exegete. You may have heard those terms before. An exegete is when a preacher is trying very hard to simply bring out the meaning of the text without reading his own ideas into it. He's simply saying, this is what the Word of God means. And that's what expositional preaching, which we practice here, does. We're trying to expose the meaning of the text so that everyone walks away and says, I know exactly what that passage says. I know what it's communicating. This is what God has said in his word. Well, this is the word that's used here. Jesus is the ultimate revelation of God, the ultimate interpretation or explanation of God. And of course, the inference of this is that you cannot really understand or know God apart from Christ. This is why every Religion or cult that denies the person of Christ also has a distorted view of who God is. They don't understand him because they have rejected the only one through whom you can really understand the Father. This is why Jesus said in the upper room in John 14 and verse 9, Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. Moses in his writings teaches us much about God, John is saying, but if you truly want to know who God is, you have to look at Jesus. He is essentially saying to his readers, you might even think of it as like a hook trying to capture their attention so they continue to read through this book. He's saying, listen. If you really want to truly know who God is, you've got to keep reading. Because you're going to find out by his son who the Father is. Now I want to conclude with several points of application. Number one, we must never exalt a Christian leader anywhere near the level of Christ. Earlier we read of Christ's superiority to John the Baptist. We all naturally like heroes. We like to put different people on a pedestal. Some people enjoy different Bible teachers that might be on the internet or on the radio or on TV or perhaps in their books. It's not wrong because God has gifted the church with gifted teachers and shepherds. The Bible tells us this in Ephesians 4. But we must never ever exalt them to the place where they are vying for, if I can put it this way, a place in the Trinity. They are all fallible. They all have their blind spots. They all have their inconsistencies. I love Christian biography. I have hundreds in my office that I have read. And you know what the interesting thing is? I don't care who the man is or how great he is or how much he was used by God, if you really put them under a microscope, you're almost always a little disappointed. Because they were inconsistent with this. And they had this area in their life that they never really got straightened out. And they weren't really accurate about this. Because we're all frail human beings. So don't ever put a pastor or Bible teacher or leader or historian or some great figure in the history of the church in place of Christ. Christ must always have First place, and there's no close second. That brings me to the second point that I have for you in application, and that is That we should look to Christ for fresh grace with every new trial that we encounter in life. Remember, that's how we're interpreting that phrase, grace upon grace. Grace in place of grace. That when we have a trial and God gives us grace, there's a sense in which we have used it up, and now a new trial comes. We need Fresh grace to strengthen us and help us. This has been the experience of God's people. Trials and sufferings often come like waves of the sea. They knock you down. And as you're getting right back up, another wave comes and knocks you down. And as you're spitting salt water out of your mouth, you're getting back up, another one hits you. You ever felt that way before? I find it to be a helpful analogy that many people have experienced. Well, I want you to know that with every one of those waves God provides a new supply of grace to sustain us in the suffering. This is why sometimes you can see someone who is going through a very difficult time. And you say to yourself, I don't know how they do it. I don't know how they have been so strong through this trial. I mean, because I think if I were in that situation, I would just fold. Well, you know what? You haven't gotten the grace that they received for that. And when you face your trial, God will give you his sustaining grace. Some of you here are facing great trials right now. Things that have happened in the last few months or years that have knocked you off your feet, that have made you feel very weak and very vulnerable and perhaps a little confused. I want to remind you that with every challenge, with every aspect of suffering that we encounter In Christ, we have an abounding supply of grace. But we need to go to Him to find grace to help in time of need. We need to go with our pail and fill up with that fresh water to sustain us every day. And it will never run out. But we have to keep going. We have to keep praying. We have to keep asking God to help us. We have to keep seeking Him. And we have to find all that we need in Christ. This is what was the experience of the hymn writer who wrote that third hymn that we sang. He giveth more grace. We said these verses together, for out of his infinite riches in Jesus, he giveth and giveth and giveth again. This is what Christian people do. They keep coming to Christ. They keep running to Christ. They don't stop. Doesn't mean that it won't hurt. It doesn't mean that his grace will remove any difficulty or pain that you're going through, but he will sustain you and strengthen you. to follow him. Thirdly, we must never forget that Christ is far better than anything Moses or the old covenant has to offer. This was an application that often made in Hebrews. All of the Bible is scripture, all 1,189 chapters. But we do need to understand the distinction between the old covenant and the new. There are many treasures in the old covenant. It speaks of the same God. But those covenants and those symbols and those shadows are not ends in themselves. They are to point our attention to Christ. And so that's what we must see in the Old Testament scriptures. The Gospel of John is filled with illusions that you may not capture all the time when you're reading. Where John is making this argument again and again, Jesus is better. Jesus is superior. Let me give you some examples. At the end of John chapter 1, we're going to see a reference to Jacob's ladder, that vision that he received when he was running from home. And we're going to see that Jesus is far better way to know God than Jacob's vision of the ladder to heaven. Chapter 2, we're going to see that Jesus is the new wine that is far superior to the old water of Judaism. We're also going to see that Jesus is the true temple, which is a far better place to worship God than the old Jewish temple. We're going to see in chapter 3 that Jesus is a far better Savior than the bronze serpent that Moses lifted up in the wilderness. We're going to see that Jesus offers much better water than even comes from Jacob's well, John chapter 4 Jesus is the true bread from heaven that is far better than the manna that Moses announced, John chapter 6. And Jesus is the Lamb of God, which actually takes away the sin of the world, unlike the sacrifices that Moses spoke of in the law. So let's always look for Christ when we read the scriptures. Let's always come away overwhelmed with the greatness of our Savior. And my final application is we must never compromise the unpopular truth that Jesus is the only way to God. We find this again and again in Scripture. We find it today, especially in verse 18. We live in an age where tolerance is set up as the greatest virtue. And one of the tenets of tolerance is that people 's religious beliefs are fine as long as they don't think that their way is right. And others are wrong. And so we are increasingly pressured, especially in intellectual circles. To believe that there are many ways to God. Analogy is often used of a mountain. Just as there are many roads leading up to the top of the mountain. So there are many ways to God. It's fine for you to climb up your way, but don't expect other people to take that path. Don't force people of other cultures and other traditions. To adopt what your Bible teaches. But it's like it's never occurred to these individuals That what if there is only one way to God? How tolerant and loving it is it to tell people that their way is fine, if it's the way that leads to destruction. to perishing eternally, as John puts it. There is only one way. There is only one Savior. And we can never compromise on that truth, no matter how much pressure is exerted on us or how unpopular it becomes in our culture. I suspect that in coming years there will be more pressure placed on us by the authorities to refrain from saying that Jesus is the only way. Biblical declarations of exclusivity could well be considered hate speech. But we can never compromise because it is the truth. And if Jesus is not the only Savior Then he's not a savior at all. If there are other ways to God, other ways to redemption, Other ways to dealing with our sin, then he didn't need to come. He didn't need to die on an old rugged cross. It was completely unnecessary In fact, it would be a horrible thing if there are other ways for us to know God and to be saved. For there to be a crucifixion, unless that is the only way. The only way that anyone can know God is through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Our text says he has made him known So let me ask you this morning, do you know God through Jesus Christ? Have you come to have a personal relationship with the Lord because you are trusting in His Son, the Savior of the world? Is that your plea? Is he the one that has saved you by his grace and that you continually come to for grace in time of need? Jesus is the only way to God. And what a joy it is to come in that path and to be saved. Eternally. May God help you this morning if you do not know Him. If you know about God, but you don't really know God. I would encourage you to seek the Lord today. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word We thank you that it points us to Christ, our great Savior. I pray that you would help us to be a people Who trust in him and walk with him and fellowship with the Father through him. And Father, for those who are here today who are yet lost in their sins, I pray that today would be their day of salvation. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.