There we are now in Isaiah chapter 64 tonight. The theme of the book of Isaiah is return and rest in Yahweh. For he alone is salvation. And this is the message that the Lord through the prophet Isaiah has been trying to drive into the hearts of the people of Israel from the very beginning. That it is not resting in your own righteousness that will leave you far short of where uh you need to be, but resting in the Lord, resting in Yahweh alone. For he alone is salvation. So this is the message we're going to see again tonight. And as we come close to the end of this book, he continues to bring this theme out more and more. Isaiah 64 is the last part of the book of Isaiah with the main theme of redemption. Redemption through the suffering servants, who comes as the anointed warrior when he brings ultimate salvation and righteousness to the world. And these This is a message of comfort to those who are judged. The message of judgment is the first half of the book of Isaiah, and he comes with a message of comfort that the answer to our sin problem is the suffering servant. Who come as the anointed warriors. So there's a comfort through theology, a comfort through soteriology, a study of salvation. And then the comfort through eschatology, God's ultimate outworking of his plan of salvation and redemption for the world. A few weeks ago, we looked at Isaiah 62, and we saw where the Messiah says, I will not keep silent. For Jerusalem, for Zion's sake I will not keep silent, and for Jerusalem's sake I will not be quiet until her righteousness goes forth as brightness. And her salvation as a burning torch. And then he describes how he's going to establish watchmen who will Keep the Lord in remembrance over Jerusalem. In verse 6, he says, On your walls, O Jerusalem, I have set watchmen all the day and all the night. They shall never be silent. You who put the Lord in remembrance Take no rest and give him no rest until he establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in the earth. And then he continues to describe the nature of that ministry. But beginning in chapter 63 in verse 7, we have the watchman. Who is doing just that? He is pleading with the Lord. He is putting the Lord in remembrance. He is giving the Lord no rest. Asking the Lord to establish Jerusalem and make it a praise in the earth. And he begins by grounding his prayer in the remembrance of God's mighty acts and his steadfast love. In verse 7, he says. I will recount or I will remember the steadfast love of the Lord, the praises of the Lord, according to all that He has gr that the Lord has granted us, and the great goodness to the house of Israel. He showed Israel the his steadfast love when he redeemed them from Egyptian bondage and he brought them into the promised land. Then he turns to a complaint because God's zeal and God 's might have been withheld from them. He says in verse 15, Look down from heaven and see, from your holy and beautiful habitation, where are your zeal and your might? The stirring of your inner parts and your compassion are held back from me. He continues into chapter 64, lamenting. That God does not rent the heavens and come down like he did in past times. And the reason for this is because he is angry over their sins And they say, he says very emphatically in verse 5, you meet him who joyfully works righteousness, those who remember you in your ways. So God meets and he helps and he works for those who joyfully do righteousness. But unfortunately he says, behold, you were angry, and we sinned. In our sin we have been a long time. And shall we be saved? This is a a sad tone of this prayer that the watchman gives. He says, Behold, you were angry. He doesn't say we sinned and you were angry. That's true. But that's not the point here. He's saying You were angry because we sinned, and instead of repenting, we continued in our sin. We doubled down in our sin. It's kind of like a child who has done wrong and dad comes in to punish him and instead of breaking and asking for forgiveness, he doubles down and continues to rebel. And almost stick it in the face of his father. He says, You were angry And we sinned. In our sins we have been a long time. Then the question that we looked at briefly last week was, and shall we be saved? What we come up to now is really the challenge, the problem that makes all of this an issue. Why is there a need for redemption? Why do they need comfort? What is what do they need to be saved from? Their sins. And the damning consequences of their sins. And that's what we begin to see in verse 6 Where he says, we have all become like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. We all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities like the wind take us away. There is no one who calls upon your name, who rouses himself to take hold of you For you have hidden your face from us and have made us melt in the hand of our iniquities. What we really have being described here is the depravity. of the nation of Israel. The universality really is the first thing that we see of this depravity. The universality of depravity. Notice as I read, well before we get there, the the nation of Israel is described as Unclean. He says, we have all become like one who is unclean. It doesn't refer to merely being dirty, but it refers to being polluted or defiled. There are two types of people that are described in the Old Testament, those who are clean and those who are unclean. The clean are able to come into the presence of the Lord. They're able to worship God. They are accepted by Him. The unclean are not. Because God is holy. This word unclean is the exact word that Isaiah uses when he saw the image of God. Remember in Isaiah 6, when he saw the image of God high and lifted up. And his train filled the temple. And the seraphim are around his throne with six wings, with two they cover their face, with two they cover their feet, and with two they stay aloft, and they cry out, Holy, holy, holy Is the Lord of hosts, the whole earth is full of his glory. When Isaiah sees the Lord exalted in his holiness. Remember how he responds? He cries out, sorry, he says, Woe is me, for I am lost, for I am a man of unclean lips. There's our word. And I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. He says , I'm unclean, and the evidence of my uncleanness is my lips. The bitterness of my words, the pollution in my mouth, reveals the pollution of my heart. And the word woe is me. He's saying, I am doomed. I am devastated. My sins demand judgment. And we see here the fundamental problem with sin. Is that it makes us defiled and polluted before a God who is perfectly clean, a God who is perfectly holy. He is exalted in his holiness. He is so holy that the angels do not dare to even look upon him. So when we think of sin, we live in we we swim in the world of sin. swim in our own sinfulness. We were born into sinfulness. We swim in a culture, in a society that is full of sin. You always wonder, does a fish know that he's wet? And I think there's a sense in which in many ways we don't even know how sinful we are because we live within the culture of sin. But our sin is not merely an inconvenience or a lapse of judgment or, you know, I'm just not not perfect. It's an offense against God who created us to be holy, representatives of Him. He is holy. He made us to be holy, and we have sinned against Him. The same word unclean is the word that people with the deadly disease of leprosy had to cry out whenever they were in the presence of another so that they would not be defiled. In Leviticus 13, 14 it says, the leprous person who has the disease shall wear torn clothes and let the hair of his head hang loose. And he shall cover his upper lip and cry out, unclean, unclean. And they were shunned from all of the society The leprous person was permanently cut off from the nation, from society. He was almost like one who was dead As he lived. He couldn't come near his family. He couldn't come near the the temple. He couldn't come near to be a part of anything that was going on in society. He was alive, but it was almost like he was dead. And in a similar way, our sin causes us to be permanently cut off from God and makes us like dead men even while we live. When I read these verses, I tried not to emphasize too much, but I hope you noticed Something as I was reading it, he says, We have all become like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. We all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities like the wind take us away. There is no one who calls upon your name, who rouses himself to take hold of you I don't think it's too hard to figure out the focus of these verses. It is the universality of our depravity. or the depravity specifically here of the nation of Israel. After all that God had done for the nation, calling them, establishing them, bringing them into the promised land. the depravity and the extent of it is shocking. These are great verses that I really think if you're evangelizing and sharing the gospel with people, these are verses that are vital to use. I use them frequently when I'm bringing the gospel to people. Because although he's specifically talking about the nation of Israel here, he's not describing a situation that is unique to the nation of Israel. Earlier in the Old Testament Before there was even a nation of Israel, the book of Job, Job says in Job 14, 4, Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? There is not one. What is he saying? Unclean parents give birth to unclean children. Sinful parents give birth to sinful children. And although our children look precious and they're sweet And uh spun to just an amazing thing to hold a newborn baby. The reality is that newborn baby is unclean and sinful And that baby needs redemption, just like anyone else does. I never had to teach my kids. To lie. They learned that on their own. I never had to teach them to be selfish. They learned that on their own. I never had to teach them to to strike and hit and fight. They learned that on their own. Because they're sinners. From Nicole 's side of the family. Just kidding. Both sides of the family? As both sides of the family are sitting here. But uh that's the nature. Sinful parents give birth to sinful children. In the New Testament, Paul argues using numerous Old Testament quotations that all humanity Is similarly defiled, not just the nation of Israel. In fact, Romans 3 makes us very clear, verses 9 and following. He says, What then? Are we Jews any better off? No, not at all. For we have already charged that all, both Jews and Greeks, are under sin. As it is written, none is righteous, no not one. No one understands. No one seeks after God. All have turned aside. Together they have become worthless. No one does good, not even one. And I just took A smattering of those verses that Paul says from verse 9 all the way to verse 12 20 is his his argument. But it's hard again to miss the point. The depravity is universal. And he caps it off in Romans 3:23 for saying, For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Doesn't leave anybody out. But if you share these verses, like Roman Isaiah 64, verse 6 with an unsaved person How are they most likely? How do most people respond to this type of condemnation? They might get angry. That might be the reality. But they usually say something like, Yeah, I know I'm not perfect. Uh but I I I mean I don't think I'm really that bad Surely there are some really bad people out there in the world. There are rapists and murderers and child abusers, but I am a pretty good person. I pay my taxes. I I give to the poor. I provide for my family. I care for my children. I volunteer. I even say my prayers sometimes. I'm a pretty good person. I'm better than average. But this verse actually answers that. They begin showing, know what they're doing, they're saying, I'm not so bad. See these things I've done? See how I'm a pretty good person? And they're they're bringing up their good things. What does this verse say in verse six? He says, For we all become like one who become like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. So we see the universality of depravity, but also the totality of depravity. The second line of verse 6 is one of the most shocking lines in the Bible about human depravity. And what's interesting about this is that the watchman Lumps himself in. You notice how many times he says we, us, and our? In verse 6, he says it five times alone. That's all through this passage of scripture. Notice the green here. We have all become like one who is unclean. And all our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. We all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities like the wind take us away. There is no one who calls upon your name, who rouses himself to take hold of you, for you have hidden your face from us, and have made us melt in the hand of our iniquities. The watchman is saying, I am not separate, I am not different, I am likewise condemned in this way. And then he says, All our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. The word polluted garment Or filthy rags, as the King James Version says, is a Hebrew word that literally refers to menstrual rags It's a rather disgusting picture of how polluted what our even best actions are, our righteous deeds. are in light of the unapproachable holiness of God. Remember Isaiah 6 Isaiah was never the same after seeing God in his holiness. That radically transformed him. We call that the time when his commissioning as a prophet, but it changed his entire understanding of God. That's why Isaiah is one of the places where we see this title of God repeatedly, the Holy One of Israel. The vast majority of times the Old Testament calls God the Holy One of Israel is in the book of Isaiah. And he realized that all of his righteous deeds are a polluted garment, are disgusting. Because God is unapproachably holy. The Bible says he dwells in light, which no man can come to. Says he is a consuming fire. God is awesome and terrifying in his holiness And when we are honest with ourselves and take true stock of our hearts, it becomes very clear that even our good deeds, even our best deeds, are full of hypocrisy. If you doubt this, ask yourself how you would respond if you were not appreciated or noticed for what you have done. Or If someone got the credit for what you did, someone else got the credit for what you did, how would you respond? Well, I I would be a big person, I'd dandle it. How would you respond in your heart? Even our best deeds are full of greed and lust and pride and selfishness And so God is awesomely holy, and he says, All our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. John Newton, the author of Amazing Grace. understood this reality. And the song we sang tonight was his song. And he says, How weak the effort of my heart, how cold my warmest thought. That is the reality. He says, but when I see you as you are, I'll praise you as I ought. It's important for us to understand that the only way We can be acceptable to God as not in our own righteousness, but is in a righteousness that is a gift of God by faith in Jesus Christ. Spurgeon says this, you must not merely know that you are lost, but you must feel it. Do not be content with simply feeling that it is so, but mourn before God that it is so, and hate yourself that it is so. Do not look upon it as being a misfortune, but as being your own willful sin. And look upon yourself, therefore, as being guilty sinners This is an important reality. That's why the Lord says, blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And then what's the next beatitude? Blessed are those who mourn. Mourn. Weep and mourn, James says, because of your sins. The Spirit's work in us is to show us that we are Hopelessly lost, apart from the grace of God, apart from the righteousness that is By faith in Jesus Christ, the righteousness of God, which is by faith. And then that changes everything I love what 1 Peter 2 says about believers, that we are a holy priesthood to offer spiritual sacrifices that are acceptable to God. Through Jesus Christ. As believers, we offer worship and praise and prayer and service made acceptable to God Through Jesus Christ. Because even as believers, if we're honest with ourselves, our hearts are wicked. The Bible says hearts are deceitful and above all things desperately wicked. Who can know it? But Christ makes our sacrifices acceptable to God. These verses are dealing with not not only the universality of depravity, but really the totality of it, how deep Our depravity really is. Now, when we speak of total depravity, it's important to clarify a few things. Total depravity does not mean that we are as bad as we can be. Rather, it means that no part of us has escaped the damning effects of our sin. That there's no part of us that is not polluted and guilty. Nor does it mean that unsaved people cannot show love to family or perform acts of kindness. But in light of God's awesome holiness, even those acts of love and kindness are tainted with sin and therefore are utterly worthless and powerless to commend a person before a holy God The sad fact of our fallen nature is that we are left morally bankrupt. And we are filing bankruptcy with no hope of being able to reorganize We are utterly bankrupt before God, and our only hope is His grace and mercy that is found in Jesus Christ. And so Paul addresses this failure Of the nation of Israel is being described here to understand this reality and seek a righteousness that is of God by faith. In Romans chapter 9, he says What shall we say then? That Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness have attained it? That is, a righteousness that is by faith? But that Israel, who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness, did not succeed in reaching that law. Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith, but as it were based on works. They have stumbled over the stumbling stone As it is written, Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense, and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. So the stone of stumbling and the rock of offense is a hymn. It's a person. It's Jesus Christ. And a person must come to the fact the law is designed to bring them to Christ, to convict them, to show them their brokenness It is not the means to earn righteousness and acceptance before God. It is to show you the true state of your soul so that you come to Christ. And find in him the answer to your soul's need. But the nation of Israel refused to acknowledge their desperate depravity. Instead, they sought to make themselves worthy. Before an unapproachably holy God by presenting their menstrual rags of righteousness as an acceptable offering to God. And God said, That is unacceptable. It is unworthy. They rece refused to see themselves as they were. This is what Paul recognized. Remember in Philippians chapter 3? When he said, As to righteousness under the law, he was blameless. But whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ. Indeed, I count everything as loss. Because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ and be found in him. Not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God. That depends on faith. Paul says, My own righteousness is garbage. The righteousness I want is the righteousness that's from God. By faith in Christ Jesus. And so I count all of these attainments of my past life as nothing but garbage so that I might have Christ and Christ alone and what he offers. So we look in these verses a little further here in Isaiah 64. We see the consequences of our depravity. He says, We all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities, like the wind, take us away. So the analogy here the watchman is declaring is that depravity, our depravity leads to our death. He uses the image of a dying leaf. You can imagine a leaf that's Turning brown, got a little bit of life left in it. The fall is almost over, and it falls off. He says, we are all fading like a leaf. It's referring to the fact that those of us who are alive, at this moment we are all fading like a leaf. We have physical life only by the grace of God, but all of us are at various stages of fading away. But what causes us to fade and to be driven away is our sin. Our sin is what drives us away. He says, and our iniquities, like the wind, drive us away. They drive us away from the life That is God. It is our sins that separate us from the life of God. Romans 6. 23 tells us emphatically: for the wages of sin is death. But the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. But the wages, the payment, the consequences of our sin is death. James one says, But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. The desire when it is conceived gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown. Brings forth death. These are just different analogies, but their end result, the consequence of our depravity is death. The result of our sin And then we have the the desperation of their depravity in verse 7. He says, There is no one, in spite of this, in spite of this horrible reality, he says, There is no one who calls upon your name. Who rouses himself to take hold of you. For you have hidden your face from us, and have made us melt in the hand of our iniquities The watchman says that the state of their depravity is such that they don't even care to cry out to God for help. They are so sunk. in the quagmire of their sin, that apart from God bursting into their lives, into the scene with his Holy Spirit, they will never seek him. And that's not unique to Israel. That's the the state of all mankind apart from the grace of God He uses this graphic imagery of melting into the hands of our iniquities. It reminds me of a time when we were in Tanzania and my kids put crayons upon the dashboard of our truck. and I didn't see them there. And in the sub Saharan African sun It didn't take long for those crayons to melt into the dashboard, and they left a indelible mark on my beautiful brown dashboard. And he's really the they they became like one. The grams and the dashboard became one And he said, Similarly, the nation of Israel, they have melted into the hand of their sins. They have become one with their sin. He says here, sadly there is no one who calls upon your name who rouses himself to take hold of you. I think this is a reference back to Jacob. Remember when Jacob wrestled with God? We talked about that last week. He wrestled with God and he refused to let go of him. I said it was in Genesis 34, and I was re I was corrected last week. It's Genesis 32. I apologize. Some of you probably didn't sleep all week long about that. It is Genesis thirty-two, where Jacob wrestled with God. But he refused to let go of God until God blessed him. He said, I am desperate. I am desperate for God to work. If God does not bless me, if God does not answer my prayer, I'm lost and I'm hopeless. And so he clung on and he said, I will not let go unless you bless me. We talked about tenacity in our praying The fact is, he looks out at the nation of Israel and he says, There's no one who rouses himself to take hold of you. Who will be tenacious and desperate for God to work, partly because they don't really think they're that bad I'm not that bad, I'm a pretty good guy. And they've not seen themselves as verse six indicates. You might respond, well, surely there are people in Israel who are beseeching God daily. Isn't the wailing wall filled with people praying twenty-four hours a day? And the answer is yes. The answer is yes. You can go there 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and you will find people there praying. The sad part is, again, they are not coming to God with my faith in Christ, but with their own polluted garments. And offering up their own polluted garments as righteousness before God, and God is not pleased. Jesus said in John 14, I am the way. And the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. So all of the Thousands upon thousands upon hundreds of thousands of prayers that are offered up at the wailing wall in their own righteousness. Or like what Isaiah 64, 6 says. And he says, the problem is you've hidden your face from us. He's saying, Lord, unless you rend the heavens and come down, unless you do something We're hopeless. We talked about already in the last couple weeks a judicial blindness that God has sent upon the nation of Israel because they have rejected him in light of all their grace that they've received. There's a judicial blindness that God has given them because they've sinned against him. And the Bible says that that this blindness has come upon them in part But there's coming a day when it will be removed. But week after week the law and the prophets are read in the synagogues But they're blind to the message of salvation in Christ Jesus that is found all through the pages of the Old Testament. Because God is blind of their eyes and hard of their hearts. This is what Paul says in 2 Corinthians chapter 3, but their minds were hardened, for to this day When they read the old covenant, that same veil remains unlifted, because only through Christ is it taken away. Yes, to this day, whenever Moses has read, a veil lies over their hearts. That's why Jewish evangelism is some of the hardest evangelism. Because there is a veil that is uniquely placed over their hearts as a judicial hardening. But regardless, apart from the working of God, apart from God rending the heavens and coming down, no one will turn and face. Because the condemnation that Paul says to the whole world, about the whole world, is that there is none that seeks God. No, not one. So when we share the gospel with people, When we go out with the message of the gospel, we hand out tracts, we invite our neighbors to church, we bring them into church, apart from the Holy Spirit working in a powerful way. They will just be blind. And the things that we say, wow, that was I remember Sunday morning thing, that was an amazing message. The truth that came out from John 6 was phenomenal. Yet apart from the spirit working in the life of a person, they'll walk out and go, I don't get any of that. Seems like that's a whole bunch of energy for nothing. We're desperately dependent upon the Spirit of God to work. As we come into this last part of this chapter here. We see that the watchman is pleading with God for deliverance. And he does so based on two grounds primarily. He says, But now, O Lord, you are our Father. We are the clay, and you are our potter. We are all the works of your hands. Be not so ter terribly angry, O Lord, and remember not iniquity forever. Behold, please look. We are all your people. Your holy cities have become a wilderness. Zion has become a wilderness. Jerusalem, a desolation. Our holy and beautiful house where our fathers praised you has been burned by fire. And all our pleasant places have become ruins. Will you restrain yourself at these things, O Lord? Will you keep silent and afflict us so terribly Maybe that's not how we like to end a prayer. That's how the prayer ends, with a question. But he argues For God's work based on two grounds. One, Lord, be merciful and save us because of your intimate relationship with us. He calls God again our Father. Pastor Tobin spoke on the Lord's Prayer two weeks ago, and he said that this designation of God being our Father is almost non existent in the Old Testament. And he mentioned Isaiah 63 and 64 as being unique. And the reality is Isaiah 63 and 64 is indeed unique. It is It is an amazing place because no place else in the entire Old Testament is there a place where someone prays our Father You are our Father. This is the boldest declaration of the Fatherhood of God to the nation of Israel in the entire Old Testament. And this is now the third time in this prayer that the watchman has argued for God to rescue and redeem them on the basis of his intimate relationship with them as their father. This refers to the fact that he chose them and he called them and he made them into a nation, and on top of that, he gave them his covenant and he called them his people. He has a unique relationship with the nation of Israel. This intimacy of relationship is what emboldens the watchmen to pray for God to be merciful to them. Kind of reminds me of, do you remember when Moses prayed in Exodus when God said, after the golden calf incident, he says, I'm going to destroy them, and I'm going to make a new nation out of you, Moses. And Moses prays, Lord, be not so angry against your people. These are your people. Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, your servants. Then he talks about remember your promise. And he argues his prayer before God on the basis of these are your people. You have a covenant relationship with them. And God was, I believe, testing Moses. And Moses passed the test. But he prayed in relation to this reality. Notice how the watchman does this here. He says, You are our Father. We are all your people in verse 9. Then in verse 10, these are your holy cities. He doesn't say our holy cities. He says your holy cities. Lord, remember this intimate relationship. And then he talks about God's ultimate relationship. Be merciful and save us because of your ultimate relationship with us. You are the potter. We are the work of your hands. This isn't the first time that Isaiah has used this potter and clay imagery, but in these other times, it was more of a reference to do not assume you know better and you're wiser than the potter. You're just clay. Here he's saying, God, you made us. You're the sovereign one. You're the one who expended such energy on making us a nation. God, can you really just toss us aside like a lump of clay? Lord, you've lavished such care and grace upon a people like us. Creating a nation out of people like us, bringing us into the promised land. And essentially he's asking, if you toss us away, doesn't that reflect poorly on you? You made us. Doesn't that reflect poorly on you? After all, these people are your people, these cities are your holy cities. This temple was the place where Your name was praised. And secondly, saying here, you are also the potter. Can't you make us praise you? Can't you change us? Lord, make us A different people. Take away our sin. And we can spend a lot of time, Isaiah's dealt with that. God says explicitly in the book of Isaiah in multiple places: I will deal with your sin. And he has promised that. The question is, as we come to the end of this prayer, will you restrain yourself? Will you keep silent? And it kind of just hangs in the air. You finish this prayer, you're like, What's the answer? Where's what's what's the answer? And the answer is called really kind of like hidden in the question, I believe. There's two words here that are very significant. The first is the word restrain. It's the same word that's found in Isaiah 63, verse 15. And we noted that when we were looking at it, if you go back to Isaiah 63, 15, he says, look down from heaven and see, from your holy and beautiful habitation. Where are your zeal and your might? The stirring of your inner parts and your compassion are held back from me. That's the word here, restrain. They're restrained. And when we were looking at that, we made made a mention this fact that it wasn't theirs that God's compassion and his inner inner love for them was gone. But what? It's restrained. And so God says, or the watchman says, Lord, why are they restrained? And here he prays in the end of Isaiah 64. Will you restrain yourself with these things? Will you continue to hold back your love for us? Well, I think the answer has already been given in the book of Isaiah. I want to look at this passage here. It's beautiful. Isaiah 49, 14 through 16. But Zion said, The Lord has forsaken me. My Lord has forgotten me. Can a woman forgive her nursing child, that she should have no compassion on the son of her womb? Even these may forget. Yet I will not forget you. Behold, I have engraved you on the palms of my hands. Your walls are continually before me What does he say? It's possible a woman will forget her child. It's possible a woman might abandon her child. It's rare. It happens. We hear it about in the news. It's kind of shocking when we hear about it. But God says, I will not forget. In fact, I've engraved you on the palms of my hands. Your walls are engraved on the palms of my hands God would have to deny himself in order to permanently forsake Zion. Then the last word that is significant is this word silent in the last line of verse 12. It's the same word that we read in Isaiah 62, where the Messiah says, For Zion's sake I will not keep silent. Then he says, I put watchmen on the walls who are not to keep silent, but are to remind God day and night The fact is that God, the Son, is permanently and continually interceding for the sake of Jerusalem. So not only would God have to deny himself in order to permanently forsake Zion, he'd also have to deny his son. So the answer really is hidden within these Two words. But in closing, I'd like us just to read. I was talking to the Zargo with Nicole last night. She said, Oh, that reminds me what I read in my devotions this morning from Psalm 103. And we opened it up and read them like that's how we're closing. That is such a beautiful passage of scripture. It says the Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. He will not always chide, nor will he keep his anger forever. He does not deal with us according to our sins Nor repay us according to our iniquities. For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his steadfast love towards those who fear him As far as the East is from the West, so far does he remove our transgressions from us. As a father shows compassion to his children, so the Lord shows compassion to those who fear him. We see that God's fatherly mercy is greater than his anger. God's fatherly mercy is greater than his anger. And that encourages us when we feel the weight of our sins to keep running to our Father, who is abundantly able to pardon and eager to pardon. This passage of scripture teaches us that God is incomprehensibly holy And any attempt to make ourselves acceptable to God, apart from the righteousness of Christ alone, is an offense to God's holiness. That we must come to God in reliance upon his mercy that's found in Christ. But when we realize how broken we are, we have a God who shows compassion to his children Who delights to show fatherly love, and whose whose compassion and his mercy is greater than His anger towards our sin. And so we can come to him with full confidence that he will forgive in Christ Jesus. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you are such a God. Open our eyes to understand more of who you are, how awesome your holiness is. And Lord, may we walk before you in humble contrition and find your mercies there for us. Lord, if there's any here tonight that is broken in their sins, I pray that they would cry out to you and find you a God that is ready to pardon. Full of compassion, and who will take their sins and remove them as far as the east is from the west. We thank you that you are this God to us in Jesus' name. Amen.