We are in Galatians chapter 5 this morning. We'll be looking at the first word of verse 23 and the listing of the fruit of the Spirit. Verse 22 begins, but the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness. Self-control. Against such things there is no law. And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. A few weeks ago I was in the church library and I noticed a book that had a title that I had recognized, and the title was simply Zvi. ZVI. And Zvi is the name of a well-known messianic Jew who had served with friends of Israel in the nation of Israel. But the story tells, the book tells the story of Zvi from a 10-year-old boy in Poland during World War II when he was abandoned by his parents because He was a Jew and they were Jews and they were taken into uh into the ghetto and they thought perhaps if he were to be a uh estranged from us, maybe he could live his way through the through the horrors of the Holocaust without being captured. And so at ten years old he was abandoned by his parents and he took on the persona of a Polish boy. And he survived through great atrocities in the Holocaust. And at the end of the Second World War, he fled to Israel. and came there just in time to be one of the first soldiers involved in the war for independence in nineteen forty eight and lived, he was a minesweeper. You can imagine the dangers of a minesweeper in war, and he fought in every war in Israel's history till the 1980s as a minesweeper. But during that time, he came to know Christ. He came to Israel unsaved and with no knowledge of God, but he was given a New Testament, and he read the New Testament. And he was overwhelmed by the message of salvation and he came to know Christ. There in Israel, he was married to another Jewish Christian. But as you can imagine, being a Jewish Christian in Israel, there was a great deal of persecution that they would face. And he tells the story in this book. about the time that he had invited Jewish uh messianic Jews over to his home for dinner. And after they left, his neighbor came to him and said, you are never allowed to have them in your home again. And he said, Um, it's my home, and I will determine who my guests are. And he said, if that's the case, then you must be one of them. You must know who they are, and you must be one of them. And he said, if you mean believers in the Messiah, Jesus Christ, yes, I am. And he looked at him and said, you will not see the end of this. This is not done. And over the course of the next several weeks, their windows were broken by youth that this elderly gentleman stirred up as they threw rocks through their windows, yelled at them. Cat called his wife, said all sorts of evil about them, and he thought maybe I can pacify him by a reasonable conversation with him. And so he met with his neighbor and tried to explain to the fact, I am a Jew who believes in Christ, like you. I'm a citizen of Israel, I am a faithful soldier in our military. And he said it made no difference whatsoever. The following day His wife was on the way to the market, and this elderly gentleman stirred up the young people in the community to throw stones at her, and they surrounded her and threw stones at her and yanked her hair and treated her scornfully. And when he came home he found his wife a complete wreck, as you can imagine. And they were praying, Lord, what should we do? How should we respond to this? How can we live in this type of environment? As they were praying, they heard a loud thump from their neighbor's apartment next door. And they ran over to see what had happened, and he had fallen down and was unconscious. And he began to gain consciousness and he looked at him and he said, take me to the hospital. There are 600 pounds in the bureau over there. They're yours if you get me to the hospital and you spare my life. NZV took him to the hospital and made sure that he received care. Over the next few weeks while he was recovering, he went to visit him on a regular basis. Finally one day the man looked at him and said, I suppose you found my $600 or 600 pounds. And he said, it's safe. I have not touched it. It's there where you left it. And he said, but why are you helping me so much? Why are you so kind to me? And he said, well, I'm a believer in Jesus, as you know. And a few years ago, if you had done the things that you had done to me, I would have let you die there in your apartment. But Christ has been so good to me that my life has been transformed and I have no bitterness towards you And the beginning of at that point, a strong relationship of kindness and love came up between the two of them. And their lives were intertwined from that point on. We're not told whether that man came to know Christ as his Savior, but we do know that they lived together in peace and harmony for years to follow. What is being described in Zve 's life is the gentleness of Christ that treats an enemy with kindness and compassion. The fruit of the Spirit we're looking at this morning is the fruit or the flavor of the fruit of the Spirit known as gentleness. As we've been studying the fruit of the Spirit over the past several months, we notice that believers are locked in a life and death battle. The flesh and the spirit are at odds with one another. There is a war that is going on in the lives of believers. And only as we walk in fellowship with God, only as we walk yielding our lives in fellowship to God Can we demonstrate and exhibit and display the fruit of the Spirit, the powerful working of God in our hearts to transform us from being once angry and bitter and harsh? To those who are gentle and kind and loving. It's only as we listen to the Lord in his word and yield to him Only as we say, Father, I can't do this, but you can enable me to do it. I can't love this way, but you will enable me, are we able to demonstrate this aspect of the fruit of the Spirit? We've mentioned that all of these flavors of the fruit of the Spirit, there's nine of them that are here, are really outworkings of love. They're different flavors of love. When we say love is patience. So we see in the fruit of the Spirit that one of the aspects is patience. But the head of the list is love. And we mentioned this fact that joy, the second on the list, is love that is exalting. It is overflowing with exaltation because of the love it has received. Peace is love resting in the love it has received. Patience is love enduring. Kindness is love that is serving. Goodness is love that is purifying. Faithfulness is love being dependable. And gentleness. In my list I had before, I said gentleness is love in refinement. But I've changed that as I've thought about this throughout the week. I think a better word for it is It is love in mildness. Instead of a harsh action, it is a mild and kind action. This morning, as we look at this fruit of the Spirit, which is gentleness, we're going to find a definition of gentleness. Secondly, we're going to look at divine gentleness, God's own gentleness to us. Then demonstrations of gentleness, how we are to live out gentleness in this world, and then the drawing power of gentleness. Those four aspects will be what we are looking at this morning. So let's begin by defining gentleness. What is gentleness? The word that we have here for gentleness in Galatians 5 is found two times in the book of Galatians It's found here in verse 23, and then just a couple verses later, we're going to look at that in a few moments, but he says in chapter 6, verse 1, Brothers, if anyone is caught in any transgression. You who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. So gentleness is involved in restoration. If you know your fruit of the Spirit, maybe you memorized the list of the fruit of the Spirit in the King James. Maybe as a young person you memorized it in the King James Version. The word that would have been in place of gentleness in the King James is the word meekness. And really that is an excellent word. It really helps us understand the Greek word that is here. It has a variety of shades of meaning. The only problem with the word Greekness is that it rhymes with the word weakness, and so people assume that weakness and meekness are the same thing. But r the reality is this word meekness or gentleness has the idea of not being overly impressed By a sense of one's own self-importance. If you are gentle, you are not overwhelmed with how great you are, but you're actually looking at others and seeing their value. Gentleness is a quality of gentle friendliness. It is an acquiescence that accommodates to the weakness of another It is a restrained patience. It is a patient trust in God in the midst of difficult circumstances. It's a word that was used in classical Greek to describe the taming of an animal. Xenophon used this to describe horses that are tamed and they are hitched together and they stand quietly together. The idea of being tame and working together. It's not that horses are weak. But when they are tamed, they can work powerfully in coordination. Along with that, Aristotle described the easy-tempered and easily domesticated Asian elephant. With this word of meekness. Now again, it's not that an elephant or an Asian elephant is a weak animal. It's a mighty animal, powerful animal. But when properly domesticated, that power is used in an appropriate way that does not harm or destroy, but actually blesses. Charles Spurgeon said that gentleness does not push itself to the front and does not easily get provoked. He said some people are very hard, stern, severe, quick-tempered, passionate. But the true follower of Christ will be gentle and tender even as he was. That's a great understanding There's a 17th-century Puritan known as Richard Sibbs, and he said of gentleness, and I think this is helpful for us, it is an imminent and infallible mark of regeneration. to have the violence and fierceness of our cruel nature taken away. How do you know someone has been born again? The fierceness of their cruel, selfish nature is transformed I was speaking with a believer here recently and she shared with me how who she was before is Very different than who she is today. And even her responses to provocations that she's endured recently are markedly different from who she was before she came to know Christ. That the fierceness of her old nature has been done away in Christ. And what has come in its place is a gentleness. So the definition that I have for gentleness that I put together that works for me and I think it helps is a sweet, surrendered mildness. That treats others with mildness and dignity. A sweet, surrendered mildness that treats others with mildness and dignity. And that reality of surrendered is very important that it's as we are surrendered to God and we are yielded to him that we are able to demonstrate this in the lives of others. Jerry Bridges described an illustration that was, I think it's kind of helpful to understand gentleness. And he said that gentleness is illustrated by the way we would handle a carton of exquisite crystal glasses. If you were given a carton of exquisite crystal glasses to carry into a home and place it somewhere, you would be very careful about every step you take and how you set it down. Because, one, they're valuable, and two, they're fragile. And he said, it is the recognition, gentleness is the recognition that the human personality is valuable, but fragile. And must be handled with care. That is the way our Lord handles us. He recognizes and places within us a value, and he handles us with care But sometimes it's helpful when we're looking at defining something to look at what gentleness is not, because there is a fake fruit, there is a counterfeit of the true fruit of the Spirit that is actually very common within our culture today and it's growing. It's actually something that is infiltrating the church and is causing a great deal of harm. So in order for us to do this, it's important to know that gentleness is not, as we said earlier, weakness. It is not cowardice. It is not fear of using authority. That's important to understand. It is not in contradiction or in contradistinction to the use of authority. It's not even opposed to anger. If you want to think about the most gentle person that has ever walked the face of the earth, it is Jesus Christ. But he also knew the right time and the right way to be angry. He was very angry at the Pharisees for their hypocrisy that led many people to hell. and turned them away from God. He was also very angry at the defiling of the temple, turning the temple from a place of worship into a place where It was a marketplace where sales were being done, where there were people calling out and trying to barter and trade And he actually overturned the tables, braided a whip, and drove out the animals and the money changers that were in the temple. It is not opposed to holy, righteous anger. It's not weakness. It's not timidity. It's not cowardice. There's even a trend that is gaining popularity in parenting that's called gentle parenting. And who doesn't want to be a gentle parent? I mean, that's just a great term. I mean, I want to be a gentle parent. You want to be a gentle parent. After all, gentleness is a fruit of the Spirit, and our Savior was gentle. Who doesn't want to be gentle? But this word is being redefined, and it's nothing different than our an old demonic lie that's packaged with new words. A spirit-filled parent who is gentle is not afraid to discipline. It's not afraid to even spank their child. A truly gentle parent recognizes that they have been given authority by God And that they don't lose their temper because God has been kind to them, and they don't punish with harshness and cruelty or with angry words. But in love for the good of the child and for the glory of God, they are controlled in their discipline. But they are focused on using their authority for the good of the child and the glory of God. Gentle parenting, as it is commonly defined, would not agree with that. It would say no use of authority is appropriate. And that is sin. That is wrong. That is evil. Similarly, gentleness is not afraid to correct or rebuke. Remember, we said this word is found two times in Galatians, here in the list of the fruit of the Spirit, and then just a few verses later in Galatians 6, verse 1. And what is the context of Galatians 6, verse 1? It's the context of rebuking. Correcting, confronting a believer who is straying away from the truth. He says, brothers, if anyone is caught in any transgression, You who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. Keep watch on yourself, lest you too be tempted. A Christian should not delight in rebuke, but he knows that sin is dangerous, and he knows that sin is deceptive, and he knows that the end of sin is death. And therefore, in love and in humility and with the purpose of restoration, he will confront the believer who has been deceived by sin. But he will do it with gentleness. He will do it with humility, recognizing I too am a sinner. He will do it recognizing I too could be tempted and could fall into the same sin. And therefore, I need to be compassionate to this person. Only by the grace of God have I not been deceived by the sin. And so in love and in compassion and in humility, he will confront. It is because he loves that he confronts. A false fruit of gentleness is this trendy word that we see today called empathy. And again, who doesn't want to be empathetic? We want to be known as being empathetic, but the word empathy has been redefined in our culture. And you'll hear this word thrown around in articles and in blogs on a regular basis. But as it is often used, empathy makes the feelings of another person more important than truth. How they feel is more important than truth. Anyone who tries to point them to truth is accused of being unloving and cruel and unempathetic. But that is not the truth. Empathy is not afraid to confront. True empathy. But as it is being used in our culture today, empathy says the feelings of another person are greater than truth. But that's not what true gentleness is. So where do we see and learn about gentleness? How do we know what true gentleness is? Well, that's where we see the divine gentleness, the gentleness that is God's gentleness to us. We have a mighty, gentle shepherd as our God. One of the most glorious passages in the book of Isaiah that describes the awesome might and power of God is Isaiah 40. In Isaiah 40, there's these beautiful descriptions of God and his power. In verse 10, he says, Behold, the Lord God comes with might, and his arm rules for him. And then there's just descriptions of God's might and power throughout the rest of the chapter. In verse 25 and verse 26, the Lord Himself asks this question. To whom then will you compare me that I should be like him? says the Holy One. Lift up your eyes on high and see. And he's describing the stars, the planets. Lift up your eyes, look and see, consider And he says, Who created these? He who brings out their host by number, calling them all by name, by the greatness of his might. And because he is strong in power, not one is missing. God describes his power in terms of the creation that he himself created, the stars and the planets that he himself put in space. I remember when we were going through Isaiah 40 in our Wednesday night study, we were just contemplating a little bit of the vastness of space. And an illustration that I thought was helpful was to describe putting a grain of sand on the tip of your finger. And holding your hand out at arm's length, that grain of sand, and looking at that grain of sand up at the sky. Scientists tell us that if you could do that, that grain of sand that That that the part of space that is blocked by that grain of s sand at arm's length would hide ten thousand galaxies 10,000 galaxies, like the Milky Way. That part of space that is blocked by that grain of sand at the tip of your finger would conceal 10,000 galaxies. Wow. And our God called them all by name. And by his mighty power, he put them in space. Does that not make you feel small? Maybe that makes you actually a little bit afraid. To think I'm dealing with a God that can that can make a universe that is so far beyond comprehension. That there are 10,000 galaxies behind a speck of sand. But you know what's so beautiful? In the same chapter, Isaiah 40. There is a description of God's gentle care for us. In verse 11 of Isaiah 40, he says He will tend his flock like a shepherd. He will gather the lambs in his arms. He will carry them in his bosom, and gently lead those that are with young. Wow. The God who puts the billions and trillions of stars into space Cares for you and I like a shepherd, and his mighty power is available for us to protect us and to provide for us and to care for us. Truly, it takes strength to be truly gentle. It takes true strength to be truly gentle. And that's the reality. For someone who knows the Lord, the strength of God enables them to be gentle. It's not their own strength. It is the strength of God that allows them to be gentle. And praise the Lord that it is his omnipotent power that is gently exercised on our behalf. That it is his strength that is protecting us. Our God is a mighty, gentle shepherd. He's also a mighty, gentle support. In Psalm 1835, there's this really interesting verse where the psalmist David is describing God's care for him. And he says in 18, chapter 18, verse 35 , You have given me the shield of your salvation. So you see the descriptions of protection, a shield of salvation, and your right hand supports me. And then he says this. And your gentleness made me great. The shield of your salvation, your right hand supports me, and your gentleness makes me great. I don't know if you would have put those attributes together if you were writing something about God. God's gentleness to David was what truly made him great. God's gentleness was seen in giving David a friend like Jonathan. If you've ever been in a tough spot, it's nice to have a true friend. A friend who has your back. And God was gentle to David by giving him a true friend. God was gentle to David when Ziklag, his city, was burned, and all of his family was taken captive. And the Lord allowed him to strengthen himself in the Lord. God is gentle to David in allowing him to go and rescue his family and all those that were taken captive and restore them. God was gentle to David in forgiving him his sin with Bathsheba. God was gentle to David in restoring him when Absalom revolted against him. David says, it is your gentleness that has made me great. It's because David had received gentleness that he was able to be gentle to those that needed gentleness. God's gentleness to David taught him to be gentle to others. We see this gentleness in how he handled Saul. One of the most amazing things is Saul is chasing him down, and David has a chance to take his life, and he spares him. And he honors him. Wow. Or how he handled Mephibosheth. Mephibosheth had a claim on the throne, and David brings him into his own home and he feeds him at his table for the rest of his life. Because of his father Jonathan. Or even Shimei, who when David was fleeing Jerusalem as Absalom rebelled, is throwing rocks and dirt at David and cursing him. And when he comes back in, he forgives him. He said, God, your gentleness to me has made me great. Because I can be gentle to others. Jesus is our shield of our salvation, who enables us to be gentle. He is the source of our gentleness and allows us to show gentleness to others. So let me ask you, are you harsh in how you speak to your wife, men? Or your children? It's interesting that the instruction to fathers is to bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord and do not provoke them to anger. He says, discipline them. But don't provoke them to anger. Are you harsh? Are you exercising discipline in a harsh and cruel way? Are you harsh towards your wife? You need to recognize that is not of the Lord. That is sinful. You need to repent of it, but you need to meditate on the gentleness that God has shown to you. Maybe wives, do your words pierce like swords? Do you bite and devour and tear down your husband and children with your words? Then meditate on the gentleness, the gentle words that Christ has given to you And the way God has treated you in Christ Jesus. Jesus is our mighty, gentle Savior If you want to know what gentleness is, if you want to know what any of the fruit of the Spirit are, you can look at Jesus Christ because the fullness of the Spirit dwelt in him, and all the attributes of God dwelt perfectly in him. Jesus himself highlights this attribute of gentleness as he calls people to repentance. He says, Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am gentle. And lowly in heart. And you will find rest for your souls. This is one of the characteristics of true gentleness. A gentle person makes other people to be at rest in his presence. Do you make people at rest in your presence or they always feel like they got to walk on eggshells? A gentle person makes people at rest, like our Savior did Jesus was gentle to the broken sinner. One of the beautiful verses that describes the gentleness of Christ. It's actually not in the New Testament, though it is quoted in the New Testament. It's in Isaiah 42. And it says of Jesus, the Lord speaks of Jesus, behold my servant whom I uphold, my chosen in whom my soul delights. I have put my spirit upon him. He will bring forth justice to the nations. He will not cry aloud or lift up his voice or make it heard in the street. A bruised reed he will not break, and a faintly burning wick he will not quench. This is the beautiful characteristic of The gentleness of Christ. A bruised reed and a and a faintly burning whip. The idea of a bruised reed is have you ever seen w like a cattail. It gets damaged and it's very quickly going to fall over. And the tendency if you're a little kid going through the swamp is to just knock it down. Destroy it. Break it in half. Jesus has said of him that a bruised reed he will not break. He heals it. He strengthens it. A faintly burning wick. What do you want to do to it? Blow it out. But no, he gently fans it back to life. This is speaking of those who are hurting, those who are spiritually weak and maybe struggling in their faith. You and I may be tempted to write off people like that. You and I may be tempted like, I'm going to squelch that. Maybe we'd be tempted to deal harshly with them. But our Savior was gentle and tender, and he healed and restored. The gospel is full of encounters of Christ with those who are hurting and how he restored them. I think of the woman, the Bible just describes her as the sinful woman. She probably was a prostitute. She came and she anointed the feet of Jesus with oil, and her tears are pouring down. And she wipes his feet with her hair. Everyone else in the room dismissed her, had no patience for her, wanted her gone. And Christ speaks words of kindness to her. He says, Your faith has saved you. Go in peace. That is our gentle Savior. What about Zacchaeus? No one wanted Zacchaeus or any of the tax collector or the woman caught in adultery. Or the thief on the cross, or even Peter, when he had denied him. Christ treated people with gentleness. He saw them as valuable and fragile. Jesus also treated with compassion those that others didn't want to see. They didn't want to think about. You have blind Bartimaeus, he's crying out to Jesus and going, Quiet! He doesn't have time for you. And Jesus goes and approaches him and heals him. The lepers that no one wanted around. What about the children? The disciples said, Jesus is too important to deal with you. Let the little children come to me, and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven. Or the Samaritan woman at the well, who no one else wanted to talk to her. The disciples were annoyed that she was still there, but Jesus cared for her. He was gentle. He is the perfect example of gentleness. And although he was gentle, He was not He was not afraid to rebuke. He was firm to the rebellious. He rebuked the Pharisees. He cleansed the temple. But you notice something else here is very important. To the woman caught in adultery, what did he say? Don't worry about it. Go and sin no more. His gentleness was not divorced from truth. His gentleness was always in truth. And that is the example that we need to remember. He is the perfect demonstration of it. So how do we live And demonstrate gentleness in our lives. What does a believer who has the fruit of the Spirit look like? Well, the first way a believer demonstrates the spiritual fruit of gentleness is by submitting to God. Gentleness is an inward grace that's created by the Holy Spirit, first towards God, and then towards others. Now maybe you're thinking, gentleness towards God? I don't quite understand that. Remember we said the word gentleness and meekness. are our synonyms here. The word gentleness that we said also in Greek is used to describe a tamed animal An animal that is under the authority of its master. That is the idea that we are to bring before God, that we are tamed by him. His authority is over us. In James chapter 1, verse 21, this word is found. He says, Therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness, and receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your soul. A gentle believer acknowledges the authority of God and he receives the word of God with a spirit of meekness. That is authority. God is true. I will obey God. Let God be true, and every man a liar. So we put away wickedness and sin and we yield to the word of God and its authority over us. The fact is you will never Be gentle if you don't receive the Word of God with meekness. If you're fighting against it, you're arguing against it. Every time the Word of God comes to bear on something in your life, you go. No, I don't want that. And you make excuses for it and you argue against the word of God. You are not demonstrating gentleness, but actually rebellion. Are you quick to defend an excuse? Quick to argue against God, or are you quick to receive? The gentle, spirit-filled person will receive. The word of God. Our Lord set an example of yieldedness for us in this area. Obviously, he never had to yield in repentance, but he does say in the garden , Not your will, but my will be done. Or not not my will, but your will be done. He yields himself entirely to the will of the Father. And he sets the example for us in this meekness that is first to God and then to others. How do you respond? When others treat you injustly. Are you yielded to God in that injustice? Do you respond with meekness or do you argue and fight against it Well, the example of Christ and how he responded to injustice in the garden is a perfect example for us. So, believers, we first yield ourselves to God And then to others. Secondly, believers demonstrate the spiritual fruit of gentleness by words of gentle wisdom By words of gentle wisdom. The scripture reading this morning was from James chapter 3. And you may not have you may have wondered why are we reading this, but twice in this passage of scripture, the word gentle. is brought out. He says, who is wise in understanding among you? It's a good question. Who is wise? Who has understanding? He says, by his good conduct, let him show his works. In the meekness, there's our word, the meekness of wisdom. But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your heart, do not boast and be false to the truth. This is not the wisdom that comes down from above, but is earthly, unspiritual, demonic. For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist , There will be disorder and every vile practice. But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle. Open to reason, full of mercy and good fruits, impartial and sincere Spirit-filled wisdom is revealed by gentleness, not by jealousy, not by self-promotion, not by selfishness, not by arguing. Specifically in this context, it's describing speech. If you know the first half of this chapter, chapter three, it's all about our words. And so wise words are gentle. Are patient, are humble, are willing to be reasoned with. Do you allow people to reason with you? Do you allow people to approach you and maybe disagree with you? Or do you shut them down as quickly as possible? It's interesting how this is different than the world. The world encourages us to be blunt. Opinionated. Harsh to make sure we we demand our rights But the fruit of the Spirit says that you're gentle. You treat people with dignity. You show respect. You exercise kindness. This means that we are to be characterized not by arguing and fighting, but by peaceful interactions with one another. And again, is your marriage characterized by arguing and fighting? If it is, then don't fool yourself into saying that I'm spirit-filled. That's not the case. I was so encouraged yesterday by uh the memorial service for Pastor's mother. And what was described, one of the most beautiful things that was described there was how their faith Had allowed their home to be a home of peace. There were no arguments, there were no fighting, there were no harsh disagreements That there was none of that. That's because they were walking and exhibiting the fruit of the Spirit in their daily lives. Believers demonstrate the spiritual fruit of gentleness by words of gentle wisdom, treating others with dignity and respect in our words. Thirdly, believers demonstrate the spiritual fruit of gentleness by restoring sinning brothers. We touched on this already in our passage. Galatians 6, where it says, Brothers, if anyone is caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness, keeping watch on yourself lest you too be tempted. This gentleness that's described here is a gentleness that is empowered by humility. It's a recognition of one's own vulnerability. It's a recognition that we stand by grace and only by the grace of God. And it first chooses to examine itself. Like Jesus said, see if there's a log in your own eye first before you remove the speck from your brother's eye. It first does a self-examination to see if there is sin in my life that needs to be repented of and forsaken so that I can properly deal with my brother. It seeks to reflect our Lord's compassion and to reflect our Savior's rescuing love. It's that love of our Savior who looked at the woman who was caught in adultery. And had compassion on her and said, go and sin no more to restore her. We talked about demonstrations of gentleness. But I want to see one of the beautiful powers of gentleness. Gentleness is so rare, true gentleness is so rare in the world that it has a drawing power. A magnetic power. If you see a truly gentle person, a gentle man or a gentle woman, there is something magnetic about the drawing power of gentleness. My daughter was and I were talking about this uh last week actually, and she was mentioning a book that she's reading about uh w women witnessing to Muslim women. And there's an entire chapter on the gentleness of Christ and the power of the gentleness of Christ in drawing Muslim women to Christ. Because the harshness of Islam and the cruelty that is characteristic of Islam is so antithetical to what they see in Christ. As they see Christ treat the woman who has an issue of blood with kindness. As they see Christ deal with the woman caught in adultery with kindness, or the woman at the well with kindness and tenderness. They're drawn by that gentleness because it's not found in the world. For believers, we are to demonstrate the spiritual fruit of gentleness by being patient. When we are provoked by unbelievers. This word is found in 2 Timothy 2. If you would turn in your Bibles here to 2 Timothy 2. This will be our last passage of Scripture that we turn to. 2 Timothy chapter 2, verses 24 and 25. And Paul is instructing Timothy on how to handle himself when opposed by unbelievers. And this truth works for even when you're opposed by believers who might be cantankerous. I know that's probably hard to imagine, but even believers can be cantankerous at times. But he says to Timothy in verse 24 of 2 Timothy 2, the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome. But kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil, correcting his opponents with gentleness. God may perhaps grant them repentance, leading to a knowledge of the truth. How do we respond? How do we want to respond when someone opposes us? How do we want to respond when someone treats us unfairly, unkindly? Do you have like a Zy In my flesh I like to go for the jugular? I'm gonna take you out and you're gonna know it. Maybe you have that same flesh that you deal with too. The temptation for many is to quickly lash out and even humiliate an opponent. with arguments and accusations. But meekness and gentleness by the Spirit of God reminds us that there are more important things than winning an argument. We should be more concerned with winning souls. I'm reminded the fact that you cannot argue a person into heaven. I've learned that lesson the hard way, winning an argument and losing a soul. You can't argue a person into heaven. But the power of gentleness when provoked, when treated poorly Is is supernatural and it draws people to Christ. What is it that drew the murderer crucified on the cross next to Jesus to faith? Was it Jesus' powerful arguments? The logic that he demonstrated, the way he defended himself. It was none of those things. It was his meekness that said, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they're doing. Meekness is powerful. This is exactly what Peter said to the suffering Christians in 1 Peter 3. 15. He says, in your hearts, honor Christ the Lord as holy, always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason of the hope that is in you. And you're like, Yeah, I am ready. I am loaded for bear to make a defense of my faith. It's not what he's talking about. He's talking about in the face of suffering, when they say, why are you still holding fast to Christ? He says, make a defense of your faith, your hope, but how do you do it? Yet do a gentleness and respect. Hmm. Wow. A gentleness that respects the opponent. It is the spirit of meekness and gentleness in the face of persecution or suffering that is a powerful witness to the lost world. When your co-workers are mocking you and you respond with a gentle kindness. That draws them more than arguing will ever do. So how do we grow in this spiritual fruit of gentleness? Well, first of all, you must be born again in order to have the spiritual fruit of gentleness. The unbeliever does not have gentleness, this supernatural gentleness. It is only by responding to the gentle Savior who says, Come to me all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart. It is only by yielding, saying, I am sinful, I am wicked, I am unable to be right with God by myself and yielding to God, acknowledging that He is God, that He is Lord, and repenting and receiving Christ. Only then can you be given the Holy Spirit. that will change that fierceness, that selfishness that drives you into a gentle love. That is radically transforming. But for the believer, one of the ways that we grow in the spiritual fruit of gentleness is by learning to yield to the will of God for you. If the Spirit of God has brought conviction to you this morning. You can argue against it, you can excuse it, it's different from me because my situation is blah, blah, blah, blah. Or you can say, God, you are God, and I will yield. He says in James 1, put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness and receive with meekness the implanted word. Are you coming under the word of God with meekness that says, God is God? And I will yield my my will to him. In Psalm 32, David says, Don't be like the horse or a mule without understanding, which must be curved with bit and bridle, or it will not stay near you. God says, yield. Don't be brought under. Bring yourself under. Secondly, ask those who know you to help evaluate you. Are you willing to go up to people and say, Am I gentle? Am I approachable? Am I willing to be disagreed with? Do you sense in me a gentleness in my words? Ask them, and then don't argue. That's not true. You just defeated that one. You just revealed the truth. Ask them to show you where you're not gentle and be willing to receive that humbly. Thirdly and finally, look to the example of our gentle Savior. If you want to know gentleness, look at gentle Jesus, meek and mild. He was the perfect example of power. That stoops to the needs of others and serves those who are broken. Yet harsh to those that are rebellious. Because he knows the damning power of sin. Let us be like him. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. Thank you that you are gentle to us, that you have omnipotent power And yet you gently lead us like a shepherd. Father, I pray that you would make us more like Christ in this area. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.