Isaiah sixty-three. I don't know if you've noticed this in our study of the book of Isaiah to this point, and we're moving right along. But it seems like every time we get to a climax where the future seems immediately before us We're confronted with a not yet. I don't know if you've noticed that. Like you maybe one week where where you reach this climax and then the next week you're like But we were just at the climax last week. What is this about not yet? I found that in my own heart several times as I've been studying and preparing these lessons. that I've reached a climax of this is amazing. This is what God is doing. This is the culmination. And then the next chapter says Not yet. Think about it like in chapter 6 through 12, where they climax with a vision of the millennial kingdom and all the nations streaming up to Jerusalem. To learn from the Lord Himself. And then chapter 12 is a call to shout and sing praises for the salvation that the coming king brings. And you're like, yes! What's the rest of the book going to be like? Well then 13 through 27 , we have calls for worldwide judgment, which have a somewhat immediate context, but also a long-range future context. And you realize, whoa. The scope of time that God is describing here in chapters 6 through 12 is a much larger scope of time than we had envisioned. And so when we're ready to bring in the millennial kingdom, come Lord Jesus, he says, there's still a not yet. We've experienced this, I think, a little bit in chapters 42 through 55, when we have the suffering servant, and we have him, these verses that we've been memorizing here in Isaiah 53. And then they culminate with an invitation to Messiah's banquet in Isaiah 55. If you remember Isaiah 55, it was just like the text that is built to preach. It is just so exciting to teach that passage. And then in the next couple chapters, we're told that the salvation has not yet come. And there's a rebuke of the wicked rulers, and we're we're brought down to the not yet. This is not yet. And I kind of felt like that again as I was reading and preparing for this week's lesson. Last week we have what? Well we had We had the z for Zion 's sake, we have the Lord Himself who is interceding because I will not keep silent until the Father performs what he has promised, until he makes Israel a praise. In all the world. And then in 63 we have this vision of the Messiah coming in blood-spattered garments as a victorious king to set up his millennial kingdom. And then we come to verse 7 of 63, and we're told, not yet. We are called like watchmen to be praying. to be praying for that day. I would like to actually, what's interesting, I remember last week when I mentioned that chapter 63, verse 7 should actually be a beginning of a new chapter. There really is a complete change of thought, and that new chapter would go all the way to the end of chapter 64 because it is one It is one prayer. It is the prayer of one person to God. And it it is a model prayer of a watchman praying for God to work on behalf of his people. So I'd like us just to read it because I don't know that we'll get this experience on on a regular basis to read it all in one setting. I'm just going to read, if you would follow from chapter 63, verse 7, it's going to take us about four minutes. So It's okay, we can do this. I once read all of 2 Corinthians in a church service, so we can read we can read uh a chapter and a half together But it'll take about four minutes. I'll read it. You just follow along, beginning in verse seven of chapter sixty-three. But this will help us feel the prayer in its totality and understand the flow. And you might be surprised by some of the things that We hear coming out of the mouth of this watchman. He says, I will recount the steadfast love of the Lord, the praises of the Lord. according to all that the Lord has granted us, and the great goodness to the house of Israel, that He has granted them according to His compassion, according to the abundance of His steadfast love. For he said, Surely they are my people, children who will not deal falsely, and he became their Savior In all their affliction, he was afflicted. And the angel of his presence saved them. In his love and in his pity he redeemed them. He lifted them up and carried them all the days of old. But they rebelled and grieved his Holy Spirit. Therefore he turned to be their enemy and himself fought against them. Then he remembered the days of old of Moses and his people. Where is he who brought them up out of the sea with the shepherds of his flock? Where is he who put in the midst of them his Holy Spirit, who caused his glorious arm to go at the right hand of Moses who divided the waters before them to make for himself an everlasting name, who led them through the depths like a horse in the desert, they did not stumble. Like livestock that go down into the valley, the Spirit of the Lord gave them rest. So you led your people to make for yourself a glorious name. Look down from heaven and see, from your holy and beautiful habitation, where are your zeal and your might The stirring of your inner parts and your compassion are held back from me. For you are our Father, though Abraham does not know us. And Israel does not acknowledge us. You, O Lord, are our Father, our Redeemer from of old is your name O Lord, why do you make us wander from your ways and harden our heart so that we fear you not? Return for the sake of your servants, the tribes of your heritage Your holy people held possession for a little while. Our adversaries have trampled down your sanctuary. We have become like those over whom you have never ruled Like those who are not called by your name. Oh, that you would rend the heavens and come down, that the mountains might quake at your presence. As when fire kindles brushwood, and the fire causes water to boil, to make your name known to your adversaries, and that the nations might tremble at your presence. When you did awesome things that we did not look for, you came down, the mountains quaked at your presence. From of old no one has heard or perceived by the ear No eye has seen a God beside you, who acts for those who wait for him. You meet him who joyfully works righteousness, those who remember you in your ways Behold, you were angry, and we sinned. In our sins we have been a long time. And shall we be saved? We have all become like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. We all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities like the wind take us away There is no one who calls upon your name, who rouses himself to take hold of you, for you have hidden your face from us, and have made us melt in the hand of our iniquities But now, O Lord, you are our Father. We are the clay, and you are our potter. We are all the work of your hand Be not so terribly angry, O Lord, and remember not iniquity forever. Behold, please look. We are all your people. Your holy cities have become a wilderness. Zion has become a wilderness. Jerusalem, a desolation. Our holy and beautiful house, where our fathers praised you, has been burned by fire, and all our pleasant places have become ruins. Will you restrain yourself at these things, O Lord? Will you keep silent and afflict us so terribly? And the prayer ends. It's a powerful prayer. It's a bold prayer. It's a model prayer. of bold intercession before the throne of God. There's a sense of an audacity Maybe as you were listening to me read it, you might have thought in your heart, wow, that's kind of bold. I don't know if I would pray that way. There's some things that border on the irreverent. One commentator calls this the watchman storming heaven in his prayer. He's storming the gates of heaven. But one of the aspects of this prayer that makes it such an exalted model for us is that it has some of the lowest expressions of self-reflection that is found anywhere in the Bible. When he says of himself and of his people, we have all become like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. We fade, we all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities like the wind take us away. It's in light of that That he's able to come with boldness before the throne of God. But instead of wallowing in that lowliness He quickly recalibrates himself with the f the reality of the covenant relationship that we have with our God. One of the things that is so special about this in the Old Testament is the way the prayer talks about God as his father. It's extremely rare in the Old Testament for God to be called Father. It's much more of a New Testament thing that Christ revealed to us. But three times in this prayer, he references God as our Father. That personal covenant relationship is nowhere else in the Old Testament expressed so clearly And it's on that that he has this boldness to come into the throne of God. We've covered the introduction now. Isaiah has the theme, return and rest in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. And we're coming towards the end. Oops, coming towards the end of the book. And it's building. Remember, we have been. Called to be watchmen who are given the purpose of never tiring and never giving God rest as we pray for Jerusalem, for Zion's sake And this then is the prophet doing that for us. As we see that this is the focus that God has for his people. The prayer or the intercession that we have here has four main parts to it. The first part that we're going to look at tonight, and we're only going to look at the first part tonight, so don't get nervous, is And the aspect of remembrance, the watchman's remembrance of God's steadfast love. Then it goes on to the watchman's heartfelt complaint. And you probably noticed this as we were coming to different passages here that seemed rather bold. And he has a very heartfelt complaint. Lord, why do you make us wander from your ways and harden our heart so that we fear you not? And we'll talk about that next week. And then the watchman's humble confession that comes in chapter 64 and the watchman's dependent plea. as he ends out pleading with God to remember Jerusalem and his people. So let's look at God's steadfast love remembered These verses, chapter 63, verses 7 through 14. The key to the boldness that we see in this prayer is rooted in the remembrance of God's steadfast love. This really is so beautiful. It's important to remember that the author is writing from a position of defeat and of failure. Think about how the prayer ends. I keep calling it a psalm because it sounds like a psalm, does it not? It ends saying, the Lord's house has been burnt down. Now that never happened in Isaiah's life. Isaiah knew that was going to happen. It was prophesied, but it didn't happen in his life. So it's Isaiah writing in the voice of a later Babylonian exile. He's writing as if he is in Babylon. And he's remembering what God has done and asking God to work. He begins here, he says, I will recount in verse 7 the steadfast love of the Lord, the praises of the Lord. He grounds his prayer in remembrance. The watchman's prayer begins by recounting. That word recount is the some some have the idea of Retelling, but the word literally is the word for remember. It's the same word we find actually in verse 11 that's translated, then he remembered the days of old. It's the word zakar. It's where we get the name Zachariah or Zachary. Yahweh remembers. That's where that word comes from. That name comes from And he's saying that what he remembers here is going to enable him to come with such boldness. I think it's so important for us. When we do pray, we are, this is not just an Old Testament pattern, this is a New Testament pattern. Remembrance is the ground, it is the basis for our praying. Think about what it says in Philippians 4 verse 6. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. What is thanksgiving? It's a remembering of what God has done. The loving kindnesses, the goodnesses, the answers to prayer. It is coming to God and saying, you did this. And I thank you, and I worship you and I praise you for what you have done. It is a recounting to God in prayer what he has done. And it is recounting God's dealings to help us understand the character of God. Every time we recount and we remember the dealings of God in the past, we're learning who God is. This is what God has done. And that tells us about the character of God. And so we learn about Him as we recount. So our faith teaches us to remember God's character, to remember God's gracious dealings with us in light of our failures, to remember God's precious promises. and to use them as fuel for our faith. He says here, I will recount the steadfast love of the Lord. the praises of the Lord. And the idea here is that the praises of the Lord are rooted in the steadfast love of the Lord. We praise the Lord because of his steadfast love. That word steadfast love is actually, it's it's you notice in this verse 7, it's steadfast love is in the very beginning of the verse. And it's also the very end of the verse. It's like bookends to tell us this is really what the theme of this section is about, the steadfast love. It's a way that the Hebrew author is highlighting this is about the steadfast love. And that word steadfast love is the famous Hebrew word Hesed. And it's actually in the plural. So it's a word that can be translated loving kindness or mercy or the grace of God. In this case, it might be We don't have a way to say steadfast loves of the Lord, but loving kindnesses is a good way to understand it. The loving kindness is the multiple expressions of God 's love to us. His faithfulness to us day in and day out. When we wake up every day, we are experiencing again the steadfast love of the Lord. And every moment of the day in him we live and move and have our being. As James says that he is the unchanging giver of every good gift. So everything that we enjoy in this life is an example of the steadfast loves of the Lord. Perhaps when you read the Old Testament, especially the prophets, you may be tempted to think of the God of the Old Testament as being different than the God of the New Testament. Sometimes we think of the God of the Old Testament. He's an angry God. And the God of the New Testament is a loving God. That would be inaccurate. That would be completely an inaccurate description. God is one. And the God of the Old Testament is the same as the God of the New Testament. And the prophet here is writing, and he's saying, if you think of the God of the Old Testament as a God of wrath, you have got it all wrong. The God of the Old Testament is a God of steadfast love. And if God had to display his wrath to us, it is because we deserved it. It's not surprising, he's saying that God got angry with us. What is surprising is that he ever cared for us and that he continues to care for us in spite of how we have responded to him. The Old Testament writers marveled at the grace of God and his steadfast love. Psalm 103, David writes of this. He says That he made his ways, he made known his ways to Moses, his acts to the people of Israel. The Lord is merciful and gracious and slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. He will not always shide, nor will he keep his anger forever. He does not deal with us according to our sins, nor repay us according to our iniquities. Now it doesn't mean that God doesn't punish sin. He's saying he doesn't do it as much as our sin deserves. He is gracious to us and lenient to us, and he is patient. He should instantly bring punishment upon us, but he is patient waiting for us to repent. He says, For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his steadfast love toward those who fear him. How high is the heavens above the earth? It's immeasurable. And that's the significance of God's steadfast love. As far as the East is from the West, so far does He remove our transgressions from us. As a father shows compassion to his children, so the Lord shows compassion to those who fear him. We see that God is Remarkably gracious, remarkably compassionate, remarkably, immeasurably kind towards us. Again, a big part of the problem is we don't see him. in his holiness, and we don't grasp the magnitude of his holiness for what it is. And so we don't understand how much Of his steadfast love we are receiving moment by moment. Twice in verse 7, we are told that these gifts were granted to them. This speaks of the gracious and the generous. The idea really of granted is more of the idea of like a generous nature of God's dealing with his people. Isaiah is pointing out that God has given us much more. than we could ever say we deserve. When we read this verse, we shouldn't but quickly run in our minds to New Testament realities. Things like what we find in Ephesians chapter 1, where we find out that he has lavished on us his love in Christ. That the grace of God has been expressed to us in such a way that it is lavished. He says, in love, he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons. through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace with which he has blessed us in the beloved, in Christ. He has lavished grace upon us. We need to remind ourselves of this as we pray and praise these things. But the reality is, who is the author of this prayer talking to? He's recounting these things to himself, but primarily to God. Not that God is forgotten. But he is laying his case before God. He is making an argument to God. He is like one that is coming before God. with an argument before the court of God, and he's saying, remember your steadfast love. Remember all the things you have done to us and your kindnesses to us. And don't stop now. continue to pour them out to us. So we must learn here the graciousness of our God. He re recounts God's gracious election in verses 8 and 9. He says, For he said, Surely they are my people. Children who will not deal falsely. And this is going back to the time of his choosing of them. He makes them his people, and he says they are children. who will not deal falsely. Speaking of that covenant relationship that he has with them. It speaks of election as the basis of his loving relationship, but he made them his children. Just like he has done for us in Christ Jesus, he made us his children in Christ Jesus. In Deuteronomy chapter 7, Moses reminds the people of Israel that God chose them, not based on anything that was good in them or anything that he saw that was valuable in them, but because he had made a promise to the patriarchs and he was going to fulfill his promise. He says to them The Lord did not set his affection on you and choose you because you were more numerous than other peoples, for you were the fewest of all peoples, but it was because the Lord loved you And kept the oath he swore to your forefathers, that he brought you out with a mighty hand, and redeemed you from the land of slavery, from the power of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. What he mentions next is perhaps even more shocking. He says he calls them children who will not deal falsely. When I read that the first time, did your ears kind of perk up and go, who's he talking about? Surely not the people of Israel. Surely, surely not. Their whole history is a history of dealing falsely. What does this mean? Does it mean that when God called them and chose them and didn't realize that they were going to deal falsely with him. That's not at all the case. It doesn't mean that God was not aware or that when he when he elected the nation of Israel that he was somehow unaware of how they would respond, but rather he is saying, since he was their God And he had joined into such a relationship with them, and he had been so gracious, and his loving kindnesses had been abundantly poured out to them. that he should expect them to naturally be humbled and over-awed and eager to serve him Surely these are my people, and these are my people who will deal will not deal falsely. They will be true But he knew even from the very beginning that that would not be the case, even saying so through his prophet Moses In light of this, God became their Savior. And he redeemed them and saved them from the Egyptian bondage. I think this is a good reminder for us though, because of God's loving kindnesses to us, he should expect That we would serve him. The grace of God to us that we have received in Christ Jesus, it should naturally make us want to love him and to serve him. We love him because he first loved us. The grace of God in Ephesians 2, 8 and 9 leads to the good works that we were before ordained that we should walk in them. This is the natural response that we should have to God's love. This is even even if you think back to Isaiah chapter 5. Remember, you probably don't remember Isaiah 5, but you may remember the story of Isaiah 5. In Isaiah 5, God describes the nation of Israel like a vineyard that he planted. And he has this tender relationship with this vineyard. And he sings a song. You remember the song that he sang? Let me sing for my beloved. My love song concerning his vineyard. My beloved had a vineyard on a very fertile hill. He dug it and cleared it of stones, and planted it with choice vines. He built a watch tower in the midst of it, and hewed out a wine vat in it. And he looked for it to yield grapes, but it yielded wild grapes. And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem and men of Judah, judge between me and my vineyard What more was there to do for my vineyard that I have not done in it? When I looked for it to yield grapes, why did it yield wild grapes? And that was a condemnation. I have done everything. I have poured out my tender mercies to you. But yet you yielded wild grapes. But we continue on here, and there's some more tender words. In all their affliction, he was afflicted, and the angel of his presence saved them. This is a really tender, touching verse, excuse me, describing God's intimate association with and his tender care of his people. And he was afflicted. in their affliction. That God, the Creator, associated with them in their affliction. I don't know if how you think about that, but that God would associate with them in their affliction. I think it actually shed some light on Hebrews chapter 11. I as I was just meditating on this this week and how this relates with Hebrews 11, 25, and 26. Speaking of Moses, when he chose to be called uh an Israelite instead of uh the son of Pharaoh's daughter, he says, choosing rather to be mistreated with the people of God than to enjoy the fleeting pleasure of sin, he considered the reproach of Christ greater wealth than the treasures of Egypt, for he was looking to the reward. And so he received a reproach, but it's at the same time Christ was being reproached in the nation of Israel We see that as the nation of Israel was in bondage, they were being reproached, they were being persecuted, but Christ Himself was also being persecuted with them. Because Christ identifies with his people. In the church, he identifies with his believers as the head of the body. So the sufferings that you and I experience are experienced by our Lord as well. Think about this. In Acts chapter 9. We have the conversion of Paul on the road to Damascus and a bright light comes down. And what does it say? What does the Lord say out of that light? Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting? Me. What do you mean? I've been persecuting Christians. Two verses earlier. It said that Paul was breathing out threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord. When you touch a disciple of the Lord, you touch Christ. That is a beautiful reality. Then he says, I am Jesus whom you are persecuting. Paul, you're not just touching these people. You are persecuting me. Think about how this impacts what Christ says when he judges the sheep and the goats. And as much as you've done it to the least of these, my brethren, you've done it to me. How does that impact not only our service to one another, but also how we then how we know that Christ is with us in our affliction? Our suffering. God is not distant from us in our suffering. He identifies with us in it. was afflicted in all their affliction. Psalm fifty six eight says that he keeps our tears in a bottle. What a precious reality that God is so intimately related to us by his grace. That our affliction is his affliction. Our suffering is his suffering. But this, I think, also impacts how we think of Christ coming down in the flesh. He didn't stay distant. He took on human flesh. He experienced our weaknesses. He experienced our temptations. So that he can sympathize with us as our great high priest, in all points, tempted like we are, yet without sin. So when we run to Christ, we find in him a Savior who is ready to help us We find his grace is sufficient. He describes here in this next part of the verse. That he lifted them and carried them all the days of old. And that describes the reality of the tender care. Think of what we already read in Isaiah 40. He will tend his flock like a shepherd. He will gather the lambs in his arms. He will carry them in his bosom and gently lead those that are with young. Every time I read this, I think of the time we were driving down the road in Tanzania and we're going through the wilderness region. And there was a large Maasai warrior with a spear in one hand and a little lamb that had just been born, and he was cradling it to his chest. And he was walking down the road. And my wife and I were like, stop, stop, we should take a picture. But I'm like, I don't think he's going to appreciate a picture right now. But it was one of those things where that we said, this is an illustration of our God and how he cares for us. He cares for us like a shepherd cares for a lamb. What's interesting as well in this passage here is another place where we see the Trinity in the Old Testament. We've seen several of these Trinity experiences in the Old Testament. If you notice where he says he has the angel of his presence. that saved them. And the angel of his presence is the one who redeemed them and carried them and lifted them up all the days of old. This is another example of the angel of the Lord, the pre-incarnate expression of Jesus Christ. When it says an angel, don't think a created angel. This is an uncreated angel. Exodus 23, verses 20 and 21 talks about this angel. Behold, I send an angel before you to guard you on the way and to bring you to the place that I have prepared. Pay careful attention to him and obey his voice. Do not rebel against him, for he will not pardon your transgression, for my name is in him. That is not a normal angel When it says my name is in him, the name refers to the character of God. And he's saying, my character, my attributes are in him. So when he says the angel of my presence, he's saying the angel who who is a representation, literally means the angel of my face. He is the one who represents me. He is the physical manifestation of me. And then very in the very next verse we see the Holy Spirit mentioned, but they rebelled and grieved his Holy Spirit. And this Holy Spirit is one who has personality. He is grievable. And he is also the one we find out later who led them into the promised land. But he also, as we continue on here in verse 10, this is really like the startling part of this remembrance. God has been Pouring out, lavishing upon them, carrying them like a lamb, showing them his steadfast love again and again. And then it says, but they rebelled. But they rebelled. It's almost like, what? Why did they rebel? It reveals the heart of mankind is contrary to God. Why did Adam and Eve rebel? Was it because the garden wasn't perfect? No. But because The heart of mankind is contrary to God. In light of God's gracious presence with them and God's gracious election and God's steadfast love, and kindness to them, their response was to rebel against the Lord. The rebellion described here isn't just like one event where they rebelled one time, but it speaks of like the whole cycle of rebellion. that really characterizes their time through the wilderness, into the promised land, into the monarchy, and then even to the divided kingdom. It has this idea of them sitting against God. God sending suffering, so suffering comes from God. They pray to God, they have supplication to God, and then God sends salvation. And they continue in the cycle again and again and again and again. The whole book of Judges is an example of this. And therefore it says he turned to be their enemy. That's an amazing statement. He's been describing God as this one who is in love and in his pity has redeemed them. His steadfast loves have been poured out on him. And God's great goodness has been shown to them. But they rebelled, they grieved his Holy Spirit, therefore he turned to be their enemy, and himself fought against them. That's a fearful place to be. And he's describing the reality of their condition that God turned from being Like a father to them to being like an enemy to them. I think of what James says in James 4. You adulterous people, do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. And the startling thing is, this is written to Christians. That phrase there was written to Christians. So that is a serious reality for us to consider. We cannot choose friendship with the world and expect friendship with God. We must recognize that God chastens those that he loves and he will turn his countenance To them like that of an enemy. But we have this word here in verse 11. Then he remembered the days of old, of Moses and his people. We see God Looking and remembering again his covenant relationship with them and he restores them. You may notice in your translation, if you have the New American Standard, or you have the NIV, verse 11 says, then his people remember the days of old. The ESV and the King James translate it more literally as, than he remembered the days of old. In the NIV and the Nasvi, they kind of make an interpretation. And I think it's an interpretation that's not necessary. They translate and interpret. The ESV and the King James stay accurate to what the Hebrew says here. Then he remembered the days of old. The he refers to God. God remembered the days of old and was merciful and kind to them. The reason why the Numeric and Standard and NIV do that is because the following five questions that come in the latter half of verse 11 and into verse 12 are in the voice of the people of Israel. They're not in they're not God who is saying this thing. So they're they're understanding the first part of verse 11 as this is actually the people of Israel that are saying this. I don't think that's a necessary understanding. Obviously, if you look at it, it says, but they rebelled in verse 10 and grieved his Holy Spirit. Therefore he turned to be their enemy and himself fought against them. Then he remembered the days of old of Moses and his people. The logical grammatical sequence is that the he is referring to God. Then at the middle of verse 11, the question is in the mouth of Isaiah, as he speaks on behalf of this watchman, and he asked five questions that describe the intimate care of God that he showed to the people of Israel. During the Exodus. Where is he who brought them up out of the sea? He's talking about where is the God? Where is the God who brought our people through the Red Sea? Where is He who put in the midst of them his Holy Spirit? And it's describing how God gave the Holy Spirit to Moses and the 70 elders. Where is the God who did this? Who caused his glorious arm to go at the right hand of Moses? Speaking of the almighty power of God that did these great miracles, that brought water out of a rock. Who divided the waters before them and who led them through the depths. This is probably referring to the Jordan River, bringing them then into the promised land. Like, where is this God? Where is the God who has done these things? Verse 13 and 14 speaks of the tender care that God gave as he lovingly directed them and brought them into the land of rest. And he says. . . He led them through the depths like a horse in the desert. They did not stumble. And that maybe that analogy doesn't I don't know. Do horses not stumble in the desert? I don't understand that. The idea is that there's it's not rocky. It's an open pl wilderness, and the horse doesn't stumble because there isn't any rockiness to it. He led them straight to their destination. He led them without failure. Then he says, like livestock that go down into the valley The Spirit of the Lord gave them rest. Now, livestock going down the valley, again, maybe you're not a cattle rustler, but uh the idea is going down to a well-watered valley where there is Pasture and there's water. And they come eagerly and they find the provision that they need. This is a description of how God brought them out of Egypt. through the wilderness straight into the promised land like a well -watered valley, and he settled them in there through his mighty arm and by the power of his Holy Spirit. And he said, so you led your people to make for yourself a glorious name. Now we could spend a lot of time here, but he mentions his name twice in these verses. Verse 12, to make for himself an everlasting name. And then in verse 14, to make for yourself a glorious name. And he remembers the fact that God is zealous for his name. God is zealous over his name and he will act because the nation of Israel is intimately connected with his name. They are the people of Yahweh. In a similar way, we are intimately connected with God. We are the people of God, and He acts on our behalf So Oswalt, the commentator on Isaiah, asked this question. Now if it is true that in some sense God's reputation is entangled with Israel's condition. What does an Israel that is defeated, both within, meaning spiritually, and without, say about God? And then it says this. He answers, it says that God would want to do similar things again and redeem his people. And save them. That is the basis of the boldness of this prayer. There is a powerful logic That is in this prayer. As he remembers the goodness of God, he comes back to this reality. God, your name is connected with us. For your name's sake, do these things. For your name's sake, save us. Redeem us. Have mercy on us. This is important for us as we think about how we ought to pray. As we read that prayer today, it was bold , almost audacious. But God delights in bold prayer that is rooted in remembrance, a remembrance of his awesome character. of his gracious love, of his righteous judgments, of his steadfast love, and in the glory that he has for his name. So let's pray boldly. Let's pray boldly for God to save sinners based on a remembrance of these things. How do you pray for God to save sinners? How do you do that in your own life? Well, I don't know. One of the ways that I pray is, Lord, my Savior is worthy. Of souls. He has died for many souls. He's worthy of an infinite reward. You have promised him people from every kindred, tribe, tongue, and nation. Fulfill your promises. You have said it. Now do it. And I'm not being Flip it. I'm resting in the promises of God and on the fact that I know my God desires to exalt his son because he's worthy. So let us pray bold for God to do this, to make Christ a light to the nations, as he said in Isaiah 49, that his salvation may reach to the ends of the earth. Let's pray boldly for God to send out labors into his harvest field, because he told us to do that. That he would send out laborers into his harvest field from this church. That some of the people downstairs in Kids for Truth and in Youth Group and in this room and in the systematic theology class would be laborers sent out into his harvest field. They would go to the four corners of the globe preaching the gospel in Yemen, in Iran, and Bhutan and North Korea and a thousand other places where the name of Christ is not well known. Let's pray boldly. Let's storm heaven with our prayers. Because we have this as our example, our pattern. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you have given us this example in this bold prayer. Lord, I thank you for Jesus Christ. We thank you for your loving kindnesses to us that are more than can be numbered. Lord, help us to anchor our praying in the remembrances of those things, of your character, of your faithfulness, of your promises of the glory that is due your name. Father, I pray that you would send out laborers into your harvest field. From this church, so that Christ might be magnified in every corner of this globe. And we do pray, Father, for the peace of Jerusalem. We ask you to hear our prayer in Jesus' name. Amen.