Keep your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to First Peter chapter one? First Peter chapter one Several years ago, Parade magazine ran a story about the visit of a multimillionaire named Eugene Land to a public school. Mr. Land was asked to speak to a group of 59 sixth graders in East Harlem, New York. What could he say to inspire these students, he wondered? Statistically, most of them would drop out of school before they would graduate. He had a very carefully scripted speech that he hoped would inspire them, but when he entered the classroom And saw the looks on their faces, he knew that the speech was not going to connect. It was going to seem very hollow and superficial to them. And they were not going to give him hearing. And so as he was sitting there in the classroom getting ready to speak , He thought, what could I possibly say to give them hope? What could I say that would rouse them out of their mindsets and cause them to move forward? And so when he got up to speak, he said something that would electrify the classroom. He said just one sentence. He said to these young people, if you stay in school, I will pay for the college tuition of every one of you. And six years later, 90% of that class graduated from college, graduate from high school, and many of them went on to graduate from college. The young people said that that was a turning point in their lives because it gave them hope. Hope is a very powerful mindset that changes everything. The Bible teaches that Christians should be the most hopeful people in the world. This morning, as we begin a new year public worship, I want us to pick up where we left off before the Christmas season. And you may recall that we had just concluded the opening paragraph of 1 Peter that concludes in verse 12. And this morning. As we began a new year, we begin a new section in verse 13. It says, Wherefore, gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. You will notice that this verse begins with the word wherefore. Some versions have therefore. But that word signifies that there is a shift and that now the speaker is more directly addressing his readers. And he is applying what has just been taught. Let me remind you that in verses 1 through 12, Peter has been teaching these persecuted believers about the greatness of their salvation. He's talked to them about the fact that their salvation is permanence. He says in verse 4 that it's an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you who are kept by the power of God. through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. He goes on to show them that it's a salvation that would enable them to persevere despite their suffering. He talks about in verse 7 the trial of your faith being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire. might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ, whom having not seen ye love, and whom though now ye see him not, yet believing ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory. And then in verses 10 through 12, he talks about the fact that their salvation is so great that it was the contemplation of the prophets and even of the angels and the apostles. But all of the great servants of the Lord throughout history have been fascinated by the gospel. That was revealed through the death, burial, and resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. And now Peter is going to make application. from the fact that we as the children of God have been redeemed. This is the inevitable order that you will find in Scripture. You'll find first the doctrine, the teaching, and then our duty as a result of that doctrine. We have revelation and then responsibility, or to put it another way, we have the indicative. That is who you are in Christ. And then the imperative, this is how you must live. And that order is very significant because the gospel The truth of God is not just about us doing certain things, certain religious duties, or avoiding scandalous sins. No, it's all based on the truth, the revelation of God, and our obedience, our lifestyle, our conduct is to grow out of the truths of the gospel. So how are we to live? Verse 13 in many ways fashions as a transition sort of what you find in the epistles of Paul, like you find in Romans chapter 12, verses 1 and 2, where after eleven chapters of very deep and profound doctrine, Paul says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. Holy acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service, and be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed. That's sort of what we have here in verse 13. This is Peter's call to Christian living. In verses 14, following this text, he says, as obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lust and your ignorance. But as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation, or we would say lifestyle, because it is written, be ye holy, for I am holy. And verse 17 that we read, and if you call on the Father, who without respect of persons judges according to every man's work, pass the time of your sojourning here in fear. So we see here that this is a reminder to us that sanctification invariably follows salvation. Our justification and our sanctification are separate, but invariably linked. A person who has truly received the gospel Will grow in holiness, will desire to obey this call to sanctified living. Peter is going to provide many reasons why we should live this consecrated life, and we will look at that in days to come. But this morning, our entire attention will be given to this introductory verse of the section verse 13. We may just pass over it and think, well, this is just kind of the on-ramp going to his discussion of sanctification, but embedded within this transitional verse, this introductory verse. There are some huge important truths of the Christian life Now let me just say in survey fashion that before we look at these three statements in verse 13, it's important to know that the main point that Peter is making is found in the imperative, hope to the end, or hope completely or fully This is a call to living with hope. Now, I must say at this point that biblical hope Is not the same as our English concept of hope. You may have said to yourself today, I hope it doesn't snow tomorrow. Now that may be a fond wish. I hope it doesn't snow tomorrow either. But that's not what the New Testament means by hope. The word hope Refers to a confident expectation that is based on the promises of God's. It's faith focused forwards. And so we see here that Christians are to be optimistic in our viewpoint of life. Because the future Is filled with wonderful events that will occur, like the coming of our Lord, as we will see. The second thing I want to say by survey before we actually get into the text. Is that this entire verse, this introductory verse, deals with our thinking? If we are going , To be triumphant over the trials of life, if we are going to live the Christian life the way God has called us to It's all to come down with the way we think. Because right thinking always leads to right living. And faulty thinking. leads to defective Christian living. It always works that way. It always goes back to the way we think, to the pattern of our thoughts, to the way we perceive things and the way we make meaning out of things. God made us as human beings, as thinking creatures. We are reflective. We try to make meaning out of everything that happens in our lives. We cannot live without forming some kind of a narrative. of what we're here for and where we're going and and and and what God has called us to do. That's the way God has made us And so Peter begins really his pastoral counseling, you might say, in this epistle to suffering believers by calling on them to develop a mindset of hope. Because developing a mindset of hope is essential to living the Christian life. Now we have three statements in verse 13, and these will form The three points of our message this morning. The first thing I want to call your attention to is this, that living the Christian life requires that we be disciplined in our thinking. We have two participles that lead up to the verb calling us to hope. The first one is this: gird up the loins of your mind. Now this sounds somewhat strange and archaic to our 21st century ears. In fact, Peter is kind of using a mixed metaphor. Because your mind doesn't have loins. But his first century readers would have known exactly what he was communicating with this phrase. Because as you may know, people in biblical times, both men and women, wore robes. And if a person wanted to run quickly. or they wanted to work vigorously, they would tuck up their robe to an app , allow their legs to move without any hindrance. It's the exact equivalent to us we might say today, roll up your sleeves When you see a man and he's getting ready to do a project and he rolls up his sleeves, he is getting ready to do some serious work. And that is what Peter is calling believers to do. Now the imagery for this, most scholars think, probably goes back to the institution of the Passover. Let me read Exodus chapter 12 and verse 11. It says this. This is the instruction that Moses gave to the people in the Passover evening. And thus shall ye eat it, with your loins girded, and your shoes on your feet, and your staff in your hand, and ye shall eat it in haste. It is the Lord's Passover I always thought about this when I was a kid. It's weird how things come to your mind, but you know, your parents were always telling you, don't eat your food too fast. Well, this was a case when mom said to the children, eat your food really quickly, because we're leaving. Peter looking back at this Old Testament text sees a timeless truth for the way we should approach the Christian life. It's very suggestive of many lines of thought that I don't have time to develop this morning. But certainly he, I think, as we're going to see later in this epistle, views the Christian life as a pilgrimage. We are sojourners. We are travelers. This world is not our home. And we, like the ancient Israelites, are going through a wilderness. We sang about that this morning. Pilgrim through this wilder wilderness land. We are doing that, and that is comes from this passage of Scripture. And Peter in 1 Peter chapter 2 is going to come to this in a new a new section. He says, Dearly beloved, 1 Peter 2. 11, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul. Now, what does a person do when they are about to embark on a long and difficult journey? What does a runner do when they're getting ready for a marathon? Well, they train, of course, but one of the things that I've seen in the literature as I research some of it is that they say that your mental preparation is actually even more important than your physical preparation. You must really think about it and prepare yourself mentally for the great challenge that you are about to face. And that is what Peter is saying here. You ever thought about the implications of this? The Christian life requires real effort. It requires focus. It requires attention. It requires us to really think about what we're doing. You know, so often I think we we never give it any consideration. We might think about and meditate about how can I advance in my career. Or how can I fix this problem with my child? Or how can I get my business to really flourish and will call in a consultant? and we'll spend money and we'll will give so much mental energy and focus to thinking, how can I go to the next level? How rarely do we do that in our Christian lives? We just kind of coast along. But the New Testament calls us again and again to focus and think and concentrate And give our hearts to what God has called us to do. This is what we find in this admonition, gird up the loins of your minds. We must be disciplined in our thinking. Taking the analogy a little bit further, and many commentators see this, you know, the uh the loose flowing garment. can be suggestive of our loose and unrestrained and undisciplined thoughts that we just kind of allow to flutter in our minds. That will never do for the Christian. We have to discipline our thinking. You will never go far in your Christian life until you learn to control your thinking. And by the way, one of the things you have to realize, first of all, is that by God's grace you can control your thinking. I can't tell you how many times I've counsel people in my office and said, you've got to stop thinking that way. And they say, I can't stop thinking that way. Yes, you can. It's difficult. You've developed a pattern of thinking, but by God's grace, you can develop a new pattern of thinking. This is why in that text I quoted earlier from Romans chapter 12, what does Paul say is one of the great keys. to our sanctification. He says that we must not be conformed to this world, but we must be transformed by what? The renewing of our minds. We have to change the way we think. We can't think the way a lost person thinks about things. This is essentially what Paul is saying in Colossians chapter 3, where in that epistle he begins. the section on practical Christian living. And he says, set your affections, and that word affections is actually the word mind. Set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth. And we could look at other scriptures that say the same thing. As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. Now I want to apply this truth contextually in two different ways. Let me remind you that Peter is writing to suffering Christians. When you are bombarded by difficulties, by crisis, it is very easy to become tripped up in loose thinking. Let me give you some examples of thinking that is wrong, but is very common among those in a crisis. Things like this, God doesn't really love me. Or he wouldn't let me suffer like this. Or no one understands what I'm going through. Or no one has ever faced what I am facing. Or maybe God is punishing me for my sins of the past. Or perhaps God has abandoned me. These are not some random examples that I found in a book or on a website somewhere. These are samples of what Christians have said to me over the years in private conversations And the thing that runs through all of these propositional truths is that they're all false. They're all unbiblical. There are scriptures that say the exact opposite of what every single one of those statements says. They are ultimately from Satan, the father of lies. It all begins with the person entertaining these thoughts. And then repeating these thoughts in their mind. And then coming to believe those thoughts. And then coming to live those thoughts because now they've accepted them as absolute truth. It becomes The lens through which they view life and the way they interpret things. It becomes a structure of the way they perceive reality. But a person who lives that way will face disaster because they are not true. They are not in accordance with God's word. And so when we face a crisis, when we go through suffering, we have to be careful and vigilant that we do not allow our sloppy thinking. to create even a greater crisis because we have failed to believe the promises of God Now the context also that we find here is a context of a call to holiness. This is what we have in the verses that immediately follow our text in verses 14 and following. And there is an awful lot of loose thinking about sanctification or holy living among Christians as well. Let me provide you some more examples. God wants me to be happy. And so this relationship must be alright. God is very forgiving. And so my indulgence in this sin is no big deal. Yes, my response has been sinful to that person, but so was theirs. Yes, I know what I'm doing is sinful, but it's not as bad as the sins of many other Christians that I know in this church. Or I've already blown it. So I might as well enjoy the sin for a while. These are the kinds of thoughts, the loose thinking that leads to spiritual disaster. Behind every scandal, behind every very notable case of a Christian falling spiritually off the cliff. There was a lengthy process of wrong thinking. There are no exceptions to that. No believer gets up one morning and says, you know what, today I think I'm going to commit adultery. Or you know what, today I think I'm going to renounce my faith and become an atheist. Behind every example that you've ever heard of something like that occurring, there was a long process of unrestrained, unchecked, unbiblical thinking. And finally it came to fruition in that person's life. Living the Christian life requires that we be disciplined in our thinking. When you find your mind going down the wrong path, going down the wrong road, you should literally talk to yourself and say, no, I'm not going to be thinking about that anymore. I'm going to turn my mind to something else. I am not going to allow myself to entertain those thoughts or meditate on that or relish that sinful situation Or think about the things that person has said that were wrong and that hurt me and just make that my meditation this morning. I'm not going to do that I'm going to think on what is true and what is lovely and what is of a good report. The Christian life requires discipline thinking. It also requires that we be discerning in our thinking. Our text here in 1 Peter 1. 13 calls us, the second participle is be sober. Now, Peter is not really addressing the issue of drunkenness in this brief admonition. Certainly drunkenness has no place in the Christian life, and there are a multitude of scriptures. that inform us that it should have no place in our lives. But this particular term is used figuratively always in the New Testament. And it's a very fitting analogy. Because when a person is sober, they are not able to really process what is really going on around them. They are not able to make wise judgments. They are not able to really control themselves the way they should. And so this term came in time to be used of a person with a very good judgment. A person who is able to discern right from wrong and even good from best They were a person who had, we often use this term sober with judgment, they had sober judgment. They were not intoxicated and distracted by other things. And that's the way this term is used. This term is used in the New Testament to set us in contrast to lost people. Why do people in the world make the destructive decisions that they do? Because they are in bondage to sin. And because they are intoxicated by the things of this world, so that their thinking is not straight. It's not clear. This term is also used in the context is often used as a synonym, and sometimes this term is even translated with the term watch. It says, be sober in several scriptures and watch. In other places, this term itself is translated watch. It means to be vigilant, to be alert. We are to be examining our hearts. We are to be looking over our families because The devil and the world are constantly assaulting us and looking for any avenue to come in, any back door, any hidden entrance that it can come in and gain a foothold And destroy our lives and the lives of those around us. And so we are to be watchful, sober-minded, vigilant. This term is also used frequently in the context of spiritual warfare. Turn with me to 1 Peter 4 in verse 7. This is an occasion where Peter uses this exact Greek term again in 1 Peter 4. 7. He says, But the end of all things is at hand. Be ye therefore sober and watch unto prayer. He is writing to the persecuted church, and he's telling them. That they are to be sober and watchful and prayerful. This is the mindset that we should have in the Christian life. And he uses this term one other time in a very familiar verse. Turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse 8. This is the concluding admonition of this epistle. He says, be sober, be vigilant. Because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. We must not be spiritually drowsy. I'm always reminded when I speak of spiritual warfare of A. W. Tozer 's quote, the world in which we live is not a playground, it's a battleground. But so often we live our lives with the mindset that it is a playground. And we spend all of our attention, all of our focus on accumulating a bunch of toys. And having as much fun as we can. But we're on the battlefields. We are behind enemy lines. And so we must be sober-minded and vigilant. One commentator describes this word as the clarity of mind that results in good judgment. So let me ask you this morning, do you have good spiritual judgment? Would anyone describe you as being a discerning Christian? I think this type of Christian is becoming more and more rare in our world today. It seems to me that so many Christians, though they may have a heart for the Lord, they seem to possess no real spiritual discernment They make decisions and choices and they put themselves in situations of temptation and difficulty. That bring great havoc to the Christian experience. Why is that? Well, I think of when I think of uh discernment, I always think of This verse in Hebrews chapter 5 and verse 11, the preacher here is strongly admonishing And we might say rebuking his readers. He says, verse 12, Hebrews 5, for when The time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again, which be the first principles of the oracles of God, and are become such as have need of milk and not of strong meat. For everyone that useth milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe. But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised. Look, to discern both good and evil. Spiritually mature people are able to discern the difference between what is wholesome spiritual food and what is spiritual junk food. There is a lot of spiritual junk food out there today that if you were willing to analyze it and carefully understand what is being presented, you would see that it's distorting scripture and it's really presenting a 21st century worldview That essentially says that God is here to serve us, that God is here to help us, that God is here to make my life a little bit better. It turns biblical truth on its head. And yet it's often filled with a few Bible verses. A lot of references to Jesus, and we think that it's sound scriptural teaching when in fact it is not. Spiritually mature people, according to this passage, are able to make the right decisions because they know God's words. They know God's word. Do you know God's word well? I think most Christians think they know God's Word pretty well. They know a few verses here and there. Perhaps they can find most books of the Bible. And they've attended a few Bible studies, and maybe they've gone to church for many, many years, and they think they know the Word of God. I can't tell you how many times, how many times I have spoken to Christians about various issues that the Bible in a very basic and simplistic way addresses. And they have been going to church, perhaps even here, for years, and yet it seems like they have retained nothing. You open up the Word of God and it's like they've never heard these verses before. It's like vast portions of the Word of God, they have no idea what the content of that book is. It's wonderful to come and hear the preaching of the word. This is one way, a very vital way that we receive the word, but there's no substitute for us digging in and reading the word ourselves. Making it our own and hiding it in our hearts and meditating upon it. This is why we have reading plans out here. This is why every year at this time I admonish believers to consider reading through the Word of God, all of it, all 1,189 chapters. 95 % of Christians, I'm told, have not read through the Word of God. And I always tell you about this incredible disconnect where they will say to people This book is the word of God. I believe. It is the guide for my life. It is uh you know a light to my path. I believe every word of it. And someone asked him, have you read it? No, I've never read it, but I heard it's really good Read the Word of God. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. Every single part, even the parts in Leviticus and First Chronicles. that really test your resolve to read through the Bible. If you will look at it carefully, there is much spiritual meat there. We need to know the word of God if we are going to be discerning. And the fact of the matter is, you will never be sober-minded until you are scriptural-filled. But why is it that so many Christians, it seems, have no real appetite for the Word of God? Peter's going to address that a little bit later. In 1 Peter chapter 2, he says this Verse 1, wherefore laying aside all malice and guile and hypocrisies and envies and all evil speakings As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the world that you may grow thereby, if so be that you have tasted that the Lord is gracious. Now, what do all those things he mentioned in verse 1 of chapter 2 have in common? What would he call all of those things? They're sin. Malice, guile, hypocrisies, envyings, evil speakings. You see, what he's saying here is the reason why we don't have an appetite for the Word of God is because we have filled our bellies with the junk food of the world. And we've been meditating on their truths, which are lies. We've been filling our minds with their messages. We become intoxicated with those propositions that feed our flesh, our fallen nature. And therefore, when we come to the Word of God, we have no appetite for it. See, it's not enough, if we want to be sober-minded and discerning, it's not enough for us to say, all right, I'm going to read the Bible. There has to be an An offense and a defense. We have to carefully restrict what we allow our mind to think about And then we have to fill our mind with God's truth. We have to do both things all the time. That's why you've heard the old expression, you know, this book will keep you from sin, or sin will keep you from this book. It's simple but true. So what happens if we allow the message of the world to get into our hearts? What will that look like? Well, in 1 John chapter 2, he describes the message of the world, the we could say, using the figure here, the intoxicants of the world this way, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes. and the pride of life. The message of the world is very appealing. The world says live for self. Look out for number one. And you know what your fallen heart says? That's exactly right. The world says live for pleasure. Life is short, so have a ball. The world says live for possessions. Just keep gathering more and more stuff. Allows you to have some status in the world. The world says, live for the here and now. Let us eat, sleep, and be merry, for tomorrow we will die. Live for the here and now. Live as if there is no life after death. There is no heaven or hell. There is no God to whom we must answer. This is the timeless message of the world. It was the message in the first century, it was the message in Genesis, and still the message today. The world has not changed. And the message of the world That you can filter down to those propositions is all a delusion. And to live with these values is to live like a drunkard who has lost touch with reality. It is to live in darkness. But Christians have been called to walk as children of light. This means that we must view the world through the lens of Scripture. Living the Christian life requires us to be disciplined in our thinking and to be discerning in our thinking. And third, I want you to see it requires that we be determined in our thinking. The second half of verse 13 says, and hope to the end, or hope fully, for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. This call to hope takes determination That's why I've entitled this point that way. It requires determined thinking. There's an awful lot of things in the world that can extinguish our hope. Naturally, we become discouraged. We become skeptical. We become cynical. We may even become bitter. This is a real temptation, can I just be frank here, for older people. They see the world, they see the changes in the world. They see from experience in life how many wonderful promises that that they may be grasped hold of. uh take you know take life and and it's it's going to be a grand adventure and it hasn't turned out that way. And they have setbacks and they have limitations and they have so many disappointments. And they have the news on 12 hours a day, and it's all negative about how the world is a horrible place. And if they're not careful, they just let nature take its course. They often become very grumpy and very cynical and very pessimistic. But that's not the way we should be as Christians. We should be the most optimistic people in the world because we know how the story ends. It ends in glory. And so we must constantly remind ourselves of this truth. I mentioned to you before that the Apostle Peter is sometimes called the Apostle of Hope. This is something that he emphasizes In his first epistle, in verse 3, he says that we have been begotten unto a lively hope. Verse 3 of chapter 1 He uses hope here, of course, in verse 13, our text this morning. In verse 21 of this chapter, he says, Who by him do believe in God that raised him up from the dead and gave him glory, that your faith and hope might be in God. He uses it again in chapter three And verse 5, actually the the Greek word for hope is there translated in the King James Version as trusted. It's found in chapter 3 and verse 15. But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts and be ready always to give to every man. An answer that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. Let me remind you again that this hope is not the power of positive thinking. There are a lot of people who try to take statements of Scripture and mix it with this kind of nonsense. If you believe it, it'll happen. That's not New Testament hope. No, Christian hope is a confident expectation based on the promises of God. It is An aspect of faith. We have been called to live by faith, to walk by faith. This is the only way to live the Christian life. And an aspect of that is living with hope with the confident expectation that God is working everything out according to his timetable for his glory and our goods. But so much of modern expressions of even evangelical Christianity are not focused on the future. They're focused on the here and now. You know I love books. I receive all kinds of catalogs for books. One of the Uh largest one, I guess, is Christian book descrip distributors on the CBD. It's not an evil organization, but it just reflects uh often the what's popular and trendy in Christian circles. And I was fumbling through the catalog uh this week and the vast majority of the books in there dealt with things like relationships. Whether your your marriage relationship or before marriage or or having marriage problems or relationships with a Christian brother or within the family, book after book after book after book after book after book on relationships. And then there were tons of books in there on health. On secret diets that are found in the Bible that you've never seen before. But if you follow that diet, oh, you will look incredible And then there was a multitude of books on finances. The Bible's secret plan for your wealth. And there were all kinds of books on unleashing your potential. People like to think that they are really a genius at heart, but no one's recognizing it. Finally, someone's written a book that understands my hidden potential. This appeals to people. And all of these books are filled with scripture references. And scriptural language, Christian buzzwords. But you know what? There's very little focused on The future. You see, Peter's writing to suffering believers. You know what their immediate futures were going to be? You see, he wrote this, you may recall when I first started our study, he wrote this right at the beginning of persecution of the church. And it wasn't that severe. when he first wrote this book. But within a few years it really got a lot worse. So the people who first heard these words that we're studying today, their lives got a whole lot worse in the near future. They lost their homes. They had to flee for their lives from their communities. They were cast out of their synagogues. Some of them were imprisoned, and some of them were put to death. Because they wouldn't proclaim that Caesar is Lord. That was the immediate future of the people who first read these words. And yet Peter has the audacity to say, live your life with hope, because the future is glorious. You see, the Christian life is not about creating your heaven on earth. It's not, the Bible is not a self-help book. The Bible does address topics like finances and marriage, but it was not written for that purpose. Those are little, you might say, side discussions, but it's not the point or the emphasis. Because the Bible was not written so that we can enjoy our best life now. No, the Christian life is to be lived with a future focus. We are to live with the mindset of a pilgrim who's on a journey to his heavenly home. Now notice what we are to set our hope upon. The grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Now this sounds somewhat awkward to us. This is not the way we would word it. You might say, well, I thought we were to set our hope on Christ. And what does he mean by this grace? Peter is using here, I believe this term grace to refer to the culmination of our salvation. Remember, this is a discussion. on Christian living, on sanctification, on becoming more holy like Christ. And at the return of Christ Our sanctification will be complete. We will be perfectly holy as Jesus is holy. This is what John writes in his epistle. This is our blessed hope. And 1 John 3, verse 1, Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God, therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God. It doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him. For we shall see him as he is, and every man that hath this hope in him Purifieth himself even as he is pure. You might be here today and you might say, Pastor, I'm struggling so much as a Christian. I seem to keep falling into these same sinful traps. I have my besetting sins. And I pray and I repent, and yet I still seem to fall again and again. One of the keys to our sanctification is to have this mindset of hope that someday we will be completely free of our sin. We will be holy as Christ is holy. That is our destiny. And it's that hope. That will empower us and motivate us and inspire us to daily purify ourselves because that's where we're going to be someday. That's who we truly are. This is the only way we can live the Christian life. He speaks here in 1 Peter 1. 13 of the return of Christ, the Christian life. If I can use this analogy as we conclude. We are like pilgrims traveling in a valley, and we are in the shadow of two great events, historical events, and we can picture them as mountain ranges. Behind us, we look back, and this mountain range could represent the cross. It represents our redemption. The fact that our sins have been forgiven, that they have been washed away. It reminds us This mountain peak reminds us of our identity, of who we are in Christ. But before us there is another mountain range. And that is the return of Christ. That mountain range reminds us of our heavenly home. It reminds us of our destiny. It reminds us where we are going. Whenever we travel, we want to know where we're going. We know as Christians where we're going. We know our destiny. We know how it will end. We know who we are because of the cross, and we know where we're going because of Christ and his return. And so we live in light of both of these events. We live in light of the cross. that reminds us every day of the gospel that our sins have been forgiven. We also live every day with acknowledgement that today might be the day that our Lord returns. And so we live with that expectation, with that anticipation. This is how we must live as Christian pilgrims. Now, in between those mountaintops, we are walking through a valley. We will face spiritual failure. We will face darkness. We will face periods of discouragement. We will face attacks from our flesh and from our foe Satan. But we are journeying on, and we will come to our home. The Lord will return, or we will die to be forever with him. This is our blessed hope. This is what Paul describes in Titus chapter 2 and that great call of sanctification as our blessed hope. You see, the return of Christ, the coming of Christ. The idea of our destiny is to motivate us to live for Christ. And perhaps our Lord will return in 2018. Perhaps he will not. But this certain prospect should change the way we live today. Remember that this week. We are to live in light of the cross and in light of our Lord's return to these two mountain peaks. Define our existence as Christians and set our minds upon our Lord and upon his return. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it is sufficient. It's all that we need. I pray that you would help us in this coming year, 2018 , to live In light of the cross and in light of your return, help us, Father , to be holy Because you have called us to be holy. Help us, Father, to be disciplined in our thinking, discerning in our thinking, and determined in our thinking. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen