If you have a Bible, please, would you join me in John chapter 5? John chapter 5. One of the greatest works of art that comes from The Renaissance is a large painting by Michelangelo on the wall of the Sistine Chapel. It was painted in 1541 and is entitled The Last Judgment. But it's not one of those prints that people hang in their living rooms. It is a terrifying painting. It has almost 300 people at the bottom of the painting and on their faces. you see that they are filled with fear, terror, panic, and regret. It was once common in Western Europe for large prominent churches to put a painting of the Last Judgment on the back wall of their church. So as people were filing out, the last impression they had of the service is that someday they must give an account to God. Now the whole idea of God judging mankind seems laughable to most people in the world today. But the Bible clearly teaches that God will judge. And he will judge every human being who has ever lived. No exceptions. So that means that every one of us here and everyone that you know Will someday be judged by God. Paul told the philosophers at Athens that God had appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness. Hebrews 9. 27, it says it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment. On this earth people can elude justice. They can outrun or deceive or hide from the law, but no one will void God 's judgment. I wonder if you've ever think about the last judgment. Even though we are Christians and perhaps claim to believe the Bible, I doubt That it occupies very much of our minds. This morning we're continuing our journey through the Gospel of John, and we come to a passage that tells us That the judge that we will face one day is none other than our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. John chapter 5 and verse 19 begins a large unit of teaching known as the Divine Son Discourse that runs from verse 19 to the end of the chapter And it has three parts to it. In verses 19 through 24, we read about the son 's relationship to his father. They are distinct but unified. Whatever the father does, the son does. And then in verses 25 through 29, we read of Jesus as the judge of all humanity. And finally, in verses 30 through 47, we have various witnesses to the claim of Christ's identity as the Son of God. Now this morning we're considering the second of these, that paragraph and verses 25 through 29 And I believe the key statement in this paragraph is found right in the middle, in the first phrase in verse 27, that says, He that is the Father has given him that is Jesus authority. This paragraph is all about the divine authority of the Son of God. And as we're going to see, that authority is manifested in two ways. We're going to see that the Son has authority to give life, and the Son has authority to judge all of humanity. And those two truths we're going to see also are interrelated. Now what we're considering this morning in this paragraph from verses 25 through 29 has already been stated in a concise form earlier in this discourse. If you look with me at verse 21, it says, For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whom he wills. There's our first point. And then verse 22. For the Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son. That is the second point we'll consider. So what John is done in recording the words of Jesus is we have these two concise statements and then we have them expanded and fleshed out in the following paragraph Now clearly here once again we have an unmistakable claim to deity. Just think about it. If some teacher on the internet Said that they were the giver of all life, and that they would be the ultimate judge of all humanity. I would hope that you would have a strong reaction. I would hope that you would say, this is blasphemy, this is wrong, because those are the prerogatives of God alone. And you would be right. So when Jesus makes these claims, he is making claims to deity that indeed he is God in flesh. Now, once again, this morning, we are considering a passage that is highly theological. And I will be honest with you, for many of you, it may not be the chief concern that you have in your life this morning that you come in here with a heavy heart and with burdens and cares and things that are just constantly playing in the back of your mind. You're not thinking about the divine authority of the Son of God. But I want you to know that this has incredible relevance for all of us Because all of us will someday give an account to the person that I am preaching about this morning. And that should be of interest and of concern to every single one of us. So I'm going to preach you this morning on the divine authority of the Son. And you should already know if you're paying attention that I'm going to have two points. The first point is that the son has the authority to give life to humanity. Look with me at verse 25. Jesus says, truly, truly I say to you, an hour is coming and is now here when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God. And those who hear will live. Notice this verse begins with that familiar beginning, truly, truly. This is a phenomenon that we find in the Gospel of John, in the teaching of Jesus, and it's intended to rivet the attention of the reader or the hearer that what is about to be said is of great consequence. It's like when a teacher in a classroom says, listen, if you remember nothing else, remember this. It's designed for you to perk up your ears and say, all right, this is important. I need to hear this. We find this also in verse 19 and in verse 24, the verse that precedes this. He says, an hour is coming and is now here. That may sound contradictory and strange to you What the Lord is revealing here is that with his coming a new epoch has dawned that will yet culminate in the future. This is an example of the already but not yet phenomenon that we often find in Scripture. Now the queen the the key interpretive question in verse 25 is this. When Jesus refers to the dead, Who is he referring to? Is he referring to those who are physically dead or spiritually dead? We know that he's going to talk about the physically dead because in verses 28 and 29 that is unmistakable. I'm not going to get into all the arguments about for and against, but let me just say that almost all evangelical scholars would argue that here in verse 25, Jesus is speaking of the spiritually dead. And I agree with this position. The Bible repeatedly describes those who are unbelievers as spiritually dead. If you're here this morning and you are an unbeliever. You are spiritually dead. And what is meant by that analogy is that lost people are unresponsive to the gospel. It's like going to a corpse and yelling at it and trying to get a response. You're not going to get any response. Why? Because that corpse is dead This is why you can go to a person who is lost and you can read them scripture and in a very compelling way you can share the gospel with you. and they can say to you, I'm just not interested, or perhaps not as polite of an answer. And it's not because you messed up or you did a poor job It 's because they are spiritually dead, and until the Spirit of God works in their hearts and opens their eyes and opens their ears, they will not have any interest in that. This is something that we encounter all the time. I spoke to a man on Friday. Who came in here to do some work? He was only here briefly. It was a small job. And I struck up a conversation with him and Gave him a gospel tract, invited him to church, and tried to engage him in spiritual conversation, and he very politely just said, sir, I'm not interested in religious things. And as we continued our discussion, it was clear to me that he thought of religious things as sort of like a hobby or a personal interest. You know, some people are interested in football, some people are interested in muscle cars, some people are interested in hunting, and he says, and you're interested in religion. But I'm not really interested in that. I have other interests like football and so forth. And I've encountered this kind of response from people many times, and if you witness the people, you will encounter it many times. It's sort of like going to the doctor and you've been having some symptoms and the doctor says to you, I don't know how to tell you this. But you have terminal cancer and you're going to die in six months. And you say, doctor, I want you to know I'm not interested in medical things. Alright? I know that you're really fascinated by those things. I'm not. You would not respond that way You may not know all the jargon that he's using, but as soon as he said, you have six months to live, it would rivet your attention. You're all ears now. This is life changing information. And yet Often people respond without any interest in the gospel at all. John has written this gospel to convince people that Jesus, do you remember this, is the Christ? the Son of God. And we have one of the few times in this gospel where Jesus uses this title of himself. He says The hour is coming and it's now here when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God. Now, what is meant by hearing the voice of the Son of God? Obviously He's not speaking, especially after his life, of audibly hearing the voice of the Son of God And I mentioned this when we covered verse 24, but perhaps you were not here for that. When it says to hear the word, it's not just saying that you audibly hear those sounds It means that you hear it and you respond to what you've heard. You respond in faith. And of course, the big question is, how can a person tell if they have responded to the gospel? Maybe you're here this morning and you would say, I I think I've heard it Or maybe I've heard it, but I'm not sure. How do I know that I've heard the voice of the Son of God and I've responded in faith? Alright? Let me mention to you a very familiar verse, John 10. 27. We'll come to this in a few months. My sheep hear my voice, I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life. So there are three things that are mentioned there, three evidences that you've heard the voice. Number one, you know the Lord in a personal way. I know them, and we know him. You have a personal relationship with God. It's not that you're religious or you follow some rules or you try to live a moral life. But you have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ. You know him, and he knows you. And secondly, it means that you follow him. You don't follow him perfectly, none of us do. But it means that we have a lifestyle of obedience that is guided and directed by our Savior. And it means that we're spiritually alive. That we we have seen a time in our life when we pass from death unto life. John 5, 24. And that life will never end. It is described here as eternal life. Now look with me please at verse 26. Notice that this verse begins with the word For, which is a word of explanation. For, as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself. So what does it explain? It's explaining how it is that Jesus can be the giver of life. And the answer is because he has life eternally within him that has been granted to him of his father. Now sometimes people want to delve into the mysteries and say, well, when did the Father grant him to have this eternal life? Well there was never a time when the second person of the Trinity uh came into existence. He has always been. And so from eternity past he has always possessed this gift. And and I could go into deep philosophical arguments about eternal generation of the Son and of the Spirit and so forth. That's beyond the scope of this sermon. Suffice it to say that the Son has life residing in himself, and therefore he can call men and women who are dead and trespasses and sin. He can call them to life. This is exactly what the scripture teaches. Jesus is like his Father, who is the ever-living one. Now the key to understanding this paragraph that we're considering this morning is to understand the whole argument. And I want to summarize verses 25 through 29 in one sentence, okay? Listen carefully to this The fact that the spiritually dead come to life as they hear the voice of the Son of God is the guarantee that his voice will raise the dead at the last day. That's what's being said in this paragraph. Now this naturally leads us to our next main point. Just as Jesus had the authority to give life to humanity, he also has been given the authority to judge humanity. Look with me, please, at verse 27. Verse 27 is the key verse in this paragraph, and it's also a transition from the two points. It says, and he has given him, that is Jesus, authority to execute judgment because he is the Son of Man. The Father has given Jesus this authority. Now judgment is clearly revealed in Scripture as the prerogative of God. Genesis 18, 25 says, Shall not the judge of all the earth do what is just? And Judges chapter 11, verse 27 says, Jehovah or Yahweh is the judge. And here we read the Father has delegated this judgment to the Son. And that is not a problem because they are on the same page. And in John chapter 17 and verse 2, we read that the Father has given Jesus authority over all flesh, that is, over all people. Jesus has this unlimited authority. And you may recall in the Great Commission in Matthew 28 and verse 18, Jesus says, all authority in heaven and in earth has been given to me. Now you may have always thought that at the last judgment, the person that you would be standing before would be God the Father But in this passage and in several others, we see that you will be standing before the Lord Jesus Christ. This was taught by Paul in his famous Marshill sermon given at Athens. He says in Acts 17. 31. He that is the Father has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed All right, so who is this man? And of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead, which is a reference to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now it's important for you to understand that this term judge that we find so often in our text today is used in two sense in two senses. Number one It means to evaluate, such as a judge in a court of law. He's listening to the arguments, he's looking at the evidence, and is coming to a conclusion about this person who's on trial. But the word also is often used, and in this context, of condemnation, of a person who has been condemned because they've been tried and found to be guilty. And we find both senses in different verses here, and so it's important for you to understand that. It's like, for instance, in verse 24, it talks about the person who is trusted in Christ. He does not come into judgment. But then we're going to read a few verses later that Jesus is going to judge everyone. You may say, is that a contradiction? No. When he says judgment here in verse 24, he means condemnation. They won't be condemned at the end. But every person will be judged in that they will be evaluated. Okay? Now What is meant here? What is the reason given that he has this incredible authority? Look at the last phrase in verse 27. The answer is given here, because he is the Son of Man. Now let me ask you, do you know the significance of this title, The Son of Man? By the way, this is one of the few places in the scripture where we have these two Very important theological titles for Christ used back to back. We have Son of God in verse 25, and now we have Son of Man in verse 27. Well, the title the Son of Man is the most common way that Jesus referred to himself. I think it's something like 89 times he refers to himself as the Son of Man. And no one else calls him the Son of Man except for two occasions where people are simply like quoting what he has said. But what does this expression mean? You might look at it and thinks, well, it just means that he's a human being. But the key to understanding this is in Daniel chapter 7. Verses 13 and 14. I want to read these verses for you. Listen carefully. It says, I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man. And he came to the ancient of days, and was presented before him, and to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away and his kingdom that shall not be destroyed. So this title speaks to the deity of Christ. How do I know? Because he has given dominion and glory and an everlasting kingdom. And he's described as the Son of Man. This title, which was used so often by Jesus, was used because It has within it the idea that he is both God and man. He is the God man. And because this is true, he is the right man, the one best qualified to judge all of humanity. Why do I say that? You remember in the book of Hebrews, we find this argument that Jesus is our sympathetic high priest. Why is that? Because he knows what it's like to be a human being living on this planet. He knows what it's like to be tired. He knows what it's like to suffer. He knows what it's like to face temptation. So he can sympathize with us. And so the one who will judge us is fully God Completely perfect and holy and righteous, but also one of us who can sympathize with us, who understands what we have faced. He is the right man to judge all of humanity. But then in verses 28 and 29 Jesus says, do not marvel at this, which is amazing because what he's just shared is really incredible, something to marvel at. But he says, I've got more to share that's even more amazing. For an hour is coming, that is a specific time, when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice. Let's talk about this for a second. The idea of Jesus being the judge of all mankind would have astounded his original audience. This man standing in front of me is going to be the one who judges every human being? Who does he think he is? Well, he's the Son of God and the Son of Man. is the answer. But then he goes on. He says that all people who have ever lived will someday hear his voice and their bodies will come out. of the tomb. That is astounding. Do you believe that? I've run into a lot of Christians who don't believe that. They say, oh, that can't be, Pastor. You don't understand. You don't understand the science of it. I mean, a person's body decays. It rots. And and um you know people have been eaten by lions and and people's bodies have been burned. There 's no way that that happens And I always want to say, ever heard of that verse, Is There Anything Too Hard for God? I can't give you a scientific explanation of how all of this works. But this is what God's word is saying, that every human being's body will be raised. And it's not like when he calls them. They're gonna say, you know, their body's gonna somehow have a mind of its own and say, you know what, I I think I'm gonna stay right here. I've been here for a thousand years. I don't think No, no, no. It's a summons, and all of those bodies will reconstitute and come together, and they will come out. Because everyone, can you receive this? Everyone who will be finally judged of God will be in a body. They will not be a disembodied spirit. They will be in a body standing before the Lord. This summons will be like when Jesus called for Lazarus to come out of the grave. And he said, Lazarus, come forth. And he came forth. Why did he come forth? Because the Son of Man has said, come forth. There's no denying that. In the last day, this will not happen to just one individual like Lazarus. It will happen to all of humanity Now, often in Scripture, the emphasis is on believers whose bodies will be resurrected, and that is absolutely true. But here and in several other passages we read that this is actually true for all of humanity. Now, perhaps you have heard or always thought of the human body as a worthless shell that is discarded at death. But that a person's soul will live forever, and that's the important part. I've heard that too. Guess what? What you've believed all these years is wrong. It's not what the Bible teaches. When God redeems a person, he redeems all of them. Body, soul, and spirit. However, when he says that all of these people's bodies will be reconstituted, he's not saying that they will all be saved. How do I know? Because of what it says in the very next verse. And come out those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. Here we see the great division of all humanity. We all die. We all will be raised But we will not be all raised to the same destiny in eternity. Now, I know that some of you have a million thoughts going through your head. Whenever you talk about the resurrection of body, I found this to be the case. What will I look like? What will my relatives look like Will I be the best version of myself? Will I be nice and trim and athletic looking? What will my body? I've been asked these questions I assure you then the last day that will not be your main concern. Okay? And those poor who are redeemed will be have what? They'll have a glorified body. And those who are condemned They will have a body fit for destruction. Now, there's something that I believe is probably found in verse 29 that if you're paying attention, you're listening to me, And you're an evangelical believer in Christ, there's something in verse 29 that bothers you. Right? Can you tell me that? Can you see that? In other words, most people would say, those who have trusted in Christ Will go to the resurrection of life and those who have rejected Christ to the resurrection of judgment. That's the way we would write it. But it's not what it says. It says those who have done good or literally done good things to the resurrection of life and those who have done evil things and the Greek word there often has the idea of worthless things. to the resurrection of judgment. Now we don't like this because it seems to teach what? That we're saved by works. And we we have an allergy to that word works. This is not what Jesus is saying. Remember, this is found in the gospel that emphasizes what? Believing in Christ. And in verse 24 we just read that whoever hears my word and believes has eternal life and will not come into condemnation. Alright? There's not a contradiction here. Salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. In the very next chapter Jesus says in John 6. 29, this is the work of God that you believe believe in him whom he has sent. However, every single time the Bible refers to the last judgment or the final judgment. It says that we will be judged for our works. This is true of the great white throne judgment, and this is true of the Bhima judgment We will be judged for our works. We're saved by grace alone through faith alone, but we're judged for our works. So how do we square these two things? Well, there's this tension in scripture, right? We're not saved by works, but we're saved what? To do good works, according to Ephesians chapter 2, verses 8, 9, and 10. And the Bible says clearly that by your fruits ye shall know them. Jesus says in Matthew 7, 17, every healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears evil fruit. Matthew 7, 21 says, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter into the kingdom of heaven, but The one who does the will of my Father. Matthew 15, 19 says, From out of the heart comes evil thoughts, murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false witness, slander. All of those things come out of the hearts. And so a person who professes to believe and to be trusting in Christ, and yet their life is filled with Immorality, theft, false witness, slander, murder, their lifestyle is characterized in this way. Guess what? They're not telling the truth. In John chapter 3 and verse 20, just a few months ago, we covered this verse, for everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light lest his work should be exposed. A person 's actions and words are the best indication of what is in their heart. Now where this gets complicated, of course, is that we're in different levels of sanctification, right? And we we have different experiences and different backgrounds. And we have different advantages like coming from a Christian home or receiving a Christian education that some people don't have. And what about the person who is saved only for a short time before they die? All kinds of questions come from this But the point that he's making here in this verse is that no one will game the system. In this world, there's a lot of injustice. You can get a really high-powered attorney for the right money that can get you out of a lot of really bad situations You can get witnesses that will lie for you in court. There can be a lack of evidence, even though everybody in the world knows you're guilty, but it can't be proved. But in the final judgment, no one's gaming the system. No one is getting an advantage. No one is going to deceive the Son of Man. No one's going to be able to say, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? People will say that, and he will say to those who have no fruit in their life, for their entire life has been filled with wickedness despite their claims to be a Christian. He will say to them, I never knew you. Depart from me. Ye that work iniquity. And by the way, you notice he says, I never knew you. He doesn't say I knew you and then I didn't know you and then I knew you. No, I never knew you. You never had a relationship with me. So this is the powerful truth we have in our text. And now I'd like to make just a few applications or implications of this passage. Number one, to deny the deed of Christ is to deny the plain teaching of Scripture If all that we had in the Bible that referred to the deity of Christ was just this paragraph, we would have enough to establish that doctrine He is called the Son of God, the Son of Man, the one who gives life, and the one who will judge all of humanity. Those are all statements that can only be made. of God in flesh. The reason that people reject Jesus as Lord is not because they're super smart Is because they don't want to acknowledge him as their Lord and Savior. They want to live life on their own terms. Number two To reject Christ is to reject the only one who can give you life and the one who will judge you someday. Let's say that you were dying and an EMT comes in to try to save your life and you say, I don't want that person touching me. And then you die. The reason you died is because the one who came to rescue you, you pushed away. Let's use another analogy. Let's say that you break into a person's home and you rob them of a great amount of precious gems. And you beat the wife, and you escape, but you're caught and you're put in prison And you're tried. And lo and behold, the person who is trying you, the judge, is the owner of that estate. Now I know in real life that wouldn't happen. He would have to recuse himself. I understand that. But if that was not the case, you'd be a little concerned. Because I have personally assaulted and rejected this man and his family, and now he's my judge. So you must not reject Christ. He is the only one who can give you spiritual life. He is the only one who will judge you someday. To reject Christ is to reject all hope. Number three Death is not the end of your existence. Those who have fully imbibed a secular atheistic mindset believe that at death we simply cease to exist. I've heard them describe it to me this way. The screen goes black. And that's it. Game over. That's not what the Bible teaches. That's not the way human beings naturally think, by the way, in every culture. Have you ever thought about this? In every culture in the history of the world. People instinctively believe that there's life after death. They might have a very distorted notion of it, but they don't think that there's never been a tribe somewhere in some rainforest or up on some mountain. that archaeologists have discovered is that, oh no, no, we think that at death, you know, that's just the end. You have to go to college to come up with those conclusions. Death is not the end of your existence. This passage and many others teach That everyone will be judged and everyone will go to one of two places places. And that brings me to my next point of application. Not all who die go to heaven. Most people, even in America today, believe there's life after death But a lot of them believe that basically everyone goes to heaven. I've noticed in my lifetime how so many preachers In their attempts to comfort the family of those who had no interest in spiritual things, made no profession of faith, had nothing to do with God, and yet they have died. I try to comfort them by saying things that I'm afraid are intentionally misleading. They will say things like, his pain and suffering are over now. Or she is now enjoying life the way she always wanted to live it. Or he is now enjoying the company of all of his relatives who have gone before And you'll notice there's no mention of what the Bible says about heaven, that is, the holiness of God, the glory of the Redeemer, and the company of the saints. See, the fact is the preacher knows that if he were to say that this person is enjoying that, people would say, that's not where he'd want to be. He had no interest in the things of God or the company of the saints and the angels. He thought all that was nonsense. He had no interest in spiritual things So we must not come to the place where we think And we assume that everyone who dies goes to heaven. This is not what the Bible teaches anywhere. And that brings me to my final point. How you listen to the gospel is a matter of life and death. The emphasis in this passage is on hearing the word of God. We have in verse 24 Jesus says, truly, truly, I say to you whoever hears my word and believes, him who has sent me has eternal life, a wonderful promise. This is what is consistently taught in Scripture. It says faith comes from hearing and hearing by the word of Christ. And again, these verses are not saying that if you audibly hear the word, then you're automatically saved. No. And choosing here in the sense that you believe it, you receive it, you accept it to be so. And in verse 25 He says, Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming, and is now here, and it is still now here, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. Just like Lazarus came out of the tomb when he heard the voice of Christ, so those who are lost in their sins will come to him. when they respond to his voice. And then one final verse, John 20, 12. 48, the end of our Lord's public ministry. We read this. Jesus says, the one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge. The word that I've spoken will judge him on the last day. Now this was especially true when Jesus was on earth and he spoke to these people verbally in his presence. But it's also true when the gospel, the word of Christ is preached. And people hear it. I'm not at all saying that those who have never heard automatically go to heaven. Do not misinterpret what I'm saying. But he says here that the word will judge them. I think what this means is that no one on the day of judgment will be able to say, Lord, I didn't know the gospel. I never heard that you were the Son of God who came to give eternal life to all who would believe. I didn't realize that there was a day of judgment approaching and that you would be my judge. I didn't know any of these things. Everyone here this morning will not have that excuse. Because you have heard the word of truth. And what it seems to be saying is that the word will judge you, is that The word you have heard today, but have chosen to reject will be like exhibit A at your trial. No, you did hear these truths. Let me play this for you So how will you respond to the Word of God? Will you respond in faith? Will you trust in the Savior? Who came to this earth and lived a perfect life and died in your place and rose again the third day and is coming again and someday will be your judge. Will you trust in him and respond in faith to his word? Let's close in prayer. Father. We thank you that your word still speaks to us, that it calls us to faith and to trust and to depend. on our Savior that you have provided. We thank you that you've given us a great Savior. Help us, Father, even today for those who might be here in this assembly Who perhaps in the preaching of the word have heard his voice. Help them, Lord, to respond in faith and to trust in him alone. For it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen.