Isaiah sixty-two, Isaiah chapter sixty-two, and this evening we'll be looking at, Lord willing, the last half of this chapter. From verses 6 and following, to remember as we've been looking at the theme of the book of Isaiah is to return and rest. in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. And he is showing the nation of Israel as well as the world that he alone is salvation. No idols can bring salvation. No human ingenuity or creativity is salvation. He alone is salvation. And he is progressively working to bring about that realization so that the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. We've been going through the book and we've seen this division here many times now, the theme of redemption, the suffering servant, the comfort through theology, comfort through soteriology. We're in this section here, the anointed warrior, who is the same person as the suffering servant, the lamb and the lion. And he is the anointed warrior, and he brings comfort as he fulfills all God's plans for salvation by bringing about the culmination of our salvation. So this is the study of last things as it pertains particularly to our salvation, the culmination of our salvation ultimately in Jesus Christ. Oh, we'll get to there in just a moment. I have this titled for tonight as the importance of importunity. And we'll get down to that idea as we continue on this chapter. But the importance of importunity, of importunate prayer Passionate, persistent , determined prayer before the Lord. And the theme really of these verses is the believer's response to God's coming salvation. If you remember last week we looked at our Lord's example of his intercession, of how he intercedes for not only ourselves, but primarily in this passage. how he intercedes for Jerusalem. And as we begin in verse 6, he says, On your walls, O Jerusalem, I have set watchmen all the day and all the night. they shall never be silent. You who put the Lord in remembrance, take no rest, and give him no rest until he establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in the earth. The Lord has sworn by his right hand and by his mighty arm. I will not again give your grain to be food for your enemies, and foreigners shall not drink your wine for which they have labored But those who garner it shall eat it and praise the Lord, and those who gather it shall drink it in the courts of my sanctuary. So we have this theme of the believer's response. And the first way that a believer is to respond to the coming of salvation that has been promised is through this Avenue of ceaseless prayer. And the example that is first given is the example of our Savior, of our Lord, who spoke in chapter 62, verse 1, for Zion's sake, I will not keep silent. And for Jerusalem's sake, I will not be quiet. And we see that the Lord was passionate for Zion, for Jerusalem, for their salvation. And he comes and he intercedes for them before the Lord continuously. The problem with Jerusalem in Isaiah's time and even Jerusalem in our time is that it is a sinful city, a city that is known for its wickedness. But God has decreed to work a mighty transformation in that city, to make it a city that is as righteousness like a burning torch for all the world to see. God's purpose is to make Make Jerusalem, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, righteous, not just having imputed righteousness, but practically living out righteousness because they have new hearts within them. We saw in verse 1 that the Messiah will not cease to intercede for Jerusalem until this radical work of transformation takes place. Now, maybe that strikes you as a bit funny to hear of Jesus interceding to the Father on behalf of Jerusalem. I don't know how that strikes you when when we talk about Jesus praying to the Father for things to happen. How does that sit with you? It's something that we don't often think about, but we are told that He is our intercessor Remember when our Lord told Peter in Luke chapter 22 that he was going to be sifted like wheat? He said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan demanded to have you that he might sift you like wheat, but I have Prayed for you that your faith may not fail. So here we have Jesus praying to the Father. So that Simon's faith would not fail. And we know it did not. He became a pillar in the church because the Lord had prayed for him. In a very similar way, Jesus intercedes for us. And therefore we are secure because the Son intercedes on our behalf to the Father, and based on his merit We even see this in Zechariah chapter 1, verse 12, where we remember we talked about the angel of the Lord being a pre-incarnate Christ. Before Christ was born, he would sometimes appear in the Old Testament as the angel of the Lord. And in Zechariah chapter 1, we're not going to look at it tonight, but just know this in your mind. In verse 12, the angel of the Lord Praise to the Lord of hosts on behalf of Jerusalem. And so we have Jesus, the angel of the Lord, who is described as God. in other passages of scripture in the Old Testament, praying to the Lord on behalf of Jerusalem. When we see this reality also, I think, in Psalm chapter 2, verses 7 through 8, with this beautiful psalm that speaks of the Father and the Son. And in verses 7 and 8 he says, I will tell of the decree the Lord said to me. This is the Son, speaking of the Father, You are my Son. Today I have begotten you. Ask of me. And I will make the nations your heritage and the ends of the earth your possession. And so the father tells the son to ask for the nations of the earth. The Father tells the Son to ask, and we know that he does, and as a result, the nations of the earth become his, and we as those who are of the nations of the earth here are the fruit of that prayer. The nations are an extension of the reward that is promised to the Messiah for his willingness to suffer and die in order to redeem Israel. Remember we were going through the servant songs. We came to the second servant song in Isaiah 49. And the Lord God tells The Messiah, it is too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to bring back the preserved of Israel. I will make you a light for the nations. that my salvation may reach to the ends of the earth. That's in Isaiah 49 verse 6 where he says, I will make you a light to the nations. Israel is not sufficient. You will have the nations. So we come here, the Messiah sets an example of interceding on behalf of Jerusalem. But he also says in verse 6: On your walls, O Jerusalem, I have set watchmen. When we think of watchmen in the Old Testament, watchmen are often appointed to watch for approaching danger. They might be standing on the walls and seeing an army approaching, and they are to sound the alarm so that proper preparations can be made. They're also described as announcing approaching visitors if nobility were to come to visit the king A watchman would announce that the nobility, the other king from another nation has come and is coming to that city, and so proper preparations to welcome him could be made. They're also found in Isaiah chapter 21, if you were to go back in Isaiah to Isaiah chapter 21, as those who would watch for the dawn, and they would give A time for the day. And in Isaiah 21, the watchman is asked, what time of the night is it? What time of the night is it? And the watchman would be able to discern by the stars, by maybe the looking at the horizon from the higher vantage point, is it close to dawn or not? And he would announce the coming of the dawn. Here we have watchmen who are appointed. We see in Ezekiel chapter 3, verse 17, watchmen who are appointed. the prophets who are to give a warning to the nation of Israel over their sins. But these watchmen are described as being set upon the walls of Jerusalem for a specific purpose. And just for some pictures, this is a modern-day picture of the walls of Jerusalem. Here's one vantage point. There's actually a nice parking garage right over here if you're ever in Jerusalem. It's pretty reasonably priced. But uh These are some of the walls of Jerusalem. Here's another example of vantage, an aerial view of the walls going around the city of Jerusalem. These are not the ancient walls. I mean they're ancient. They were built in the sixteenth century, so they're they're pretty ancient, but they're not they're not the ancient ones of uh Hezekiah's time or Isaiah's time, though the those some of those are still visible and available to be actually walked upon. But he's describing here as watchmen who are watching to announce something. And they have a purpose of not merely announcing, but also of praying, of praying for something. So we're going to see this aspect. There's praying. And then there's announcing. The first part is praying. He says, All the day and all the night they shall never be silent. You who put the Lord in remembrance, take no rest, and give him no rest. until he establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in the earth. So here we don't see any indication of them Sounding a warning like a prophet or a watchman who's looking for an invading army, but actually one whose responsibility is to pray on behalf of the nation and the city of Jerusalem. So who are these watchmen on the walls? I don't think this is literally referring to people being on the walls because we find found out already in chapter uh sixty that the walls would were destroyed and the foreigners were going to rebuild the walls, but there's a there's a figurative sense in which they are on the walls, meaning that they are to be on behalf of Jerusalem and the nation of Israel. But who are these watchmen? When you read this, that's the type of question that should come to your mind initially. Who are these watchmen that are appointed to pray? For Jerusalem. Some think that the watchmen are prophets who not only have a ministry of warning the people, but also of interceding for the people of Israel. And that's a possibility. It could be Isaiah and other prophets who are appointed to not only warn the people, but also to pray for the people. That's possible. The only problem with that is that the primary responsibility of warning is not mentioned at all in this passage of Scripture. Some think that the watchmen are specific angels, angelic beings who are appointed by God to bring this matter, Jerusalem, before God continually. Not that God is prone to forget, not that God is needing an alarm to remind him, oh, Jerusalem, I'd forgotten about them. But rather in a sense to reassure The people that God will never forget. He's even appointed people to remind him continuously. He's angelic forces I think probably the best way to understand this actually is that the watchman refers to all believers. And we'll see that as we continue on in this chapter, that the command to proclaim is given to the end of the earth. in verse 11. It says, Behold, the Lord has proclaimed to the end of the earth. Say to Zion. And so there is a proclamation that's been given to the ends of the earth. To say this to Zion. So I think the most accurate way to look at this is this refers to believers of all generations. To be praying on behalf of Jerusalem. We are to be praying on behalf of the nation of Israel. We are to be praying that God would establish his kingdom in Jerusalem. Remember what our Savior taught us in the New Testament. Pastor Tobin is preaching on the Lord's Prayer. What does the Lord's Prayer say? Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth. As it is in heaven. What did Jesus teach us to pray? Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth. as it is in heaven. We have been commanded to pray for this establishment of Christ's earthly kingdom, this 1,000-year millennial reign that is described in numerous places in the Bible. I think of our Lord's last days with his disciples before he ascended into heaven. In Acts chapter 1, I believe I have this. In Acts chapter 1, verses 3 through 7. I just have a few snippets from that passage. In Acts chapter 1, verse 3, Jesus presented himself alive to them after his suffering. by many proofs appearing to them during 40 days and speaking about the kingdom of God. And so while Jesus was preparing to ascend into heaven, he is speaking to them about the kingdom of God. And then in verse 6, the disciples asked the Lord, Will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? And it's significant to note that Jesus doesn't rebuke them and say, oh no, no, no, you misunderstood. The kingdom is already present. There's a sense in which it is. It's an already not yet kingdom. But he doesn't say that. He doesn't say to them, oh, you've totally misunderstood what I've been teaching. He says, the timing is not for you to worry about. The timing of that is not for you to worry about. It's in the Father's hands. He says it's not for you to know times or seasons that the Father has fixed by his own authority. And so we get this reminder. They're still thinking about when, Lord, are you going to fulfill the promises that you gave to Isaiah? When is this going to happen? And he says, don't worry about the when. That's not the issue for right now. That is in the Father's hands. But we have this command here. I don't know again what you think about this as well. A command to Important prayer on behalf of God's promises to Israel. To be important means to be persistent. unrelenting, even tenacious, almost to the point where you'd seem like it's rude. It has the idea of almost being rude if it wasn't something that God had commanded to do. The watchmen are called to be active all day and all night. So it requires ceaseless vigilance. They're commanded never to be silent and to take no rest for themselves. This means a constant duty to be praying for Jerusalem But perhaps most surprisingly, they are told to put the Lord in remembrance and to give him no rest. How does that sound to your ears when I read that? Give God no rest. Does it sound like, ooh, we shouldn't say that? That sounds a little bit rude. That is the idea of the importance of prayer that we are called to do Does it strike you as surprising, perhaps even irreverent, to give God no rest, to put the Lord in remembrance? I want to say it's not sacrilegious. It's not irreverent. In fact, it is an expression of dependence and of faith. First, I need to be clear that God cannot forget. It's not like we are called to remind God because He's prone to forget. That is not the idea that is expressed in this passage at all. He doesn't need reminders. God is omniscient. Remember what we learned in Isaiah chapter 40? I think we might have this, yeah, verse 28. Have you not known? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth. He does not faint or grow weary. His understanding is unsearchable. God never forgets. It's not that he's asked for us to remind him because he's prone to forgetfulness at all. This is anthropomorphic language, like when David says, search me, O God, and know my heart. Yet earlier in that same psalm he said, Lord, you know my thoughts before I think them. You know my words before I speak them There is not any part of me that you don't know entirely. So he's saying, Lord, I am surrendering to you for your searching. But God had already searched him and known him perfectly. This week I was reading in Genesis 8 about Noah's flood. And when Noah and his family were on the ark in Genesis chapter 8, verse 1, it says, But God Remembered Noah and all the beasts and all the livestock that were with him in the ark, and God made a wind to blow over the earth and the waters. subsided. The same Hebrew word for remembrance is the same word that we find here to put him in remembrance, to remind the Lord. But again, it isn't that God was up in heaven and all of a sudden goes, oh, Noah! I 've forgotten about Noah in the ark. Oh man, how long have they been on there? That is not the idea at all The language has the idea of actively working on behalf of, taking action on behalf Of Noah and his family to reduce the water on the earth. And so God remembering speaks of his active involvement in their lives. And so what we are to do is to ask God. to actively bring about his promises. To actively bring to pass what he has promised. So, first of all, God does not forget. Secondly, God has ordained to work through the prayers of his people There's some interesting events that I think that are important for us to remember. Remember in the book of James, where God gives Elijah as an example of prayer for us. And how through the prayer of Elijah, the heavens were shut up for three years. And then When he prayed again, the rains came. If you go to 1 Kings chapter 18, there's this interesting passage of scripture where we find The Lord revealing to Elijah that it's going to rain. The drought is going to end. And he says, Go show yourself to Ahab, and I will send rain upon the earth. Genesis 18. 1. I'm sorry. Genesis. 1 Kings 18. 1. And Elijah, this is now down to forty verses forty-one and forty-two, after he's defeated the four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal, after that great event where he called down fire from heaven, Elijah says to Ahab the wicked king, Go up and drink. For there is a sound of the rushing of rain. So Ahab went up to eat and to drink, and Elijah went up to the top of Mount Carmel, and he bowed himself down on the earth and put his face between his knees, and he prayed. God send rain. Well , he already said he was going to send rain He prayed earnestly seven times for God to send rain. And at the end of the seventh time, God sent rain. But God already said, I will send rain upon the earth. It's a response of faith in the promise of God to pray for God to bring about what he has said he will do. And in this passage of Scripture, we are called to pray diligently, ceaselessly, tirelessly, for God to fulfill his promises to Jerusalem There's other examples of this in the Bible. Another one is in Malachi chapter 4, verses 5 and 6, where it's where he says, Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. And he will turn the hearts of the fathers to their children, and the hearts of children to their fathers, lest I come and strike the land with a decree of utter destruction. And yet when we come to the New Testament, we know that's a fulfillment of or fulfilled by John the Baptist. But when we read in Luke chapter 1, verse 13 When Zechariah, John the Baptist's father, is in the temple, the angel Gabriel comes to Zechariah and he says, Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John. And you could look at that and say, well, they've probably been praying to have a child. Probably not, because Zechariah was an aged man, and his wife was an aged woman, and they had long since given up hope. Of having children. But he was praying for the consolation of Israel. He was praying for God to fulfill his promises to Jerusalem. And he says, God has heard your prayer. And he's going to answer by sending John the Baptist. So in response to God's promise, he prayed and God answered. So that is an appropriate response to God's promises. Thirdly, the New Testament teaches us to be important in our praying. Do you remember the parable that Jesus told in Luke chapter 18 of the widow woman? And the unjust judge, and the widow woman had a case before the judge, and the judge didn't care about justice, and he continually refused to give her justice. Jesus explains the parable in the beginning, saying men ought always to pray and not to faint. We ought not to give up. We ought to continually come before the Lord with our requests. And then he goes on to tell this parable of the persistent widow who repeatedly brought her case to the judge until the judge in exasperation gave in to her demands. And then the Lord says this. Hear what the unrighteous judge says. And will not God give justice to his elect, who cry to him day and night? Will he delay long over them? I tell you, he will give justice to them speedily. Then he says, nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on the earth? It's important to remember that this parable, we often kind of divorce it from its context. It's actually given in context of the promise of his coming. What are we to pray consistently about? The second coming of Christ, his return to establish his kingdom. God has promised To send the gospel to every tribe and nation, and we should pray importantly, ceaselessly, tenaciously, that God fulfill his promise. God has promised to save Israel and establish his kingdom on the earth. And we should pray importantly for God to do this It is a response of faith and obedience to the example and the command of Christ. Adam Iram Judson, the famous Baptist missionary to Burma. said, God loves important prayer so much that he will not give us much blessing without it. God will not give us much blessing without persistent, tenacious praying in light of his promises The specific focus of our important prayer is for God to fulfill his promises to Israel, that he makes the recalcitrant wicked city a city of righteousness. That he makes it a place where the nations of the world stream up to in order to worship the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords who will be ruling from the capital of Jerusalem. Do we pray for the peace of Jerusalem? Do we pray for the fullness of the Gentiles to come in? Do we pray for that day when God will bring in everlasting righteousness, as it says in Daniel 9? And he will fill up the vision and the prophecy. Do we pray for that day when a spirit of grace and a pleas for mercy will be poured out on the house of David and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and they will look for him Whom they have pierced, and they will weep as one weeps for an only child. Do we pray tenaciously? Consistently Daily? He tells us to pray this day and night. But do we? But do we? I remember when I was in Tanzania, an old pastor came to me and we were talking about our prayer life, and he said, one thing I pray for every day is for the peace of Jerusalem. And that was when I was struck by my failure to do so. And it's become a habit of mine since then. To pray for the peace of Jerusalem. It is a command that God has given us. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. I think they should also encourage us to pray big things. It's good to come here and pray for those who are struggling physically in our church. But we ought to pray for God to send out laborers from this church to go into his harvest field. We ought to pray that God would raise up young people down and kids for truth right now to know Christ. And to be prepared and gifted and equipped and called out and sent into the ministry. We have to pray for our teenagers downstairs. There are many of whom who do not know Christ as their Savior, that they would be born again, and that they would go and they would be faithful witnesses of Christ. We ought to pray for the church plant that we were talking about on Sunday evening. That God would prepare people to receive the gospel, that God would send out a team prepared and equipped. Because we know it is the will of God to plant his church, to build his church. We ought to pray for the gospel to go to dark places of this world. Places like Yemen and Iran. Places where Buddhism has sway. Places where there is nothing but darkness, because he has said the earth will be covered with the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. We ought to pray big prayers because we have a big God and we have a big command. So our first response is to pray ceaselessly. Secondly, we are to be confident in our preparation. You could have even confident proclamation. Another P there that would fit nicely. Confident preparation, confident proclamation. Verse 8 is kind of the basis for why we can be important. in our praying to God. Why we can almost seem like it's rude to do so. It's one, because we are commanded to do so by God. It's not rude if God tells you to do it. Verse 8 says, The Lord has sworn by his right hand and by his mighty arm, I will not again give your grain to be food for your enemies. And foreigners shall not drink your wine for which you have labored, but those who garner it shall eat it and praise the Lord, and those who gather it shall drink it in the courts of my sanctuary. We can know this is still a future event because this has never yet happened on the earth where Israel has not been invaded repeatedly. But he says, it will be in that day. And he says, how do I know it? Because the Lord has sworn. He has taken an oath. upon himself by his right hand and by his mighty arm. The idea here is that there is the the right hand is the hand of skill. The warrior uses the right hand because he's right handed. You see a guy who is who is doing sword fighting and in the end he says, Oh, guess what? I'm not actually left-handed and he switches to his right hand. That's his hand of skill. And he's able to defeat the foe. God says, I swore by my right hand, because that's my power and my might and my skill and by my mighty arm. Nothing will cause this to fail. That's why we looked at Jeremiah 31, verses 35 through 40 a few weeks ago, where God said, if the fixed order of the stars and the moon will ever cease , Then my promises to Israel will cease. If you can explore space to the limits Then my promises to Israel will cease, but not until then. And he says, I have sworn and I will accomplish it. And he says in those verses, Then, if that's the case, then will I cast off all the offspring of Israel for all that they have done, declares the Lord. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when the city shall be rebuilt for the Lord, from the tower of Hananel to the corner gate. He's not talking about just some spiritualized city, but a real city with a tower of Hanael and the corner gate. and the measuring line shall go out farther straight to the hill Gereb, and shall then turn to Goa, the whole valley of the dead bodies and the ashes, and all the fields as far as the brook Kidran To the corner of the horse-gate toward the east shall be sacred to the Lord, and it shall not be plucked up or overthrown any more forever. Jeremiah 31, 35 through 40 And God promises this. By his right hand and by his mighty arm he has sworn. The remainder of verses eight and nine point to a time when there will no longer be enemies who subjugate the people of God, who no longer come in and steal their grain after they have worked hard all season long and leave them with not enough food. To feed their families. Instead of invading forces taking their grain, those who have planted it and cultivate it and harvested it will enjoy it as they worship and celebrate before the Lord. And he says as a result of this, in verses 10 and following, there's commands for preparation. Here's five commands. of preparation based on the promises of God to bring radical redemption and righteousness to Israel. They are go-through He says, go through, go through the gates, prepare the way for the people, build up, build up the highway, clear it of stones. Lift up a signal over the people. So we had these five commands, go through, prepare the way, build up the highway, clear it of stones, lift up a signal. And the question when you read those things is Is this literal or figurative? Am I supposed to literally be out there heaving stones and am I literally supposed to be preparing a highway? Or is this a figurative command that is given? We have seen a figurative use of similar terms already in Isaiah chapter 40, verses 3 through 5. Very similar terms. If you remember, oh, that's Adnan Judson. There's your yeah. Here Isaiah, yeah, Adam Arm Judson with his quote about importunate prayer. But Isaiah 43 through 5 says, A voice cries in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be lifted up, and every mountain and hill be made low. The uneven ground shall become level, and the rough places a plain, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. And we know that in the New Testament, this at least has a partial fulfillment in the coming of John the Baptist as he prepared the way for the Lord. And John the Baptist was not a road builder. John the Baptist was not out there with DC Hs clearing the way and or pickaxe and hoe clearing the way, he was a preacher and he prepared the way for the Lord by preaching and calling people to repentance. And so one of the ways we talked about this when we went through Isaiah chapter 40 was one of the ways that that this is fulfilled is in the preaching of repentance that John the Baptist preached before Christ came on the scene. There's a lot more that could be said there, but we know John the Baptist came preaching and proclaiming a baptism of repentance. In fact, this verse is referenced in all four of the Gospels. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John all reference Isaiah 40 as being fulfilled, at least partially, in the coming of John the Baptist. But we also have literal use of these terms. If you look at remember back to Isaiah chapter 19. Oh, I think I have that side. Yeah, we have it here. In Isaiah 19, verses 23 through 25, it says, In that day there will be a highway from Egypt to Assyria, and Assyria will come into Egypt, and Egypt into Assyria, and the Egyptians will worship, and the Assyrians will In that day, Israel will be third with Egypt and Assyria, a blessing in the midst of the earth, whom the Lord of hosts has blessed. saying, Blessed be Egypt my people, and Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel my inheritance. If you were with us at that time we Noted how the redemption that God is going to bring to the nation of Israel is going to bring the gospel to the far reaches of the earth, but Assyria to the north and Egypt to the south of Israel are going to be also places where people come. To worship the Lord, and they'll be united in the worship of Yahweh in a unique way. So there's a physical aspect of the highway being made from Egypt to Assyria through the promised land. Perhaps this refers to physical preparations that are going to be necessary at that time, because we do know that a great earthquake is going to come when Christ sets his foot on the Mount of Olives. And there'll be an earthquake like never before. And so there will be a need for preparations and work to be done to bring in the nations of the world that will come. However, I think the significant focus is actually on preparation by way of proclamation. And the reason I say that is because of what's next in these verses. Verses 11 and 12. There's three times the word behold is used in verse 11. He says, Behold, the Lord has proclaimed to the end of the earth. And so this first behold is a proclamation of God to the ends of the earth that all nations Are given. This universal proclamation, all nations are receiving a message to give a message To the daughter of Zion. Let's read this carefully. He says, Behold, the Lord has proclaimed to the end of the earth, Say to the daughter of Zion. You and the end of the earth, say to the daughter of Zion, say to Israel, say to Jerusalem, say to the inhabitants of Israel, who are those people at the ends of the earth? It's you and me. We who live at the ends of the earth compared to the nation of Israel, the Gentiles, the peoples of the world, when you have Tanzanian pastors praying for the peace of Jerusalem. And people in the United States praying for the peace of Jerusalem and people throughout Europe and Asia and South America praying for the peace of Jerusalem. We are the people who have come to know Jesus Christ, their Messiah. And now we have been given a message to proclaim to them. He says, you at the ends of the earth say this. What is it that we're supposed to say? Behold Your salvation comes. Behold, his reward is with him. We are called To tell them your salvation comes. Now, the word salvation, we think of it as more like an object, but it's personified. Notice what he says here. Behold, your salvation comes. Behold, his Reward is with him. Your salvation comes. His reward is with him. Salvation is a person. It is Jesus Christ. It is the Messiah, the suffering servant, and the anointed warrior. We are to tell them about the coming Savior and the salvation that he will bring. He is their Messiah who came and died for them to give them salvation. And he is coming again. We should tell them that he has come. And he is coming again. Then he says, Behold, Zion's Savior will bring recompense. When we think of recompense, we can think of kind of paybacks Or we can think of rewards. Kind of negative paybacks, you're going to get what's coming to you. Or you can think of rewards. The implication here is actually on rewards. When Christ comes, his enemies will be judged, but what's being described here is actually a recompense, a reward for his people. And they become His reward and his salvation is their reward. The people who at the beginning of this book are called a sinful nation. will be radically redeemed and transformed into a nation of witnessing servants. He says here, and they shall be called the holy people. the redeemed of the Lord, and you shall be called sought out a city not forsaken. These references are to the fact that God is doing a radical transformation and redemption in his people Israel. As believers from the ends of the earth, we have a message that we are told is to the Jew first and also to the Gentiles. In Romans chapter eleven, verse eleven, Paul said of ethnic Israel, So I ask, did they stumble in order that they might fall? By no means. Rather, through their trespass, salvation has come to the Gentiles. So as to make Israel jealous. Do you know one of the reasons salvation has come to the Gentiles, you and I, who are Gentiles? Is to make Israel jealous so that they might turn to Christ and find salvation in him. I read an article recently that was written by a Jewish Christian in which he said One of the things that brought him to Christ was seeing the living relationship with the Father that Gentiles enjoy The peace in his love, the rich connection and two-way communication that Jesus has bought for all that all of that provokes, he said for all for us, all that provokes the jealousy. Seeing Gentiles with a close connection with the God of Israel, this is the jealousy that provokes many Jewish people into finding out more about Yeshua or Jesus, the one through whom this connection is possible. This is the jealousy that has led many Jewish people back into the arms of their father God. This is the jealousy that results in boundless joy. And in turn, as Jewish people are one back to their God, unimaginable riches for the world. The first time I went to Israel, I had a Jewish tour guide who was a believer And I asked her, what made her, how did she come to know Christ? And she said, well, I was a tour guide in Israel. And I was taking Christians to all these Christian spots and hearing Christians talk about the promises of God and how Jesus Christ fulfilled them all and seeing you had what I didn't have. And she said, people would ask me, why don't you come to know Christ? And you say, oh, I don't need that. But she said, in my heart I knew I needed that. And she said, finally, I just said, why am I not receiving this? And she got saved, and her family has gotten saved. And now she leads these tours from the perspective of a Jewish. Christian. We have a message of redemption for the nation of Israel, and we should use whatever means are at our disposal to proclaim that glorious message. Behold, your salvation comes. But he has already come and he has died for your sins, we can tell them We can open up Isaiah 52 and Isaiah 53. We can show them the virgin birth in Isaiah 7. We can speak of Isaiah 9. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulders. And we can tell them of their Messiah and point them to Christ. We should be praying regularly for God to send evangelists and missionaries to the nation of Israel. We should also be praying regularly for his kingdom to come and for his will to be done on earth as it is in heaven. We are commanded to do so. We are given the responsibility of ceaseless prayer and confident proclamation because of the promise that God has made. I want to encourage us this evening, we take our prayer sheets. We should pray for these things. I want to encourage you to add to it as well. Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. Pray for God to bring Jewish people to Christ, pray for God to spread the gospel to the farthest reaches of the world so that people from every tribe and tongue and kindred and nation will hear and be saved And we should pray passionately towards that end. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the promises that we have. Lord, we do long for that day when all will bow before our Savior Jesus Christ. We pray, Father, for that day when you will bring in everlasting righteousness. Speed that day to pass. For Jesus' name we pray. Amen.