In 2017, the Wilmer I Institute, that some of you are familiar with down in Baltimore, conducted a study to determine what disability people feared more than any other. And the resounding answer was blindness. Americans fear blindness more than deafness or loss of mobility or even a loss of memory. Today we're exploring the record of Jesus healing a blind man on the Sabbath. This is the sixth of seven signs found in the Gospel of John. I wonder if I gave you a quiz on these signs, how you would do. Let's rehearse a little bit. The first one is the water turned to wine in chapter 2. Then we have the healing of the nobleman's son. at the end of chapter four, and then the healing of the lame man in chapter five, which has a lot of similarities to this miracle. The feeding of the 5,000 in chapter 6, and then Jesus walking on the water at the end of chapter 6. And now we come to the sixth of the seven miracles, the healing of the man born blind. And then the seventh and climactic miracle is the raising of Lazarus from the dead in John chapter 11. And those seven miracles are signs. Form the structure of the first half of the book, which runs from John chapter 1 to John 12. These miracles are intended to be like signposts that point the reader to the identity of Jesus Christ as the Son of God. But how does Jesus healing the blind man accomplish this? Let me mention in the introduction three ways. This is not the sermon. This is a sermon before the sermon, okay? The first one , first way that it points to his identity is the healing of the blind was unique. I want you to look with me at John chapter 9 and verse 32. Notice what is said here. Never since the world began has it been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a man born blind. It may surprise you to know that we don't have any record of the prophets in the Old Testament healing the blind. We don't have the apostles healing the blind. We do have, and some of you are thinking of it. You're thinking of Ananias healing Paul. Remember after that blinding experience on the Damascus Road, and he comes to Ananias and Ananias. Heals him and it's like scales, it says fail off of his eyes, but that was not congenital blindness, that was a temporary blindness. But this is something different and unique. A second thing that they should have noticed is the Old Testament predicted specifically that the Messiah would heal the blind. In Isaiah chapter 29 and verse 18, it says, the eyes of the blind shall see. In Isaiah 35 and verse 5 it says, Then shall the eyes of the blind be opened. And in Isaiah 61, the opening verses, remember, are read by Jesus in his home synagogue. of Nazareth, as recorded in Luke chapter 4 and verse 18, where he says, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me. Because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and the recovering of sight to the blind. And do you remember John the Baptist, that great forerunner of Jesus, when he was thrown into a dungeon? He started to have his doubts about the identity of Christ. So he sent a messenger to Jesus and he said to him, Are you the one who is to come or are we to look for another? And Jesus said, Go and tell John what you see and hear. The blind receive their sight, the lame walk, leopards are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have the good news preach to them. The first thing he mentioned that validated his claim was that the blind have their sight restored. And it may not be a surprise to you, and I think it is significant, that the healing of the blind was the most repeated miracle that Jesus performed. At least five different occasions Jesus healed the blind. And thirdly, the healing of the blind is described in Scripture as the work of God. In Exodus chapter 4 and verse 11, God speaking to Moses says, Who has made man's mouth? Who makes him mute or deaf or seeing or blind? Is it not I, the Lord? And in Psalm 146 and verse 8, it says, the Lord opens the eyes of the blind, and the word Lord there is the word Yahweh. So in Jesus' healing of the blind, he demonstrated that he was the unique and promised Messiah, God in flesh. In the healing of the blind man, we see the glory of Christ and of the gospel. So let's first of all begin this morning by looking at the record of the blind man's First of all, Jesus encounters a blind man. Look at verse 1. And as he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth. Now, we do not know about the connection between chapter 8 and 9. There is nothing specific about it. Some people think there's several months in between. Other scholars think otherwise that maybe this occurred on the same day when Jesus was Cast well ran out of came out of the temple because they wanted to stone him. We don't know for sure. But it certainly seems to have been in and around Jerusalem and Jesus is with his disciples We read later in this chapter that this blind man was a beggar. This was about the only way that a blind person could support themselves at this time in this culture. And although the text does not say it, I think it's likely that Jesus looked upon this blind man with compassion. Now perhaps you're wondering how Jesus and the disciples knew that this man was born blind, what we would call congenital blindness. And the answer is it was very likely obvious. In the United States of America, because of our healthcare system, you don't see many people that are disfigured. or whose eyes are disturbing to look at. But if you were to grow up in a third world country like I did, you would see this all the time. You would see people that are missing an eye, or people whose eyes are very small, or people whose eyes are malformed. And you know that that occurred from birth. And I suspect that's very much the way it was with this man Now, this whole incident prompts a very deep and important theological discussion And here Jesus corrects some wrong assumptions about the cause of the blind man's condition. Look with me at verse 2. And his disciples ask him, Rabbi, who said this man or his parents that he was born blind? Jesus answered, it was not that this man sinned or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. The disciples had an incredible advantage. They had a rabbi who always gave the right answers. Sometimes people will ask me theological questions. Very often that happens. And I do my best to answer them. But my answers are not infallible. A lot of times the questions they ask are really hard, or else they would have gotten the answer themselves. And often they are questions that the Bible doesn't really answer. We can only speculate. But the disciples decide, hey, you know, I've always wondered about this. This would be a great time to ask Jesus this question. And so they do. And their question betrays the fact that they were brought up in a culture that taught them that people with disabilities and deformities, that it was a result of personal sin, either in their case or through their parents. This sounds very strange to us. But the rabbis taught that a baby might have sinned in the womb. They gave the example of a pregnant woman worshiping an idol and somehow the baby was complicit in that. I don't know how the baby could have not been involved in that being inside the mother. It's a ridiculous thing to consider. They also taught that a person very often was being judged because of the parents of a sinner. So When a child was born with some deformity, and when the child was born stillborn or some died, very cruelly people assumed, well, they must have done something wrong. God's paying them back But this is not a fair and accurate understanding of Scripture This idea of the parents' sin being judged on the children likely would have come from the second commandment in Exodus chapter 20 and verse 5 where it says that God will visit the iniquity of the fathers on the children of the third and fourth generation. This verse is still misunderstood by people today. It doesn't mean that even if the children grow up and seek to worship and serve the Lord, that he is because they're cursed because of their parents and just going to send judgment upon them. That's not what the verse is saying. What that verse is warning is fathers is that if they establish a pattern of idolatry It'll very likely be copied by their children and their grandchildren. And those people will be judged for their sinful choices In Exodus chapter 18 and verse 20, we read that the son shall not suffer for the iniquity of the father, nor the father for the iniquity of the son. So let me be clear. The Bible does not teach that babies sin in the womb or that children are judged by God for the sin of their parents. But this was the religious context in which this question was answered. And Jesus categorically rejects both of these explanations. He says in verse 3, it was not that this man sinned or his parents, but that the works of God should be displayed in him. Now let me clarify again. All suffering, all disease, all death that occurs in the world is ultimately can be traced to the fall. All right? It's hard for us to imagine a perfect world where there's not problems and suffering and pain. But that's the world that God originally created. But we all live on a sin-cursed planet where there's suffering and death and disease and hardship. And sometimes our health problems and other problems are due to sinful choices that we have made. We tend to be our own worst enemies. But that was not the case with this man. His suffering was not because of some sin he had committed or his parents had committed. Jesus says it was so that God's power could be displayed in his healing and conversion. And then Jesus reveals the urgency of his mission. Look with me in verses four and five. We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day. Night is coming when no one can work Jesus was very well aware of the fact that he was sent on a mission by the Father. We read something similar to this. In John chapter 4. Would you turn back with me if you're willing? John chapter 4, verse 31. This is when Jesus was dealing with the woman at the well and the disciples have gone away into town to get food and they come back In verse 31 of John 4, we read, Meanwhile the disciples were urging him, saying, Rabbi, eat, but he said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know about. So the disciples said to one another, Has anyone brought him something to eat? Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work. Jesus was intent. On doing what his father had sent him to do. Jesus was able to maintain a balance that seems elusive to every one of us. We never get the sense that he was in a hurry, but he was always busy about his father's work. He always had time for people like this blind man. He always lived his life with a sense of urgency. Now he compares his life here to the daylight hours of a day. When we think of a day in our modern world, we think of 24 hours In the ancient world, they tended to think from sunup to sundown. We have electricity. We're able to travel. We're able to Light up our homes and light up our streets and light up parks and do all kinds of activities even though it's dark outside. It wasn't like that throughout most of human history. When the sun went down You might spend some time, you might have your dinner and maybe a short time, but then you went to bed. The house was not very bright. It was dimly lit. There were candles and maybe some lanterns. But your day was over and you went to sleep. And Jesus knew something that none of us know. He knew exactly when he was going to die. He knew that he had a few months left. Now this very likely occurred in the fall. We're just now entering into the fall season. Jesus knew that he would die on Passover. Of the next year in the spring. So he knew that his time on earth was short. And he was going to fill up that time with things like ministering to this blind man. And preaching the gospel. In verse 5, he says, I am the light of the world. And goes on to , he says, well, he says earlier, I better explain this. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. This does not mean That after Jesus died and rose again, that he was no longer the light of the world, he's still the light of the world today. What he means by this is he only had a short time to let his light shine during his incarnation. And that is what he's trying to explain here. Then we come to his healing, which is quite unusual in verses 6 and 7. Having said these things, he spit on the ground and made mud with the saliva, and he anointed the man's eyes with the mud, and he said to him, Go, wash in the pool of siloam, which means scent. So he went and washed and came back seen. Now everyone wants to know why Jesus healed this man in this way. And the Bible doesn't say. Jesus could have healed this man in many different ways. He could have just said the word. And the man's eyes would have been healed. He could have touched his face with his hands and healed him that way, but he chose not to do that. Instead He does something that seems a little unusual and perhaps crude to us. He makes some mud packs and he puts it on the man's eyes. What was he seeking to convey in healing him in this way? We can't be dogmatic, but I suspect It is indicating that the same God who formed man out of the dust of the ground was now forming eyes out of the dust of the ground. Jesus is revealing here that he is the creator. In the opening verses of this book, we read, all things were made through him that is Jesus. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. And Jesus is demonstrating his power as creator in this miracle. And the man goes to this pool. Siloam, perhaps John 's who interprets it as being sent, is saying that Jesus is the sent one, and so it's appropriate that he sent him to a pool with this name. And the man goes and washes his eyes and is healed. Now, what was the point of sending him to wash his eyes? Well, it was a test of faith. We read something like this in the Old Testament. Remember the prophet Elisha sending that man Naaman to go and wash in the Jordan so that his leprosy would be healed? We read about this in 2 Kings chapter 5. This is similar to that. This was a test of his faith. And the man goes and he washes and he's healed. Right after the record of this miracle, we have secondly the reaction to the blind man's healing in verses 8 through 12. Verses 8 and 9 are almost humorous. We have a divided opinion about the identity of this man. The neighbors and those who had seen him before his beggars were saying , Is not this the man who used to sit and beg? Some said, It is he. Others said, No, but he is like him. He kept saying, I am the man. So the two groups and their reactions can probably explain this way. There were a group of people who were described here as his neighbors. They lived with him, wherever that was, and they knew him well. They had talked to him over the years. They knew this blind man. They knew him as a person. The other people who were confused and were not sure this was him are people that had passed by him at the gate where he was begging. But they didn't really know him personally. Perhaps they never even spoke to him. But he was like a fixture. He was always there. And they're not so sure that he was the man. This reminds me of the humorous incident with our Pastor Aaron When he came back from the mission field and was at a church, there were some people who were not sure he was really Pastor Aaron anymore because he looked different. He didn't have hair. In fact there's one story that I always relish and have been saving up a opportunity to share it And that is that he went to a church and this lady pulled the pastor aside and she said, she said, Pastor, it's the same lady, but it's a different man. It was a great scandal. But it was the same man, the same husband. He just looked differently. But when Pastor Aaron came back, we all knew who he was, because we know him. And this is the situation here as well. Now why is it that these people did not identify him correctly. I think there's two reasons. Number one, the idea of this man who had been blind from birth now seeing seemed impossible. They'd never heard of this before. They'd never seen this before. It didn't seem possible that this could happen. And so there must be another explanation. That's why somebody said, well he kind of looks like him, but it's not him. But another reason I think is a more natural explanation, and that is that your eyes have a great impact on how you look. Some of you perhaps have tried to draw a person. It's very difficult to draw a person that when people look at it, they say, oh, I know who that is. The two most difficult things, and I've done this, tried this before, never very successful, but is a person's mouth and a person's eyes. Because everyone's eyes are a little bit different. And just the slightest difference in shape or or underlining or texture makes a person look differently. And so it's very, very difficult to do that. So this man who perhaps had malformed eyes now had healthy eyes and he looked a little differently. It's the same man, but he looked a little different. And then we have this man's definitive identification. While they are having the discussion about who this is, he's right there saying, It's me. I it was me, believe me, I was the man at the gate, I was the man who was begging, I was the man born blind, but now I can see. Our text says he kept saying this He's protesting and he's frustrated that people won't believe his own words. And then he explains how he was healed in verses 10 through 12. He recounts. They ask him how his eyes were opened. He says in verse 11, the man called Jesus made mud and anointed my eyes and said to me, Go to Siloam and wash. So I went and washed and received my sight. They said to him, Where is he? And he said, I do not know. Now one of the interesting things we're going to see in this chapter is this man's progressive understanding of who Jesus is. Starts out by saying he's Jesus. Next we're going to read that he identifies Jesus as a prophet. And it's going to continue and it's going to conclude at the end of the story in verse 35. Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and having found him, he said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? He answered him Who is he, sir, that I may believe in him? Jesus said to him, You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you. And he said, Lord, I believe, and he worshipped him. So this man was not saved in his conversion, but he was saved sometime afterward when he had a full understanding of who Jesus is. So we've considered the record of his healing and the response to his healing, and now I want us to consider the revelation of the blind man 's healing. So let me ask you a question. Why did Jesus performed miracles of healing? Well, the scriptures give several different reasons. One is to demonstrate his identity as the only begotten Son of God. Secondly, it was to trust for people to come to trust in him as their Savior. There was an evangelistic intents. And certainly there was also a desire to bring relief to the suffering and pain of fallen people, but this was a secondary reason. But there's another reason that you may not have thought of, and that is the miracles of Jesus illustrate the power of the gospel in conversion. These miracles were a picture of what Jesus does spiritually to people when they are saved. This sign is like an enacted parable. There are parallels between the physical healing and the spiritual healing that will occur in this man. This explains why Jesus says once again, I am the light of the world. He said that first in John 8. 12, and now he says it here in verse 5 of chapter 9. It's tying in this, that he is the light in the world that comes into the world, and just as he brings sight and light to those who are blind, so he brings sight and light to those who are spiritually blind. So let me mention four parallels between the healing and conversion. Number one, in this healing we see the helplessness of sinners to save themselves. This blind man could do nothing To restore his sight. He could do nothing to heal himself. We don't read like He's not like blind Barnabaius who is crying out to Jesus, have mercy upon me, thou son of David. He doesn't do that. But Jesus initiates and Jesus stops and Jesus looks at him and eventually Jesus heals him. The Bible has many different descriptions of lost people. Describes them as being in bondage, like they're in prison or captives. Describes them as being spiritually dead. It also describes them as being spiritually blind. And that's what we see in this healing. Paul says in Acts 26 that he was sent to open eyes so that they may turn from darkness to light, from the power of Satan to God. This reminds us that when we engage in evangelism, we are totally dependent on God. All of our apologetics and our questions and our approaches are useless unless the Spirit of God is at work. Explaining a person's sinfulness and the beauty of the gospel and the beauty of Christ is like explaining a sunset. To a person who has been blind their whole life, they don't get it. Most lost people do not believe that they are really that bad. That they are very sinful. And when we share with them their their sin And and how it is an offense to a holy God and how they are under the wrath of God. Most of them simply do not believe that. It doesn't seem to fit. It's not what they've always heard. It's not the way they perceive things to be. Instead they think that God is very pleased with them and God is happy with them. And that's the way he is with just about everyone, except for really, really bad people. And so they're blind to who they are and their need of a savior This truth should not compel us to give up, but to recognize that we desperately need God's help. That our evangelism must be bathed in prayer. And it also should mean that when we are rejected, and the person says, I'm just not interested. We should not be offended or think that we've done something wrong, or if only I had a better, a better command of scriptural Bible verses, they would be saved. No, no, they're blind. They're blind. The second parallel I see is in this healing we see that God often uses our suffering and problems to reveal the glory of Christ. And to draw sinners to the Savior. C. S. Lewis famously said, God whispers to us in our pleasures, speaks to us in our conscience. Shouts but shouts to us in our pain and is his megaphone to rouse a deaf world. When you are really suffering, God has your undivided attention. God often brings us to the end of ourselves so that we will turn to Him. Our Lord's comments here touch on one of the greatest theological debates. Of all time, and that is the problem of evil. This is how the conundrum, the dilemma goes. If God is good Which the Bible teaches, and all powerful, which the Bible teaches. Why does he allow so much suffering and injustice in the world And so people suggest perhaps he's not good. And so he's not concerned about the suffering in people's lives. Or perhaps he is good, but he's not all-powerful, so he's unable to stop violence and suffering and injustice. Or there's the explanation of the atheist, and that is that perhaps this is all an indication that there is no God. This is probably the most common argument that atheists use. I've had more than one sit in my office and share this exact argument with me. And I've heard it many times. But think about it. How many people would truly worship God from their hearts if they had no problems, no difficulties? No approaching death. How could God display His mercy and His goodness and His compassion? and his grace, unless he allowed the fall to occur and mankind to plunge into sin and the suffering and death that would come with it. I'm not at all going to suggest that I've solved this great dilemma that people have been debating for two thousand years. But we see here that the Lord explains his healing of this man so that he could display the works of God. And because of our sin and our suffering and our pain and our difficulties , We so often turn to God and we experience his steadfast love and the gift of forgiveness. And in this healing, we see the power, thirdly, of Christ to save sinners. These Jewish leaders had no ability to help this man. They weren't interested in him. He was essentially invisible to them, just a fixture there that was always there by the gate. They didn't care for him. And sadly, even his disciples Don't seem to have much compassion for him. He's just a talking point, a theological dilemma to discuss It's only Jesus that cared for this man and had the power to heal this man and restore this man's sights so that he could see. And this is a reminder to us that God has provided only one Savior. There are not other roads to God. There are not other people who can deliver us from our sin. Most people in the West think that they can be their own savior. That they can be their own deliverer. This has never worked and it never will work because Jesus is the savior of the world. And fourthly, in this healing we see that when a person is truly converted, it changes their life. Now, this man was not converted at the moment he was healed. But it's a picture of his conversion that would come. And what we see in the response of the people is that this man was different now. He looked differently. He acted differently. He was no longer a beggar. We see here then the conversion of a sinner, a supernatural work of God has occurred. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creation. Old things have passed away. All things have become new. The conversion of a sinner is not just an exchange of information where someone nods their head and says, well I guess you're right about that It does involve them understanding the gospel. Don't misunderstand me. But it is a supernatural work of God in their hearts. Where they're changed from the inside out. It's nothing less than rebirth or a new creation. My question to you this morning is, has God changed you from the inside out? Is there a part, a time in your life when there was a change? This is who you used to be, but it's not who you are today. Have your eyes been opened to see the light of the world? I want to conclude with just a few applications. Number one, we must be careful not to assume the worst of others. The Lord's disciples had been trained in their culture to assume that all suffering was the result of a person's sin. We see the same idea with Job's friends that came to counsel him. They assumed that the hardship that Job was facing was because he must have committed some sin. They were wrong about that. The disciples blame This man's blindness either on his sin as a baby or on the sin of his parents, but they were wrong to draw this conclusion. I think one of the reasons why we like to blame hardship and difficulty on someone's sin is because it relieves us, we think in our minds, of the responsibility to be compassionate or to help them. We like to say, well, he brought that suffering on himself. Or, well, she's in that fix because of the decisions that she's made in life. That may be true. It does not mean, however, that they are not worthy of our compassion and our help. We also see here that God has a good purpose in our suffering. Some of you here this morning, I know, are going through a time of suffering, and some of you, I don't know anything about it, but you are going through a time of suffering. This often is a rate test to our faith. If God is good, why is he allowing me to suffer this way, to have this agony in my life? Maybe not in my life personally, but in a loved one. The scriptures give us many reasons. I'm going to quickly mention seven of them. The Bible teaches that our suffering often exposes the hidden sin of our heart. It reveals that we have not really been walking with God. Our suffering often drives us to God in prayer, drives us to our knees. And sometimes our prayers become dry and lethargic or absent. When we have very few troubles in our life, but when something really strikes at the very root of our lives and changes everything in the lives of our loved ones, you know what it does? It drives us to our knees. Our suffering also leads us back to the Word of God. I've talked to so many people over the years, and the promises of God all of a sudden just leap off the page. They become real. They've always been there, but now in the midst of your trials and your suffering, these promises are so precious. Number four, suffering makes us long for heaven. This world is not our home. This is not our rest. And so the disruption and pain and suffering in this life reminds us, I wasn't made for this. God has something else for me. Number five, our suffering enables us to sympathize and minister to others who are suffering. This is a very interesting phenomenon. When you have gone through a great time of suffering, It makes your heart sensitive to the suffering of other people in that situation. I've seen this time and time again of people who have Perhaps had cancer and they went through a very difficult time and God brought them through, and then they see on a prayer sheet someone who's just been diagnosed with cancer. And their heart is touched and they reach out to them. This is exactly what the Bible says we should do. In 2 Corinthians chapter 1, it says that we are to comfort others with the comfort wherewith we ourselves have been comforted by God. And we can share with them, this is how the Lord brought me through this dark valley of suffering. I've been where you are. Our suffering helps us to appreciate the sufferings of Christ. And our suffering provides an opportunity for us to be a witness for Christ. When people have cancer or some horrible health issue, you will encounter all kinds of people and hear from all kinds of people that you would not have had a relationship with otherwise. And you have the opportunity to be a witness for Christ. But now I want to make one final application here. We must take every opportunity to speak for the Lord and to serve the Lord because our life is short. So Jesus says we must work while it is day. The idea is the night is coming. Jesus here compares a lifetime to the day light of a day. So let me ask you a very personal question, one that you may not want to meditate on. What time of day are you living in right now? Is your life just beginning? Is it 9 a. m. ? Is it noon? Is it 3 p. m. ? Or is it 545? All of us have an allotted time. But there is one thing I want to bring out. Someone brought this up to me after the first service. The fact is, we don't know exactly what time it is for us. The sun may be setting today in your life. Jesus knew exactly how much time he had left because he knew exactly when he was going to die. He could count the days till Passover We don't have that insight. We don't know when we're going to die. We don't know if this is the last day. If you're young here, you might assume, hey, you know, my my parents live or my grandparents live to this age. I've got Many, many, many decades ahead of you. You don't know that. So what are we going to do? How should we apply this? It means that we have to live each day as if it were our last. We have to make it count. We have to minister to people. We have to share the gospel with people. The night cometh when no man can work. May God help us to be faithful. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, I pray that you'd help us to work for the night is coming. How easy it is for us to just seek relaxation and amusement and to spend so much of our life On things that will not count for eternity. Help us, Father , to live like our Savior, to live with intention and purpose and meaning. And to seek to bring the lost to the Savior. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.