Turn your Bibles please to First Peter chapter one. First Peter chapter one Most of you have probably heard of the story. I think it was made into an old movie entitled Mutiny on the Bounty. Chronicles the rebellion of the crew against the notorious Captain Bly. Nine mutineers along with Tahitian men and women Left the captain, took charge of the ship, and made their way to a desert island known today as Pitcairn Island. It's a tiny dot in the South Pacific, about two miles long and a mile wide. They had a large supply of rum with them on that ship. and provisions to live off of. And in time they uh they live there in their little supposed island paradise. But There was nothing but quarreling and fighting and drunkenness among the men. And after ten years There was only one man left alive because the rest had been murdered one after another. His name was John Adams. He was left there along with 11 women and 23 children, most of whom were from Tahiti. This man, going through the old provisions on the ship, found in the bottom of one of the chests an old Bible. He took that out, began to read it every day and study it, and in time he came to put his faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And then he began to talk to the others on the island about the discovery that he had made and how it had changed his life. And he began to teach the children on the island the scriptures. And in time, many of them came to be converted. And their island that was a place of drunkenness and murder became a place of peace. The fact is the word of God can completely change a person's life. And it's this power that Peter speaks of at the conclusion of chapter 1. Look with me. At 1 Peter chapter 1, verses 23 and following, Peter writes, Being born again, not of corruptible seed. but of incorruptible, by the word of God which liveth and abideth forever. For all flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man as the flower of grass. The grass withereth, and the flower thereof falleth away, but the word of the Lord endureth forever. And this is the word which by the gospel In the latter half of chapter one, Peter is giving his readers basic instructions about the Christian life. You may recall that in verse 13 he calls them to hope, that is, to live with a confident expectation. In verses 14 through 16, He calls on them to live holy lives, lives that are different from the world, that are becoming more and more like the Lord Jesus Christ. And then we noticed last week in verse 22 that he calls on Christians to love one another. And now he is continuing with the explanation of that And he is telling us about the fact that the only way that we can love one another in a supernatural way is if we have been regenerated in a supernatural way by the Word of God. That's the connection. between the conclusion of verse 22 and the beginning of verse 23. Notice it says, love one another with a pure heart. fervently, verse 23, being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible. This is the only way that a human being can love others the way God has commanded us to if we have been born again. Now, Peter goes on a little bit of a digression after this, and he's going to talk about the Word of God. And he's going to continue to be discussing this matter of loving one another into the next chapter. Reminds you that chapter and verse divisions are very handy, but they're not inspired. In chapter 2, notice what he says in verse 1. Wherefore laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and endings and all evil speakings. Now this is quite a list of sins. What do they all have in common? They all are relational sins. They all are violations of the command he gave in verse 22 that we would love one another. So he's still talking about that issue. He's coming back to it here in chapter 2 and verse 1. But in between that and and his command in verse 22, he's going to talk about the role of the Word of God very briefly in the life of a Christian. And he's going to talk about two primary characteristics of the Word. There are more. But here he is going to highlight two of them. First of all, he's going to talk about the fact that the Word of God brings spiritual life Notice this is found at the beginning of verse 23, being born again not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible. And then at the very end in verse 25, he says And this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you. He is saying to his readers, it's the word of God that has transformed your life. The word of God is that which gives. life and it's the means by which God brings life to our hearts. And then the other characteristic that's very closely connected to it is the permanence or the enduring of the Word of God. Notice he's going to go on to say, the Word of God at verse 23 liveth. and abideth forever, for all flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man is the flower of grass. The grass withereth, the flower thereof falleth away, but the word of the Lord endureth forever So we have these two characteristics here of the Word of God. It gives life, and it will last forever. The fact is that the word of God is absolutely foundational to your Christian life. The Bible gives us many images and analogies to help us understand how vital it is. Compares it to a mirror that reflects who we truly are. It is a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. It is our necessary bread that sustains us in the journey of life. It's milk that helps us to grow. It's meat that makes us strong. It is the sword that pierces our hearts and convicts us of sin. It is the water that cleanses us from the defilement of the world. And that's just to mention a few The word of God is essential to our Christian lives. It is the means that God used to bring new life to us, and it is the means that God has provided for us to walk with Him and have communion with Him throughout our Christian experience. So let me ask you this morning, are you letting the Word of Christ dwell in you richly? Do you read the Word of God? Are you hiding God's Word in your heart? Do you study the Word of God? Do you have a proper view of the Word of God? Is it a priority in your life? Is it authoritative in your life? These are very important questions for us to consider. The fact is we can only live the Christian life. by the ministry of the Word of God. And so I want to look at these first of these elements that I brought to your attention just a moment ago, and that is that God's Word is the means by which we have been given spiritual life. Notice what it says in verse 23, being born again Theologians call this regeneration. The Bible teaches, contrary to what most people think , That people are not naturally good, but that they are all inherently evil, that we are born spiritually dead And it's only the gospel through the power of the Holy Spirit that can bring dead corpses like us as sinful people to new life in Christ. And this occurs only by the work of God. This is taught throughout Scripture. We encountered this truth. at the very beginning of our study. In chapter 1 and verse 3, it says, Blessed be God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again. It is God that brings about regeneration. If you would like, you can keep a finger here and join me in a very significant text concerning this in John chapter 1. John chapter 1, we have this very famous invitation to the gospel in John chapter 1 and verse 12. It says, but as many as received him, to them gave ye power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name Verse thirteen, which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. Regeneration occurs by the work of God. And we see perhaps the clearest explanation of this is found two chapters later in John chapter 3. In our Lord's conversation with that religious leader, Nicodemus. John chapter three And verse 3, Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see. the kingdom of God. Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter the second time into his mother's womb and be born Jesus answered, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, that which is born of the spirit is spirit. Marvel not that I say unto thee, ye must be born again. Then he goes on to talk about the work of the Spirit in this, which is often mysterious to us. Verse 8, the wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearst the sound thereof. but canst not tell whence it cometh or whither it goeth, so is every one that is born of the Spirit. So it is God who regenerates and more specifically it's the Holy Spirit who brings that new life to the heart of dead sinners like us. And it is the Spirit using the Word of God. In James chapter 1 And verse 18, we have this specifically brought out. It says, of his own will begat he us with the word of truth. that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. Let me pause here a second and make some comments from all these scriptures that I've just read. What I hope you have seen is very clear is that salvation is not a matter of reformation. It's not a matter of you deciding to clean up your act and saying, you know what, I've gotten into a lot of trouble because of the decisions I've made, so I think I'm going to clean up my act and try to do what's right. That's not the impetus, the essence of salvation. Now, it hopefully will be part of the fruit of your salvation. But salvation is not a matter of your willpower, of your resolutions, of your determination to live a better life. to be kinder to others, to have less struggle with various addictions. That's not what salvation is. Salvation is a work of God It's not a person deciding to become more religious. It's nothing less than God putting life into a dead corpse by the work of his Holy Spirit through his word of truth. The Puritans like to say that regeneration was a greater work than the creation of the world. So let me pause here in the middle of my exposition and ask you, have you been born again? In modern culture, we use that term in a variety of ways, many of which are not biblical. A lot of people say they have been born again and What they mean by that is they've had some kind of a strange mystical experience in their life. And it could have nothing to do with God or with the truth of his word. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm saying, have you passed from death and unto life? Is your life kind of like Two halves where there was a life that you had before God, before you trusted in Christ, before you you really had new life, and then there's the second half of your life, and things are different now Your perspective is different. Your viewpoint is different. Your behavior is different because you have a new life. God uses the word of God to accomplish this. In James chapter one and verse twenty-one we read Receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls In 2 Timothy 3, Paul writing to Timothy says, From a child thou hast known the scriptures which are able to make thee wise unto salvation. And then we have Romans 10, 17, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. So what are some of the implications of the fact that people must receive the gospel in order to believe? Let me apply this for just a little bit. It means that we as Christians should be striving to get the gospel to everyone. To get God's word into the hands of people. This is why we as a local church send out missionaries. This is why we support Bible translation, because when people can read God's Word in their own language, it connects with their heart in a way that it would not if they heard it through a language that is not their own. It means that we should be vigilant and earnest in our efforts at sharing God's truth with others. Secondly, it means that we do not need to entertain or manipulate people in order to give them the gospel. There are a lot of well-meaning Christians who think that this is the key. We've got to entertain people. We've got to make our services completely different so that lost people feel absolutely at home. as they would in a nightclub somewhere. And then we'll kind of slip the gospel in without them even realizing. We'll kind of trick them into being saved. That's not what the Bible teaches. And we don't have to use a lot of sales techniques or heart-rending stories So that they receive the gospel. We just have to give them the truth of the gospel, God's words. The Bible says the gospel itself is the power of God unto salvation. We just have to let it loose. And it will accomplish the will of God's. It also means that we need to preach and teach And share the gospel in full dependence on the Spirit of God. It's not up to us. It's not up to me. It's not up to our teachers. It's not up to you as you perhaps witness to your co-worker to bring about that change. You can only share the good news. But what you will discover is that a lot of people are not very interested in receiving that good news And you may find yourself discouraged and frustrated because they just shut down the conversation when you start to bring up spiritual things. And it's a reminder to you that you can't do this. That you need the Spirit of God to do what He did with Lydia, that cellar of purple, when it says that the Lord opened her heart so that she attended to the things that were spoken of by Paul. She all of a sudden gave his preaching the attention that she had not previously given to anyone else. She listened to his words as if her life was hanging on it. And she was converted and was part of that infant church at Philippi. You see, unless the Spirit of God takes the Word of God and applies it to the hearts of sinners, they will never really hear the gospel. 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 18 says, For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness, but unto us which believe it is the power of God. And this is why this is why we make the Word of God central in our services. I've often had visitors make comments to me afterwards about our services. Maybe they come from a uh a non-church background or they come from a different kind of worship style or different kind of preaching uh situation and they'll come and they'll say, you know, your service is so different. It's like everything's about the Bible You know, you have scripture reading, and and the songs that you sing are like Bible put to words, and then most of the time is given to you talking about the Bible A lot of times they say that's not the what I'm used to. Why do we do that? We do that because God takes the word of God and uses it to bring men and women to new life in Christ. And for the people of God, it's our spiritual nourishment. It's what we need to hear. We don't need to hear the opinions of men. We don't need to hear political speculations. What we need is the pure, unadulterated word of God. So often we speak of how precious the Word of God is to us as Christians, but so often our practice doesn't match our profession. Are you faithfully reading the Word? Are you studying the Word? Are you memorizing the Word? Do you try to capture what you hear when the Word of God is preached? Or does it go in one ear and out the other? This is the experience of Christian people that we have been saved through the agency of the Word of God. Notice how he concludes this little digression at the end of verse 25. And this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you. So how did the gospel come to you? Either directly or indirectly, it was the Word of God. It was the message of the Word of God. Was it some verses that were found in a gospel tract that someone gave to you? Or was it a sermon on the radio that you heard and you were convicted as you were listening on your commute? Or perhaps a friend invited you to a service like one we're having here today, and for the first time you really heard the gospel, you heard things that you'd never heard before. and you were arrested and you were convicted and you were concerned about your spiritual state. Or maybe you were reading the scripture for yourself. Whatever it is, your new life, if you're truly a child of God here this morning, it came through the agency of the Word of God. God uses this good news to bring new life to sinful people. Now look with me at the comparison that's made in verse 23. He's comparing the word of God to seed. We know that when seed germinates, it brings life that can bring growth. It's amazing, isn't it? One small acorn can bring about an incredible tree that's huge and spreads its branches over a large area, a tree that may last for hundreds of years. And it all came from one little acorn. So it is that God can take just a brief portion of his word. And that can germinate and grow and work in the heart of a sinner and can bring about new life through the work of the Holy Spirit. And it can transform not just that person's life, but the lives of others that they touch and their children and their grandchildren. It can be like a giant spiritual tree that comes about by one little kernel of truth. Whenever I think about this, I always think about the story of this Presbyterian missionary. that went to the country of Iran. He was there from 1919 to 1962. And as you may expect, it was a difficult mission field. Because Iran is a Muslim country. People did not want to hear what he had to say. One of his first assignments was that he was sent to this little village and there in the little town square He put up a little booth and he was selling Bibles. And he would be there in the hot sun day after day, and he had no customers. No one wanted to buy his Bible, so he started to reduce his price. Now he wasn't trying to make money, he was just trying to pay for the cost of the Bibles. But eventually he realized, I'm never going to sell these, and so he made them for free. And he offered to give them out to anybody who wanted them. But people still didn't want them. He was very discouraged. He thought this is an absolute waste of my time. And next to him there was another vendor. He was a seller of cheese. And the man said, I'll take them off your hands. So he gave his Bibles to that man, not knowing that the man would rip out those pages and wrap his cheese with it. He had a use for him. What that missionary didn't know is that sometime later a man came, bought a piece of cheese that was wrapped, and a page from the Gospel of Mark. And he went home and he read it. And he was intrigued by it, never heard anything like it. The next day he went and bought another piece of cheese. Not because he loved cheese so much, but he wanted to read the paper it was wrapped in. The next day he did the same, and the next the same. He was intrigued. He couldn't get enough of this book. And finally the merchant understood. He says, You're not really coming here for the cheese, are you? And he says, you know what, I got a whole bunch of these. Would you like to buy one of these? He made quite a profit because the man paid a lot for that Bible. But he took it home and he read it and he studied it and he was converted and he was able to lead his life to Christ and many, many, many years later. This missionary encountered this man who spoke of the life-giving word of God that changed his life and the life of his family. The word of God, through the Spirit of God, can bring new life to the hearts of sinners. How could you tell if you've been born again? I want to tie this into the main theme of this section. Well, there are many, many evidences given in Scripture. One that we looked at last week in 1 John chapter 4 and verse 7 says this, Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God. And knoweth God. One of the clear evidences the Bible says that you've truly been born again is that you now have an unusual love for the people of God. Something that cannot be explained as just natural affection the way people tend to like other people But it's a supernatural love. That is an evidence that God has truly changed your selfish heart I want to now bring our attention to the second point, that second characteristic of the word that we find in our text this morning, and that is that God's word is permanent and thus worthy of our trust. At the end of verse 23, he says of this word, that it liveth and abideth forever. He also describes it that it's not corruptible like regular seeds, but it's incorruptible. It's a seed that will never die. Incorruptible, of course, means that it's imperishable, not subject to decay. This is the same Greek word that was used. In chapter 1 and verse 4, notice what it says there, to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you. So the word of God is something that is not corruptible. It will not fade away. It will not decay like everything else that we see in this world. I always think of the hymn writer who wrote, Abide with me. He said, change and decay, and all around I see. Isn't that our experience? And you become more aware of that as you become an older person. You see how things decay and fall apart, including yourself. Earthly seeds will eventually perish, but the Word of God will never die. And then Peter uses two active participles to press this truth home to his readers so that they really get it like a hammer, hammering a truth home so that you will not forget it. He says the word of God liveth and abideth forever. You see, the Word of God is not just an ancient book. It is an ancient book. We believe the opening chapters of this book were written like 3 ,500 years ago. That's a long time. It is an ancient book. But it's not a dead book. It's not an irrelevant book. It's not an obsolete book. It is still a book that is living. One Christian buzzword that you often hear today is the word relevance. People say they want to hear preaching that is relevant and they want services that are relevant. And what they mean by this is that preaching and worship should be contemporary and address people's felt needs. That there should be a man-centered approach. Don't give us all the doctrine and all of these things and all the details of it. Just boil it down to several truths that will help us in our journey of life. And unfortunately, a lot of evangelical preaching has been reduced to that. But the fact is, there is nothing that is more practical and more relevant Than the word of God. This is exactly what the Bible says about itself. You know this verse? Hebrews 4:12, for the word of God is quick or living. and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the fighting asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is discerner of the thoughts and intents of the hearts. He's describing the Word of God as if it's alive, it's a creature. Have you never ever read your Bible or been in a service? And you were struck with conviction over something that was said. Because the Spirit of God took the word of God and said, you know, that's you. The person he's describing, that's you. The person who's living with unconfessed sin, that's you, and you know it. The person who won't get right with others, that's you. The person that's toying with sin, the Spirit says, that is you And it's amazing if you think about it. These are just words on a page, but yet it's like they're alive and it strikes you and it hits you and the very center and core of your being. The word of God is still living. And then we have this famous verse, all scripture is given by inspiration of God. Listen, and is profitable. For doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. All of God's word, to one degree or another, is profitable for you. Everything that he says in here is something worthy of our consideration and study. It's not like there's huge sections that we can say, I has nothing to do with that, I can care less about that. No, no, no. There's always things we can learn about our God and what he expects from us. So why is God's word still relevant and meaningful for us today? Let me give you some reasons. Number one, because human beings have not changed. You realize that? Even from the time that the scripture was written, the people have not essentially changed. We may wear different clothing than they did when Peter wrote these words. We may travel in a plane instead of on the back of a camel But these are only superficial differences. Let me give you an example. The reasons that people traveled in the ancient world are the same reasons that people travel today. People travel looking for adventure. They travel for business purposes. They travel to visit loved ones and friends. Now we might be able to get there much faster today. But the essential reasons we're traveling are the same because mankind has not changed. Another reason is because man's problems have not changed. You ever thought about that? What were the problems in the ancient world? What were the problems when Peter wrote these words, or when Isaiah, as we're going to look at in a moment, wrote his words? Well. There were problems like disease and famine and injustice and racism and oppressive governments and war and depression and anxiety and crime and most of all sin which alienates us from God's. Those were the kind of problems that people had to deal with. And you know what? We have the same problems today. Because man has not changed. And those issues are addressed, of course, in the Word of God. There's a third reason the Bible is still relevant, and that's because God has not changed. He is still holy. And he commands men everywhere to repent and believe the gospel. You see, the word of God reflects the God of the Word And then it goes on to say here that the word of God abideth forever. That is, the word of God is permanent and therefore reliable. Now he's to confirm this truth, Peter is going to quote from Isaiah chapter 40 And verses six through eight. And he goes on to say, For all flesh, verse twenty-four, is as grass, and all the glory of man as the flower of grass, the grass withereth, and the flower thereof falleth. As I've been studying this this week, I've been really amazed at how carefully Peter has chosen his Old Testament text. Are you familiar with Isaiah chapter 40? Remember how that chapter begins? It begins, comfort ye, comfort ye my people. The prophet Isaiah was running to people who were about to face exile at the hands of the Babylonians. They seemed destined for destruction. But God promised them that they would not be finally destroyed. But those promises seemed hard to believe when they considered their circumstances. And so Isaiah reminds them that the power and glory of Babylon would someday fade like the spring flower and wither like the grass in the noonday sun. God's promises would endure because God is much more powerful than all the nations of the world. That was the message of Isaiah. It's interesting to me that right after that section Isaiah gives us one of the most glorious descriptions of the greatness of God, because this is what fearful, doubting people need to hear. He says this, who hath measured the water in the hollow of his hands? and meted out the heaven with the span, and comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure, and weighed the mountains and scales and hills in a balance, who hath directed the Spirit of the Lord, or being his counselor, hath taught him? With whom took he counsel, and who instructed him, and taught him in the path of judgment, and taught him knowledge, and showed to him the way of understanding. Behold, the nations are as a drop of a bucket, and are counted as the small dust of the balance. Behold, he taketh up the isles as a very little thing, and Lebanon is not sufficient. to burn, nor the beast thereof sufficient for a burnt offering. All nations before him are as nothing, and they are counted to him less than nothing. and vanity. And then he says, to whom then will you liken God? That's what the people, the fearful people And Isaiah's day needed to hear. And this is what the people in Peter's they needed to hear as well. They were very fearful. They were facing exile. Peter begins this epistle by writing to those who have been scattered throughout the known world. They were about to face severe persecution, not at the hands of the Babylonians, but of the Romans. And so Peter reminds them that the glory and power of Rome would someday fade, but that the word of God would abide forever. The word of the gospel that they believed would never perish. Notice he says in the first phrase in verse 25, but the word of the Lord endureth. Now let me conclude this message by making several points of application First of all, let me say that if you're here this morning and you have never experienced the kind of change that I'm talking about, the way the Bible describes a passing from death unto life. I would encourage you to seek the Lord. I would encourage you to call out to God. I would encourage you to respond to the work of the Spirit of God in your heart that alarms you and convicts you and disturbs you. Do not silence that witness. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Go to his word. When people come to me and they say that they're searching. They're seekers, they're looking for answers. I always turn them to the Word of God. And tell them to read the Word of God. I encourage them to read. like the gospel of John that tells us about our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and that it's been written that you might believe that he is the Son of God Why do I do that? Because the Spirit of God takes the Word of God to bring about change, new life in our hearts. The second point of application I would make is this, coming right out of this text that's quoted from Isaiah. And that is, do not be dazzled by the impressive pomp and show of the world. This admonition is for all people, but especially for young people. There's something I think about maturity and age that brings a little bit of wisdom with it, hopefully. That you begin to see that so many of the things that the world sets forth as this is what you should live for, this is what life is all about, you begin to see that they don't last very long. That the party is going to come to the end. And that that's not a very sure foundation on which to build your life. The world puts on a great and impressive show, just like the ancient Babylonians and Romans. I mean, they were impressive. They had incredible military might. They had luxurious cities. They had great power in physical terms. But all of that is gone today. The celebrities of the world seem so impressive To the eyes of people, they are beautiful and wealthy and sophisticated. It seems that what they have to offer is so much more attractive and interesting. than what God and His Word has to offer. I think so many people think, you know, it might be the right thing and the honorable thing to do things God's way, but Boy, it seems so much more fun to live like the world, to live like the celebrities that are constantly put in front of us But if you can see the big picture , you can see how quickly their star fades and their beauty is gone and their notoriety passes off the scene, you would see that this is not the way you should live. So my advice to you is don't admire them, don't envy them, don't follow them. Do you remember what John says to his readers? He says, And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof passeth But he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. away You want to do something that is lasting, that is truly significant and meaningful? Do God's will for your life. Walk with him in his word. Thirdly, I would say by way of application, place your full reliance in the promises of God. When the great power and might of Babylon came upon the residents of Judah, they certainly thought this was the end. This is the end of our nation. This is the end of all those wonderful stories about the patriarchs and our great King David. All of our civilization has come to an end, along with the promises of God, but that was not the case. God was still in control. And after 70 years they came back. God used this to purify his people. God's promises to those persecuted people and Isaiah's day were filled with doubt and fear are still valid and those promises that God gave to Peter's original readers, some of whom certainly would die for their faith, those promises are still reliable. You might be facing a situation in your life right now, and it's a very fearful situation. Those prospects before you are not very encouraging. You need to cling to the promises of God. Trust in Him. No one has ever trusted in God and come at the end to regret it. No one has ever said, you know, if I had it to do over again, I think I would have not followed God. I think I would have abandoned my faith. I would have lived more for myself and more For the world, no one, no one comes to the deathbed with that conclusion. God 's promises are reliable and trustworthy They will never fail us. And finally, I would say love your Christian brother and sister because they are permanent relationships. Commentators have tried to find exactly a parallel and a point of application between uh Peter's Command at the end of verse 22 that we would love one another, that is, our brother and sister in Christ, and what he says about the word of God and its enduring quality. And although it's not expressly stated, many of them have come to the conclusion that the connection is the things that around us Our possessions, our homes. These things will pass away. These things will come to naught. But the relationships That we forge here with our brothers and sisters in Christ will last for eternity. Have you ever thought about that? To me, it's a wonderful thought that people that we worship here today People that we worship with Sunday after Sunday, month after month, year after year in this assembly. that that will not end when we die. But we will worship with them again. And not for a few years or a few decades decades, but for eternity. It's these relationships that have enduring value. That's why they should be so precious to us. This is why we should love one another with a pure heart fervently. And I know some of you are thinking, you mean I'm going to have to be with some of these people for eternity? I could see it on your faces. Let me remind you that God's going to change them and he's going to change you And you're going to want to be with those people who live fully for the glory of God. I mentioned to you recently about Jonathan Edwards , preacher known by most people just as the preacher of the Great Awakening who preached sinners in the hands of an angry God. But he also preached many wonderful sermons about heaven. My favorite is entitled Heaven: a World of Love. I'm going to read just a little excerpt in closing this morning. He says, the inhabitants of heaven shall all know that they will continue in the perfect enjoyment of each other's love forever. They shall know that God and Christ shall be forever with them as their God and portion, and that his love shall be continued and fully manifested forever, and that all their beloved fellow saints shall forever live with them in glory and shall forever keep themselves, keep up the same love in their hearts which they now have. And they shall know that they themselves shall ever live to love God. and to love the saints and to enjoy their love in all its fullness and sweetness forever Heaven will be a wonderful place, primarily because our Savior is there, but secondarily because the saints are there. And we will have perfect fellowship and love with one another for eternity. What a wonderful thing for us to consider. Brother, let us love one another. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for the word that you have given to us. We thank you for the gospel that has been made known to us. We thank you that the word of God has changed our lives. If all of your children here this morning have had the Spirit of God take the Word of God. And apply it to their hearts. Pray, Father, that you would do this yet again. For those here today who are yet dead in trespasses and sin, I pray that they would come to believe in the Savior in a new way, not in a nominal way, not in an intellectual way. But in a way, Father, that transforms their life. In a way that indicates that indeed they have passed from death unto life. O Father. We pray that you would use your word as you promised you would do. And Father, for those who are your children today who find themselves in difficult , and perplex perplexing circumstances, we pray that they would come to rest fully in the promises of your word. Pray, Father, that they would not fear, but that they would trust in you. And Father, I pray that you would help us to love our brothers and sisters as they will be our friends in eternity. They will be the ones that we have the most in common with, that we find most dear. And so help us, Father, to grow in grace. And demonstrate that through our fervent love for one another. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.