Well, it's so good to be gathered together this morning. Would you join me in turning in your Bible to Zechariah chapter 3? Zechariah is the second to last book of your Bible, right before, excuse me, of the Old Testament, right before the book of Malachi. Once you get there, Zechariah chapter 3, I'd like you to hold your spot and then go over to Hebrews chapter 7. Zechariah 3 and Hebrews chapter 7. In John Bunyan's famous allegory of the Christian life, Pilgrim's Progress, there is a man called Apollyon, whose name means the destroyer. He comes out to meet Pilgrim in the valley of humiliation, and there he begins to accuse him. He accuses Pilgrim of desertion for almost giving up on the journey shortly after it had begun. He accuses him of presuming upon God's grace. Suggesting to Pilgrim that he had no right to claim the benefits of the cross for himself. He accuses him of sloth and spiritual apathy, neglect of the Word of God. He accuses him of fear and cowardice at the hill of difficulty. And then finally, with a sense of authority. Apollyon says to Pilgrim , All this is against thee, for thou art guilty of many infirmities, and though thou hast escaped them all, yet it is but by chance. And thou shalt see that in the end thou shalt be mine. Of all the accusations that Satan hurls At Christians, there is none that troubles the soul like the suggestion that in the end we might be eternally lost. What recourse do you have When Satan tempts you to despair. This morning we will continue in a series I began two weeks ago titled The Intercession of Christ, a textual study of Hebrews 17. twenty five. And I'd like to read that verse for us this morning. Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. We are focusing on this expression, he is able to save What does the Christian, what does the justified person need to be saved from? Well, we saw by the context of Hebrews 7 in our last message that Christ holds his office of priesthood permanently, and thus he is able to save forever. We saw that the two primary ministries of Christ priesthood are atonement and intercession. Atonement and intercession. And both of these are necessary for our ultimate or final salvation, not just justification, but sanctification. And ultimately glorification. And third, we considered specific, we moved from the general to the specific. We covered specific reasons for why believers need the continual, unceasing intercession of Christ. And as you may recall, the first reason is because believers still sin. And therefore we need an advocate with the Father in Jesus Christ the righteous, 1 John 2 tells us. And this morning we will consider with greater development the second reason. Christians need the intercession of Christ. Because Satan continually accuses us before the throne of God. Now would you turn with me to Zechariah 3? And we'll begin reading our passage. This is, I think, to many believers an obscure passage, an unfamiliar passage, but it holds rich gospel truths, and above all, it discloses to us. the glory of Christ as our intercessor, as our advocate. And I want us to see him with more clarity and more beauty this morning as we consider this passage, beginning in verse 1. Then he showed me Joshua. the high priest standing before the angel of the Lord, and Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him. And the Lord said to Satan, The Lord rebuke you, O Satan. The Lord who has chosen Jerusalem rebuke you. Is not this a brand plucked from the fire? And Joshua was standing before the angel of the Lord, clothed with filthy garments. And the angel said to those who were standing before him: Remove the filthy garments from him. And he said to him, Behold, I have taken your iniquity away from you, and I will clothe you with pure vestments And I said, Let them put a clean turban on his head. So they put a clean turban on his head, and clothed him with garments. And the angel of the Lord was standing by. In Zechariah's fourth vision, he prophetically depicts the work of our advocate Jesus Christ on behalf of his people. The scripture informs us that Satan appears before the throne of God. To accuse the people of God. As you recall in Job 1 and 2, he did this to Job, did he not? And as we see this morning, he accuses Israel. And we are told in Revelation chapter 10 in verse 12 that Satan is before the throne of God, not periodically. But perpetually, continually, day and night accusing you, the brethren Now, a key verse in interpreting this passage is in verse 8 of chapter 3 here in Zechariah. So I want you to look at verse 8 with me. It says, Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, you and your friends who sit before you, for they are men who are, now notice this next word, a sign. A sign. Do you see that in verse 8? Behold, I will bring my servant the branch. The event and the people in this passage, earlier in chapter 3. They are symbolic in nature. That is, they are intended to point us to a future greater reality. And we should interpret these things in anticipation of Yahweh's servant, the branch, that is Christ. In other words, we should under this understand this passage and its message Christologically. So it's with that lens that I want you to have on this morning as we consider this passage. Therefore, I want you to see here Christ as our mighty advocate on behalf of his people. How does Christ intercede for his people? Well, number one, I want you to see that our advocate defends us before our accuser. Our advocate defends us before our accuser. Look at verse one. Then he showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of the Lord, and Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him And the Lord said to Satan, The Lord rebuke you, O Satan, the Lord who has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke you. Zechariah's vision is most likely set in the temple where Joshua appears before the angel of the Lord. Just to clarify, this Joshua here is not the Joshua who led Israel into Canaan. It's Joshua the high priest. who served after the return of Israel's Babylonian captivity. And here he appears before a being described as the angel of the Lord. This person I believe to be the second member of the Trinity, the pre-incarnate Son of God. He is identified as a divine being, as Jehovah. And yet he is distinguished from the Lord of hosts. And it is the dominant interpretation throughout church history that the angel of the Lord here is a pre-incarnate appearance of the Son of God. Joshua appears before the angel of the Lord, and there is at his right hand in the presence of God One whose name is Satan, the accuser. And he stands there to accuse. There's actually a play on words here. The accuser is beside him to accuse. This is a dramatic scene. Satan charges Joshua in the presence of God, and Joshua is silent. He has nothing to say. How can he? He is before the very presence of God in all of his holiness. And unlike Satan's accusations brought against Job, the accusations brought against Israel are true. Look at verse 3. Now Joshua was standing before the Lord clothed in filthy garments. The filth that Joshua is covered in is of the most vile sort. It denotes human excrement. Joshua's filth symbolically represents Israel's moral impurity. And defilement before the Lord? Will Israel be condemned for their sin in the presence of God as they stand accused by Satan? Then we hear the voice of the angel of the Lord break through in verse 3. The Lord rebuke you, O Satan. The Lord who has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke you. Is not this a brand plot from the fire? It is the Lord Jesus Christ who comes to the defense of his people. He rebukes Satan With repeated emphasis. His defense is on the grounds of election. The Lord who has chosen Jerusalem rebuke you. God chose Israel for himself, not because of any merit of their own, but because of his good pleasure. God said to Israel in the book of Deuteronomy, You are a people holy to the Lord your God. The Lord God has chosen you to be a people for his own treasured possession out of all of the peoples who are on the face of the earth. The angel of the Lord defends Israel not on the basis of anything that is in them But on the basis of this, God has chosen them to be his own. Brothers and sisters, so is the intercession of Christ for you today. Christ ever lives as your advocate As your paraclete without. He is seated at the right hand of God. And by God's sovereign grace, He has chosen you to be his own. And he has been appointed for you as your great intercessor and advocate before the throne of God. I want you to see this beautiful connection between election and Christ's ongoing intercession for you. These are two major doctrines. And yet they are related. And I want you to see the connection here. John 17, you recall, is Christ's high priestly prayer. And Jesus prays this. He says, I have manifested your name to the people whom you have given me out of the world. Verse 9: I am praying for them. I am not praying for the world, but for those whom you have given me. Why is Christ interceding for you? And not the rest of the world. Why does he intercede for the people of God? Next phrase: For they are yours You see, Christ is interceding on behalf of those that belong to God, those whom God has chosen. to be his own. Brothers and sisters, Christ ever lives to intercede for you, not because you deserve it. Not because of who you are or what you have done or failed to do. It actually is not inherently about you at all. It's because out of the grace and kindness and sovereign will of God He chose you. He called you to himself. And Christ now ever lives to intercede. on your behalf. What a marvelous, assuring truth. You are like a smoldering stick. This is an illustration that I'm pulling right out of our passage. You are like a stick that has been plucked out of a burning fire, a flaming fire. Have you ever been around a campfire and you reach over and you pull one of the sticks out of the flame? It's a beautiful picture of what God has done to you. He chose to reach down into your life. And pull you from a course of eternal destruction and misery and condemnation And as the angel of the Lord Jesus Christ intercedes on behalf of Joshua, he asks Satan this. Will God who has chosen Israel like a brand from the flame, will he throw him back in it? Will God cast us back under his condemnation after he has delivered us from it? And of course, the resounding implication is no, no, God has pulled you from the flame. He has saved you. You are his own. The Lord rebuke you, O Satan. The Lord who has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke you. So we see that our advocate defends us before our accuser. Number two, we see that our advocate cleanses us from our sin. Look with me at verse 4. The angel of the Lord said to those who were standing before him, Remove the filthy garments from him. And to him he said, Behold, I have taken your iniquity away from you. Here, Joshua's filthy garments are the symbolic, uh symbolically represent Israel's moral impurity. Isaiah confesses, for we are all become as one that is unclean. And listen to this language, and all our righteousnesses are as a polluted garment. We are immediately given this interpretation here in the text He says to him, Behold, I have taken away your iniquity. In one act, the angel of the Lord commands that Joshua's filthy, defiled garments. be removed. And in this very moment Joshua is cleansed of all of his sin. This scene vividly illustrates the power of the gospel to cleanse a defiled. and guilty sinner. Listen to the Old Testament promises that we were given of God's forgiveness. Come now, let us reason together says the Lord, though your sins are as scarlet, they shall be white as snow. Though they are red like crimson, they shall become like wool. I, I am he who blots out your transgressions for my own sake, and I will not remember your sins. He will again have compassion on us and will subdue our iniquities. You will cast our sins into the depths of the sea. I have blotted out like a thick cloud your transgressions and like a cloud your sins. As far as the East is from the West, so far has He removed our transgressions from us. These are the promises of the gospel, and they are reiterated again in the New Testament. We see that God's cleansing has many characteristics to it. It is powerful. In other words, when God cleanses a sinner, he removes every degree of sin. He cleanses it thoroughly. It is comprehensive and complete. It is permanent. The guilt of sin is gone forever. It is free and unmerited. There is nothing you can do or be to deserve it. And it is entirely provided through the death of Christ. So I want to pause here at this moment in the message. And I want to ask you this this morning. Have you been cleansed of all of your sin? Are the truths we're considering this morning? A balm and a comfort to your heart? Because you have come to rest in the finished work of Christ and that alone? Or do these truths agitate your spirit? Do you have assurance, do you have confidence that before the presence of the Lord you are clean? What a wonderful comfort this is to God's people. How does Christ advocate on his people's behalf. We saw that he defends them before their adversary, their accuser. He cleanses them from all of their sin. And number three, he covers them. In his righteousness. Look with me at verse 4, beginning at verse 5. And I will clothe you with pure vestments. And I said, let them put a clean turban on his head. So they put a clean turban on his head and clothed him with garments. And the angel of the Lord was standing by. After removing Joshua's soiled garments, the angel of the Lord clothes him with pure vestments. Verse 4 These are literally rich garments, garments that would be used in a festival occasion. They are noble and royal. They are clean. The clean turban and festival garments symbolize divine righteousness. By covering Joshua in these righteous robes, Israel's joy and glory and acceptance into the presence of God are fully secured. And all this is done while the angel of the Lord is standing by. What a marvelous scene. The text says, I will clothe you with pure vestments. You see, it was the angel of the Lord himself. who was intervening, who was interceding, who cleansed and who clothed Joshua with this divine righteousness before his accuser. This again is symbolic of another aspect of the gospel, is it not? I hope that as we're going through this text, you're seeing the parallels here In how this beautifully illustrates the gospel. We see here the doctrine of justification and the imputation of Christ's righteousness. When God saves a sinner, he doesn't just remove their sin, though he does that thoroughly and completely But he does more. He credits them with his righteousness, the very righteousness of God. It is an alien righteousness It is imputed to the sinner's account on the basis and the merit of Christ's righteousness. Both of these aspects of salvation are necessary. In a negative sense, he removes our guilt and our sin. That's the doctrine of expiation. And in a positive sense, he clothes us in the righteousness of Christ. Justification. Isaiah testifies of these glorious truths. He says, I will greatly rejoice in the Lord. My soul shall exalt in God. For he hath clothed me with the garments of salvation. He has covered me with the robe of righteousness. As a bridegroom decks himself like a priest with a beautiful headdress, and as a bride adorns herself with her jewels. Christ, our mighty advocate, defends us against our accuser. He cleanses us from all our sin, and he covers us in his righteousness. But I want to ask another very important question as we consider these truths. On what basis does God do this for the sinner? How can a truly just God not condemn one who is guilty before him? I mean, just consider a human court. If there is a man in court who is found and tried to be guilty, and yet the judge dismisses his case. The judge would be accused of injustice, would he not? We understand this. How can God, the judge of all the earth? Acquit a guilty sinner. Well, I want you to notice with me, verse 8. Hear now, O Joshua, the high priest. you and your friends who sit before you, for they are men who are a sign. Now notice this next phrase. It says, For behold, I will bring my servant the branch. Do you see that? Do you see that? Now notice this next phrase further down, right at the end of verse 9, it says this. And I will remove the iniquity of this land in a single day. Do you see that phrase? I would underline that. In my Bible. In that day, declares the Lord of hosts, every one of you will invite his neighbor to come. The work of Christ's advocacy. in verses 1 through 5 that we've been considering this morning is all based and done in view of a future event. An event that is described here in verse 9, when in a 24-hour day God will remove the iniquity of his people. We are told more about that day in chapter 13, verse 1, which is where I would like you to go. Would you turn with me to chapter 13 in Zechariah, chapter 13, and verse 1? And Zachariah Speaks of this day. He says, On that day there shall be a fountain opened for the house of David. And the inhabitants of Jerusalem to cleanse them from sin and uncleanness. The day that Zechariah speaks of Was the day when our Lord was lifted up upon a cross. And that blood, which speaks better things than that of Abel, was shed for you and me. On that day, the Son of God was suspended between God and man. And he became the propitiation for our sins. He took on himself the wrath of God, the just judgment that you and I deserve. He took all of our sins and he hung there and died in our place. His head was pierced by thorns. His hands and feet were pierced by nails, and his side was thrust through with a spear. There was a fountain opened on that day. A fountain deep and wide. And mighty. A fountain opened for you that you may come and wash all your sin away. There is a fountain filled with blood, drawn from Emmanuel's veins, and sinners plunged beneath that flood lose all their guilty stains. The dying thief rejoice to see that fountain in his day. And there may I There may you, though vile as he, wash all my sin away The basis of Christ's work as our advocate is grounded in, is rooted in the atonement, the cross Zachariah looked forward to the cross in faith, and we look back to the cross in faith. But it always has been and it always will be the cross that saves. And Christ there today at the right hand of the Father, Christian, is interceding on your behalf. And when you confess your sin, there he is. And God is faithful and just to forgive you of all of your sin. You have one with the Father who is righteous. And you are united with him You are in him. And he appears before the presence of God on your behalf. Who shall bring anything? To the charge of God's elect. For it is Christ who died, and it is Christ who intercedes. For the sake of time, I want to draw one implication and one application from this text for us this morning. Number one, the intercession of Christ continually applies the benefits of his atonement to the believer. This is an important, and I would say this is a more of a technical theological point, but it's rich and it has great comfort for us, and we need to understand this. Christ died once and for all. His blood was shed only once. That never needs to be done or repeated again. We understand that. But the Christian still continues in sin. He still continues to sin. And Satan continues to accuse us day and night There is a sense in which the blood of Christ cleanses us fundamentally and positionally once and for all. Christ said as he washed the disciples' feet right before the breaking of the bread. That you do not need to bathe again. Fundamentally, you are clean. But there is another sense in which we need to be cleansed regularly and daily because of our ongoing struggle with sin. And thus Christ said to Peter: If I do not wash your feet, Peter, You have no part with me. In other words, this is a necessary aspect of the Christian life. You need regular cleansing. The point is this: when Christ intercedes on our behalf, he ensures that the cleansing he secured for us on the cross will continually be applied to us. It's not continually shed. As we take the cup, the blood of Jesus Christ is not being spilt again. It was shed once. But its ongoing saving cleansing effects continue for us today as God's people. As the blood is applied to us and cleanses us and washes us of sins that we have committed even this morning. Number two, I want to encourage you this morning, when you stand accused in your spirit, When Satan comes and tempts you to despair, and he does this in so many ways, he is so cunning. He is not only accusing you before the throne of God. But he, just as Apollyon spoke to Pilgrim on his journey, he comes to us And he insinuates and and accuses and attacks and causes doubt and causes doubt in our spirit. I want to encourage you to rest in the assurance and the security that is provided for you in the ongoing intercession of Christ on your behalf. Rest in Christ. He is your advocate above. He is interceding for you. His blood cleanses you, and when God has forgiven you, you are forgiven You don't need to return and rehearse your sin again and let that fresh weight of doubt and despair and guilt sink your spirit and drive you from the Lord. If you have confessed it, you are forgiven. To keep wallowing in guilt is to essentially say, my high priest, my great advocate above is insufficient. Stop doing that. Give glory to God and rest in the assurance and the forgiveness that God has provided for you in Christ. And finally, I want to speak to those of you who are with us this morning who do not know this forgiveness. Maybe you have a head knowledge of it, but experientially. You know nothing of this in your heart. There is a fountain open wide for you. Our text even says that we are to invite our neighbor to this. We are to tell all to come. Would you have your sins washed away this morning? Do you want to be forgiven and cleansed of it all? Do you want that assurance and peace? Then come. Come to Christ. He died for you. He is buried and risen again. And he's mighty to save all who call upon the name of the Lord. Cry out to him. Confess to him your guilt, your shame, your sin. And look to that cross and believe when he died there for you, he paid it all. Trust in his promise that for all who believe will have eternal life. This is the glory of the gospel. And so I want us to draw near to the table this morning in this confidence. I close with this. As Apollyon finished accusing Pilgrim in the valley of humiliation. Pilgrim replied with these words, All this is true, and much more which thou hast left out. But the prince whom I serve and honor is merciful and ready to forgive. And I have obtained pardon of my prince. Brothers and sisters, let's draw near to the table this morning in that confidence because of our great high priest. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for the gospel. Oh Lord, I pray for that person who is here this morning, who has never been cleansed of their sin, who does not know this salvation. Father, would your spirit convict them and show them Christ? And I pray that they would call upon him this morning and be saved. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.