Would you please turn in your Bibles to Hebrews chapter eleven? Helen Keller was born in Alabama in 1880. At the age of 19 months, she contracted an unknown illness that left her deaf and blind. But she refused to be defeated by her disabilities. She began to create her own signs, communicate with her family. As she grew older, she was taught by Anne Sullivan. And soon she began to amaze people with her abilities. She became the first person to ever graduate from college who was both deaf and blind. In time, she became an accomplished writer and political activist. She inspired people around the world with her triumphant spirit. Of determination that overcame seemingly insurmountable odds. In Hebrews chapter eleven, we read of many Old Testament believers who triumphed over Great difficulties by faith. This morning we come to the final two verses of this monumental chapter. In these concluding verses, the unknown author of Hebrews looks back at these Old Testament heroes and uses their example as a basis or ground for his coming exhortation. So, what is his primary application of this very famous chapter? Well, that would be found in the very next verse, which is Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 1. This famous verse that says, Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses. Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race. That is set before us. Let us run with patience or endurance the race That is set before us. So the main application I would submit to you of this famous chapter is that we must run with endurance The race of the Christian life. Hebrews chapter 11 is meant to motivate and inspire us to persevere in our faith. The book of Hebrews emphatically teaches that a saving faith is a continuing faith. It's a persevering faith. I brought this to your attention many times in our study of the book of Hebrews. If you've been with us through this series, you know you've heard me say this. many on many occasions. I brought this to your attention because it's a very important issue. Many Baptist churches are dogmatic about the fact that a truly born again believer can never lose his or her salvation. They will say, once saved, always saved. And that I believe is true. But most of those same churches are silent about the perseverance of the saints. This was certainly my experience. I grew up in an independent fundamental Baptist Church, but I never heard about the perseverance of the saints in sermons or in lessons. And the reason for this is because many Baptist churches would reject the perseverance of the saints because they would say to hold to this doctrine Is to teach a works-based salvation. And so I often heard that when people walked away from the faith And no longer described themselves as believers, no longer found any joy in Christ, that the explanation was that they were carnal Christians. Because once saved, always saved. And because these individuals, in many cases, made a profession of faith, perhaps as a child or a young young person. The soteriology went this way. A profession of faith equals true salvation. That's just the way it is. That's what the Bible teaches. I was taught. But that's not what the Bible teaches. A true faith that is brought about by the supernatural work of the Holy Spirit of God will persevere. He that hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. I believe that the Bible teaches both the preservation of the saints and the perseverance of the saints. That those whom God has graciously saved will never finally abandon their faith because they are kept by the power of God and will therefore keep following Christ. So how do these final two verses in this chapter motivate us to persevere in our faith? That is not as simple to answer As I would like to say, I scratched my head a lot this week. These final two verses are easy to read, but difficult to fully comprehend This is one of those texts that no one, if you were to say to a preacher, you can preach from anything in the Bible, he would say, I'm going to preach the final two verses of Hebrews 11. I think if you ask a hundred pastors or preachers that, you would not have any of them that would say that. Not because it's a bad text. But because it's the very end of a chapter and the concepts come fast and intertwined with one another. And it's not completely clear what he means by some of these things. It raises many questions. Why does it say that these Old Testament saints did not receive the promise, even though they were commended by God And what is the better thing that God has provided for us? And how is it that apart from these Old Testament saints, we could not be, apart from us, these Old Testament saints could not be made perfect. Let me first of all draw your attention to how these verses function in the chapter. The book of Hebrews is a highly structured book And so it's not surprising that it has a very distinct introduction and conclusion. Look with me at Hebrews chapter 11, verses 1 and 2. Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen, for by it the elders, that is, these Old Testament saints. Obtained a good report. And now we come to verse 39. Look with me at verse 39. And these all having obtained a good report. Through faith, receive not the promise. So, this statement about obtaining a good report serves as bookends of this chapter. They are clues to the careful reader that the writer is concluding what he's saying here And then in verse 40, the author reveals that these Old Testament saints were not just individuals who lived long ago, but that they have a vital connection to us today. It says that they without us should not be made perfect. So these final two verses are intended to inspire the reader from the example of these Old Testament saints. to persevere in a living faith. The logic is simply this. If they can do it, by God's grace, so can you If they could trust the Lord despite their confusing circumstances, so can you. If they could triumph over their persecution and suffering, so can you. If they can remain faithful even though they didn't possess significant advantages that you enjoy, certainly you can as well. Paul writes in Romans 15 and verse 4, For whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. So I want to preach you this morning on this truth. The testimony of Old Testament saints should inspire us to persevere in our faith. But how do they inspire us? I want to point out three ways briefly. Number one Although these Old Testament saints all had flaws and difficult experiences, they received a good report and persevered in faith. Faith. Look with me at the first part of verse 39. And these all having obtained a good report through faith. When it says all, it's not just referring to the people immediately preceding it in verses 35 through 38 or verses 32 through 38. It's talking about all of the people in this chapter and by extension by all true saints before the coming of Christ. Says they obtained a good report. Now this word obtained a good report, this phrase is just a translation of one Greek word. It's the origin of our English word martyr. Now, when we think of the word martyr, we think of someone who dies because of their faith. But this Greek word originally referred to someone who would testify in a court of law as a witness. So other good Bible versions would translate this word as commended or approved or attested But who is making the evaluation of these saints? If you look carefully at verse 2 and verse 39, you will see, although it's not directly stated, but it's understood that it's God that's making this judgment. It's God that's making this testimony. This is his commendation. And the same word is used elsewhere in this very chapter. In verse 4. Of chapter eleven, we read that that Cain obtained witness that he was right. Righteous, that Abel obtained witness that he was righteous. In verse five , we find the same word. By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death, and was not found because God had translated him. For before his translation he had this testimony. The same word that's translated obtained a good report. He had his life gave this witness that he pleased God. So the obvious question is how can a person gain this witness or approval from God? Well, it's not by Good works. This text is not saying that because these people did impressive things or endured difficult things, that somehow God would say, Wow, these this these are really quality people. I think I'm going to save these people. And I'm going to commend them for their faith. That's not what this text is saying. A superficial reading might lead you to that conclusion. But the fact is that no one can ever earn God's approval. However, when he has saved an individual, when he has done a great work of regeneration in their hearts, And they live a life by faith. That faith and their obedience that results from that faith give testimony that indeed they are children of God. And the Lord gives testimony to these saints in this very chapter. He says in verse 16 that he's not ashamed to be called their gods. And he says in verse 38, of whom the world was not worthy. And both of these expressions are carefully chosen because these original readers Of Jewish believers who were being persecuted for their faith and were tempted to abandon their trust in Christ and go back to Judaism to play it safe. They were being shamed by the world. And their own families didn't want to associate with them, didn't want to claim that they even knew them. But God says, I'm not ashamed to be identified with these people. And the world that said, get out of our cities and out of our boundaries, you can go out into the dens and the caves of the world where no one wants to live because it's not safe. But we don't want you living in our society. God says, you know what? They are, the world is not worthy to have such people. So the Lord gives testimony to them in this chapter. What a wonderful vindication. What a wonderful testimony. But what do we see as we look back, as we're leaving this great portion of God's Word? What do we see in this chapter? Do we see super saints? People who live like on this level that we could never ever hope to obtain No, we see a bunch of flawed people. We see Noah, who sinned. We see Abraham who lied. We see Sarah who laughed in unbelief. We see Jacob who was a deceiver and a schemer. We see Moses Who was a murderer, had trouble controlling his temper. We see Rahab, who was a Gentile , prostitute at one time before she came to trust in God. And I have even spoken of the failure of Gideon and Barak and Samson and Jephthah and David and Samuel, and all of them had their faults that are recorded in Scripture. And yet God gave them all good reports. Because they did have a living faith The point is not. So don't worry about your sin. It's no big deal. That's not what I I'm saying. All sin is an evidence of unbelief. So all sin is a serious matter. You're saying, I don't really believe you about what you said about that, God. I don't really believe that your plan is the best plan. I think I know what's best for me. No, the point is not that sin's no big deal. But our gracious God commends even the weak and inconsistent faith of flawed people. people like you and me. And I said to you before, you know why God uses and commends the faith of such people like this? Why he he he uh he works through weak, flawed individuals. For one reason is because it's the only kind of people that exist. It's the only kind of people that walk on this fallen planet. And so when people by the power of God do step out by faith and they do amazing things and they do things that the world looks at and says, that's not like him. Then they know that it's God that's doing it through them, and He receives the glory. And the second thing, of course, observation I want to make from this list is that God has pleased to empower weak people to overcome great obstacles and suffering. Suffering. Last week I pointed out that some of these people triumphed over their enemies. We read that in verses thirty-two-thirty-five, but then in verses thirty-five to thirty-eight we read of those Who were not delivered, who were tortured, who were put to death, who were hounded to the ends of the earth. But both groups were victorious by faith, but God's plan for them was different. And the reason I bring this up is because some false teachers say that it's God's will that all of his people be delivered. It's God's will that all of his children be healthy and wealthy and wise. And that if somehow it doesn't work out that way in your life, it's simply because you don't have enough faith. Or maybe you haven't contributed enough to their ministry. I spoke to a man in this community many, many years ago. I've lost touch with him. He's been in a wheelchair for most of his life. And when I went and visited him, I could tell he is a very bitter man. They told me that one time many years ago he went down to a faith healer. In his huge mammoth service. And he was brought up on platform with a lot of other people. And the faith dealer laid his hands on him. And this man said, I truly, I was weeping, I truly believed that God was going to heal me, that I was going to walk again, that my wife life would return to normal. Nothing happened. And the faith healer said to me, well, I guess you didn't have enough faith. What a cruel thing to do. And this man can hardly hear anything about the gospel without thinking about that. It's become this great obstacle in his life. But notice the people here who were delivered and the people who were not delivered from suffering and from persecution. And from death in this life, they both received a good report So although these Old Testament saints had flaws and difficult experiences, they all received a good report and they persevered in their faith. But there's another reason why these Old Testament saints should inspire us to be faithful. And my second point is this: although these Old Testament saints did not obtain the ultimate promise, and their lifetimes they persevered in faith. Look with me at the last part of verse 39. It says, through faith received not the promise. Have you ever read that verse and found you look at it and say, what? This is not what we would expect to read. Let me read this verse without the knots God having provided some better, excuse me, verse 39, and these all having obtained a good report through faith, received the promise. Doesn't that sound right? Yes. That's not what it says, though. So what does it mean? We have seen the same sort of thing previously in this chapter. Look with me At verse 13, please. Says of the patriarchs, these all died in faith, not having received the promises. But having seen them afar off and were persuaded of them and embraced them and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. But then we also read, like in verse 33 in this triumphant passage, it speaks about those who obtained promises. So how do we make sense of this? Well, many of these Old Testament saints did receive the answer to a promise from God in this life. Noah was warned of a coming flood, and indeed the flood came just as God said it would. Abraham and Sarah were told that they would be given a child. And God answered that promise in their old age. But none of these Old Testament saints receive the ultimate promise in their earthly life. They received some promises, the answer to some promises, but not the answer to the promise. Even though they were approved of God. This was not due to their sin or because they didn't work hard enough This was all part of God's plan. So, what is this ultimate promise? Look with me at verse 10. For he looked For a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God. Verse 13, these all died in faith, not having received the promises. But having seen them afar off and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth, for they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country. And surely if they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out, they might have had opportunity to have returned. But now they desire a better country that is a heavenly, wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he hath prepared for them. A city. The promise here is what theologians would call the eschatological promise, the ultimates and Final rest of the people of God. This is the culmination of our salvation. The author of Hebrews has described it in a multitude of images in this book. In Hebrews chapter 4, he describes it as that rest that remains for the people of God. In chapter 9 and verse 15, he describes it as an eternal inheritance. And as we've just seen in chapter 11, he describes it as a city which hath foundations. No longer would they be living in tents, they would be living in the eternal city. The city that God has prepared for his people, this heavenly country. But I think the greatest and most complete description Of the answer to this promise is found in Hebrews chapter 12, the very next chapter, verses 22 through 24. Would you turn there, please? Hebrews 12, verse 22. The writer says, But ye are come unto Mount Zion, unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels. to the General Assembly and the church of the firstborn, which are written in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect. And to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaketh better things than that of Abel. What a glorious culmination Is reserved for the people of God. So why didn't they, and why don't we receive the fulfillment of faith in this life? The answer is because it is not God's plan that we enjoy the full benefits here and now. I want you to turn with me to Hebrews 10, if you would. Hebrews 10, 35. Notice what it says. Cast not away, therefore, your confidence. which hath great recompense a reward, for ye have need of patience or endurance, that after ye have done the will of God ye might receive the promise For yet a little while, and he that shall come will come and will not tarry. Just a few verses later, we are reminded that faith is the substance Of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Faith, especially in the book of Hebrews, is always forward -focused. You see, the Lord is not looking for self-centered mercenaries. He doesn't say, come to me, and I will give you the life of your dreams Jesus did not die to give you your best life now. He's not like an additive that you put into your gas tank that gives you better gas mileage. He's not something that you can just include with all these other self-help aspects of your life, like a better diet and more exercise. That's somehow going to give you a better experience in your brief time on this earth. That is not what Jesus is, and that's not what he offers. He said, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. He said, in the world you will have tribulation. Let me put it this way: Jesus is not a means to an end. He is the end. He's not here to help you solve your problems. And then you tip your hat and go your own way. No. He is the whole point of your life And so as we face trials and difficulties, and as we live in the already but not yet , We live in light of the ultimate promise. And we live knowing that in the end , It will be worth it all when we see Jesus. And all of our trials and all of our sufferings and all of our difficulties will see him as nothing. They will pale in comparison to the glory that we will enjoy in his presence. But thirdly, although these Old Testament saints did not receive the advantages of the New Covenant, They persevered in the faith. And this, I think, is perhaps the most significant thing that he's saying in these final two verses Look with me at verse 40 of chapter 11. Verse 40 looks back and it also looks forward to what's going to come. It's a transitional verse. God having provided some better thing for us, that they without us should not be made perfect. The order of the Greek words in this verse illustrates the emphasis. It literally begins, God for us having provided some better things. In these opening words, you see immediately that he's saying to his readers that they possess certain advantages that none of these Old Testament heroes had. But what is the better thing? What has God provided for us that is better? The word better is considered by most Bible scholars, as I've mentioned to you many times, to be the key word in the book of Hebrews. And as used some 13 times, we read that Christ is better than the angels. He's better than any of the Levitical priests He provides a better hope, a better covenant, a better sacrifice, a better and a more enduring substance, a better country, a better resurrection. And then chapter 12 and verse 24. We read that he is the mediator of the new covenant and the blood of sprinkling that speaketh better things than that of Abel. So what is this better thing? It's all of those things that I've just mentioned together. In one sense, it is the person and work of Christ. But perhaps it's best to describe this something better as the blessings that we enjoy through Jesus Christ Death, resurrection, and intercession. It's hard for us to know how great these advantages are. You know why? Because we don't have any Old Testament saints here. It's sort of like it's difficult for people to understand what it's like to live or the great blessing of electricity unless you've lived without electricity, right? You know, we're we're upset. We had a storm here a few weeks ago and I know some of you were without electricity for a couple Couple days. We didn't have power here at the church for two and a half days. And you know, it was like the end of the world. We can't do anything. We don't have any water. We don't have any internet access. Can't turn the lights on. You know, you do crazy things every time I entered my room, even though I knew the power's off, I flipped the switch. Do it automatically. And nothing happens. And you know, up until 100 years ago, that's the way it was for everyone everywhere. That's the way people lived. They didn't have electric electricity. And that's the way many people still live in the world. But you know what? You don't really think about how important that is until you don't have it. And so you may not think of yourself as having many advantages. But if you are a true follower of Jesus Christ, you have all the advantages of the new covenants. Something that these Old Testament saints did not possess. These Old Testament saints looked by faith to a future Redeemer They knew him vaguely through symbols and ceremonies, shadows, and cryptic prophecies at times. They didn't have a New Testament. And the author of Hebrews, as I've mentioned to you many times, is very, very clear. He has more clarity here than any other New Testament writer that these Old Testament sacrifices did not actually take away their sins. They only pointed to the ultimate sacrifice that would cleanse them of all sin. But we as New Testament believers What incredible advantages we have. We have a New Testament. How precious is that? We can read about the life of Christ. and the gospels that we can read about all these incredible things that he said. He spoke like no man has ever spoken. We read about the history of the early church in Acts, and then we have the epistles work out for us and explain to us how the gospel Is to make a difference in our lives, how to live the Christian life, how to deal with various problems, how to keep our focus on Christ, how to live worthy of our high calling. We have the teaching of the apostles who were guided by the Holy Spirit so that they wrote what the Spirit breathed through them. What an incredible blessing it is to have the New Testament. How much clarity does that give us in our faith? And we have the Spirit of God who indwells us permanently. No matter what your theological perspective might be, the Bible is very clear that there is a difference in the Spirit's work in the Old Testament and in the New. We have incredible advantages simply because we live on this side of the cross. And those advantages. Help us in innumerable ways to persevere in our faith. So let me summarize his argument this way. Since these Old Testament saints were able to persevere by faith, even though they didn't have our new covenant advantages. We should certainly, by God's grace, be able to persevere in our faith. We should be able to run our race. We should be able to finish our race with endurance and even with joy. Because we have all of these advantages. I love the comment that John Calvin makes on this verse. I found that almost all the commentators quote it because it's a choice quote. It's a little dated, about 500 years old, so listen carefully. Decipher the quote the language. He says this, if they on whom the light of grace had not yet so brightly shone displayed so great a constancy in and during evils, what ought the bright, the full brightness of the gospel to produce in us A small spark of light led them to heaven. When the sun of righteousness shines over us, with what pretense can we excuse ourselves if we still cleave to the earth? You see this? We have no excuse not to run a race with endurance because we have all of these new covenant advantages. So let us run with patience the race that is set before us. Now I have to explain this one other phrase at the end of verse 15. That without that they without us should not be made perfect. Saying these Old Testament saints could not be made perfect without us. What does this mean? Well I need to talk about this word perfect for a moment. It's one of the key concepts in the book of Hebrews. Most of the passages that use this term use it in a negative way. For instance, in Hebrews 7:11, we read that the Levitical priesthood could not bring about perfection. In Hebrews 7. 19, we read that the law made nothing perfect. In Hebrews 9:9, we read that even the ceremony of the Day of Atonement did not ever perfect or cleanse the heart of the worshippers. And in Hebrews ten one we read that the Old Testament sacrifices which were continually offered could never make the worshippers perfect. Now the key text for this term is found in Hebrews chapter ten and verse fourteen. Hebrews ten fourteen for by one offering he hath perfected forever them that are sanctified So when the author of Hebrews speaks of perfection, he's not saying that Christians now live sinless lives, but that our sins have been cleansed and removed by the definitive sacrifice of Christ. And what difference does this make? This enables us to no longer have a conscience defiled by guilt and shame. Because of Jesus' substitutionary death on our behalf, we can come into the presence of God with confidence. This is what the Old Testament saints didn't have. They didn't really have true access to God. They went through these priests, and the high priest went once a year into the Holy of Holies, only with blood and only for a brief time. That's not much access. If I were to say to you as your pastor, I want you to know that I think that you You having access to me is very important. You can come to see me at any time, except it has to be one hour in the year. And actually you can't come, but you can send a representative. But you have great access. You would say, uh, I think he's kind of inaccessible. That's what you would conclude. The Old Testament saint had a healthy fear of the presence of God. But we have access through Christ. What an advantage is that we can draw near to God. And the sense of cleansing that we enjoy today is the promise that someday we will realize true perfection and our glorification. We shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. So, what does it mean that these Old Testament saints would not be made perfect apart from us? It means that it was during our era, the New Testament era, which is described in Hebrews as the last days that Christ came and died for our sins and for theirs. That God in his gracious providence reserved the fulfillment of his plan of redemption for our age so that we could have a share in it And so that we would have a direct connection with these saints who have come before us. He's skillfully providing a link. He's saying, listen, these people who lived hundreds of years ago and did these great things. They were real people, and you have a vital link with them. Because all the redeemed, both Old Testament saints and New Testament Christians, have been perfected through the once-for-all sacrifice of Christ. We are all the people of God. And therefore, their example of faith should resonate with us because they are one of us. They're not some austere group that lived long ago that we have nothing in common with. If I can put it this way, you have more in common with them than you do your next-door neighbor who doesn't know the Lord's. And so they should inspire us to endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. I'm going to conclude with some brief applications. Christians must be future focused in our faith. I say this a lot, I know. This is not Your home. This world is not your rest. We find here no continuing city, but we seek one to come. This is what we read of in Hebrews. This is a message that the author of Hebrews gives to these people, these suffering people, again and again. It's a more difficult message for us to receive because through the advancements of technology and society and through the worldly values that constantly bombard our minds We tend to naturally want to find our heaven on earth and build our rest on this earth and try to ensure that no bad things happen to us. That we minimize our pain and maximize our pleasure. That we find everything that we need satisfying to our souls here and now But that is not what God has promised for us. That is a distortion of the gospel. Our faith must be future focused. We are to set our affections on things above, not on things of the earth Christians must make, secondly , full use of our new covenant blessings. The passage that gives us the most concise and most beautiful Description of our new covenant blessings is found in Hebrews chapter 10, verse 19 and following. Having therefore brethren Boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, which he hath consecrated for us through the veil that is to say his flesh. And having a high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart and full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering. For he is faithful that promise. Let us consider one another to provoke unto love, unto good works. not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another, and so much the more you see the day approaching. We are to take advantage of these new covenant blessings that allow us to draw near to God's And to come with boldness and with joy and full assurance into his presence, because we know our sins have been forgiven. And we can come with our brothers and sisters. Because it's God's plan, God's why Design that we worship together, that we live up a Christian life together, not as the rugged American individualist. Who lives on some ranch somewhere in the middle of nowhere, so he never has to interact with another human being. I know that is attractive to some of you. But you would shrivel up spiritually. You need your brothers and sisters in Christ. And that's why you must gather with the people of God. And thirdly, Christians should look to the examples of faithful saints before us to help preserve in our faith. Who are your heroes? Who are the people you admire? Are they celebrities? Movie stars? Incredible athletes that are constantly held up before us as examples and models for us to be to follow even though their own personal lives are almost always crumbling because their whole life is based on superficiality What are sports stars and movie stars? You know what they all are? They're all entertainers. As if The most important thing a person can do with their life is to entertain the masses, help them kill some time? Why would we set up these people as, oh, if only I could be like that? If only I can meet this person. Nonsense. I confess to you that I find great inspiration in the lives of believers who have gone before. I found that many of the saints who have died long ago have had the greatest impact on me. In my study of biographies, you know what I found? Those people also were looking back to people. It's not just, you know, that us in this evil modern age we should look back to Christians before us. No, those Christians were looking back to Christians before them. And those Christians were looking back to Christians before them. And so we should be looking for role models and examples that will instruct us and inspire us. To live for Christ. And I want to use one example. John Payton , Muslim missionary to the South Pacific. And my favorite quote from him is when he remembers his father's prayer life. I've updated a few words to make it more understandable for us. But this is what John Payton says of his father. The closet was a very small room that was the sanctuary of our cottage home. Twice daily, generally after each meal, we saw our father retire and shut the door. And we children got to understand by a sort of spiritual instinct. That prayers were being poured out on our behalf. We occasionally heard the pathetic echoes of a trembling voice pleading as if for life The outside world might not know the source of our father's radiant smile, but we knew it was a reflection of the divine presence in which he lived. Now listen to this. Though everything else in religion were by some unthinkable catastrophe swept away, My soul would wander back to those early scenes of my childhood cottage and my father's prayer closet and hurl away all doubts. He walked with God. Why may not I? The message of these verses Is that these ancient saints who did not have the advantages of the new covenant walked with God? Why can't you? By God's grace, we can By faith alone. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word We thank you that it is always what we need to hear, that it is always profitable, that it is always convicting, comforting. I pray, Lord, that you would use these words for your purposes. And Father, for those who are here today who do not have a living faith. They have not repented of their sins and embraced the gospel. They do not find that Christ is the great prize, that he is worth all, that he is worth abandoning the world for. That thought sounds like nonsense to them They find no delight in worship. I pray, Lord, that you would convict them of their sins and that they. They would come to trust in you. And Father, for those who are your children, but are enduring great affliction, whose faith is being tested Who perhaps find their grip slipping. I pray that they would remember our great Savior, that they would rest in Him alone. And that these words would encourage them, Father, to draw near to you, our great God. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.