Have your Bible with you, would you please turn with me to Habakkuk chapter 3? Habakkuk chapter 3. Benjamin Franklin was not a believer, but he did admire the Bible. Once, while he was living in Paris, France, he made known his esteem of the Bible before a group of cultured, sophisticated Frenchmen. They mocked him for his quaint Love of the Bible. And so Franklin decided that he would see how well informed their opinion was. So one evening he came before this elite body. And he read for them what he described as an ancient poem. He had copied it out on a piece of paper. They were amazed at the beauty and profundity of this ancient text, and they asked him where he had found this rich jewel of literature. And he said, Why in Habakkuk chapter 3? This morning we are going to consider a masterpiece of Hebrew poetry, the final chapter of Habakkuk 's prophecy is a poem of praise to God. It's a radical shift from where the book begins. Those of you who have been with us the last few weeks know that this book is a record of a godly man's struggle with God. Not like it's unlike most prophetic books. It doesn't predict a lot of things in the future. It's not filled with preaching. But it describes how a believer works through their frustrations and fears to a place of peace. And even praise. Last week we considered verse 2 of chapter 3. You might want to look at that. It says, Habakkuk writes, O Lord, I have heard thy speech and was afraid. O Lord, revive thy work in the midst of years, in the midst of years make known in wrath, remember mercy Here the troubled prophet makes three requests. He prays for God to revive his work. He prays for God to make known his glory in the world. And he prays that God, while he is executing his wrath. Would remember mercy towards his people. And the Lord would answer Habakkuk's prayer in a spectacular way. He reveals the Habakkuk the most extensive and elaborate theophany ever given in the Old Testament. So what is a theophany? A theophany, the word is made up of two Greek words, the word God, theos, at the beginning, and then the word for appearance or manifestation. So a theophany is a manifestation or appearance to human being of the character of God. It is God making himself known in a very memorable way. In the Bible, we find several different types of theophanies. There's theophanies that involve nature. Think of the burning bush or the thunder at Mount Sinai. Sometimes theophanies come in the form of symbolic visions given to the prophets Theophanies sometimes and perhaps the most famous are those where God takes on the form of a human being. We read often of the angel of the Lord. These are pre-incarnate manifestations of Christ, talking and speaking with men. But less well known are poetic theophanies, and that's what we find here. There are other poetic theophanies in the Old Testament. We read one in Deuteronomy 33, verse 2, The Lord came from Sinai and rose up from Seir unto them. He shined forth from Mount Peran and came with 10,000 of saints. From his right hand went a fiery law for them. Or Judges chapter 5, verses 4 and 5, O Lord, when thou winnest out of Seir , When thou marchest out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled and the heavens dropped, the clouds also dropped water, the mountains melted before the Lord, even that Sinai from before the Lord God of Israel. And if you'll notice how this begins in verse 3, the Lord came from Temen and the Holy One from Perin. It sounds very similar to what I just read to you. You see, these poetic theophanies use symbolic language not only to inform the reader, but to create an emotional reaction in the reader. This is not just intended to educate a person, but to inspire them. Now let me first of all say that I found it very, very challenging to understand the message of this paragraph. You know, we read this together responsively a moment ago with Pastor Nick leading us, and you were reading the words. But I felt like after our reading, I want to say, all right, did you understand what we just read? Have you ever read a portion of God's Word and you knew what every word meant? But at the end of the paragraph, you say, I have no idea what that was saying. There is a coherent message here. And one of the reasons why this is difficult is because we don't encounter poetic language like this. This is written 2,600 years ago. And someone described it as someone going through magazines and cutting out a bunch of pictures of different objects or historic events and then pasting them together on a poster board And you're supposed to understand from all of these historic illusions, pictures from nature, and so forth, what this means. It's very difficult to do. But I want to remind you that all of God's word is profitable and all of it has a relevant message for us today. So what is this passage all about? Let me mention just a few things, the themes that are here. First of all, this passage describes God's severe judgment upon his enemy. This this passage, in this passage, the Lord is reminding Habakkuk That wicked Babylon will be severely judged like all the nations who have punished his chosen people. Let me secondly say that the key verse To this passage is verse 13. Look with me, please, at verse 13. It says, Thou wentest forth for thy for the salvation of thy people, even for the salvation with thine anointest. Thou woundest the head of the house of the wicked by discovering the foundations unto the next This verse explains how God would in wrath remember mercy. He would yet redeem his people. The Lord would both judge Babylon and deliver his chosen people. This prophecy was given at a time of impending doom. Babylon was about to level the city and take many captives. This passage also speaks of the Lord coming to intervene. Now, one question that we need to establish is the timing of this divine intervention. Is this paragraph saying that God has come? Or is it saying that the Lord will come? The answer is yes. Habakkuk has recorded this in such a way That it's not that it's referring to different aspects of our Lord's coming. There's a sense in which the Lord came to deliver his people from Egypt. The Lord came to deliver his people, would come to deliver his people from Babylon. That was yet future when Abakuch pend these words. God would come in a much more significant way in the incarnation of Christ to save his people from their sins. And the Lord will come again to judge the wicked and save his precious people. We see a pattern in this passage. That has been repeated many times throughout the millennia of God's dealing with his people. God delights to come and save his people from their foes. In perilous times, Christians should trust that God will deliver them. Now there are different stanzas in this poem, which is a hymn of praise. The first one is in verses 3 through 7, and here we see that the Lord comes in power and great glory. That's the emphasis. of this stands that talks about the brightness and the glory and the power of our Lord in his coming. Look with me, first of all, at verse 3. God came from Temen and the Holy One from Mount Peran. Now the references to these two obscure places are intended to remind the reader of when the children of Israel first entered the Promised Land. They were a weak people going in against the mighty Canaanites with their walled cities and people who were giants. They were weak people, but they had a powerful God. And then we read that his glory covered the heavens and the earth was full of his praise. It's not saying that everyone in the earth was praising God, but it's speaking here of nature. praising God, that this land spoke of the goodness and glory of God. In fact, all of creation points to our glorious God. We sang uh a wonderful hymn this morning that speaks of that. There's another hymn, holy, holy, holy, and there's a verse in that hymn that says, All thy works shall praise thy name and earth and sky and sea. That is true. The heavens declare the glory of God and the firmament showeth his handiwork. Notice how the Lord is described as both holy. and glorious. These two things are often found together in Scripture, especially in the Song of Moses, found in Exodus 15, where you read this refrain. who is like unto thee, O Lord, among the gods, who is like unto thee, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises , doing wonders. Here the Lord reminds his fearful prophet of his greatness. And look with me now at verse 4. And his brightness was as the light. He had horns coming out of his hand, and there was the hiding of his power. God's presence here, his brightness is compared to the brightest thing that we can see, which is the sun The reference here to horns is a reference probably to rays, rays of light emanating from the sun. Poetic God is pictured here as holding the sun in his hands and shining his radiance to all. And just as the sun 's rays shine forth to all the earth, so God's intervention into the affairs of men to rescue his people will change everything. In times of darkness, it's important to remember that our God is light. When we walk through the dark valleys of our lives, we need to remember that we serve and worship a God of light who will bring us out of our darkness in his time That our darkness is not our end, that he will see us through. Now, verse five should be of interest to us. Before him went the pestilence, and the burning coals went forth at his feet. We see here that all disease is under the control of God The reference to pestilence here is probably an allusion to the plagues that God used to deliver his people from Egypt. In verse 6, we read of God measuring the earth. It says he stood and measured the earth. This is a poetic description intended to reveal the immensity of God. It's not saying that he literally spends his days measuring the earth. He knows everything. We find similar language in Isaiah chapter 40. Who hath measured the water and the hollow of his hands, and meted out the heavens with the span, and comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure? and weighed the mountains and scales and the hills in a balance. When you're beginning to doubt God's ability to help you or protect you, you need to meditate. on the greatness and majesty of God's. Our fears tend to cloud our thinking so that we begin to assume that our God is small and weak and frail like us, but He is not. Our problems, your great problem is no problem for God's. At the end of verse 6, we read of them mighty mountains and the hills scattering and bowing. When the everlasting God comes to earth, we read of similar imagery in the book of Revelation. Speaking of God, as it were, entering the land like a mighty king, and all is subject to him. In verse 7, I saw the tents of Kushan in affliction and the curtains of the land of Midian dead tremble. What do we understand by the reference to these two places? Well, they were nomadic tribes that historically troubled Israel, but someday they would tremble and shake at the coming of the Lord. And of course, the ultimate coming of the Lord is when Christ returns in power and great glory. The second stanza begins in verse 8, and it reminds us the Lord comes in wrath to judge his enemies. And in this section of the poem , There's not as much a reference to the natural world as it is to God being personified like a mighty warrior coming to conquer his foes. Look with me at verse 8. Was the Lord displeased against the rivers? Was thine anger against the rivers? Was thy wrath against the sea that thou didst ride upon thine horses and thy chariots of salvation? Does this verse mean that God is somehow against great waterways? Of course not. So what are we to understand from this? Well, if you think about it for a moment. A people are often defined, at least in the ancient world, by their waterways. Egypt was built along the Nile. They were so proud of that great river. But God used ten plagues to bring that mighty empire to its knees. And then the Egyptian army pursued the children of Israel and trapped them at the Red Sea. And God rescued his people and destroyed his enemies. This is perhaps the greatest picture of salvation in the Old Testament. It's alluded to again and again. And when Joshua led the people of Israel to enter the promised land, they had to first do what? They had to cross the River Jordan. You see, Israel's history of conquest and deliverance was the history of victory over great rivers and seas. And let's not forget that Babylon, that was soon to come and destroy Jerusalem and take the people captive, was situated along the Tigris and Euphrates rivers. But they would fall like the other kingdoms at the hand of the Lord And you'll see at the end of verse 8 a reference to thy chariots of salvation. God uses his severe judgment on his enemies to rescue his people. And then in verse 9, we read, Thy bow was made quite naked according to the oaths of the tribes, even thy word. Thou didst cleave the earth with rivers. Here God is pictured like a warrior taking out his bow, preparing to rain down arrows of destruction on the wicked. And God's severe judgment is also pictured as a Thunderstorm sweeping over the land. In verse ten, thy mountains saw thee, and they trembled. The overflowing of the waters passed by, the deep uttered his voice, and they lifted up his hands on high. The world will someday flee at the coming wrath of God, but you cannot hide from God. The only thing to do with God is to run to him, not away from him. In verse 11 We read this interesting illusion. The sun and the moon stood still in their habitation. If you know your Bible well, that should remind you of Joshua chapter 10. One of the most spectacular miracles recorded in Scripture, Joshua's victory at Geba, where he asked the Lord to lengthen the day that he might defeat his enemies lest they escape. And so it's saying here that just as that spectacular victory and defeat of the enemies of God occurred, so would be the destruction of Babylon, who were oppressing at that time the people of God. And then we come to verse 12. Thou didst march through the land in indignation. Thou didst thresh the heathen in anger. In virtually every culture of the world, there's an ancient legend of a mighty heroic warrior who comes riding in on his steed, and he defeats the oppressors and he releases the captive. Mankind has a natural longing in in his heart for a heroic king who will punish the wicked and rescue the righteous and set everything right. And that will someday be realized that that very primitive, that very intuitive sense that we have in our hearts going back through all the ancient legends that will ultimately be fulfilled in the coming of Christ. Now I wonder if you are troubled by this description of God as an angry God destroying the wicked. That doesn't sit well with us today. It doesn't fit with our modern concept of a loving God. Our sentimental perspective on God is pervasive. But it's also wrong. The fact is, you cannot love anyone or anything. Without at times there being a corresponding hatred and anger. Did you know that? What I mean by that is if you have children And someone harms your children, you don't walk up to them and say, you know, I'm a really loving person, so I'm not upset with it. So have a nice day, sir. No, you are going to be enraged. Why? Because you love your child. And because you love your child, you have a profound sense of seething anger to those who would hurt something so precious and so delicate to you. And it's the same way with God's He loves his people. And therefore he pours out his wrath on those who oppress his own. And therefore, because God loves his people, he must judge their oppressors in righteous anger. And now we move to the third and final stanza. The Lord comes in judgment to save his people. I mentioned to you earlier that verse 13 is the key verse of this passage. It is a verse of assurance. In the midst of this profound description of judgment and cataclysm, there is this comforting, assuring promise. This passage answers the big why question. Why does God go forth in judgment? And the answer is doubled so you don't miss it. Thou wentest forth for the salvation of thy people. You see, God delights to redeem his own. This obscure imagery speaks of God's Defeat of Israel's past enemy, Egypt, and indicates their defeat was resounding and decisive when it speaks here about the wounded the head of the house. by discovering the foundations under the neck. The idea is that it was a fatal blow against the enemies of God. And then look with me at verses fourteen and fifteen. Thou didst strike through with his staves the head of his villages. They came out as a whirlwind to scatter me. Their rejoicing was to devour the poor secretly. These verses seem to be referring to the Egyptians that chased after the Israelites and delighted at the prospect of slaughtering these vulnerable slaves at the Red Sea where they were trapped. The idea is that they were joyful and gleeful at the idea of shedding their blood. But God used their aggression and arrogance to ultimately destroy them. The Bible is filled with examples of poetic justice. Haman. Would hang on his own gallows. Daniel's adversaries who tried to frame him and wrong him would die in the lion's den that prepared for him. The Bible says, the man who digs a pit to trap his neighbor will fall into it himself. The Bible says, be sure your sins will find you out. God is just, and therefore he delights to judge the wicked and redeem his people. But what does this mean for us today? We consider these ancient symbols connected with ancient history written by a prophet. 2600 years ago, it may seem that it has nothing to do with us at all. But that is not the case. This passage Is designed to encourage our faith. It was designed to encourage the faith of a struggling prophet named Habakkuk. And it's designed to encourage our faith when we face perilous times. Let me remind you that the key verse of the book of Habakkuk is chapter 2 and verse 4, the last phrase, the just shall live by his faith. And our faith is being nourished with this revelation from the Word of God. So the first application I want to make is this. We can trust in God even when our circumstances appear bleak, distressing, and discouraging. You ever feel that way? Where your future doesn't seem to be getting better, it seems to be getting worse, and today's not very good either And we don't know what personally happened to the prophet of Backup. We have no record. Did he die when the Babylonians came? Was he taken captive? Did he go into Babylon? Did he live there for a number of years? We don't know. We do know that only a few years after writing this prophecy, the Babylonians came and destroyed Jerusalem and took many captives to Babylon, where they remained there for about seventy years. My point is that things didn't suddenly get better for Habakkuk or his K tem contemporaries. This is what we always want, right? We like immediate Action. We want the Lord to release us and we want it to be today, if at all possible. The message of the Bible is not that if you trust God, everything in your life will work out far better than you could have imagined. This is what some preachers teach, and what many people think, but it's not true. It's not taught in the Word of God, and it doesn't square with reality. God 's word is constantly calling us to look beyond our current circumstances. And to look up to our great God and to see the big picture of what He's doing, His great plan of redemption, and where we fit into that picture I'm convinced that the Christian life is the best life that any human being can live on this fallen earth Do not misunderstand me. The Bible doesn't teach the Christian life is a life of misery, but you got heaven someday And that the life of an unbeliever is just a wonderful life, but you know it's got some downsides at the end. That's not the message of the Bible. The message of the Bible is that the most joyful, the most peaceful, the most significant and meaningful life that a person can live is the Christian life wholly dedicated to God. And even beyond that There is something far greater in heaven. But that doesn't mean that the here and now is filled with daily feelings of significance and fulfillment and satisfaction. Often our days on earth are difficult and dark. It was for Habakkuk. Habakkuk was hoping in this prophecy when he poured out his heart to God that God would say, you know what? Things are going to get better real soon. But that wasn't the answer. The Christian life can only be lived in the right vein when we are looking ahead. and looking up when our focus is on God and on the glories that He has for us. Secondly We can trust in God because He will judge the world righteously. One of the problems in the world is that atheists are always looking at the evil and injustice to prove that there is no God. Look at the world. Look at the chaos. Look at the injustice. Look how many people are oppressed. Look how many people get away with their wickedness, their violence. But their objections are invalid because the Bible never promises an easy life, but a difficult life. The Bible doesn't promise that God will settle everything instantly. The fact is, the Bible is the most realistic book ever written. It doesn't offer a false hope but real answers. One of the questions I sometimes have mentioned to those who are agnostic or atheist who raise the objection of evil and injustice in the world is: why does it bother you so much? Why does injustice vex your spirit so The answer is because we've all been made in the image of a righteous God, and we instinctively feel that there should be some authority that sets everything straight. Someone should be the adult and be in control. And just make sure that no one gets away with anything and everyone's treated fairly and respectfully. But that has never happened because every leader is like all the rest of us, fallen and weak And frail. But God is the judge of all the earth, and he will do what is right. And that means that someday he will come and he will vindicate his people, his persecuted church. One of the reasons why these passages about God coming and delivering his people and punishing the wicked do not resonate with our souls is because we're not the persecuted church. But if you'd lost loved ones, if you'd been imprisoned, if your whole life had been one of hiding and fear and distress and oppression These passages would resonate more with your soul that God is going to come and bring justice and vindicate his people. And the fact is that at the second coming of Christ, the Lord will both deliver his people and punish the wicked. I've read this verse recently, a few weeks ago, 2 Thessalonians 1. It says unto you who are troubled, rest with us when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels and flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. And third, I want us to see in this passage that we can trust in God because of how he has delivered his people in the past. God delights deliver his people in times of distress. He rescued Israel from the bondage of Egypt. He saved them when they were trapped. at the Red Sea, and he would deliver his people from the captivation by Babylon. But the greatest deliverance of his captive people in human history occurred when Jesus came to earth to save his people from their sins. And fourth and finally, I want you to notice that we can trust in God because he has sent his anointed one. to redeem us. Did you notice in verse 13, it says, Thou wentest forth for the salvation of thy people, even for salvation with thine anointed. Now it's true that some scholars see this anointed one as a reference to Cyrus the Persian king who would be used of God to deliver the Hebrews from Babylon. And indeed Cyrus is referred to by this title elsewhere in scripture. But even if that is true, Cyrus is a picture of the ultimate anointed one, the Messiah, the Christ. I find it impossible not to see an intentional reference to the Lord Jesus in this verse. Our salvation is through Christ alone. He is the one who has come. Do you recall when John the Baptist was in prison? And he began to question, to doubt the whole purpose of his ministry, of pointing men to Christ. And so he sent a messenger who asked Jesus, Are you the one who should come? This is how prophets for centuries spoke of the coming Messiah. He was the coming one. And Jesus responded by saying, Go and show John again those things which you do hear and see. The blind received their sight, the lame walked the Lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and the poor have the gospel preached to them. And blessed is he not be offended in me. Jesus said, I am the coming one that all of the prophets have been predicting. And he is the anointed one who is coming again. Hebrews ten, thirty-seven and thirty-eight, quoting from Habakkuk, says, Forget a little while, and he shall come and will not tarry. Now the just shall live by his faith. You see, living in expectation of the coming of Christ is part of what it means to live by faith. But I think so often we never ever think about the return of Christ. The Scriptures affirm that a day is coming when the Son of Man will come again in power and great glory. The question is, are you ready to meet him? The only way to flee to Christ is to trust in him, to rest in him, to make him your all-in-all. God delights to come and save his people. Father, I pray that you would use the scriptures that we've considered this morning. That are difficult for us to understand, but I pray that you would help us to find great And important truths that would strengthen our faith and cause us to trust in you in times of difficulty. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.