A century ago, in this nation, the most famous Methodist preacher was a man named Clovis Chappell. He was quite popular then. He's not so well known today. He wrote many sermon books that you can still find in secondhand bookstores And in one of his sermons, he relates an event that took place when he was a boy. He was brought up in a small town in the south. in the middle of nowhere. And it was their custom in that town that every Christmas they would provide gifts. For the children in that small community. They would gather on Christmas Eve in the town square, and there would be presents wrapped with names on them under the tree. Their names were called and they would come up and open their gift. And that's the way things were in that tiny little town One day they were doing this on Christmas Eve. The children were tearing into the presents. And after the presents had been opened, there was one boy that yet remains. He was an orphan boy who had recently come into their community. He was working at a farm as a farm hand. And he was very disappointed there was no gift for him. But then some boys brought out a very large gift. It was bigger than all the rest. A great smile swept over his face, and he went and tore open the paper and opened the box, and it was an empty box. Some boys in that community had played a very cruel trick on him. You ever wonder why children can be so mean? Ever wonder why even when babies are born, they instantly deceive? And are selfish and egocentric and don't want to share their toys with others and beat up on their brothers and sisters And parents are constantly refereeing and trying to get them to do what's right. Why are children like that universally around the world? I want us this morning to look at the greatest short story that has ever been written. Everyone knows it. We refer to it as the parable of the prodigal son, and one reason why it's so famous And transcends all culture and all time is because it deals with universals. We can all relate to a rebel who comes on hard times and experiences a glad reunion with his father that touches everyone's heart This parable comes at the climax of a series of three parables that are found in one chapter, Luke chapter 15, sometimes called the lost and found of the New Testament. We read of the lost sheep and then a lost piece of silver and then the lost son. And there are four threads of truth that are woven through every one of these parables. You find in each of these stories the the sorrow of losing something. The first, of course, it's a sheep, but then it's the woman who has this piece of silver that's probably part of her treasured betrothal jewelry. And then, of course, ultimately it's the lost son. And then you have also in all of these stories the joy of finding something. The sheep is found, that silver is found, and the sun is found. And you also have in every one of these parables the doctrine of repentance. But most importantly, you have God's grace for lost sinners. So if you put this all together, you have in this chapter The delight of God in graciously rescuing lost, repentant sinners. And these three parables, this trilogy was told Because of an incident that occurs at the very beginning of this chapter. Look with me at the first three verses. Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners, for to hear him. And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners and eateth with them. And he spake this parable unto them, saying, And then you just have one parable after another after another. This teaching, this extended series of parables always is an answer to this question that was in the minds of the Pharisees, and it was this, why do you waste your time with these sinful people, the outcast of society. Jesus, why do you waste your time with them? And the answer is because God delights to save sinners. The Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. This parable we're looking at is usually called the parable of the prodigal son, because he's the most popular character. Everyone can identify to some degree with the prodigal. But this parable is not really about that prodigal son. It's not even about the older son. It's really a parable. The central character is the gracious father and his response to sinful people. Whether they be the outward rebellious runaway son or whether they be the pious Pharisaical older brother, it's all about his response to sinners Within this very brief story, there is so much doctrine, so much wonderful truth We see here what God is like as illustrated in the Father. We learn what repentance looks like and what forgiveness is all about. and how we should respond to sinful people as Christians. But we also see here man's greatest problem Man 's greatest problem is sin. The Bible says a great deal about sin. It's described as missing the mark, as stepping over a boundary. It's pictured as deformity and disease and defilement. And the Bible tells us clearly that sin brings death. But in case you didn't know, sin is not very popular today. We don't talk about sin very much Speak about people 's misjudgments and weakness of character, addictions, but we don't talk about sin. Sin seems to be an outdated concept that harken back to a time when people were judgmental and intolerance. But the Bible teaches from cover to cover that the most revolting thing in the universe is mankind's sin. Throughout the ages, very intelligent people have tried to figure out how to solve man's problems. And it seems that every generation of intellectuals, of professors and political leaders and analysts, they come together and they say, certainly there must be a way to solve man's basic problems, the problems of war and of crime and of intolerance and of prejudice and of poverty And so they postulate all these theories, and if we can just educate people, and if we can give people access to resources , If people can have transportation provided and information provided and education provided, then all of our problems will go away. And we have seen many advances in modern society. It's amazing what we can do today. But have we seen sin evaporate and disappear? Is there still war taking place in the world today? Is there still poverty everywhere? Is there still prejudice? Yes, our problems have not gone away. If anything, they've gotten worse. Because all of the brain power in the world cannot solve man's basic problem. And that is sin. Now, one thing we need to look at, and that we rarely do, even in churches today, is really take a hard look at how revolting and how repulsive sin is. And so that's what I want to preach to this morning in just a few verses from this parable. I want us to see a revelation. of the revolting reality of sin. And I want to show you several characteristics of sin. Would you notice with me first of all? that sin is defiance against a loving father. Look with me at verse 12. Well, verse 11, a certain man had two sons. And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living. The younger son we know as the prodigal, a word that refute that reflects his indulgence and his spending things with uh w without any consideration. Everyone knows a prodigal son. Everyone knows this personality that stands out. He makes a shocking request. He says, give me the portion of goods that falleth unto me This is still shocking for us today to hear, but it was much more shocking to the Lord's original Jewish audience. A young man making demands of his father? And their culture, the father, was to be revered and honored and respected. They lived in a patriarchal society we don't today Fathers are the object of ridicule and jokes, but it was not like that in the Jewish culture. And for a son to ask his father for his inheritance and demand it like this is my right, now give me what I deserve. As a younger son, he would receive one-third of the family inheritance at his father's death. But his father wasn't dead, he was very much alive. And this young son, impatient as he was, could not fathom waiting 20 or 30 or 40 years until his father passed away to receive his wealth. And so he demands it now. And he is in essence saying, Dad, I don't care about you. I don't care about your honor. I don't care about your standing in this community. I don't care about the welfare of this family. I want what I want, and I want it now. Now what's amazing is it says that the Father gave him his inheritance. That was a shocking thing as well. Perhaps his father knew that his son was going to leave one way or another. And so he gives him what he asked for. Now this would not have been an easy thing to do. In this day, people did not have wealth and large quantities of what we would call liquid assets. Most scholars think that probably he would have had to have sold a large portion of land. And perhaps some of their livestock to comply with his wishes. This would have grieved the father because their ancestral land was considered a sacred trust. But he does so. My point is that on so many levels this request was wrong. It was defiance, it was rebellion against a loving and gracious man. This was his father that clothed him and fed him and provided everything that this young boy needed. You see, he didn't sin against an impersonal force. He sinned against his father. One of the things that we instinctively know is that the magnitude of our sin is increased depending on who we sin against. You know, it's a crime to make death threats against anyone, but if you make death threats against the President of the United States, you're going to receive a lot more attention than if you do against your neighbor. The Bible speaks about cursing a child cursing their father or mother, or striking their father or mother, and in the Old Testament, striking your parents, cursing your parents was Something worthy of the death penalty. Why? Because it was against your parents that had brought you up from a child and deserved your honor and your respect. You see, one of the reasons that we discount our sin is we think of it as a victimless crime. We think of it as sin against an impersonal force, but it's not. Our sin is incredibly serious because we sin against the Creator of the universe. A God who has given us life and all that we possess, who's given us the breath and our lungs. And so when we sin against him, we're sinning against the gracious Father. Not some impersonal force. We're sinning against the Creator of the heaven and earth. We're sinning against a being who demands and deserves our respect and our honor. And so our sin is a very serious thing. Our sin is personal. It's in a personal front to a holy God. I want you to notice with me that sin is also a demonstration of selfishness. He says here in this sentence, Father, give me. This young foolish teenager is not thinking about anyone but himself. He's not thinking about the pain that he's caused his father. He's not considering how his move and his demands will affect the entire family. He has no idea of the tears that will flow from his father at night or the sleepless nights that his actions will cause. He has not stopped to consider that his father has labored and invested and has cultivated his farm and his business. In his mind it's his right and he's going to take what's his without regard for anyone else. And I feel certain that this young prodigal never stopped to think of the impact his decision would have on the other young people in that community. It's very likely he was the wealthiest young man in that little village. Everyone knew his family. They looked up to him. They envied him. And now he's going into the far country. How many of them had their own hearts turn away from what they had to want that kind of lifestyle? You see, sinful people are always selfish people. We're so good at seeing selfishness in others, aren't we? How revolting it is. Before I became a pastor here, I was a youth pastor for many years and they dealt with many young people who made catastrophic choices that brought great grief and shame to their parents. And often after these things would happen, I would meet with these young people and I would talk to them. And one question I would always ask them was this, did you ever stop and think about the incredible grief and pain and suffering that you brought into the lives of your parents? And the most common answer I would receive was no. Never crossed my mind. Absolute selfishness. How we are disturbed when we see, and rightfully so, a husband or wife who walks away from their marriage commitment Never thinks about the damage it will do to the children. They never think about the ripple effect of how it doesn't just affect them, it doesn't just affect their wife, it doesn't just affect their kids, but It affects the generation after them and the way those children will bring up their kids and the scars that they will carry. It's like the ripples on a pond. It just keeps going out And they cannot begin to fathom of the far-reaching impact of their sinful choices. But we see it every day. And that is why in our culture and our society we deal with people who are broken and bruised. By the sins, for choices of others, their selfishness. Where they think in their mind, yes, this might bring great hardship in the lives of my parents and the lives of my children and the life of my spouse. But you know what? I deserve to be happy. How many times I've heard that in my office from people. I deserve to be happy. And I want to ask them, how's that working out for you? Do you have joy and peace in your life? No. Something elusive that's just around the corner that they can never quite reach. But I want you to know that selfishness is not a rare problem. It's not isolated to just a few people who do notorious things. It's inherent in all of us. You ever thought about how selfish you are? You think about yourself and your concerns more than anyone else's. When you're a group of people and they are talking about you in a laudable way, you enjoy that conversation very much. You like talking about yourself more than anything else in the world We are all incredibly selfish. Sometimes I have people Make a list for me of all the various little habitual things that they do that are in fact selfish. Make a long list where we have like 50 items. And they'll say, I can't think of that many things. Ask your spouse. Ask your children, ask your parents, ask your co-workers. They'll help you fill out that list There are a hundred different ways that we habitually go about our duties that every people say, well, he's only thinking of himself. She's not even concerned about The Bible puts it this way, all we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. We want to live life on our terms. We want to be the center of the universe. And if everyone around us is miserable because of our choices and the chaos that we bring into life, that's okay as long as I am happy. You see, whenever we desire to get our own way, it always comes at the expense of others. Because sin is a demonstration of selfishness. Would you notice with me thirdly that sin is a dissatisfaction with the will of God? It says in verse 13, and not many days after the younger son gathered all together and took his journey into a far country. And there wasted his substance with riotous living. He wasn't waiting around. His rapid exit reveals he couldn't wait to get out of there. To him, his life in that little village on his father's farm was like a prison. He didn't want to spend any time with his father or with his family. He wanted to get out of town. And as soon as he had his resources together, he hit the road and headed for the far country. When I visited Israel five years ago with my wife, our tort ride took us to the ruins of an ancient city. That was not that far from the region of Galilee. And there there were these very impressive ruins there. Great pillars, great buildings. And our Torah guy told us that this was the ancient Palestinian equivalent of Las Vegas. It was Sin City. It was a place of wine, women, and song. Our Tor guy told us that when Jesus told his parable, everyone there in that audience would say, oh, I know what he's talking about when he says the far country. I know where he went. It's not that far down the road. We all know where it is. One of Satan's most effective lies is that God's will for your life is not in your best interest. He delights in making people dissatisfied with what they have. with where they are in their life, so that they step out of the boundaries that God has clearly established in His Word and seek something else. And yet it's a delusion. It's a lie. This young man had a wonderful setup. His father was a prosperous farmer. He had everything that he needed. He was living in luxury. He was living in a place that was safe, and a place where there was love in the home, but he became convinced that it was unbearable. You can selectively view the facts in any situation and pull out all the things that are difficult and boring and laborious and stack them up and say, see, this is just intolerable. I can't stay in this situation. I can't stay in this job. I can't stay in this marriage. I can't stay in this church. Whatever it might be. I can't remain here because it's just intolerable. But you're selectively using the facts and you're choosing to focus on the negative instead of the positive. And the question is not, do I have everything that I want and everything that I need? The question is, is this where God wants me to be? And this young man never asked himself that question. This is the way that Satan dismantled Eve's resistance in the Garden of Eden. Think about it. He made her discontent with the most perfect environment that human beings have ever lived in. The Garden of Eden. You ever thought about that? Through his very suggestive questions, he got her to think, this is a horrible place. You can't do anything here. This is awful. It was exactly the opposite of the case. There was only one tree they they could not eat of, and they were living in paradise. They didn't have to work. They had no disease. They had no noisy neighbors. They had no problems. But in her own heart she came to believe this is this is not good. God's will is not best. God's keeping me from really living He uses that tactic today. Convinces people that since they are in a marriage that is loveless, that they should get out Why should they live a life of misery because of a poor decision they made in their youth? He wouldn't want to punish me for the rest of my life or a poor choice that I made, so I need to move on. I need to look out there for someone who can really fulfill me and make me happy. And of course, what almost always happens is they meet someone, they get together, and lo and behold, they have all these problems again. And I got two flogged people together looking for the other person to complete them and make their dreams come true and all they do is fight and have turmoil and tension. Satan seeks to convince us that the grass is always greener on the other side of the fence. It might be greener, but it's also poisonous. Need to be very careful that you don't become dissatisfied with the will of God. Think of all that God has given to you. Think of the blessings that you enjoy. God's will can be hard and difficult, but if you abandon God's will, you'll be going from the frying pan into the fire. Would you notice with me fourthly that sin is a desire to live independently of God? Desire to live independently of God. Did you know this is what lost people naturally desire? They want to live independently of God. This young man could not get away, could not wait to get away from his loving father. No more lectures. No more curfews, no more warnings, no more boring services in the synagogue. He is free at last He wanted to live life on his own terms, making his own choices, calling his own shots, and nobody interfering. I've already alluded to the fall of man in Genesis chapter 3. What did the serpent say to Eve? You'll be as gods. Knowing good and evil. Satan, in essence, was saying, if you partake of this fruit You're not going to need God anymore. You're not going to have to listen to Him. You're not going to be dependent on Him. You can live life on your own terms because you will be wise and discerning as He is This is the most appealing offer imaginable to sinful human beings. I can be in charge. I can do what I want finally instead of being restricted and troubled by other people's expectations and demands on me Now the vast majority of Americans and people throughout the world claim to believe in God. Oh, I believe in God. Sure, I'm not an atheist. I'm not one of those godless people. I believe in right and wrong. But it doesn't filter down into their daily lives. Most Americans are practical atheists. They claim to be fierce to believe in the existence of God But they don't live like it. It doesn't enter into their thought patterns. Only when there's a great crisis and they don't know what to do and it's a matter of life and death, then they might cry out to God with a desperate plea. But other than that They just want God to leave them alone. And they'll talk about God on civic occasions and on Thanksgiving and on Christmas and on Easter, but God just needs to stay in his place. Thank you very much. I can get along on my own. This is where most Americans are. They want to live independently of God. Perhaps you're one of them. You would say to your blue in the face that you believe in God, that you know he exists. But do you ever think of God when you go throughout the day? Never forget the time that I spoke to a young man who grew up in this church. I hadn't seen him in like six or seven years, and he was driving by one time here in front of our church and he pulled in and I got to talk to him a little bit. And of course he's not living for the Lord. He doesn't go to church anywhere. And I said to him, let me ask you this question, do you ever think about God? And he says, no, not really. I never think about God. That's what the scriptures say. Well the wicked God is not in their thoughts. Do you obey him? Do you live for his glory? Do you ever consider God's will when you make a decision? Do you say, what would God have us do? What principles of Scripture come to bear on this? What would please him? What would show to the lost world that I magnify Christ, that my treasure is not on this earth, but my treasure is in heaven. I find so often when I talk to Christian people that God never comes into the equation And we'll have a discussion about something, and they'll give the pros and the cons and the reason why they want to go in this direction. And I'll say, yeah, but what does God say about it? And there's this look on their face like, well, what does he have to do with this? It's very easy to say you're a Christian in the United States of America. It's very easy to say that you believe in God and salute the flag and Saying, God bless America, and yet live every day of your life as if you're an atheist. Because sin expresses itself in a desire to live absolutely independently of God. This young man wanted no fellowship with his father. He wanted no presence with his father. He didn't want to hear his father's advice. He didn't want to please his father. He wanted to live independently. He wanted to live as if his father did not exist. Would you notice with me fifthly that sin is a degradation of God's gifts? How privileged was this young man He had a loving father who abundantly provided for him later on when he's restored. You get a little bit of a glimpse of the prosperity of this family and the luxury with which this young man lived in. Unlike most people in the ancient world, he did not go to bed hungry. He was the envy, I'm sure, of many in his community. Undoubtedly, he was gifted. He received the finest education that money could buy. He had a bright future ahead of him. He wasn't starting out. He didn't have to fight his way to the top. He was born at the top. He had access to the vast financial resources of his father, and with those advantages he was sure to succeed. He was young and healthy and full of energy and ideas. And yet he threw it all away. Look with me at verses 13 and 14. And not many days after the younger son gathered all together, took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. We read in verse 14, and when he had spent all There arose a mighty famine in the land. He took all of his inheritance, one third of his father's considerable estates, all that land, all those flocks, various animals that he possessed. A third of it went to the son, and yet he wasted all of it. How many years did his father labor for that money? Or his grandparents or his great-great-grandparents as they passed down the wealth through the generations. How much sacrifice, how much toil. How much pain and sweat was involved in amassing that fortune, and a third of it was given to him, and he blew it all. And riotous living. How that money could have been invested, how it could have fed the poor, how it could have been used to do wonderful things. But this is the way sin is. It degrades God's precious gifts that He gives to us. What a privileged people we are. I've mentioned to you before, but if you were to line up a hundred people representative of the wealth of People throughout the world, I feel certain that just about everyone here under the sound of my voice would be at the head of the line. You'd be in the top 1%. You know, it's famous for people to protest today and talk about the 1%. You know what? We're the 1%. And I don't say that because we're somehow an incredibly wealthy church. I say that because we're in the United States of America and we happen to live in a somewhat affluent part of the country. We're the 1%. We have incredible privileges. And we live in a time with so many incredible advances. Oh, the advances in medicine and health care that we enjoy. The ability transportation that we have, the technology that we have What incredible privileges and blessings and gifts we have. But what have we done with those things? Have we used them to serve the Lord and to be a blessing to others in so many cases? The answer is no. We've used them to feed our own desires that are never-ending. And so we never have enough money, we never have enough financial security. We keep gathering and gathering and gathering and preserving and gathering and gathering without a thought to the needs around us. What have we done with the technological advances? Most of you, perhaps many of our adults here, have a smartphone. That's the most incredible thing in the world. Any question that you have, I talk to my children, you know, in the old days, and when you would ask something about some obscure fact of history. Or some sports statistic. You know what we used to do when I was a kid? You'd have to make a trip to the library and go and do some research and try to find out this fact, this answer. I mean it it would involve a great deal of time and I just take your phone out for the oh yeah there's the answer. Incredible technology, but what what what has mankind done with that technology? What's the greatest use that people make of their smartphones and internet searches and so forth? It's pornographic. what debases and degrades and enslaves people. What have we done with the connectivity that we have where we can connect with people by Skype and all kinds of other methods and emails and texting. We can talk to people in real time all over the world all the time You know what so much of that is used for? Breaking down boundaries that God has established, destroying the home. And people don't have real relationships. Because you can hide behind the technology and create a fantasy of who you want people to think you are. Please don't misunderstand me. I'm not against technology. This service is going out right now via technology. But I want you to see that sin and sinful people take wonderful advances in technology and use them for the most wicked things. Sin is revolting. It's defiance against a loving father. It's a demonstration of selfishness. It's dissatisfaction with God's will. It's a desire to live independently of God. It's a degradation of God's gifts and blessings. And would you notice with me that sin is a delusional view of reality? Sin is based on a lie. And those who live the lie long enough begin to believe it. They become deluded. This prodigal, when he marched off into the far country, he thought he was invincible. I'm gonna take on the world. It's gonna be great. No more of that boring little village where I live. Now I'm really gonna live And his family, his dad, his older brother, other of the elders in that village, they're thinking to themselves thoughts like this, doesn't he realize that his money will run out? Can't he see that that bag of coins is getting lighter by the day? Doesn't he realize that all the supposed friends that are around him in the far country, that they don't really care about him, that they're just using him? Can't he see what's coming? How many times have you witnessed this in the life of someone? Where they're recklessly making choices that you know will bring devastation. It's like watching a car accident in slow motion. You know exactly what's going to happen. It's not a mystery. And then when there is devastation, they look around in disbelief. How did this happen? The Bible says there is a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. To this young man it seemed right. It seemed good, it seemed the path to happiness and joy, but it was the path to death James 1. 15 says that when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished bringeth forth death. The empty box at the end of the prodigal's life is usually a coffin. How often I spend my time warning people I warn people all the time this is not going to work out the way you think it will. This is not going to satisfy your heart the way you anticipate it will. This is going to bring devastation and destruction. You've stepped outside of the boundary of God's will. And I warn them, I feel like a man, and there's people driving down an interstate, and right behind me there's a bridge that's out, and there's a gaping Calvin there to death and I'm trying to stop people saying, don't go down that path. And they drive past me. I'll be all right, Pastor. Don't worry. I know what I'm doing. The world promises happiness, freedom, and life, but instead it gives despair, bondage, and death, because the wages of sin is death Sin is delusional. Can I say this without parents being offended? It makes people stupid. They do incredibly foolish things. And there's a part of you that wanted to say, well, what did you think was going to happen? When you spent all that money. What did you think was going to be the result of those choices that you made year after year? Everybody could see it coming down the pike. Now perhaps you're here this morning, let's be honest, and you're saying, what a horribly depressing sermon. Here I come out on a gloomy day. I come to church, and what do I hear about? Sin, sin, and sin I don't preach totally on sin every Sunday And perhaps I'm preaching about sin because I'm trying to counterbalance the tendency in our culture today to never mention it except in jest. And I confess to you that it is a negative topic, and there are many things I would rather preach about than sin, and the various aspects of sin and how revolting sin is. But you know what? Until we see our sin as big a problem as it is, we will never seek the Savior and the good news of the gospel. And before I can give people the good news, I have to give them the bad news. The gospel will never sparkle like a bright diamond unless it has a black cloth of human depravity behind it. You know what happens if you witness to most people today, if you give them the gospel, if you share with them that they're a sinner and Jesus died for their sins and so forth, they'll say, I appreciate that. You know, I'm glad I'm glad that works for you. Glad that's helpful for you, but you know I'm I'm going pretty well. My family's okay. We've got a few problems, a few hang-ups, and Vices, but you know what? Life's good. I appreciate you sharing that with me. It's a personal thing. I think religion is a personal thing, but I don't need that And that's a delusion. They desperately need it. If you're here this morning and you think to yourself, you know, I'm not that bad of a person. I'm not really a sinful individual. I don't really need the gospel. I don't really need Christ, my friend. You have been blinded by the God of this world, the Bible says. If you really would inspect your life, you would see how empty and superficial and selfish it is. And how every aspect of your life has been tainted with sin. And it's defiance against a holy God. But there's good news in the gospel And the good news of the gospel is that Jesus died for sinners. I quoted earlier the first half of this verse in Isaiah 53, all we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. But it continues, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. Christ died for sinful people. 2 Corinthians says, for he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. At the birth of Jesus, the angel said, his name shall be called Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sin. Because we are sinners, all of us inherently, we need a savior. I mentioned earlier about the universality of our sin problem. that every child and every young person and every adult that you've ever known has been flawed and had issues and been a sinful, selfish individual. Why is that? Because they got that from their parents. They inherited it. And they got it from their parents. And they got it from their parents. And it goes all the way back to the fall in the garden in Adam and Eve. We're all sinners. And the Bible says the consequence of our sin is death, not just physical death, but the ultimate death of separation from God in a place called hell. But Jesus died for sinners that we might live. The only cure for our sin problem is Christ. But until you recognize how serious your problem is, you will not seek the Savior And that's why we must preach the bad news of man's depravity so that we seek the good news of a Savior who saves sinners. Sin is horrible, but God's grace is greater. God delights to save sinful people. That's what this parable is all about. Whether you be that rebel who's gone into the far country and has wasted all of your substance with riotous living where you've lived a wicked and immoral life. and indulged your senses and you've got the scars to show it, or whether you're like that pious older brother who was stayed at home and worked hard, but his heart was filled with pride. and with self-righteousness and with condemnation of others. Whatever variety of sinner you might be, Jesus died for sinners. He is the savior of the world. Maybe today the Lord has opened your eyes to your own sinfulness, your own inherent wickedness. I would encourage you to seek the Lord while he may be found. God will graciously save those who repent and seek him John Newton, one of the most notable Christians who ever lived, this man who was a former slave trader, a wicked man. but who was saved by God's amazing grace. So the very end of his life when he was suffering. from what we probably today diagnose as dip some form of dementia. He couldn't remember anything. He had to stop preaching because He would just forget verses that he was trying to quote and what he was trying to say, and he would say the same thing 30 different times. And it was very discouraging to him. Someone went to visit him a day before he died. And he said to him, my memory is nearly gone. But I remember two things. I know that I am a great sinner and that Christ is a great Savior. I hope that you know those things. If you know those two things, you know the two most important things in the world. But until you recognize that you're a great sinner, you will never really seek the great Savior. I encourage you to seek him today. Father. How desperately we need your help. How often we walk in a fantasy world. Seeing ourselves in a way that is not in line with reality, in line with your truth. I pray that you would help us to see that we are sinners and that we desperately need a Savior. I pray that you would help someone, perhaps several individuals to seek the Lord today, to seek his amazing grace, the forgiveness that is offered through the blood of Jesus Christ. O Father, work in our midst we pray. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen.