If you have your Bibles, please, would you join me in Galatians chapter 5? Last week when I was on my way to work. And many of you know that I come down 27 every morning. I was at the place in Mount Erie at the Twin Arch intersection where two lanes become one. It's often a very interesting uh stop on my way. I was in the the left hand lane and uh there was one car in front of me at the light and another car to the right of that and of course you're supposed to alternate as you uh come together two to one. As soon as the light changed, these two cars, one to the right of me and the other directly in front of me, took out like they were in a race. And the faster the one went, the faster the other went. Finally, they ran out of merging area and the one vehicle that was in the far right very reluctantly went in behind the other vehicle. They continued to go at a very fast rate. And the car that was behind was obviously not pleased because it looked like it was being towed by the other vehicle. It was right up on its bumper, going at a very fast rate of speed. I was some distance away observing this, and then I noticed the person in front was irritated by this and began to tap their brakes. to get the car behind it to uh give them some space. And they continue to do this for some time until They continued to slow down and go slower and slower until the car actually came to a complete stop on 27. And the other car was behind it. I was waiting for a moment to see if there were car doors that were going to open and what was going to happen next But after about two seconds when they were just both sitting there, right in the travel lane of 27, the car that was behind went around that car, and they continued on without incident. And I said out loud in my car, having studied this passage, now that was a manifestation of the flesh. This morning we come to a passage that is all about the flesh. And I feel like I almost must give a disclaimer as I begin this. There is no one who claims these verses that we read together this morning as their life verse. Alright? I am sure there is no one here that has this at home on your refrigerator in a magnet form. And I don't think there's anyone who has the list this list of vices in calligraphy and framed art on your wall. Okay? But I want you to know that this is indeed the Word of God. And it does have a needed message for us to consider. Now I want you to notice how this functions in our text. This paragraph begins. in verse 16 where Paul says, This I say then, walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. And someone might say, well, how can that be so? And so he goes to verse 17, for the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. These are contrary the one to the other, so that you cannot do the things that ye would. And I we went through these verses last week. And what Paul is saying in this verse is that in every moment you are either being controlled by the flesh or the spirit, but you're not being controlled by both. And I compared it last week to like an on-off switch. It's either on or it's off, but you're not in the middle. And the reason is because the flesh and the spirit are polar opposites. They don't have any values in common. What the flesh wants you to do is exactly the opposite of what the spirit wants you to do. And then in verse 18 we read, But if you're led by the Spirit, you're not under the law. And we looked at that verse last week as well. Now, a discerning reader might say to themself, Well, how would I know? If I am being controlled by the flesh or by the spirit. And so Paul is going to be providing here to list. To help us discern that. First of all, he gives us a list of the works of the flesh in verses 19 through 21. And we have a sorted list here. of the vices that are found in the human hearts. And then we come to, in contrast, Verses 22 and 23, but the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Against such there is no law. These are the evidences that a person is walking in the Spirit. That is, these people produce the fruit of the Spirit. Now, in case you were not here last week, I announced last week that I was beginning a series on the fruit of the spirit. It's my intention to go through uh every one of these virtues one by one in the weeks ahead. But before we get to the real cream of this passage and the and the beautiful verses that we are going to explore here, verses 22 and 23. We have to look at the works of the flesh. And I think what we need to understand is that God intends that we see this by way of contrast. One of the ways to define what something is is first of all to define what it is not. And that in essence what is going on here. If you were to go to a jeweler , and asked to see some diamonds. They very well may put out like a black cloth And put the diamonds on top of that black cloth because that dull black cloth helps to bring out by contrast the brilliance of those diamonds. And so there's a sense here in which the Apostle Paul, under the guidance of the Holy Spirit, has put down this dull, this disgusting black cloth. So that we can see the beauty of the fruit of the Spirit in contrast to it And what I think this brings out to us is that it shows how desperately we need the work of the Spirit of God in our lives. Because apart from God's grace, and the work of his Holy Spirit, this is what inevitably will be the products of our life. We will bring forth the works of the flesh. And so as we examine this horrible list this morning, it's my prayer that we would have a renewed desire for the Spirit's work. in our lives. The works of the flesh reveal our desperate need for the Spirit's power in our lives. And I'm going to bring up several points from this passage this morning. The first one is this. The works of the flesh are very different. From the fruit of the Spirit. I think that's very apparent and very obvious, but I want to show you the variety of ways in which it is so different. Let me first of all remind you of what Paul means by the flesh in this passage. And this can be confusing because this word is used in different ways in the Bible. Sometimes the word flesh refers to the tissue that makes up a human or animal body. That's very general and very physical. But in 1 Corinthians 15 and Revelation 19, that's the way the word flesh is used. Sometimes It refers to the human body itself. In John chapter 1 and verse 14, John writes this famous verse, and the word referring to Christ became flesh and dwelt among us. That's a reference to the incarnation. Sometimes it is used to just denote a human being Remember what Jesus said after Peter's great confession of faith in Matthew 16, he says, flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto you. What was he saying? He's saying, Peter, you didn't learn that from some rabbi. You didn't learn that from some human teacher. That came to you from God Himself. But the way we're looking at it this morning, the way Paul uses this term flesh is of that fallen, sinful nature. That is in all of mankind and is antagonistic to God and His will for our lives. Now, those who are lost, the Bible tells us, are controlled by the flesh to one degree or another. However, every Christian has another component in their heart. They have the Spirit of God dwelling within them. And therefore the Bible teaches that we are not in bondage to the flesh. We still have the flesh within our hearts. It still battles within us. There's still, as it were, a fight for supremacy in our hearts. But if we are truly children of God and we have the Spirit of God dwelling within us, we are not in bondage to the flesh. We are controlled by the Spirit. Now before we look at these works of the flesh individually, I want to make some general observations. I want you to first of all understand that this list accurately describes humanity apart from God. And I want us to look at a cross-reference now. Would you turn with me to the Gospel of Mark The second book in our New Testament, Mark chapter 7. And I want us to consider some words that were uttered by the Lord Jesus Christ. Mark chapter 7, verse 21. And I'm reading this passage because of the parallels, the similarities to this list in Galatians 5. Jesus says this, for from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts. Covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness, all these things come from within and defile the man. You see, man's basic problem is not external, it is internal. It is not the people around him, it is the flesh within him. It is not the circumstances that he finds himself in, his physical circumstances, his housing. his health care, whatever it might be. That's not his real problem. Man's greatest problem is his own heart and what is within him Theologians call this biblical truth total depravity. It means that people are not basically good, they are essentially bad. Now, this doctrine does not teach that every person is as wicked as every other person. It does not mean that we are as wicked as we could be. However, it does indicate that we are all sinful in every part of our being and in desperate need of the grace of God. Now, I don't know about you, but it's a very insulting truth. And so it's not surprising that most people deny it. Most people, I think, if you were to go around and ask them, like a reporter, do you believe that most people are basically good or basically bad? Most people tell I think people are basically good. I think most people have a really good heart. Most people are really caring. Most people are really giving. Yeah, there's There's some bad people out there, there's some criminal element out there, but most people are basically good And if you press people, why is there so many problems in the world? Why is there so much crime? They will say things, well, you know, a lot of people have uh had bad examples set before them. They live in a in a very dangerous environment. or they don't have their basic needs met, they don't have good housing, they don't have education, they don't have job training, they feel desperate, they feel angry, so they act out And that's why the world is the way it is. Well, my question is, why is it then that people who do have a beautiful home and have a wonderful education, and have all of their needs more than amply provided for, still act out and still do wicked things, and are still selfish and proud. and insensitive to others and violence. Why is that? Why is it that politicians and leaders of society for centuries now have been saying that if only we can provide education and inform people about the way things really are, that then we will stamp out racism and violence and genocide and everything else that has plagued the world's existence. And although today we live in a society where there have never been more educated people. We still have great problems with this, don't we? And that is because man is sinful at the very core of his being We don't like that truth. But it is the dark backdrop of the gospel. That's why we need the good news of Jesus Christ. Because we are incurably sinful. Now it's interesting by way of survey That if you look at this list, you would find, did you know, that these are some of the major themes that are celebrated in our pop culture. These are what are found in our movies, in our TV shows, in our magazines, in our novels. These things, sexuality, drugs, alcohol, occultic practices, conflict, antagonism, violence, and partying. I kind of put them in a little different language here. Those are the themes that you find in most of the entertainment media that we have today Why do people find those things interesting and entertaining? Because it's what's in their hearts. Let me secondly say that this list indicates the futility of self-improvement. I want you to notice, have you ever thought about the difference between the way it's put here, the works of the flesh and the fruit of the spirit. You see, a work is something that you produce by your efforts. Of a fruit is something that God produces through you. A farmer can disc his soil and plant the seed and fertilize it, but he can't really produce a harvest. He's dependent on God to do that. In the same way, we must rely on the Holy Spirit to work through us to produce the fruit of the Spirit. We can never produce the fruit of the Spirit through our own efforts, through our own fallen flesh. And there are many who have thought about this other distinction as well. We speak here of the Works, plural, works of the flesh and the fruit of the spirit. Sometimes I will hear people, often I hear people say the fruits of the spirit. That's not what the Bible says. It says the fruit singular of the Spirit. The idea is that the Spirit of God works through us to produce something that is completely unified. Whereas the works of the flesh, know what it produces? A disorganized mess. You see, if you examine the life of someone who is completely dominated by the flesh, you know what you will find? An absolute mess. Everything in their life is a mess. Their finances, their relationships, their personal life, everything is a mess because they're controlled by the flesh. Now I want us to take a look. If you've not already turned back to Galatians, I would invite you to do that at this time. I want you to notice And we're going to look at these in groupings. Secondly, I want you to notice that the works of the flesh reveal the depravity. of the human heart. Paul says in verse 19, now the works of the flesh are manifest. Or we could say self-evidence. And actually in the Greek text, the first word in that sentence is the word manifest. In other words, he wants to emphasize this. Paul is saying like this, I don't really need to enumerate these vices. Because everybody knows that these are the works of the flesh. And one of the reasons that the Bible is always relevant and timeless for us is because humanity hasn't really changed, has it? That's why I mentioned a moment ago that these are still the themes of popular culture. Why? Because the human heart, even though this was written 2,000 years ago nearly, it is still the same. Now virtually every commentator makes mention of the fact that we have four categories of sins that are found in this listing. Because there are so many, I'm not going to look at every single one of these individually, other than to mention them. And to look at these in groupings. First of all, the flesh is manifested, notice this, in sexual sins. Notice where he begins. Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness. These all have sexuality in common with it. And Paul probably begins here because that's the first thing that probably comes into our mind when we think of the sins of the flesh. We have unfaithfulness in marriage. This term fornication here refers to all types of sexual relationships outside of marriage. It's used in the Bible of premarital sex, of incest, of homosexuality, of adultery, and on and on the list could go. We have this term uncleanness. It refers to the moral degradation and the psychological sense of defilement that comes with immorality. And then we have lasciviousness. This refers to uninhibited sexual indulgence without a sense of shame. Now, I don't think that I have to convince you that this is a pervasive part of our culture today. I don't think I have to argue or produce all kinds of relevant examples. Everybody knows that this is a huge part of our society and that there has been a radical shift and the way people think about sexuality today. We have lost really a sense of shame and dis decency. Virtues that were once universally taught to our children. Like modesty and this old word chastity are now even scoffed at by Christians. I mean if you read uh uh literature involving moralism like from the 1800s It sounds incredibly quaint. It sounds so out of step. Even for those who are believers today. And many of the people who wrote this literature were not even Christians. There has been a radical change. Everybody knows that homosexuality, homosexual marriage is now the law of the land, and most children today are born to parents who were unmarried, and that pornography, which once had a great stigma attached to it, is now regarded by most people as innocent fun. And all of this is considered by the educated movers and leaders of society as what? As progress, as advancement, they would say we've moved on from our Puritan uh heritage, the repressive prudishness that was once prevalent in the culture. We now have more freedoms. We've eliminated these taboos. People can live life on their own terms and no one should look at anyone else with any sense of judgment. That's the culture that we live in today. And it has permeated, of course, even the church. And it's all viewed as progress. But I want you to know. That this is not progress but regress. This is not enlightenment but enslavement Paul was writing these words to churches in a region of the world then known as Galatia. It's today a part of the country of Turkey. And they were living in a culture in the society, believe it or not, that was in worse shape than we are today. Where sexuality was a part, sexual perversions were part of everyday culture. They were fully accepted. They were part of their worship, part of everything that they did. And so Paul was constantly battling this. But what happened to the Western world and places where the gospel came? and and came to permeate society and culture. You know what happened? Biblical standards of morality were put in place. And so if you really look at it, what is happening today, historically , is not progress. It is regress. We are not advancing in our civilization. We are going back to the paganism that existed throughout the world before civilization came. Before the gospel came, before the gospel came to Europe and to North America and many other places and became a part of the worldview. And the way people discerned what was right and what was wrong. So my challenge to us is that we need As Christians to hold on to the truth of God's word. We must not allow the spirit of this age to infect our souls. We must guard our hearts and our homes. It is like we are swimming against the current. We're swimming upstream. Everything in our culture is trying to draw us back to paganism that God has called us out of. But the fact of the matter is we can never develop the fruit of the Spirit while the weeds of sensuality grow in our hearts. Now the second category that we come to in this passage. is a smaller one and includes just two terms at the beginning of verse 20, idolatry and witchcraft. And what we see here is that the flesh is manifested in false worship Idolatry here is a reference to the worship of images and false gods. And of course, it's a violation of the first two commandments of the Ten Commandments. Now, it may surprise you that idolatry would be considered a work of the flesh. I mean, how can that be? When you think of the work of the flesh, you don't think of someone bowing down, perhaps before an idol. Or being in some other false religion. You don't think of that as a work of the flesh. You probably think of it as a very sincere, heartfelt desire on their part to reach God But the fact of the matter is, idolatry is a work of the flesh because idolatry is all about man's attempt to manipulate God 's. Idolatry is all about trying to reverse the relationship so that it's not that I serve God, but I want to get God to serve me. It's not that I am in debt to God, but I want to make God a debtor to me. I want to figure out a way through incantations, through prayers, through various rituals, where I can get God to do what I want Him to do for me. That's what pagan idolatry is throughout the world. That's true of all false religions. That's why they all believe not in the concept of grace, but in the concept of works. I can earn God's favor. I can make it so that He has to do certain favors for me because of what I have done. This is a work of the flesh. But then we have witchcraft. This of course refers to occultic practices. It's interesting to note, and some of you know this, and the Greek word that's translated witchcraft here is the word pharmacaea. We get our English word pharmacy from it. There's always been a connection between the occult and drugs, which doctors historically in every culture of the world throughout the history of the world have employed mind-altering j drugs to put people into a mental state where supposedly they can receive uh spiritual uh visions and contacts with spirits. There of course has always been this connection. And therefore Christians have no business being involved with anything occultic or anything part of the drug culture. But I want you to notice that the largest group that we have here begins with this term hatred in verse 20. And extends all the way to the second word, all the way into verse 21. And this is that flesh is manifested by troubled relationships. Now perhaps as we're going through this list so far, you say I'm doing pretty well. Alright? I'm not involved in sexual perversion or sin. Hateful to my spouse. I'm not into drugs or witchcraft. I don't worship false idols. I'm doing really good. What about this list here? Let's look at these very quickly. We have hatred, which refers to hostility between individuals or groups of people, variance. that is strife or contention. Emulations refers to jealousy or envy. Wrath refers to outburst of temper. People who blow up like a volcano. That's a manifestation of the flesh. Strife refers to selfish ambition, seditions, unnecessary divisions, heresies. refers to people who are controlled by a party sphere that is they're against something simply because they're with a particular group And they don't like this individual because they're part of another group. They don't know anything about them, but they have an animosity towards them because they're part of that group. Envyings. That of course is a person who cannot bear it when others prosper or succeed. And then the ultimate antisocial behavior murder. Now So much of the misery that people experience in life, I've discovered as a pastor, is due to strained personal relationships. How many people have such tension and stress and sorrow in their life because they're constantly at conflict with people? The Bible tells us that it's our prideful, selfish flesh that is the source of our problems. This is the reason why there are so many failed marriages. This is why our workplaces are filled with politics and tension and backstabbing. This is why our churches are fractured into various cliques. This is why we have lists of people that we would prefer to avoid. Now we often whitewash our actions with pious speech. But the fact of the matter is that we are being controlled by the flesh. And all of this, of course, is rooted in pride and selfishness. It's an interesting thing. Have you ever noticed that what brings out the flesh in you is someone else's flesh? If someone acts condescending to you and arrogant and they just dismiss your ideas and they won't acknowledge your presence and they are insulting and rude, and curt and short with you, what kind of response do you have just welling up within you? You want to respond in the flesh too, don't you? You want to give them a piece of your mind. You want to show them anger. You want to give them in kind what they have given to you and maybe a little bit more. The flesh brings out the flesh and other people. And so often this is what happens in our interpersonal relationships. Now so many people I know that it doesn't matter where they go in their life, they find conflict. There's conflict in their own home. There's always yelling and anger and periods of silence where no one talks to other people and then there's also periods of anger where there's a lot of of exchange of uh angry words and so forth. And often individuals have this kind of experience at work and they have this kind of relationship with their parents and with their grown children. And all throughout in every segment of their life there is tension and conflicts. And sometimes when I talk to people, they get the idea that this is just as normal. This is the way everybody lives. Or they think that somehow, in the luck of the draw, they have been afflicted with unreasonable people wherever they go. I mean, they're in their family, they're at the workplace, they're in their neighborhood. Everywhere they go, there are these people who are just unreasonable and that no one can get along with. No, my friend, the problem is your flesh. The problem is that little arrogant self within you that is always standing up and asserting its rights and always offended and always demanding that things be done your way. That is the flesh, the work of the flesh. And notice we have a very brief list at the end. The flesh is manifested in the sin of intemperance. This horrible list rounds off With these two evidences of a lack of control, we have drunkenness and revelings, which is carousing or partying. And these two are intended to stand in direct contrast with the last fruit of the Spirit, which is temperance. A person controlled by the flesh is out of control. A person controlled by the Spirit is disciplined and self-controlled in all those different areas of life. So this is the ugly truth about the human heart. We are very good at putting up a facade. And printing things up and making it look good, and go to dinner parties where everyone is pleasant and has a smile on their face and exchanging uh niceties with one another and yet within the depths of everyone's heart there is this anger and animosity. This is humanity as it truly is, as it were, taken with an X-ray. And this is why we must walk in the Spirit. so that we do not produce the works of the flesh. The final point I want to bring to your attention in verse 21 is what Paul says about this list. He says, notice he says, and such like, of the which I tell you before, as I also have told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. I want you to notice that Paul, first of all, when he says and such like, he is saying that this list is not exhaustive. This is not all the works of the flesh that exist. So you shouldn't be sitting there this morning saying, he didn't touch on my vice. It's not in that list. I'm safe. I'm good. No. This list does not cover everything. It's just suggestive. And notice the dramatic way that Paul concludes this list. He says, first of all, as I have told you in time past. This was something that Paul repeated to the churches wherever he went. Apparently, when he had previously ministered at these churches in this region of Galatia. This is something that he taught them. This is something that he preached to them. Something that he drilled into their heads, you might say. This was an essential truth for them to understand. And he says, I know you've heard me say it again But I'm going to say it again to you. What is it that he's going to say? Does this bother you? That they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. Now let me provide a word of explanation. When he says do such things, this is a present tense and it's used to describe a person's practice. A Christian can commit any of the things mentioned in this list, but a Christian, a true Christian's lifestyle will not be characterized in this way. A Christian may struggle and fight and grieve over their failure in various areas of their life. But a true believer will not settle down into a lifestyle of sin. They will not be at peace with their flesh. Because you can't be, because the Spirit of God dwells within you. This is one of the things I look for when I'm trying to discern whether or not a person is simply a bachelor and Christian or whether or not they truly have never been saved. If you can live at peace with your sin, it doesn't bother you, it doesn't grieve you, you excuse it, you defend it, and you're perfectly content to remain in it. Then I would suggest to you that you don't have the Spirit of God dwelling within you. How do we describe the third person of the Trinity? We call him the Holy Spirit. He's the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit of God that dwells within you. Your body is his temple. He will not remain quiet. While you rest in that sin, he will torment your soul. He will agitate you. He will convict you I've often said this before, but the most miserable person in the world is a Christian who is living in sin, a Christian who is living as if they were lost. Because a lost person who is living in sin, they may not like some of the effects of their sin, the hangover in the morning. The sense of regret that they have after an empty relationship. They may regret some of those things, the loss of a job and so forth, but there's not a real struggle within because the Spirit of God's not there. But a person who has the Spirit of God dwelling within, but is living in a very fleshly existence That person is going to be miserable because they've got a war going on inside of them. They've got the Spirit of God saying, this is unclean. This is not right. You have been bought with a price. And yet they continue to live in this way. And I want you to notice that Paul warns using this very language again and again. If you have your Bibles and you can find it easily, turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. He's going to say at the beginning and end of this passage, 1 Corinthians 6. Verses 9 through 11. Notice what Paul says. Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Well, who are the unrighteous, Paul? Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind, nor thieves. Nor covetous nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God He says at the beginning and at the end of the passage. Now turn with me to the book of Ephesians, the book right after Galatians, Ephesians chapter 5. Notice the similarity of this language again. Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 3, but fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not be once named among you as becometh saints. neither filthiness nor foolish talking nor jesting which are not convenient, but rather giving of thanks. For this ye know that no whoremonger nor unclean person nor covetous man who is an idolater hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Let no man deceive you with vain words, for because of these things Come with the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience. Strong words. Why did Paul feel that he had to repeat this in such strong language again and again? The answer is because we have a tendency to think that a person can live their life in a way that is dominated by the flesh. where all that they are producing are the works of the flesh, and yet we are still saying, well, you know, that guy's a good Christian guy. I know he's got his faults. I know he's got a short temper and uh he can't get along with anyone and uh you know he's he's had some problems with immorality and being unfaithful to his wife and we go get him down this but you know he did he does come to church And he did make a profession of faith. Paul says, don't be deceived. A person whose life is producing the works of the flesh as a person who has never been born again. They will not inherit the kingdom of God. You see, from ancient times to modern times, there have been false teachers and there have been people who want to have it both ways. That you can live like the devil and still have the wonderful assurance that you're going to heaven. That is not what the Bible teaches. Now do not misunderstand me. The Bible does not teach that we are saved by works. Avoiding immorality and getting along with people will not get you to heaven. You must put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. He is your only hope. But the Bible is crystal clear that those who have been changed are new creatures. We are difference. We still fight our flesh because it still resides within us. But we are controlled by the Spirit of God and by His grace. And by his empowerment, we can bring forth the fruit of the Spirits. So let me ask you this morning, as you look at these two lists , That are set in contrast one to the other. Are you producing the works of the flesh or the fruit of the Spirit? What is being manifest in your life? The Bible is clear that we can never produce the fruit of the Spirit. Until we are a child of God and we have the Spirit of God dwelling within us. There was once a man who got back after a business trip. I'm told, and he went to his car where he had it parked for several days, and he went and put the key in the ignition to start it up, and nothing, absolutely nothing, happens. And he tried again and again and again. There was no sound, there was nothing. And finally he went and he popped open the hood and there was no engine there. Someone had stolen his engine. If you're here today and it's your desire to produce the fruit of the Spirit, I want you to know that trying to produce the fruit of the Spirit without the Spirit of God , in your life will be like trying to start a car without an engine. It will not happen. You will be continually frustrated. Do you know the Lord? Is your life bearing fruit? Let's close in prayer. Our Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it is true. We thank you that when we examine these things, Though they were written long ago, yet they are still relevant and true today, because you do not change. And humanity is still afflicted with this sinful nature. When we see a fresh Father that our only hope is in Christ, our only hope is that the Spirit of God would take control of our lives and produce This wonderful fruit in us. We ask that you would help us to understand our desperate need for his empowerment. And I pray, Father, for those who might be here this morning, Who are lost in their sins, whose lives are producing to some degree the works of the flesh. I pray that today they would see who they truly are, and they would seek the Savior. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen