If you have your Bibles, please would you turn with me to the very beginning of the New Testament? Matthew chapter 1. When I was in high school, I learned that there was a man in our extended family. who was doing research into our family genealogy. And in those days that was an arduous task. You had to go to courthouses and libraries and look up ancient records in vaults and so forth and try to piece things together. And I remember when he put together a little pamphlet with all of this information about the laymans and About Peter Lehman who came to this country in 1717, and it was quite fascinating reading as someone who enjoys history. Of course, today it has become quite a hobby and it's much simpler thanks to the internet and sites like ancestry. com where you can with a few clicks find out vast stores of information. We are always interested, I think, in our ancestors. And in those who came before us, because we instinctively know that helps to us to understand our own identity, where we've come from. and why we have certain interests and certain skills and certain limitations. However, most people find other people's genealogies to be quite boring You ever wondered why there are so many genealogies in the Bible? You come to these list of names that are filled with the begats. And it seems to create a monotonous rhythm that puts most people to sleep. If you were a publisher trying to sell a bestseller, you would never ever begin your novel with a table of names But that is how our New Testament begins in Matthew chapter 1. Every author knows that if you want to have a successful book, you have to capture the reader's attention and the first few pages. Because if you do not, chances are they will not Keep reading and they'll put that book down and never pick it up again. And so they put their best material, the most interesting stories at the very beginning to capture their attention. And yet, when you come to the best-selling book of all time, the New Testament, it comes with a table of names. So why does Matthew begin his book this way? There are several reasons. One, of course, is that Matthew was not primarily and originally writing to 21st century Americans. He was writing to first century Jews, and they found genealogies to be very helpful and interesting. That is why you have many genealogies in Scripture. Uh we think of a genealogy as just a list of boring names, but to them it helped to understand who a person was, because ancient societies put a lot more stock into a person's ancestry and their family background because it defined who you were. Another reason that the Holy Spirit guided Matthew to begin his record with a genealogy is to allow readers of all time to realize that the life of Christ is grounded in human history. I think there are many people at this time of year who think about the birth of baby Jesus kind of like a nice fairy tale. Or like one of those sentimental Christmas movies that permeates the airways at this time of year. It's a fascinating story. It's a wonderful story, but we know it never really happens. But when you come to the New Testament, you read of all of these historic individuals. And Christ is among them. It's rooted in the flow, the current of human history. It reminds us that this truly happened. In the very first verse of the New Testament, we read, the book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the Son of David, the Son of Abraham. And these two individuals, David and Abraham, are well attested in history. No one really doubts that these two individuals existed. His birth was indeed at the fullness of the time. All of history points To the incarnation, to the coming of Christ. Now, if you know your New Testament well, you know that there is another record Of Jesus' human ancestors. It's a longer record. It's found in Luke chapter 3. We're not going to look at it. But some of you may be curious about the relationship between these two genealogies. Matthew goes forward. He begins at Abraham and goes forward to Jesus, where Luke starts at Jesus and works his way backward all the way to Adam. And the difference here is due to the audience. Matthew was writing to Jewish readers, and they would trace their history, as it were, to Abraham, the first Jew. But Luke was writing to both Jews and Gentiles. He's writing to the world, and so he goes all the way back to the first human being, Adam. This explains that difference. But also, if you were to look at the names in these two tables between David and Jesus, you would see that they are different. Now this is rather a complex issue, and I'm not going to get into all of the details. But most conservative scholars over the years have come to believe that Luke provides for us. Mary's genealogy, and Matthew provides Joseph's genealogy. And both Matthew, excuse me, both Joseph and Mary were descendants of King David. In Matthew's account of Joseph's genealogy, we see Jesus' legal right through the throne. What son of David did the throne come through, the royal authority? It came through Solomon, right? And Joseph traced his genealogy back through King Solomon. You can see that actually in verse 6 it says, and Jesse begat David the king, and David the king begat Solomon. Okay? There's the royal line. Now, if we were to turn over, we're not going to, but if we were to turn over to Luke chapter 3, we would find that line coming through a different son of David. Mary's genealogy runs through Nathan, the son Nathan. So Jesus Christ had the royal authority to reign as a king of David, as a son of David, through the royal line going back to Solomon. But of course, the Lord Jesus Christ did not have any of the blood of Joseph in him, but he was a son of Mary. And Mary traces her genealogy back through Nathan, thus fulfilling the Davidic covenant that God gave to David, saying, that your own flesh and blood, a true blood descendant of yours, will someday reign as the ultimate king. And so what Matthew is showing his reader, who's going to take the time to study this and understand it, is that Jesus Christ has the credentials. To be the promised Messiah, the king. In fact, he has the unique credentials. He has the legal authority coming through his adoptive father Joseph and the biological rights. the blood right to the throne coming through his own mother Mary. And these two great Davidic families intersect in the birth of Christ. So what does the genealogy of Jesus Christ is found here in Matthew's gospel? revealed to us about the identity of Jesus. Remember I said that the ancient peoples believed that a person's genealogy told you who this person was and pointed to their identity I want to show you three things from these names. First of all, Jesus' genealogy reveals that he is a Davidic king. Matthew reveals this in many different ways. He goes out of his way to do this so that the reader really gets this message. And the reason he does so is because every Jewish boy and girl was taught that someday there would be a coming Messiah, a great king, and that he would be a descendant of David. Everyone knew that's what the Old Testament promised. And so Matthew is showing in his gospel to all of his readers, unmistakably, that this is true of Jesus. He is a descendant of David. He does this at the very heading of his genealogy. Notice this He starts out by saying the book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David. And then he says, the son of Abraham. Let me ask you which came first, Abraham or David? Abraham did. By like over 500 years. This isn't close. But he put David first here, out of chronological order. Why? Because he's emphasizing. He's emphasizing right off the bat that Jesus is a descendant of David Now, in a more indirect way, he also reveals this in the arrangement of his genealogy. In verse 17, which we read together, there's a summary of the table that he has just given. And he speaks of three groups of 14 generations. Now he has arranged these in a specific way. And by the way, let me just say off the bat, there are more generations present if you look at other genealogies in Scripture. This is an intentional arrangement of genealogies. in order to make a point. 314. Now what is the point that he's making? Well most Bible scholars have believed over the years, although it's not stated here as such. That he is using a generally agreed upon scheme of Hebrew numerics, and that is that there were numbers corresponding to different Hebrew letters. And the D was uh corresponded to the number four and the V to six. And so if you put a D, a V, and a D, which are the consonants in David's name , You come up with 14. Now this the rabbis in Jesus' day did this kind of analysis, and so these astute readers of this genealogy would know in verse 17 that the point he is making is that even in the way he has arranged this table of names, it points to the fact that Jesus is a descendant. But this is also revealed in the repetition of this name that's found in this gospel. I mentioned the mentioning there at the very beginning in verse 1, and in verse 6 it says, and Jesse begat David the king, and David the king begat Solomon. We look down at verse 17. So all the generations from Abraham to David are 14, and the generations from David until the carrying away into Babylon are 14. There's another emphasis here on King David in verse 17. Then look at verse 20. This is fascinating. Refers to Joseph. But while he thought on these things, that is the message of the angel. Behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not. The angel comes and calls him thou son of David. Now I can't prove this, but I think that Joseph had probably never been called the son of David in his life. I mean, David lived a thousand years before him. But the angel wanted to emphasize this truth. You are a descendant of David. And we see this throughout the Gospel of Matthew. In Matthew chapter 9, we read of two blind men, and they cry out to Jesus for his healing and say, Thou son of David, have mercy on us. After healing in chapter 12, the people cry out, Is not this the son of David, referring to the Messiah? And at his triumphal entry in Matthew 21, the people cried out, Hosanna to the son of David. Matthew uses this title more than any other of the gospel writers because he wants to emphasize to his Jewish readers that Jesus truly is a descendant of King David, and he has a right to the throne. This all goes back to the Davidic covenants. In 2 Samuel chapter 7, the Lord Promised to David. He said, I will establish the throne of thy kingdom forever. What wonderful words. And the same promises given in Psalm 89. And then we have the confirmation of this. In the Christmas story in Luke chapter 1, I would encourage you to turn with me, if you would, now, to Luke chapter 1. And I'm going to begin reading at verse 31. This is the message of the angel to Mary. In Luke chapter 1 and verse 31, he says, And behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb and bring forth a son, and shall call his name Jesus. And he shall be great and shall be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David. And he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there shall be no end. This is important for us to understand. It reveals to us this wonderful truth that God always keeps his promises. God gave this promise to David nearly a thousand years earlier. And I'm sure as history went on, Godly men and godly women who were looking for the Messiah perhaps began to doubt if indeed this would occur. Because so many years had passed. But God kept his promise to David and a blood descendant of his own royal line. would someday be born, and he would be born the Son of God. Aren't you glad that God keeps his promises? The Bible is filled with promises from the Lord. Promises concerning our salvation. Him that cometh to me I will nowise cast out. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. How many promises we have for believers, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. I have cast all my sins, all thy sins behind my back and will remember them no more. And my God shall supply all your needs according to his riches in Christ Jesus. We have wonderful promises. That we can cling to in times of difficulty and despair when it seems that God is not answering us and it seems like He is delaying so long. And answering our cries, but we should turn to examples like this and be reminded that God always keeps his promises. And his promise to David was that the ultimate king, the Messiah, would come from him. Jesus' genealogy also reveals that he is a universal king. I've already made mention of the fact that in verse 17 we read of these three groups of 14 generations. Now some Bible scholars mentioned that mathematically, of course, this means that there are also six groups of seven generations. You can take the same names and divide them up mathematically this way. Everyone agrees that in Scripture seven is the number of perfection or completion. And so Matthew may be revealing to us by the way he has structured this genealogical table that Jesus is the ultimate king because he would be the seventh seventh. The seventh person in the seventh generation, a new beginning. Some see confirmation for this in the first verse of Matthew 1. Where it says the book of the generation of Jesus Christ. And that word generation in the Greek text is actually the word Genesis. speaks of origin. And it's going to remind the reader that this, the birth of Christ, is like A new creation. It's a new beginning, a new epoch in the history of mankind. Just like on the first day God created the heavens and the earth. And that was a new beginning. So the birth of Christ is like a second Genesis, a new beginning. And reminds us that he is the ultimate king that has come to rule and reign not just over the Hebrew people, but over all of humanity. And this genealogy also reveals, under this heading of him as the universal king, that Gentiles are an important part of his kingdom. What is quite striking, and all the commentators make mention of this, is that you would expect that the Jewish Messiah The son of David would have a bloodline that is pure that would not be tainted with Gentile blood. But that's not the case, is it? We have a number of Gentiles that are mentioned right here in this table of names. And verse 5 we read of Rahap. She was a Canaanite. A people under the curse of God. In verse 5, also Ruth is mentioned. She was a Moabite Yet she, by God's grace, became a notable ancestor of the Messiah. In verse 6, there is a veiled reference to Vathsheba, the wife of Uriah. He, of course, was a Hittite, a Gentile. And so we see within this table of names that Gentiles are included in the kingdom of this Messiah. Now in our culture today, the distinction between Jew and Gentile is no big deal. We are not hung up on that. When we read in the New Testament and the Bible about that, it seems kind of like a a strange and artificial distinction. But to most of the original readers of this gospel, it was the most important distinction in the world. Jew and Gentile. The Jews tended to despise the Gentiles and believed that they were cursed of God, that God had no interest in them. And the Gentiles tended to despise the Jews and think that they were superstitious, that they uh were uh were prejudicial and so there was mutual animosity among these two groups of people. But what we read of in this genealogy is that Jesus the Messiah Messiah would be a king over both, over all of humanity. That is why in Revelation chapter 5 it speaks about the fact that there would be people of every tongue and every tribe and every ethnicity someday in heaven around the throne singing, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain. Because Jesus Christ is a universal king. He's not a king that's a king for just one particular type of person or one little group of people. He's a king who rules over all. This genealogy also reveals that women are an important part of this kingdom. This is the other striking thing about this genealogy. Number one, that it includes Gentiles, which you would not expect. But number two, that it includes women. Because the ancient peoples, unfortunately, had a very low view of women Now the Jewish viewpoint was better than most Gentile viewpoints that we read of in the ancient world, but it still certainly in most cases was not at all biblical. There was an ancient rabbi prayer that the rabbis would pray, these wrote prayers every day. And one of the things they would thank God for is they would say, I thank you, God, that I am not a woman. That was one of their prayers. They believed that women were inferior, something that the scripture does not teach. but something that they often believed. But we see here that the Messiah's kingdom Women are on equal footing with men. Women occupy a very prominent role in the ministry of Christ. We see them often being mentioned of the Lord giving them time and attention and receiving their worship and answering their questions. We see that they were the last followers who came to the cross and the first to come to the tomb It's common today for people in secular society to assume that Christianity is repressive to women. And they think that this is a great ill that must be wiped out, but nothing could be further from the truth. The fact is that wherever the message of the gospel has gone forth, the position of women has been raised. Christianity is the philosophy and the truth and the theology that has brought women up through the centuries, not down. And this is seen in Scripture itself. And in Galatians chapter 3 and verse 28, it says there is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither bond nor free, there is neither male nor female, for ye are all one in Christ. In the kingdom of Christ, Gentiles are welcome. Women are welcome. Jesus is not a provincial king. He rules over all. His message of salvation is not for one type of person. This is why when the angel came to those shepherds, he said to them, I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people, all kinds of people. The gospel is for everyone. The good news of salvation extends to men and women, to rich and poor, to educated and uneducated, to people of all races and all language groups. And it's also for religious and non-religious. We see Jesus interacting with both in his earthly ministry, with people Who had been cast out and thrown aside and regarded as unclean, that the religious establishment had no time for, but Jesus gave them time. Jesus gave them his attention. He would eat with them and talk with them. But he also had time for religious people like Nicodemus, who came to him by night, because the gospel is for all kinds of people. I want you to also see finally that Jesus' genealogy reveals that he is a saving king. He is a king for sinful people. Did you notice the notorious sinners that are recorded in this genealogy? You don't have to go any further than verse 1. We read of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. What do you know about David? Perfect man, never did anything wrong? No. He was a man who fell horribly, who committed adultery, and then tried to cover up his adulterous affair. by murdering a very noble man by the name of Uriah. That man Was part of his genealogy. In fact, the focal point of his genealogy, as I hopefully I've demonstrated to you. We'll come to the next name of Abraham. Abraham, was Abraham a perfect man? We know that he lied on two occasions when he found himself in a crisis and he didn't know how to get out of it. Instead of trusting in the Lord, he felt like he had to fabricate a story to save his own neck. Come to verse 2 and we come to people like Jacob. What do you know about Jacob? He was a schemer, manipulator. A lie or deceptive person, the kind of person that you never quite knew what they were thinking. You always knew there was something going on. You never really knew where you stood with Jacob, at least early in his life. Because he was a master manipulator. He knew how to work people. We read of this man here named Judas or Judah. We read in scripture that he was an immoral man. And then, of course, in verse 5, we come to King Solomon, who had a vast harem of women primarily who were idolaters, and they took his heart away from God. He was an immoral man and an idolater. And then there are all the kings that are listed here and how many of them made horrible blunders and how most almost all of them failed to take away the high places and to really eradicate idolatry from the land All of these failed kings created a longing in the hearts of people for an ultimate king who would reign in righteousness. And that would be the Lord Jesus Christ. We come to the women in this list. I've already mentioned that this was an exceptional thing. Ancient genealogies rarely included the names of women, but this genealogy does. We read of Tamar. She was deceptive. We read of Rahab. She was a prostitute. We read of Ruth, who was a Gentile pagan, who by the grace of God came to knowledge of the truth. And we read of Bathsheba, who married outside of God's chosen people. These were all sinful people. Every name in this list, but for one. Had huge flaws, had a flawed record , were sinful people and in many respects sinned in spectacular ways. And this is why in this gospel we read again and again of the name of Jesus. Look with me at verse 16, and Jacob begat Joseph. the husband of Mary of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ. And then in verse 21 And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. And in verse 25, and knew her not till she had brought forth her firstborn son and called his name Jesus. This list is filled with outcast, filled with people who were sinners. who 'd fallen short of the glory of God, and the only hope that they had was for a savior to come, for a savior to be born. And in the name itself, the name of the Christ child. The name Jesus, the name that we hear so often, especially at this time of the year, embedded within that name is the gospel itself, because it means Jehovah saves reminds us that salvation is of the Lord. The birth of Christ, the incarnation of Christ is a reminder to us. That mankind cannot save himself. That is why Jesus came to be born That is why he came and died on an old rugged cross, because we cannot save ourselves. We are like all the people in this list. We are all sinners. who have failed God miserably. And therefore God had to intervene in human history and in the flow of human history, we have the wonderful news of the incarnation, of God becoming flesh. And dwelling among us, living a perfect life and dying a death for sinners. We have in this list these hopeless people, Rahab. What hope did she have? There she was living a Canaanite with an immoral trade. And yet God in his providence brought those spies to her place. She hid them. And she had heard rumors about God's people, the Hebrews, and how God had blessed them in marvelous ways. And she wanted to be a part of that. And God took this wicked woman, and by his grace, he saved her. Read about this woman, Ruth. Living among a people who were under the judgment of God, the Moabites, but God and His providential working. Brought her back to himself and to the people of God, and she became a part of the greatest genealogy in history. You see, this king has a place for those cast out by the world. He gives hope to those in hopeless situations. He gives joy to the sorrowing. He releases those in the slavery of sin. He is the king that graciously saves sinners. So let me ask you this morning, on this week before Christmas. Have you been saved from your sin? Do you recognize that this baby that was born in Bethlehem was the only hope of humanity? He is the promised Redeemer. He is the Son of God who came to live and to die for sinners. He is the only hope that anyone has. You can never save yourself. You can never earn enough merit with God to cancel out your sin debt because even the best of your works are tainted with a sinful proclivity. You must receive, if you would be saved, the perfect righteousness of Christ that is found in the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. The only hope for sinful people like us. He came. He was born that he might die. He came that we might live And that we might live abundantly, that we might have that eternal life, that life that never ends, that life that's of a higher quality, because we live now for the glory of God's. And when the grace of God has transformed you and changed your way of thinking, you will come to know the true meaning of the incarnation. And you will see the beauty of the Savior that was born in Bethlehem. Let's close in prayer. Our Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it is the Word of God and that all of it is profitable, even the list of names. That all of it reveals truth that is vital for us to understand. We thank you that in the fullness of the time you sent your son. Thank you that he was the son of David. We thank you that he came as a universal king, not over just one group of people or one type of person but a king for all of humanity. And we thank you that he came as a king. That saves a king for sinners like us, who are hopelessly enslaved to our own sinful ways We thank you that through him we can be set free, we can be redeemed, we can become the children of God because Jesus Christ came as the Son of God. I pray that you would help us to rejoice in this truth this morning. And for those, Father, Who have never truly been born again, who have never truly put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, I pray, Father, that today They would see this wonderful truth and they would for the first time understand the true meaning of the incarnation and that today they would be saved. Oh Father, we pray you'd bring this to pass. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.