Mark chapter fourteen One of the greatest trials of the twentieth century took place after the kidnap and death of Charles and Anna Lindbergh's baby Charles Lindbergh, you may recall, was a household name at the time because he was the first aviator to fly across the Atlantic in 1927. He instantly became a celebrity and very wealthy. He was beloved and admired by everyone. And so when his child was taken and killed, the people demanded that the individual responsible for this horrible crime be brought to justice. The police were under immense pressure to find the person who had done this horrible crime. They eventually arrested a recent immigrant from Germany named Bruno Hoffmann, who could barely speak any English. This man was tried, found guilty, and executed in 1936. He was tried on circumstantial evidence, and his guilt is still debated today. Some see his conviction As a rush to judgment, while others declare that it was a sound case based on solid evidence. Court cases are some of the most dramatic events in the world. Trials often reveal the best and worst of humanity. This is clearly seen in Jesus' second trial before Caiaphas the high priest. This evening I'd like to return to our series on the Lord's Table evenings that I've entitled The Suffering Savior. In the sermon series, we are considering every event that's recorded in Jesus' final 24 hours before his death. This brief period of time is emphasized in our four gospels. Our Lord's 33 years of life are covered in 89 chapters and 13 Of those chapters deal with this final day. You see, Jesus was born to die. After Jesus was arrested in the Garden of Gethsemane, he was first taken to Annas the high priest. the former high priest. We know about this trial only because John shares it with us in John chapter 18. The other three gospel writers do not touch on it. When Annas realized he was getting nowhere with Jesus, he sent him to his son-in-law Caiaphas, who was the official high priest at this time. This is the second of six trials that Jesus would endure this night and into the early morning hours. This trial likely took place at the palace of Caiaphas on the eastern slope of the upper city of Jerusalem. So who was the man who conducted this trial? His name is Joseph Caiaphas. He was married to Anis 's daughter and was the official high priest. in Judea from A. D. 18 through 36. This was an exceeding long tenure for the high priest while they were under the rule of Rome. The Romans didn't want any priest in office too long because they didn't want anyone becoming too proud or too powerful. And so his lengthy time in office has led some scholars to suspect that he bribed Roman officials, although we cannot know this for certain. What is more likely is that Caiaphas was an effective political leader who knew how to keep the people in check and please the Roman authorities. Caiaphas was the high priest during the duration of our Lord's ministry on earth In fact, in Luke chapter three and verse two, which sets the ministry of our Lord in history, where all of these rulers are mentioned, Caiaphas ' name is mentioned there as the high priest when Jesus began his ministry at about the eight. Caiaphas was a wealthy and powerful man. He was a Sadducee. That is, he was liberal in his theological beliefs. The Sadducees didn't believe in the supernatural, and so the Bible was basically a book of ethics and principles to them. We have one glimpse of Caiaphas in Scripture previous to this trial. Keep a finger here in Mark 14, but I want you to turn with me to John chapter 11. John chapter 11, verses 47 through 53. This is right after Lazarus is raised from the dead. And the religious leaders are trying to figure out what to do about this. It says in John 11, 47, then gathered the chief priest and the Pharisees a counsel and said, What do we, for this man doeth many miracles. If we let him thus alone, all men will believe on him, and the Romans shall come and take away both our place and nation. The people, these leaders are afraid that their whole power structure is going to colump crumble. And one of them, named Caiaphas, being the high priest that same year, said unto them, You know not nothing at all, nor consider that it is expedient for us that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not. And this spake he not of himself, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for that nation. And not for that nation only, but that also he should gather together in one the children of God that were scattered abroad. Then from that day forth they took counsel together for to put him to death. Caiaphas seems to show contempt for the other men on the council as they are expressing their death and expressing their fear and wringing their hands. Caiaphas interjects and says, you know nothing at all. There's an easy solution to this, guys We just have to put this man to death. It's expedient that one man should die for the people. He's not concerned if this man is innocent or guilty. He simply wants to maintain the status quo. And of course, in speaking of him dying for the people, he was saying more than he knew. He was speaking God's truth. And then in verse 53, we see the beginning of a conspiracy to murder Jesus. So who is Caiaphas? He is a pragmatic political leader who will do anything to maintain his power, including putting to death an innocent man. And so it's not surprising that nearly every aspect of this trial was illegal according to Jewish law. The location of this trial was in a private residence. This was illegal because trials are supposed to be in public places where the public can observe. Secondly, conducting a trial on the eve of a holy day was illegal. And that's what was occurring at this time. Holding a trial at night was forbidden because it seems like you're doing something in secret, and this trial was at night. Failing to provide any legal counsel was unlawful, and yet, of course, that's what was occurring here. And condemning a suspect by his own testimony was not permissible. So, in at least five ways, this whole trial was illegal. It was a sham. But in this illegal trial, the identity of Christ is powerfully presented. Now the second trial is recorded in Matthew 26 and in Mark chapter 14, but we're going to consider Mark's account of this event. So I want to begin reading at Mark chapter 14 and verse 53. And they led Jesus away to the high priest, and with him were assembled all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes. And Peter followed him afar off, even unto the palace of the high priests, and he sat with the servants and warmed himself at the fire. And the chief priest and all the council sought for witnesses against Jesus to put him to death and found none. For many bare false witness against him, but their witnesses agreed not together. And there arose certain and bare false witness against him, saying, We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and within three days I will build another made without hands. But neither so did their witnesses agree together. What I want you to see in this trial is not Caiaphas, not the Sanhedrin But the identity of Christ, because in this trial we have a revelation of the identity of Christ. First of all, Jesus reveals that he is a sinless savior. The first trial was before Annas and included just a few people. But this trial was before the full Sanhedrin, or at least most of the Sanhedrin. Perhaps one of the reasons that Jesus was first interviewed by Annas was to give the officials time to gather together because this is late at night. He probably met with Anna somewhere around 12 midnight to 2 a. m. So temple officials had to go out and they had to find the residence of the members of the council and tell them, hey, listen, we're having a meeting in a short time. The body was comprised of 71 men. They're described in verse 53 as the chief priests, elders, and scribes. That is the full religious hierarchy. The most respected men in the land were assembled. Now in verse 55, we read a summary statement of what follows. And the chief priest and all the council sought for witnesses against Jesus. to put him to death and found none. Now what follows is more detail to that summary These dignified leaders were apparently out looking for people to testify against Jesus. And found none. So not only were they invited to this meeting, they were told to scour their area to find witnesses who would say, Yes. Jesus did this which was contrary to Jewish law or Jesus claimed this. This is amazing. This is the middle of the night. And these religious leaders and perhaps others are going around, perhaps knocking on doors, perhaps waking people up Trying to see, hey, would you be willing to testify against Jesus? Did you hear him say anything? Perhaps there were bribes that were offered. Some have speculated that the reason why their witnesses did their testimonies did not agree is because in the middle of the night It's hard to find competent witnesses that the people that they found were people not of high respectable stature known for telling the truth. And so perhaps they were frustrated as they gathered the rabble from the streets who were willing to testify, and one by one they failed to provide anything that was coherence. And convincing. The other thing that's remarkable about this is to just consider how inappropriate this was. These members of the Sanhedrin were to serve As a counsel to determine the guilt or innocence of this man, and they're going out or sending surrogates to go out and find witnesses. It would be like if a judge came and knocked on your door and he said, So I'm trying this case and I'm out looking for witnesses to see if we can convict this man. You would say something's wrong here because the judge is supposed to be neutral. He's supposed to be unbiased. He's not supposed to be working To prosecute the person he's about to try. But that's exactly what was hap-happened here. Their objective was to find a charge that could result in Jesus' death. And they knew that they needed witnesses to have a trial because if they didn't have any witnesses, there would be no trial. When it says they didn't find any witnesses, it means they didn't find any credible witnesses. Because the text goes on to explain in verse 56: for many bear false witness. But their witness agreed not together. They didn't have time to hatch out a good plan and collaborate their stories. In verses fifty-seven and fifty-eight, and there arose certain and bare witness against him, saying, We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and within three days I will build another made without hand Hence, but with neither so did their witnesses agree together. According to Matthew's account, one of the witnesses Said that Jesus said he was able to destroy the temple and build it in three days. And Mark records that the witness said that Jesus would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days. Those are not the same statements. You can just picture how frustrated these men were that these witnesses could not get their stories straight. No matter how hard they tried to coach them, they just did not agree. These witnesses, of course, are remembering what Jesus said some three years earlier in Jerusalem. It's recorded in John chapter 2 and verse 19, where he said, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. And John adds, but this he spoke of the temple of his body. Now, what is the significance of these witnesses not being able to agree? Well, the Old Testament law required there to be two witnesses to establish guilt. Deuteronomy 17 and verse 6 says, at the mouth of two witnesses or three witnesses, shall he that is worthy of death be put to death, but at the mouth of one witness he shall not be put to death. Similarly, Deuteronomy 19 verse 15, one witness shall not rise up against a man for any iniquity or for any sin. In any sin that he sinneth, at the mouth of two witnesses or the mouth of three witnesses, shall the matter be established. And when two witnesses could not agree, that person was to be considered innocent and let go. Now, often in the Passion narratives, we have an abundance of references that point to the sinlessness of Christ. And I want to suggest to you that this is another one. They could not agree in their testimony. They could not find witnesses Let me give you just a few examples of this. Judah says in his confession, I have sinned in that I have betrayed innocent blood. Pilate's wife had a dream and said, Have nothing to do with that just man. Five times Pilate proclaims that Jesus is innocent of any crime. The centurion says, certainly this man was innocent. Truly, this was the Son of God. And the thief on the cross would say, This man hath done nothing amiss. The gospel writers are careful to record for the reader that Jesus is a sinless Savior. And therefore, he is qualified and ready to be that spotless Lamb of God who would take away the sin of the world. Secondly, Jesus reveals that he is the silent lamb about to die as a sacrifice. For sinners. Look with me at verse 60, please. And the high priest stood up in the midst and asked Jesus, saying, Answerest thou nothing? What is it which these witnesses against thee? This should remind you instantly of the prophecy in Isaiah 53. Isaiah 53 in verse 7 says He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shears is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. Now the fact is that Jesus did speak on occasion at his trials. In fact, the very next question that Caiaphas will ask him, he answers in a very definitive way. But at several significant times Jesus remains silent during his trials. Jesus here does not seek to defend himself before these false witnesses. He will not dignify this insincere question with an answer. Jesus also does not seek to defend himself from false accusation before Pilate in the fourth trial, or to answer any of the questions of Herod in the fifth trial. He would not provide entertainment for this wicked man. And in the sixth and final trial, Jesus does not play along with Pilate's insincere questions. Jesus was silent as a lamb, and his silence spoke volumes. It's demonstrated his meekness. And submission to his father's will. His silence demonstrated his complete trust in his father first Peter chapter 2 and verse 23 says, Who when he was reviled reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. But does not his silence also demonstrate his love for sinners? Jesus didn't defend himself because he was laying down his life voluntarily for us. Thirdly, in this trial, we see that Jesus reveals that He is the sovereign judge of all mankind. Caiaphas was frustrated by the incompetent witnesses, and now he's frustrated with Jesus' silence. And so he changes his tactics from questioning Jesus about some crime to questioning him about his identity. Look with me. At verse 61. It says, halfway through the verse, again the high priest asked him and said unto him, Art thou the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? And Jesus gives a very clear answer. Look at verse 62. And Jesus said, I am And ye shall see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power and coming in the clouds of heaven. Sometimes you will hear people say that Jesus never claimed to be God. This is often the position of liberals and the position of cultists, but this is absolute nonsense. You can't read your New Testament with finding an abundance of statements that can only be made by someone who was God. Jesus often made such declarations, but no claim to deity is perhaps more significant than this one. Here Jesus, before all of Israel's religious leaders Claims the sacred name and says, I am. When you hear I am , You should think of that amazing event that's recorded in Exodus chapter three. Remember Moses is coming up With excuses as to why he cannot lead the children of Israel out of Egypt. He says the Lord, Who shall I say has sent me? And the Lord tells him, I am have sent you. This is very likely the origin of the sacred name Yahweh. This was the name that pious Jews referred refused. to use for fear of violating the third commandment. This was the sacred name that compelled scribes to take a ritual bath before they would write those four letters into their manuscript. And now Jesus says before this august body that he is not only the promised Messiah, the Son of God, but he dares to say, I am. And we know this is how Caiaphas and all the leaders took his words, because in verses 63 and 64, then the high priest rent his clothes and said, What need we of any further witnesses? Ye have heard the blasphemy, what think ye? And they all condemned him to be guilty of death So it will not do to say that that's not what he meant, because everyone there present knew exactly what he meant. Now the tearing of the high priest's garment was a formal judicial act indicating that the accused was indeed guilty. And worthy of execution. And notice that everyone quickly concurs about this: that blasphemy has been spoken. And indeed If Jesus was not the Son of God, it would be blasphemy. But Jesus did not just say that he was the great I am. He follows up this declaration with two quotations of Scripture. He says, and ye, that is you all The members of the Sanhedrin will see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power and coming in the clouds of heaven. This is a quotation from Daniel chapter 7 and verse 13 that speaks of the Son of Man coming in the clouds. And it goes on to say, and unto him was given dominion and glory and the kingdom that all people, nations, and languages should serve him. And in Psalm 110 and verse 1, a text we have considered carefully in our study of Hebrews, it says, The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. Jesus here is claiming that he is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, and that someday these very men who are sitting as judges before him will appear before his throne to be judged by him. Did you know that Jesus will be the judge of all mankind? In John chapter 5 and verse 22, Jesus says that the Father hath committed all judgment unto the Son. And in Acts chapter 17, verse 32, Paul tells the philosophers at Mars Hill, that God will judge the world by the man he has appointed, the man he raised from the dead Someday the roles would be reversed, and these pompous religious leaders will bow and fear before the King of glory. He will be their judge. And he will judge them in righteousness. Fourthly, in this trial, Jesus reveals that he is the suffering servant of the Lord. You might assume that Jesus' declaration was the end of the second trial, but it was not. His word angered the council. Look with me at verse 65. And some began to spit on him, and to cover his face, and to buffet him, and to say unto him, Prophesy. And the servants did strike him with the palms of their hands. Now I'm going to ask you a question. Who was doing these things to Jesus? Our text says some, and in Matthew it says they. The only people present at this trial were the members of the Sanhedrin and some servants standing by. And those two groups are differentiated in this verse. So the sum and the they are members of the Sanhedrin. These are the ones who are spitting upon him and striking him. Perhaps even Caiaphas himself. These dignified religious leaders are not acting like some careful, measured, restrained, wise gentleman They are responding like street thugs. Verse 65 speaks of three acts of abuse. They spit upon him. There's probably no more universal sign of contempt and disrespect throughout the world than to sit in a person's face. They cover his face and begin to strike him. The buffeting here means to strike with a closed fist. And here they are mocking his claims to be a prophet. They're asking him to prophesy who it is that's striking him. But no more prophecy will be given to those who have rejected God's final word to mankind. And then we read the servants slapped him with their open hands. They have learned from their elders that this man is not to be feared or respected. But in these brutal acts They are unknowingly fulfilling prophecy and confirming that this is indeed the promised Messiah, the ultimate servant of the Lord. Jesus predicted in this very gospel that these acts would occur. Turn back with me just a few pages to Mark chapter 10. Mark chapter 10 and verse 33. He says, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem. And the Son of Man shall be delivered unto the Chief Priests and unto the Scribes, and they shall condemn him to death And shall deliver him to the Gentiles, and they shall mock him, and shall scourge him, and shall spit upon him, and shall kill him, and the third day he shall rise again. But the prophecy goes further back. In Isaiah chapter fifteen In verse six in one of the servant songs, we read about what the servant would endure. He says, I gave my back to the smiters, and my cheeks to them that plucked off the hair. I hid not my face. From shame and spitting. What this precious text teaches us is that Jesus voluntarily submitted to these disgraceful acts. He could have instantly stopped all the pain, all the degradation, and all of the suffering. He could have destroyed all these men with one word from his mouth. And as the song says, he could have called 10,000 angels. But he didn't do that because he was intent on pleasing his father and saving helpless sinners like you and me. Let's close in prayer. Father, I pray that you would focus our minds and hearts. Give us grace as we partake of these elements. Help them to draw us closer to you and to one another. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.