If you have your Bibles, you can turn with me to Matthew 27. One of the most revered relics is the Crown of Florence. It was for several centuries supposedly kept in a church near Jerusalem, then apparently it was taken to Constantinople. And several years later it made its way to France. The bulk of it is allegedly kept at the Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris But there are at least 13 other churches in Europe that claim to have at least some of the crown. And if you were to combine all of the thorns that are found throughout Europe, it would make much more than one crown. As Bible-believing Christians, we have no interest in superstitious relics. Having said that What the Bible reveals about the crown of thorns is very instructive and worth our reflection. In fact, apart from the cross, there is no symbol that more powerfully speaks of the suffering of our Lord than the crown of thorns. This instrument of derision is found in three of the Gospels. It's found in Matthew and Mark and in John. I want to begin, you don't need to turn here, but I want to read John 's account of this in John chapter 19 It says then Pilate therefore took Jesus and scourged him, and the soldiers platted a crown of thorns and put it on his head, and they put on him a purple robe. And said, Hail King of the Jews. And they smote him with their hands. Pilate therefore went forth again and saith unto them, Behold, I bring him forth to you, that you may know that I find no fault in him. Then came Jesus forth, wearing the crown of thorns and their purple robe, and Pilate saith unto them, Behold the man. In Mark chapter 15 and verse 17 it says, And they clothed him with purple and plaited a crown of thorns and put it about his head. And then we have Matthew's account in Matthew chapter 27. I want to begin reading at verse 27. Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the common hall, and gathered unto him the whole band of soldiers, and they stripped him and put on him a scarlet robe. And when they had platted a crown of thorns, they put it on his head and a reed in his hand, and they bowed the knee before him and mocked him, saying, Hail King of the Jews! And they spit upon him and took the reed and smote him on the head. In this passage we read the Roman soldiers gave Jesus three things. scarlet or purple robe, a crown of thorns, and a reed. All of these were props intended to mock the Savior's identity as king. But in their mocking, they were actually revealing a great truth about our Lord. We see this sort of thing all through the record. of the passion of our Savior. The Lord has filled this record with statements and with symbols that point to a deeper meaning than is on the surface. We think of this in the sign that was over our Lord's head. This is Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews, something that was written as a way to get back at those Jewish religious leaders, and yet it spoke the truth. We think of what the high priest Caiaphas said. It is expedient that one should die for the people. And the gospel writer tells us that he was saying more than he knew. And Pilate, who frequently said, I find no fault in him, was actually testifying to the sinlessness of the Savior. And the Roman soldier who said, Truly this was the Son of God. The fact that his death took place on the Passover, where a spotless lamb was offered up as a sacrifice. Even Pilate's declaration that I read a moment ago where he says, behold the man, and the release of Barabbas. We could go on and on. God is indeed the author of history. He can teach us through unknowing prophets and mute objects. And there is obvious symbolism in this crown of thorns. It has been the object of much meditation, the theme of many hymns. And tonight as we prepare for the Lord's table, I want us to consider what the crown of thorn reveals to us. Would you notice with me, first of all, that the crown of thorns reveals the sinfulness of mankind? The mocking of Christ by these soldiers is certainly humanity at its worst. The Gospels record an amazing amount of mocking or derision connected with the trial. and death of Jesus Christ. I want to read some of these passages really without comment in Matthew 26 verses 67 and 68. It says, Then did they spit in his face and buffet him, and others smote him with the palms of their hands, saying, Prophesy unto us, thou Christ, who it is that smote thee. We read in Luke chapter 23 and verse 11 of another incident of mocking. That night connected with the third trial. And Herod, it says, with his men of war, set him at naught and mocked him, and arrayed him in a gorgeous robe, and sent him again. to Pilate. And then what I read for you a moment ago from Matthew 27, also recorded in Mark and in John , taking place after the sixth and final trial. But this was not the end of our Lord's mocking. In Matthew chapter 27 and verse 39, we read of the mocking at the cross. It says, and they that passed by reviled him, wagging their heads and saying, Thou that destroyest the temple and buildest it in three days, save thyself if thou be the Son of God. Come down from the cross. Likewise also the chief priests mocking him with scribes and elders said, He saved others. Himself he cannot save. If he be the king of Israel, let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe him. He trusted in God. Let him deliver him now, if he will have him, for he said, I am the Son of God. The thieves also, which were crucified with him, cast the same in his teeth. We read here that a variety of people mocked the Lord. The chief priest, these religious leaders, mocked him, the thieves on either side of the cross. mocked him, the Roman soldiers mocked him. Herod, a king, mocked him, and the common people who were passing in and out of Jerusalem that day, when they saw the cross, they mocked him. There were representatives from all segments of humanity that mocked the master. This is not just a record of what happened. It did indeed happen like this. But it's instructive for us about our condition as people, and that is that we are all depraved. We are all guilty in some respect of the death of Christ. That is why there were representatives from the rich and from the poor. the educated and the uneducated men and women, they were all represented there as mocking our Savior. This is why the songwriters include the striking verse Ashamed, I hear my mocking voice call out among the scoffers. Here in Matthew 27 we have ten acts of humiliation that are encompassed in just a few verses. First of all, we read that they gathered a crowd, a cohort. A cohort was 600 men, but they probably didn't have all the men on duty that night. Perhaps there were 200. But they made this a public spectacle, not a private affair. They are in the praetorium, it says. This is probably a reference to the palace fortress of Aetonia, which had a large courtyard paved with flagstone. So this was a public event. Then they stripped him of his clothing. They put a scarlet robe on him. It's probably an old faded officer's robe that was once purple. Then they put a crown of thorns on his head. Someone sees they are growing nearby a thorn bush and they have the idea. That since indeed this man is being charged with the crime of making himself a king, they would treat him like a king, and so they weave this into a crown. Then they put a reed in his hand, and they kneel before him, and they mocked him, saying, Hail King of the Jews. But the men grow bored with this game, and so these hardened soldiers become violent. And they spit on him, and they hit him on the head with the reed that they had given him. The Greek text would indicate that this was done repeatedly. That is, they kept spitting on him, and they kept striking him with that reed, driving that crown of thorns deeper into his brow. And then they stripped him of his robe. Let me remind you that Christ had already been beaten with 39 stripes. His back had been opened up. with the fragments of bone and metal on the end of those whips. And so the taking off of this garment would have been very painful. And perhaps it's also at this occasion that they plucked out his beer. The Gospels do not record that, but of course it's prophesied by the prophet Isaiah. So why did these soldiers deal with Christ in such a cruel way? Our text reveals several reasons. Number one, there was obviously racism involved. These Roman soldiers were probably not from Rome. Roman soldiers were chosen from conquered peoples who were more nearby. Many scholars speculate that these were Syrians. The Syrians hated the Jews and they poured out their wrath on the so-called king of the Jews. There was a chance for them to ridicule their Jewish neighbors. Racism is indeed one of the troubling reminders of man's depravity. And the fact is that they enjoyed torturing this man who was defenseless And vulnerable, at least they thought he was defenseless. This is one of the most troubling aspects of our humanity, that when people are with a group. When they are with a large number of people, they develop a pack mentality and they do things that they would never do by themselves. Things that they would deplore. If they heard about it on the news, but if they are there and they're caught up in the spirit of it and everyone is around them, they will engage in it themselves And we see that one of the most disturbing things about our fallenness is the way we treat one another, especially when we have authority or power over them. And the sad fact is that when individuals are given great authority, it is so often used and abused for selfish ends. This is a revolting depiction of humanity. They're like bullies in the schoolyard picking on a small child. They're doing it because they can. And there's no one, it seems, to stop them. But I think that there is thirdly also an unmistakable hatred for Christ. These men may have never heard him teach. They may never have watched any miracles that he performed, but they had a chance to observe him through these trials. They had a chance to see how Pilate, this unscrupulous politician, dealt with him. They had a chance to see how these religious leaders who were supposedly pious men, men concerned with justice and righteousness and holiness And they could obviously see that this was being fueled by envy and by animus on their parts. And the fact of the matter is that I think these men recognize that he was not of this world. His purity and serenity highlighted their depravity and degradation. People are never crueler than when they suspect that the one that they are torturing is in fact superior to them. This is who we are as human beings. We are fallen. We are depraved. And we are in desperate need of a savior. The crown of thorns also reveals that Christ is our Savior. You cannot really understand what is being said here until you ask yourself the question, where did thorns come from? And the Bible answers that question for us. In Genesis 3, 17 and 18, it says, cursed is the ground for thy sake, thorns and thistles shall it bring forth. Thorns are a reminder that man has fallen. We tend not to think about it that way. We think tend to think of them as just a nuisance that we have to deal with. But they are a result of the fall. This is why the famous Christmas carol, which is actually referring to the second coming of Christ, Joy to the world says, no more let sin and sorrows grow, nor thorns infest the ground. Thorns are a painful reminder of our sinlessness. Now there are some 25 different varieties of thorny plants that grow in and around Jerusalem. Some of them have thorns that are over an inch long. I know that if you were to visit Pastor Aaron as the deans are today over in Tanzania, you would see many more thorns that we have here. I've told you before that one of the problems they have there is a constantly getting flat tires, and most of those are caused by thorns that are in the road. Those thorns are so long and so strong that they will puncture your tire. Now there have been many people who have tried to identify these, and there's even varieties that are called like the crown of thorns or the thorns of Christ. The fact is we have no idea what variety of thorns were used to make this crown and we don't need to know. What we do know is that the thorns are result of the fall. And that this crown of derision was twisted by perverse hands into an instrument of torture. And it was pressed down on the scalp of our Savior. And later it was further depressed into his head by the reed that was used to strike him. The depraved mind that imagined this crown could never have realized the full meaning of his actions. And actually, this individual was depicting a glorious truth. It is only by the blood of Christ That mankind can be delivered from his fallen state. It is only the blood of Christ that can conquer thorns. Even wicked actions like this barbarism that was on display that night can be forgiven by the blood of the Lamb. This passive prisoner before them was indeed the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. He is our only hope of deliverance from the bondage of sin The crown of horns also reveals that Christ is our sovereign. These pagan soldiers knew that this was the issue of the trial, it all concerned not what he did, but who he claimed to be. And their derision and their intention of mocking him and heaping scorn upon him, they were actually confirming the fact that he is a king. Their cruel crown was nevertheless a crown. It complimented and reinforced the title that was again written to upset the religious leaders. This is Jesus of Nazareth, the King. of the Jews. And it reveals to us the kind of king that he is. He is a suffering sovereign. The Jewish religious leaders were not looking for a king who would suffer. They viewed the Old Testament prophecies selectively. They failed to comprehend God's full redemptive plan. This one aspect of the Lord's suffering is something that we can identify with to some degree. No one here has been scourged like our Savior. I doubt very seriously that anyone here will be crucified someday. But all of us here have at some time and in some way faced ridicule. And people mock us, laugh at us, and we know the sense of shame, the sense of vulnerability that comes with that. And all of us know what it is. certainly to be punctured by a thorn, to be working with a rose bush or something else, and to be surprised at the incredible pain that one thorn in the end of your finger can cause. And so I think there is something that we can identify with at least this small segment of his suffering. We know what it is to be shamed. and to face the pain of a thorn. He's also not only a suffering sovereign, but a serene sovereign This is a beautiful, there's a beautiful peace here exhibited by Christ, even as he is mocked and ridiculed and spat upon and Struck by these men, there is no complaint, there is no resisting, there is no demanding his rights, he did not cry out or beg for mercy, there is majesty in his meekness. And we see that he is a submissive sovereign. It says in Isaiah chapter 50 and verse 6, I gave my back to the smiters, and my cheeks to them that plucked off the hair. I hid not my face. from shame and spitting. And Isaiah 53 interprets this for us and says, yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. This was the Father's will for his dear son. The Father were ultimately the one who placed that crown upon his head. He is also a sublime sovereign. Is not there a sense that because of what he endured in this horrific scene, we love him more? We see him in a better light, if that's at all possible. This awful derision that was intended to debase him. Instead glorifies him. It's been transformed into a crown of glory. The hymn writers have certainly picked up on this truth. Bernard of Clairbeau, who we sang a moment ago, O sacred head now wounded with grief and shame way down. Now scornfully surrounded with thorns, thine only crown. O sacred head, what glory, what bliss till now was thine! Yet though despised and gory, I joy to call thee mine. And Isaac watts, see from his head, his hands, his feet, sorrow and love flow mingled down. That e'er such love and sorrow meet, or thorns compose so rich a crown. The crown of thorns reminds us of who he, who we are, and who he is. We are sinners, and he is our Savior. We are those who have been tainted by the fall, and he is our sovereign who provides through his death a way for us to conquer death. Let's close in prayer.