The passage this evening as we're looking at 1 Thessalonians chapter 2 and verse 13 and following deals a lot with suffering and persecution. and how we respond to that. And so it's good for us to consider this in light of that reality. The theme, of course, of the Book of Thessalonians is Growing in faith, hope, and love in light of Christ's imminent return. And we're going to look at our memory verse. This is our last week, we'll do this verse, and then we'll move on to a new uh verse on verses five and six. But would you join me in standing while we say this through two times tonight? We'll say the reference in the verse and then say that again. 1 Thessalonians 5, 3 through 4. While people are saying there is peace and security, then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not escape But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief. First Thessalonians five, three through four. While people are saying there is peace and security, then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not escape. But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief. We're going to continue on. Again, just knowing the structure of this little epistle. Five chapters, the first three chapters are looking backwards at God's work among them and the ministry of the Apostle Paul and his ministry team. Silas and Timothy as they ministered among the Thessalonians, the nature of their ministry, and then the last two chapters are looking forward how they ought to live in light of the return of Christ. And this first chapter was really about thankfulness of what God has done among them, the glory of their receiving the message and responding by faith to the message of salvation. And in chapter two, he's continuing this. thought of thankfulness. And we'll see that again as we look in our verses this evening. But there there's also a sense in which he is defending himself. Against accusations of against their ministry and their message. And so throughout the second chapter, Paul is reminding them: remember how we lived. Remember how we came among you. Remember we came among you not with great fanfare like the sophist. We didn't come like rock stars into town. We came beaten and battered and sore because we had just endured a beating in Philippi. We didn't come with with uh cockiness and arrogance and seeking your money and trying to live immorally. We lived holy lives. We worked with our own hands, providing for our own needs And we labored tirelessly among you. Remember how we lived. Because there were clearly accusations that the Apostle Paul and his ministry team were disingenuous. They skipped town when things got hard. Not exactly the case. They skipped town because they were about to be be strung up basically. And so the believers there said, you need to get out of town. You've just endured one beating. You need to get out of town. unless you get another one even more severe. And so they had to combat some of the accusations that were coming against them, and they did so simply by way of reminder. Over and again in this chapter, chapter two, he says, you yourselves know. You know, you know, you remember, you are witnesses. Reminding them, I'm not telling you something new. You can go back to your own recollection and see how we lived among you. In chapter 2, verse 13, we come to this new paragraph in this chapter. And he says, he says, and we also thank God constantly for this, that when you receive the word of God, which you heard from us, You accepted it not as the word of men, but as what it really is, the word of God, which is at work in you, believers. For you brothers became imitators of the churches of God in Christ Jesus that are in Judea. For you suffered the same things from your own countrymen as they did from the Jews Who killed both the Lord Jesus and the prophets and drove us out and displeased God and oppose all mankind by hindering us from speaking to the Gentiles that they might be saved, so as always to fill up the measure of their sins. But wrath has come upon them at last. So we have, again, in this division here, verse 13 to 16, we have a thankfulness. Paul is continuing the same theme. that he started in chapter one giving thanks for the work of God among them. Thankfulness here in for their eager reception of the Word of God. That they have received it, they have received it and they've taken into heart And this reality of thankfulness dominates Paul's ministry. He already began in chapter 1, verse 2. He says, we give thanks to God always, for all of you, constantly. So he's just throwing out superlatives there, saying, this is this is the nature of our heart towards you. We are so thankful. We are constantly thankful. for what God has done, and we give thanks for each one of you. This reality dominates Paul's ministry among them. And here he says, we also thank God constantly, and then for this, and he goes on to explain that. But his he and his missionary team were this remarkable example of consistent prayer and thanksgiving. Consistently praying and thanking God. This word constantly that's found in verse 13, it's found only four times in the New Testament, and it's always by Paul, and it's always in reference to prayer. Whether it's prayer of request or prayer of thanksgiving, Paul is using this word exclusively in regards to prayer. One example of that is in Oh, we already did that. Romans 1, verses 9 and 10, where he says, For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of his Son, that without ceasing I mention you always in my prayers. So it's not just the Thessalonians. It's not just the Philippians. It's not just the Colossians. It's the the Romans, he is a constant prayer. He is unceasing in his prayers for them. We talked about this already in chapter one that he mentions for all of you. It wasn't just like Lord bless the Thessalonians. But it was a tireless praying that was individual in nature as he prayed for them specifically. In chapter 5 of 1 Thessalonians, if you just look forward a little bit, we see another time when this word is used, where he says in verse 17. Pray without ceasing. Pray without ceasing. So Paul is prayerful. He is thankful. And he is so in a ceaseless way. It's one of those words that probably convicts every one of us on our responsibility to labor in prayer, not just casually, not just occasionally, but continuously. that every time we have opportunity, we ought to be going to the Lord in prayer and thankful prayer. Not just, not just, Lord, give me, Lord, do this, but Lord, thank you for what you have done. Remember Paul was separated from the Thessalonians by hundreds of miles. He's now in Corinth as he writes this. But his prayers for them and thanksgiving to God for them have bridged these miles. as he's praying for them. The amazing thing is, I I remember many times being asked as a pastor, can you come in Tanzania, can you come and pray for so and so? Well I can't be there and be here at the same time. But I want you to know that I pray to a God who is there. And I pray to a God who is everywhere present all the time. And so I can pray here and also know that God that God is answering that prayer there. And so He was thankful and prayerful. even separated by miles. And what's amazing here is that that his Thanksgiving was not exhausted. This might be one of the temptations that we have. It's not just Thanksgiving for a day of the year, a celebration of Thanksgiving in the month of November or an occasional event when something good or something new happens. I think we we tend to do that very well. When something good happens, we say, thank you, Lord, for that, and then we move on. Paul has been away from the Thessalonians for months at this point. And he continues to thank God for them. To thank God for what? For how they received the gospels, what he's going to describe. So an event that took place months and maybe even as well as much as a year or more. Prior, he is thanking God for that event. He doesn't tire of thanking God for the work that God has done among them. And that is really instructive for us. His thanksgiving has not been exhausted. I think it's very tempting for us to say, well, I did thank God for that. But are we continuing to give praise and thanksgiving to God for what he has done, rejoicing in his work? that he has done. We ought to. And Paul gives us a great example of that when he says, we also thank God constantly. And then he says, for this. in description of what it is. And he says, for this, that when you received the word of God, which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men. but as what it really is, the Word of God, which is at work in you believers. And so he continues to thank God a year later. For the way they received the Word of God. He said, this is our constant thanksgiving to God that you continue and that you receive the Word in this way. They are thankful that they'd received the message as the Word of God. So Paul's thankfulness is centered around their reception of the gospel message. that they preached to them when they came into Thessalonica. There's two Greek words that are used that are here. One is translated received in our ESV, and the other is translated accepted. And they refer to two different aspects of how they received the word. The first word, received, refers to them giving audience. He said, we're thanking God for the fact that you gave audience, that you listened to the content of the message, that you gave us a chance to preach the gospel to you. That's the first thing that we ought to be thankful for when someone gives audience to the gospel. We ought to rejoice in that because not everybody gives audience to the gospel. And so Paul says, we thank God that you heard, you listened, you received our message. The second word is more personal. It's not just that they listened to it, that they opened their ears to hear the message, it's that they received that message into their heart. They accepted it. They brought it into their own lives. And they some translations actually translate it, you welcomed it. You welcome the Word of God. So Paul is thanking God that they first gave an audience to it, and secondly that they didn't just, okay, that's nice, thanks. Continue on your way, but that they welcomed it and they received it by faith. And both of these are viewed as things to give thankful for, to give thanks for, if you have the opportunity to share the gospel with your coworker. It's something to give thanks to God for. If they receive that message, that's another thing to be thankful for. But even the opportunity to share the gospel. The Thessalonians heard the message and responded with faith and obedience. And then pastor preaching on Sunday morning in John 10. I couldn't help but notice the correlation there that from John 10 where Jesus says, My sheep hear my voice. And what? And I know them, and they follow me. And here Paul is thanking God for the fact that the Thessalonians heard the voice of the shepherd and they followed. They obeyed that message. So the evidence of Christ's sheep is that they hear and respond by following their shepherd So the believers in Thessalonica didn't only hear the word. They took in their inner man and made it part of their lives. So how do we appropriate the word? How do we make the Word of God welcome the Word of God? Not only the initial time of welcoming it and receiving the gospel, but Weekly, daily, as it's preached to us, as we read it. How do we welcome the Word of God? It comes by not only understanding it, not only receiving into our heart and choosing to follow it. but also by meditating on it so that it becomes part of our inner man, so it becomes part of who we are. We renew our mind by meditating on the Word of God. Very much like In the the physical life, digestion takes the food that we eat and it applies it to the body, spiritually, meditating on the word of God. We are thinking about what we read and how we how we heard the message this past week and how do we apply it. We're bringing it back up into our daily conversations and our daily thinking so that the Word of God can continue to give us nourishment. spiritually in our lives. That's how we appropriate it. But their thankfulness, notice here, was directed to God. Paul and his team are thankful to God, not necessarily to the Thessalonians. Because it was God who had done the work in their lives. The glorious reality is that anytime a person's heart is open to receive the gospel message, it is a miraculous work of God. It is a a life-giving work of God. Remember we were looking at um Yeah, it's not Second Corinthians. I'm not sure why I have that Second Corinthians. That's Acts 16, 14. Pay no attention to the reference there. But he said, one who heard us was a woman named Lydia. This is talking, Acts 16, when they went to Philippi. And Lydia was there by the riverside and Paul and his team preached to her and and he says that she was a seller of purple goods who was a worshiper of God. So she was she was a God fearer. The Lord opened her heart to pay attention to what was said by Paul. It was the work of God to open her heart so that she would listen and receive. And we know the story that she was baptized and then later. Her entire family was baptized. They received the gospel message and responded in faith. But what precipitated it? A work of God. Anytime someone receives the gospel, it is a work of God. And it's something that we ought to be rejoicing in. The word of God that they heard was the preaching of the gospel. Going back to verse 13, he says, and we also thank God constantly for this, that when you received the word of God, and we think of the word of God, oftentimes we think of These 66 books that are in our Bible. And that is the Word of God. But specifically in this context, it's not talking about the Bible. Specifically. Which he said, which you heard from us. You accepted it not as the word of men, but as what it really is. the word of God, which is at work in you believers. So what he's describing here is that they heard The gospel message. Obviously, the time of 1 Thessalonians, when Paul went to the Thessalonians, there was probably one book of the New Testament that had been written. And the Thessalonians received the second one. And so when Paul came to them, he wasn't teaching them the New Testament. He was preaching the gospel to them. And it was not yet written. So when he did share the word, it was the Old Testament. But the gospel, as he was proclaiming the gospel, as he's preaching the gospel to them, it was an oral message. That he calls the Word of God. And so the word that was preached to them was the gospel message prophesied in the Old Testament and revealed in Jesus Christ. And Paul preaches, and in that preaching, it is the word of God. So it is appropriate to say when the gospel is faithfully preached, it is the word of God. Not that we're writing down new Bibles for us, but that is the Word of God. When the gospel is faithfully preached, it is the Word of God. And as a result, when the gospel is preached, we ought to pay attention. Because it is not the word of men, it is the word of God. And so we ought to listen carefully Tells us how seriously we ought to value the preaching of the gospel. Paul says, you received it not as the word of men, but as what it really is. It is the word of God. It's weighty because God spoke this message. And therefore you need to listen to it He was thankful for the fact that they received it with such weight. They listened to it with such weight. And he's thankful for this weighty manner. They received the message from Paul in this way. There's an inherent authority. And wait, because we are preaching the Word of God and we are ambassadors of Christ. When you go to your To your coworker or your neighbor or your family member or your child with the gospel. There is an inherent weight because it is the word of God that you are giving them. That's why we don't suggest things to our hearers. We tell them the truth We tell them the truth. We speak from a position of authority because it is the Word of God. That's why the crowds were so astonished at Jesus preaching. Remember when Jesus preached at the end of the Sermon on the Mount? This the Bible says the crowds were astonished because he spoke as one who had authority and not as the scribes. He spoke with direct authority, and it's not just Jesus who spoke that way. Remember when Peter and James were called before the Sanhedrin in Acts chapter four? And I think I have this up on our slides. Let's get there. Yeah. Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John And perceived that they were uneducated, common men, they were astonished and they recognized that they had been with Jesus. They spoke in a similar manner. They spoke with confidence. They spoke with boldness. They spoke with authority because they spoke the word of God. They knew because they had been with Christ and they had followed in that same example. Because it is the word of God, it is not to be ignored. And we will be judged based upon what we have heard and what we have known. But they received it as a life-giving message from God. He says the word of God is at work in you believers. So it wasn't just that that one time that they received it, but it continued Not only life-giving, but life-sustaining in their lives. The word that's translated at work is a Greek word that we get our word energy from. There is an energy in the word. It's an active, operating power. The word of God has a power to change lives. Consider what he says in James 1. 18. He says, of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth. So the word of truth gave birth to us. That we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures. The gospel is life-giving. In 1 Peter 1, he says, Since you have been born again, not of the perishable seed, but of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God. We were born again through the Word of God. The Word of God is alive. It is powerful. It is life-giving. It is life-sustaining. And that's why it is so dangerous for us to To stay away from the Word of God, to stay away from the place where the Word of God is taught and it is preached. And say, well, I've got other things that are more important in my life right now. That's dangerous, and Satan loves to keep us away from the Word of God. Whether it's in our devotions, whether it is the preaching of the Word of God at church, Satan will bombard you with very clever and very subtle reasons why you should not go to church or why you don't have time to be in the word. It's inconvenient. I have pressing responsibilities. Oh, if I go to church I might run into someone that I'm at odds with. I'm just too tired. There isn't enough time because I have these activities for my family. Or my kids don't feel welcome there. There's always a reason that Satan can use to separate you from the Word of God. And why does he want to do that? Because he knows it is alive, that it is powerful, it is life-giving, and it is life-sustaining. One of the verses that we studied when we went through Isaiah was this one in verses 10 and 11 of Isaiah 55. For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven. And do not return there, but water the earth, making it bring forth and sprout, giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater. so shall my word be that goes out from my mouth. And I think of this in light of the dry season in Africa, when everything is dead and there's no grass it's just dirt and it's sometimes it's so much dirt it just becomes like a powder it's so dry and then it rains And two or three days later, as things start becoming green. Well, how did that happen? There's power in the water. There's a life-giving power in the water. And the word of God is like that. He said, So shall my word be that goes out from my mouth. It shall not return to me empty, but it shall accomplish that which I purpose. and shall succeed in the thing for which I sent. The Word of God will accomplish what God intends it to accomplish. We see here that the Thessalonian believers received it, and it was continuing to work in their lives. We see as well that a genuine faith continues. It's not just a one-time reception, but it's a continuing growing. Their lives were continuing to be transformed by the living and abiding Word of God. So this is how we ought to be responding to the Word of God. We ought to be receiving it, meditating on it, opening our hearts to it, welcoming it, so that it can continue to transform our thinking, so that we are made alive and growing in Christ. He's thankful for this. He's also thankful for their imitation of the churches in Judea. In verses 14 through 16, there's a there's a discussion about them being imitators of the churches of God, which are in Judea. And Judea, of course, is referring to Israel. He says, for you brothers became imitators of the churches of God in Christ Jesus that are in Judea. You say, well, why was that so important? Well, that's where the gospel came from. The gospel was first in Jerusalem and then in Judea and in Samaria and the uttermost parts of the earth. And by this point it comes to Thessalonica, it is gone from Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria and has gone into the uttermost parts of the earth. And he's saying, You are imitators of them, the way they live. Paul's thankful for their imitation, but what's so amazing about this imitation, it's an imitation that has no observation. They're imitating them, but they've never known them. They've never been to Judea. They've never been to a church service in Judea. They don't know how to imitate them. But they're doing it Inherently. Have you ever s heard stories about twins that are separated at birth? And they end up years later discovering that they were twins. And when they investigate their lies, they find out they have remarkably similar habits. hobbies, careers, lives, interests. There's something that's inherent. They they were initially they had the same DNA And so that DNA meant that their lives are obviously going to be different, but there's some similar nature to it. These new converts had the same, you might say, spiritual DNA. One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, one Holy Spirit dwelling inside of them, who caused them To be conformed to the image of Jesus Christ. And so they looked a lot like their twin sisters in Judea. They looked a lot like, they acted a lot like them. They were born many miles away from Judea, and there was a sea dividing them, but they became imitators because of the work of the Holy Spirit and the active work of his word to conform them to the image of Christ. And their imitation specifically being referred to here is how they imitated them in enduring persecution. They imitate it to the point of persecution. The reality is that transformed lives result in persecution. I was meeting with a Christian today and it was just encouraged. He was telling me that at his job, he someone was trying to lure him into temptation. He had to say, I'm a Christian. And I don't do those things. And he said, Oh, you're one of those Bible thumpers. He said, Yeah, I am. He said initially he said I was kind of intimidated by it. He felt weird, he said, being kind of ostracized for that. I said, well, congratulations. You're beginning to suffer persecution for following Christ, and that's a beautiful thing. That's a glorious thing. They, these Thessalonian believers, were experiencing persecution because they imitated the Lord that they followed. And we will as well. Persecution is the normal expectation for the believer. If we think of the world today, we can think of Sudan. And we can think of Yemen and Iran and North Korea. There are many, many places where Christians face severe persecution. Probably the majority of Christians in the world today face severe persecution. We live in a a bit of an anomaly Historically, geographically, where we don't face severe persecution for our faith, that may come. But there will be persecution. The Bible says that all who live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. That is the reality. There will be some persecution if we live godly in Christ Jesus. Jesus Oh, this is a great verse. Through many tribulations, we must enter the kingdom of God. That is such a powerful verse. Through many tribulations, we must enter the kingdom of God. Oh, go back to that. In in our Lord suffered and told us to anticipate this. In John 15, he said, if you were of the world. the world would love you as its own. But because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Remember that I said to you, a servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours. He said so. If I was persecuted, and he was, if you follow me, then you will also be persecuted Paul did not preach a health and wealth gospel to the Thessalonians. He didn't say, come to Jesus and your life will be better. Your kids will turn out great. Your family will be great. Your job will be good. You'll have money in your pocket. Life will be good. He said, no. That when you follow Christ, you should expect persecution. Look over 1 Thessalonians 3, verse 3. Just one chapter over. He says, For you yourselves know that we are destined for this. For when we were with you, we kept telling you beforehand that we were to suffer affliction. Just as it has come to pass, and just as you know. So we we told you this. He didn't preach a health and wealth gospel. Come to Jesus and your life will be better. He said, Come to Jesus and you're going to suffer persecution. Know that there will be a cost for following Christ. Why did Jesus say, take up your cross and follow me? Because there is a cost to following Christ. And these Thessalonian believers had experienced it in their own lives, and they were continuing to experience it. And Paul was thankful that they were continuing to endure persecution in faith. He said, You suffer the same things from your own countrymen as they did from the Jews, meaning, as the Judean churches experienced from the Jewish leadership, so you are experiencing from your own countrymen. The Judean believers endured suffering at the hands of the Jews while they received it from the Jews and the Gentiles. You remember in Acts chapter 17? when the the Thessalonian church was formed, the Jewish leaders were angry at Paul and they took men from the rabble. They went into the into the market and they found guys that were just troublemakers and they started a mob in a riot to take care of Paul and get rid of Paul and Silas. The Jews were the instigators, but they were Jews from Thessalonica. They were not Jews from from From Judea. And they used the Gentiles as well. And together they were bringing tribulation and trouble and suffering upon the believers there. So why did Paul tell them this? You ever wonder why does Paul mention this here? Probably to remind them of his teaching while he was with them and to encourage their hearts that what has happened to them, the persecution they've been forced to endure, is not unusual. It's what he told them to expect. It's what Jesus said we are to expect. The Christian life is a life of enduring persecution through many trials, we will enter the kingdom of heaven. In this last section here in verses 15 and 16, there's a bit of a a bit of a digression that Paul makes, and it's a little bit odd. Seems to be out of the flow, but I know it's not. And what he's doing here is trying to remind them of the nature of the opposition that is against them and the danger that is there. We have here God's judgment on the Jewish nation. And Paul levels several strong condemnations upon the Jewish people. I read a comment from a commentary on verses 15 and 16 that said Paul was demonstrating that he was an anti-Semite Which is humorous, if you think about it, because of course Paul was a Semite. So obviously he's he's not, he's Semitic. But because anti-Semitism is growing at an alarming rate, it's growing at an alarming rate on the left in our country and on the right in our country, it is growing rapidly. I think it's important to state clearly that these verses are not anti-Semitic. And additionally, antisemitism is inherently evil and it is demonic at its core. And so anti-Semitism has no place in the church. So what are these verses about? Well, first of all, antisemitism is a racial hatred of ethnic Jews. Because of their ethnicity. But remember, God promised to bless the seed of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and all those who bless them. And he promised to curse all those who curse them. And remember, one of the interesting things when you try to wipe out Ethnic Jews, Haman can give a great example. The gallows that he that he prepared, he found himself swinging from. God has a way of Bringing that justice to bear. But Paul is not an anti-Semite, nor is the New Testament anti-Semitic. There are some people who would say that, and it's it's Again, it's humorous because it's written largely by Jews. But Paul is not an anti-Semite. Remember, he himself is a Jew. He proclaimed his willingness to be accursed from Christ for the sake of his countrymen. Read these verses carefully. He says, I am speaking the truth in Christ. I am not lying. My conscience bears me witness in the Holy Spirit. that I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish in my heart, for I could wish that I myself were accursed and cut off from Christ For the sake of my brothers, my kinsmen according to the flesh. Who's he talking about? Well, the rest of the passage tells us The Jewish people. He says, I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish, and I would be willing to be damned to hell if I could redeem them, but I can't. Wow. That's not the words of an anti-Semite. That is the words that we should emulate of a great and deep love for the Jewish people. He's also the one who prophesied their eventual salvation. He said, Lest you be wise in your own sight, I do not want you to be unaware of this mystery, brothers. A partial hardening has come upon Israel, until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. And in this way all Israel will be saved. As it is written, the deliverer will come from Zion, he will banish ungodliness. From Jacob. And just two verses later, he tells the Romans, as regards the gospel, the Jewish people, not ethnic Jews, but the religious Jews. They are enemies for your sake, but as regards election, they are beloved for the sake of their forefathers. So he makes a very bold statement here that Religious Jews are enemies of the gospel. But remember, the Jewish people are beloved because of the patriarchs and the promises that were given to the patriarchs, and God will redeem them. That being said, it cannot be denied that this is one of the perhaps the strongest language that Paul uses strongest denunciation you might say against the Jewish people, specifically against the Judaizers, the religious Judaism that is Acting against the gospel, as enemies of the gospel, that can be found anywhere in the Bible. And Paul proceeds to make several charges against the Jews in these next Two verses. First of all, he says they were violently opposed to the message and the messengers of God. He says here Speaking of the Jews who killed both the Lord Jesus and the prophets and drove us out. So here 's describing the the Jewish people. As those who are responsible for the death of Christ and the death of the prophets. Paul is clearly aware that the crucifixion was carried out by Roman soldiers. And that Pilate and Herod and judicially shared responsibility for the death of Jesus Christ. But he saw clearly that it was the Jewish leaders who were chiefly responsible, because they're the ones who brought the charges against Jesus and forced the charges against him. So the Paul and the New Testament there they They are accurately portraying the history of redemption and of the Jewish people in Acts chapter 2 I believe we have this. Yeah, Acts chapter 2, verses 22 and 23, when Peter was preaching on the day of Pentecost, he said, Men of Israel, hear these words. So he's speaking to the men of Israel. Hear these words, Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested you by God with mighty works and wonders and signs that God did through him in your midst, as you yourselves know. This Jesus delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God, you crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men. And he holds them responsible for doing that. It's very important, I believe, though, in light of this, to state that this phrase should never be used as a slur to denigrate the Jewish people. But there is a very real sense that it was all of our sins that put Christ on the cross. Herod was responsible. Pilate was responsible. You and I are responsible. But the direct responsibility that Paul is making out here is that the Jewish people, the leaders in particular, were the ones who were violently opposed to Christ, and they were violently opposed to the prophets. This violent opposition goes all the way back to the Old Testament, where repeatedly, in the Old Testament, the accusation is made that those Jewish leaders Were the ones who killed the prophets. Nehemiah confesses this in his prayer in Nehemiah chapter 9. We see this in 1 Kings 18 and 1 Kings 19. We also see this in Jeremiah chapter 2. And then Jesus in Matthew 23, he says this, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it. How often would I gather your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you were not willing. Jesus says, you killed the prophets. And then he said, and you will kill me. And Paul says, they're also responsible for driving us out, that there was a violent animosity against the gospel. Virtually everywhere Paul went with the gospel, he faced violent opposition from the Jews. From the very beginning of his Christian life. Remember, in Damascus, when he came to know Christ as his Savior, he began going to the synagogues and preaching the gospel in Damascus. And he had to flee in a basket over the wall because the Jews were trying to kill him. And he comes to Jerusalem and he's preaching the gospel and he's boldly refuting the Jewish leaders and they try to kill him and he flees and he has to go to Tarsus. In Thessalonica, the same thing happens. And time, village after village, place after place. In fact, when Paul went to Berea after leaving Thessalonica, they came all the way from Thessalonica. to Berea to start a riot and get Paul kicked out of town. It's important to notice that they weren't alone in persecuting the Christians. The Gentiles as well as the Jews did this. And so it's not just the Jews, but Paul is bringing out this emphasis here, saying this enmity that you are facing in Thessalonica, it is not unusual. We are experiencing it everywhere we have gone. It is exactly what the Jewish Christians in Judea are also experiencing. And so do not be afraid. Do not turn away from the truth. And he says they displease God and oppose all mankind. And it's interesting here when he says they says, who killed both the Lord Jesus and the prophets and drove us out and displeased God and oppose all mankind? Specifically how? Verse 16, by hindering us from speaking to the Gentiles that they might be saved. They displease God and oppose all mankind by hindering the spread of the gospel. They were not content to kick Paul out of the synagogues in Thessalonica and say, okay, you want to go to Jason's house and preach the gospel in Jason's house? Fine, just don't come back to our synagogue. No. They wanted Paul dead. They wanted Paul gone. They were not content to let the message of salvation go to the Gentiles and let the Gentiles receive the message. No, they wanted that message stopped at all costs. They aggressively hindered the spread of the gospel. That's why the Jews went from Thessalonica 50 miles to Berea. To get Paul kicked out of Berea and cause trouble there. Remember the violent uproar that happened when Paul was in Acts 22 in Jerusalem. When he's caught there in Jerusalem, they thought that he had brought Gentiles into the temple. And he preaches to them in Hebrew on the steps. And everything's going well. They're listening intently until he said that Jesus had commissioned him to go far away to the Gentiles with the gospel. Boom! A riot ins insist and people start throwing dirt in the air and screaming he should be killed. The fact that the gospel would go to the Gentiles was something that they did not want to happen. This is similar to what Jesus said about the Jewish leaders in Luke 11, 52, and I believe I have this here. Yeah. It says, Woe to you lawyers. For you have taken away the key of knowledge, meaning to understand the Bible. You do not enter yourselves, and you hinder those who are entering. You do not go to heaven, basically, and you stop people from going in because you've taken away the key of knowledge. And Paul says the result is that they fill up the measure of their sins, but wrath has come upon them at last. Literally means they always heap up their sins to the limit. It's very similar to what Jesus said in Matthew 23, verses 31. It says, Thus you witness against yourselves that you are the sons of those who murdered the prophets. fill up then the measure of your fathers you serpents, you brood of vipers, how are you to escape being sentenced to hell? And he's speaking of the religious leaders who had done such damage to him and were planning on killing him. But they they were filling up the measure of their sins. There's what Romans says, storing up wrath against the day of wrath. It's as if that there's a red line where God patiently waits it to be crossed. You can almost picture like a giant scale and sins are on one side and it God is patiently waiting and the the sins are are heaping up on the scale until it comes crashing down. And God says that's enough and judgment comes. And that's what he says, but wrath has come upon them at last. The question is, what does that mean? Wrath has come upon them at last. The phrase here can mean to the uttermost or possibly even to eternity, but it's in past tense. Wrath has come upon them. So what is what is Paul referring to by that? Well, it 's not exactly clear. It could be referring to the destruction of Jerusalem, which was still twenty years in the future, roughly. But it was prophesied already. Jesus prophesied in Matthew 24 that because of their rejection of him, the stone which the builders rejected, that the temple would be destroyed. And you remember many times when we were going through the book of Isaiah, we described something as being a prophetic perfect tense, that it was it was listed in the past tense, but it was still future. Because it was so certain, because God had declared it, that it was as if it has already happened. We see this in Romans chapter 8, where it says, those whom he justified, he also glorified. Well No offense. You're not looking very glorified out there. But you're justified. But it's so certain Because God has promised it that it's as if it has already happened. You're not in glorified bodies. I'm not in a glorified body. But it's so certain as if it has already happened. That could be what Paul is referring to here. The destruction of Jerusalem is so certain that it's as if it has already happened, because Jesus Christ has decreed it, and wrath has come upon them at last. It could also refer to what Paul mentions in Romans 11, that a judicial hardening or a judicial blindness has come upon the Jewish people as a whole. So they cannot even understand their own scriptures and see the prophecies of the Messiah fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Paul says in 2 Corinthians 3, Yes, to this day, whenever Moses is read, a veil lies over their hearts. But when one turns to the Lord, the veil is removed. I'm not sure which of these Paul is referring to here But he is saying that as a result of their hardened, consistent rejection of the message and the messengers of God and their opposition to the gospel. There is wrath that has come upon them. But that doesn't mean that they are not God's chosen people. And that God has a perfect plan for them. And that all Israel will be saved. And there's coming a day when when A spirit of grace and of pleas for mercy will be poured out on the house of David and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and they will look upon him whom they have pierced and weep for him as one weeps for an only child. They are enemies of the gospel now, but they are beloved. For the sake of the Father, that all those who bless them will be blessed, and all those who curse them will be cursed. But Paul says, no, this opposition that you're experiencing is not unique. This is what we experienced. This is what the prophets experienced. This is what Jesus experienced. This is what the Jewish believers in Judea have experienced. And I'm thankful that you are remaining faithful. Very quickly, a few points of application that come from this passage of scripture. 1. Expect opposition when you live out the word. The persecution is not a sign of God's displeasure or of his absence. It is a sign of genuine faith. If you are like Christ, you will experience persecution. You share the same faith and the same trials that the churches in Judea experienced. And that the Thessalonians did, and rejoice in that. And that, remember, God is just. He will bring into judgment all who oppose his word. Therefore, we should be careful to remain pliable under the word of God. And not hardened. Thirdly, cultivate a teachable spirit. Ask yourself if you believe and obey the word of God and tremble at it Do you come under the hearing of God's word with an attitude of curiosity or an attitude of humble obedience? Oh, that's interesting. Or oh, I need to obey that. Let me encourage you to ask God to mold you and change you through his word every time you come into the preaching of God's Word. Every time you come to church. Every time we sit down, we should say, Lord, teach me, change me, mold me , make me more like Christ today. May your word continue to mold me. Christian, is the word of God continuing to transform your life and your thinking, or have you grown rigid and implacable? Spiritual life is like biological life. It must always be changing, or it's not alive. Are we changing? Are we being changed by the Word of God that is living and abiding? May God help us to do so. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. I thank you for your encouragement in it. Thank you, Father, that you have not only told us to expect persecution. But that your Son, our Savior Jesus Christ, experienced that and set an example for us. Help us in the face of persecution to respond with joyful obedience. And Lord, I pray that you would help us to be humble receivers of your word. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.