In February of twenty twelve, the Food and Drug Administration finalized a law that required all employers that provided health coverage to provide for the mandatory coverage of birth control including the controversial Plan B pill, a post-conception abortion drug. While many Christian businesses caved to the government in fear, one CEO, by the name of David Green, sought to stay true to his faith. While facing political backlash and a $1. 3 million per day fine for failing to comply to this mandate. A cost that would crush his company and lose thousands of jobs. You see, but David Green was born into a Christian family Raised in rural Oklahoma, he had learned early in life to fear God. His company, Hobby Lobby, was founded on Christian ethics. And had such practices as being closed on Sunday, paying above minimum wage, and evangelistic outreach throughout his company. Yet the backlash towards David was not from the government alone. The public turned against him. Media mocked him in his faith on nationwide news. Liberals called for boycotts of his stores, and pressures mounted, urging him to compromise to save the business, saying that he was making the wrong choice. It was uncertain if Hobby Lobby and its thousands of employees would survive the pressure. Yet citing Acts 5, David said, We must obey God rather than man. The company was forced to take its case to the Supreme Court, choosing to stand on its faith until the very end. And the decision in Burrow versus Hobby Lobby in 2014 was a decisive victory for that company in the face of great opposition. You see, we will all face trials and difficulties where we must make the choice of faith over fear. Man in his natural state is prone to fear, prone to cowardice, prone to the fear of man. But this is not the fate of the Christian. The Christian, when we are facing trials, must make the right choice, the decision, but we are not limited to fear alone. Yes, we can be passive and remain in cowardly fear, or we can stand on the truth in courageous faith. By living in the power of the Spirit, we can act in courageous faith, standing on the authority of God's Word, the love of Christ that dwells in us, and the spirit of self-control. This morning I want to take us to a passage that highlights this reality to us as believers. If you're not already there, turn with me to 2 Timothy chapter 1. We're going to look at a text that gives a clear command for us to persevere in the faith and acknowledges that we have to make a choice. Before we get into the verse this morning, the specifics of this text, it's helpful to understand the situation of what's going on in this letter between Paul and Timothy. Because it will impact how we understand what's going on. Anytime we look at a letter between two people, it's important to know the relationship of those two people. as well as the bigger picture of what's happening in their lives. We call this the context, the context of what's going on in this letter. Especially when we address verses in the beginning of a letter like we are this morning, this background context really helps us interpret. what is going on. See, this letter of 2 Timothy has been called Paul's Swan Song. It's the last of his epistles. He writes it as he faces death unafraid. His appeal to Timothy is to be steadfast in the ministry amidst increasing difficulties around him. Paul was no stranger to persecution. He's now even a prisoner at the time of this writing, in chains, suffering in Rome. Now the evidence supports that this is not Paul's imprisonment in the end of Acts, Acts 28, because in that imprisonment he's moving around, he's free to have visitors. It appears that this time in the letter He's under much harder conditions and not as free as he once was. You see, what's happening in the church is this letter is likely coming after the burning of Rome in sixty-four AD, when the persecution to the church has intensified to great ends. Paul is imprisoned nearing the end of his life, likely for the boldness of sharing his faith. Yet he seeks to still encourage Timothy as he ministers during this great instability in the world and in the church. We know Paul is close to death because he offers this victory speech in chapter 4 of Timothy 2 Timothy. He says, For I am already being poured out as a drink offering, and the time of my departure has come. I have fought the good faith. I have finished the race. I have kept the faith. Henceforth is laid up for me the crown of righteousness which the Lord the righteous judge will award to me on that day, and not only to me, but to all who have loved his appearing. Oh, what confidence to have in facing death And then there's young Timothy. Under the increasing persecution and terror that drips the uh grips the church, he's wondering if he has the maturity, if he has the faith. to persevere. Fearful of all that could happen and is happening around him in the church, this letter displays these two men as sides of the same coin. One on the outside of the persecution, in the church, dealing with the suffering, one on the inside in prison, a prisoner of persecution, ready to face death. Both are seeking to persevere in the faith. Both are seeking to encourage others and to bring glory to God. This is their pastoral duties. So we have in this epistle are two complementary examples. The example of Paul, of how Christians are to die for their faith, and this example of Timothy, of how Christians are to live for their faith. their faith. Yet as we turn sharper towards our verses this morning, Paul is speaking to Timothy, his faithful disciple, in the knowledge that Timothy has many reasons. to be fearful. His goal yet is to encourage him in the faith. And that's where we're going to pick up this morning. So in light of all of this, Paul gives Timothy this opening command, the very first and most important command to Timothy, who is ministering in a dangerous world. His command is to fan into flame the gift of God. Look with me at verse 6 in chapter 1. He says, For this reason I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God. Breaking this down a little bit. He says, you know, for this reason. So we are parachuting right into the middle of or the beginning of this first chapter, right into the context of this letter. Paul's reason he's doing this was noted back in verse 5. It's Timothy's sincere faith. See, Paul knows the heart of his disciple, his trust in the gospel that accompanies this sincere faith. Timothy is called by Paul beloved and faithful child in the Lord in 1 Corinthians, or the true child in the faith back in 1 Timothy. He has accompanied Paul on many of his missionary journeys throughout the book of Acts. Paul knows his sincere faith. But he also knows that Timothy at times is hesitant, is prone to cowardice and fear. He says, let no one despise you for your youth in 1 Timothy, suggesting this natural hesitancy or fearfulness. This might be because of his physical weaknesses. We know in 1 Timothy he says, use a little wine for the sake of your stomach and your frequent ailments. But either way, Paul knew his beloved disciple. He knew his faithful heart, his tendency towards fear and cowardice, and this is the reason why he gave this command. He says, I remind you. See, Paul is gracious. He has a pastoral heart. He can have to give a gentle and pastoral exhortation to Timothy. He's not seeking to sternly command him or rebuke him, but an exhortation to remembrance. You know, remembrance, we know, is not just something of recalling an idea, but it's recalling something that will now work out itself in action. It's not simply to have a mental ascent, but to act accordingly to what you remember. This command is coming to Timothy, he already knew it. He knew this command because this command is essential to all of Christian life. Every Christian knows this command that he's about to give. And that command is to fan into flame the gifts of God. This word in the Greek, this fanning into flame appears only here in the New Testament, but it's one of a rekindling. It's a one of a stirring up of that flame. Grammatically, this is an action that is continuous. It doesn't start or it's not a once-and-done kind of command. See, as we read this, which might not be clear initially, is Paul is not stating that he believes that Timothy's faith is dying out or dwindling. Yet rather he's making the case that you should use and bring to fullness the gifts that have been given to you. Continue to stir up. Keep the flame going. That's the grammar of this phrase. You see, you cannot fan into flame a coal that is burned out. No, there must be a fire, it must be lit, but it might not be very strong, or it might be undergoing opposing conditions to its flourishing. Wind, rain, lack of fuel can all put a natural fire out. Just as there are many things in the spiritual life that can dampen our flame. But he is to flame or fan into flame these gifts of God, the gift of God. Many things might come into mind when we hear this phase phrase, the gift of God In almost every case in the New Testament, when we hear this gift of God, it refers to salvation. In Romans 6. 23, it says, For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus. Or Ephesians 2. 8. By grace you have been saved through faith and is not of your own doing. It is the gift of God. But in this case, based on the context of this verse and what Paul says next in this verse, I believe the gift is a set he's talking about this gift. is a set of spiritual gifts given by God, confirmed by Paul in Timothy when he was commissioned to be a pastor. These are important gifts given to Timothy that he's used to call for his ministry, for his edification, for his growth, for his fighting in the faith. Yet the reality is these kinds of spiritual gifts are given to all believers when they are saved. They're distributed by the Holy Spirit. Some examples of these might be service or teaching, exhortation or encouragement. Generosity, leadership, mercy, evangelism, hospitality, or endurance All of these gifts are given for us to do the work of the Lord as believers as we live out his commission and live for his glory. So, what Paul is telling him is that based on his sincere faith and these gifts given to him, the ones that Paul confirmed at his ordination, he has to persevere and never stop building up and using those gifts. It has a wonderful, encouraging tone to it, but let's not forget the context of Timothy's ministry People are being imprisoned and killed for their faith, being dragged out of their homes, beaten and persecuted for the faith. Paul is not presenting this command in a vacuum. He's presenting it in a hurricane. Timothy, you must never give up working out these gifts given to you for the benefit of the ministry, no matter what you are facing. Feeling or fearing. He's not wanting to simply keep it up. He wants it to fan it into a flame. A burning, hot, raging gospel witness powered by the Spirit in direct response to the persecution going on around him. Yet this is true for all believers. You too were given spiritual gifts at the time of your conversion for the building up of the saints. For some, it might be teaching and preaching. For some, it's evangelism, relationships, or hospitality, gifts you use in your everyday life as you stand as a witness for Christ. It also includes the faithfulness needed to be a godly husband or wife or child, and you too are to fan and to flame these gifts every day. You see, Paul's chief concern for Timothy, and by extension us, is that we would persevere in this faith and use these good gifts in the rising tide of opposition, whether in ministry or simply in our day-to-day lives. That we would endure with a burning hot conviction and desire for the gospel and his glory. Paul wants Timothy to continue boldly. even though he's facing the reality that he could be captured, tortured, beaten, imprisoned, or even killed for such a fire. But Timothy, or sorry, Paul also knows this. He knows that Timothy's biggest enemy to this type of courageous faith. is fear. And he makes his appeal, already knowing the decision that Timothy and we need to make in times of trial. In fact, there's simply just two choices he can make. In light of this command, the fan in the flames of the Spirit, we can be tempted to cowardly fear or courageous faith. So let's turn our attention now to these two responses. These two choices. Let the word stir our hearts and our minds. The decision that's before us each this morning and every day as we work out and work to fan the flames of these gifts. Let's look at the first choice. Choosing cowardly fear. Look at verse 7. He says, for God gave us a spirit not of fear. Now even saying this out loud, I don't think there's a soul in this room that likes being called a coward. I realize the weight of that term. It digs right into our pride. Yet I believe this is what Paul is warning Timothy against in the first part of this verse. Let's look at the text He said, for God gave us. See, Paul now is making an important distinction that what he's now talking about applies to all believers. He's saying us, not just Timothy, but Paul and Timothy and us together. It's the same promise that Paul relies on, and it's the basis of his exhortation to fan and to flame these gifts. He gave it to us, all believers. But you're probably reading ahead and you've noticed something in the next word. The spirit. The spirit here is lowercase. Which tells us something. The Spirit is not capitalized due to the negative connotation of what this is, and we know that this is not speaking of the Holy Spirit. This is talking more about a spirit that is like an attitude or a disposition of man, not a gift of the spirit. Because we know that spirit is fear. You see, the disposition of man in his natural sinful state is one of fear. The word used here translates into cowardice, timidity, and fear. It is the lack of the ability to face danger, discomfort, or difficulty. The object of this fear can be anything and everything that surrounds us on the earth, but the one thing it cannot be is the fear of God. In this sense, it is an improper ordering of fear, is being more scared of what's in front of you than God or his commands. To fear man over God, to fear relational conflict over God's truth, to be more fearful of rejection than God's expressed will. To be more fearful of physical death than eternal damnation. Lest we forget what the Lord said in Matthew 10 when he says, Do not fear those who kill the body, but cannot kill the soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. You see, this type of fear pulls back. This type of fear is passive This type of fear is retreating. It's impotent. It's unkind. It's ashamed. It's defeated and it's cowardly. But we also know about this fear. Is that this is not a spirit given by God for his work. Look at verse 8. He says As Paul says, do not be ashamed. This is the same contrast of the spirit that he's talking about. In verse 12, he says, I am not ashamed. Paul is speaking about this type of fear, and he's like, that's not me I'm not ashamed. Paul even calls out some of the men who embodied this fear. If you look down at verse 15, these men turned away from Paul during the hard times, siding with cowardice over courage. See, in Paul's mind, choosing fear to react to the situation by cowardice is a retreat unacceptable for those who know the truth of the gospel. He declares that this was not a spirit given by God. So by implication, you've been given a spirit by God, and this is not it. Do not choose fear. Do not choose cowardice. This is not the spirit you were given. Let's look at his support in verse 8. He knows where the true gift of the Spirit comes from and why he fights this. He says, therefore, do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord, nor me his prisoner but share in the suffering for the gospel by the power of God, who saved us and called us to a holy calling, not because of our works, but because of his own purpose and grace, which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began. And which now has been manifested through the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who abolished death and brought life and immortality to light. through the gospel, for which I was appointed a preacher, an apostle, and teacher, and which is why I suffer as I do, but I am not ashamed. For I know whom I have believed, and I am convinced that he is able to guard until that day what he has entrusted to me. A response of fear neglects the deep, wondrous, convincing truth of the gospel that has been entrusted to each of us. is a truth that stands in contrast to fear. It's what propelled Paul to not succumb to fear what he was facing. He says, I know whom I have believed. So as Paul addresses Timothy in this command to keep working out, keep persevering the faith, building up those gifts, even in the range of difficulties he's facing. But he knows Timothy is going to have to make that decision, not to repeat in fear, but to trust the gospel. So what about you, Christian? As I look through the audience this morning, I see many precious faces of the saints who have who know very well the pain of perseverance. The difficulty of fanning to flame these gifts in the Christian life in this evil world around us. How hard it is to persevere when the world is working against you, against the faith in our lives as believers. Fear is always tempting us. And it takes many forms. It might be not speaking of our Lord in a group of mixed company, fearing man over the Lord. It might be being a passive husband or father, not living by his word. It might mean avoiding that needed conversation because of the emotional reaction it might cause even though God's word demands it. See, these choices are summed up in fearing something more than God. To put ourselves and our own security, whether that's physical or emotional, ahead of God's perfect will and plan. To trust in your own abilities, your own decision-making rather than the holy and righteous will of God. Choosing cowardly fear is not the choice that Paul wants Timothy to make, and is not the one that he would want any of us to make, because he knows we know the gospel. The choice does not acknowledge the gospel, the power of God given in the Spirit, its rule and its reign in our lives, and is not the Spirit given to us. But this is not the end of the line. Paul continues to elaborate this point showing us the other choice that can be made We are not tied to the spirit of fear. We are not given into this. Like the old man, we can throw apart that away from the flesh, and we can make a better choice. And that choice is for courageous faith. Choosing courageous faith. Let's look at the rest of verse 7. It says, For God gave us a spirit not of fear, but of power, love, and self-control. This but here is an indication of the giving of a contrary spirit. This time we know these gifts are given by the Holy Spirit due to the positive nature of these and their reciting from verses like Galatians 5 and other places in Scripture. These are indeed attitudes given by the Holy Spirit to the believer. We know that there are more fruits of the Spirit. Yet Paul is honing in his message to Timothy on these specific ones. These are essential to what Paul foresaw that Timothy needed to know for the challenges that faced him. You see, these three attitudes are essential for choosing courageous faith. Let's look at each one of them. Power. You see, the Holy Spirit produces a power in the believer, the one that opens the door to a forcefulness and authority in your life that is rooted on the Word of God. See, the power that Paul is speaking of is enabled of God's people to be authoritatively standing on the Word of God above all opposition, all conflict, all emotion. It is a power and a confidence in that the Word of God is an everlasting truth and must be obeyed. See, the power of God stands above emotions, it stands below philosophy, it stands above the rulers of this world. We can say in our hearts and with our lips, your word is truth, and trust in that truth. As his ambassadors, we go out into the world under his authority. But his authority is over all things, all relationships, all work, all family, all government, all society. There is nothing that is above the authority of God. And this power has been given to us that we can boldly approach living in this world knowing that we are guided by the victor, the mighty and powerful God. That is the true power of the Christian life. When you address every aspect of your life as an ambassador of Christ, being under the will of God and working out his will through every aspect of your life. That is the power. But he gives a second element. Love. This is a love that can overcome even the most difficult of oppositions and persevere in a Christ-like sacrificial love. The essential characteristic of our Lord spoken of his mercy and salvation is love. God so loved the world. This word for love is the well-known Greek term agape, which is a volitional kind of love, meaning it's not sentimental or emotional, it's actually expressed in the root of the will, by reason, into action. It's a love that's called into action on behalf of another. It's not a permissive love, but it's one that's informed through the Word of God as we act out in love for others. Like Christ who came to serve, we are to love our fellow brothers and sisters as well as seek the loss with this kind of love. It's a love for others that overflows from our love of God. As we follow our Savior, this power is a selfless, sacrificial love. And yet there's one more. He says self-control. The Holy Spirit also produces in us a self-control that exhibits great restraint and determination to make the right choice during challenging situations. The word literally means having control over oneself. This is the last of the fruits of the Spirit we know from Galatians. It is an internal moral mastery. It is not simply a rationality or a human discipline. It is something spirit-given. Many of you are familiar with 1 Corinthians 10. 13, where he says, No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. Even the temptation of fear. God is faithful and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation, he will also provide a way of escape that you may be able to endure it. It's because the Spirit of God is working in us and allows us for us. In Philippians he says, for it is God who works in you both to will and to act for his good pleasure. This spirit of self-control tells you that you are not stuck in a life of fear as a believer. The Holy Spirit is giving this ability to choose courageous faith. You are not bound and stuck to a spirit of fear See, Paul highlights these three attributes because together they are the antidotes to fear and what we must live in. The complete trust of the authority of God and his word gives us a spiritual power and strength to face the lies of this world. It allows us to stand with our backs straight as we face this evil world. Love pervades our hearts, giving us the disposition in our spirit to fight selfishness that's associated with most fear. The self-sacrificial nature of God's love does not allow for self-preservation in the face of difficulties. God showed his love for us that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Our Savior paid the greatest sacrifice, and our lives should follow. And self-control enables us to acknowledge the desires within us and take every thought captive. It allows us to govern our speech, our appetites, our angers, our ambitions, our impulses, and put ourselves under the yoke of God. It is by this Spirit that we put to death the deeds of the body. See, no matter what Timothy is facing, it does not change the truth of God and the power given to him. He is the fan into flame by the power of the Spirit, the power of the authority of God's Word, the truth of the gospel over any situation that might arise. He's to work in love, pouring himself out like a drink offering, self-sacrificial, not self-preserving, not a very easy thing to do when you're facing great fear. And to remember that he's been given a spirit of self-control. Now by holy wisdom and awareness, he can choose not to fall into temptation, but to remain in the truth. Paul even gives examples of this right in his own letter. It is this power, love, and self-control that Paul uses to share in the sufferings by the power of God. That's what he's referring to. It even gives a call out to Oniforus in verse 16, who's mentioned because of his courageous faith that stuck with Paul during Paul's imprisonment. But we also have this same spirit in us. It's a spirit of self-control that we too can choose to stand on the promises of God, in the power of God, and the love of God, and face any situation that may attempt to cripple our faith. With fear. So this decision has been presented to Timothy. Considering the spiritual reality around him and the trials he faces in his life. He can succumb to cowardly fear, forgetting his calling, forgetting the gospel, or he can act in the power of love Power and love and self-control and persevere and fight with courageous faith. So what about us? How are we to take this admonition to heart today? We too are to fan the flame of the gifts of God in our lives no matter what challenges and trials we face. Yet the temptation to fear is many. How should we approach fears like this in our lives? So I want to use Paul's admonition this morning as a bit of a framework for you to think about your own fears. What I see essentially are four questions that can be used to address any fear in the Christian life. The first one is, what am I fearing? The spirit of fear was not given to you, so question that fear. The second question, what does God's word say authoritatively over this situation? What is the power and the authority of God that you can stand on and trust in above this fear you're fearing? That's the power. Thirdly, am I loving myself or others? You know the power of love seeks to bring the authority of God's word to serve others, not preserve ourselves And lastly, what can I do differently? We've been given the power of self-control to break the grip of fear in our lives. These four questions can serve as a helpful tool as you bring the authority of God over the fear and the truth of the gospel as you work through these things throughout the Christian life. But in terms of deeper application, I want to address three specific fears that I believe are probably likely in the room this morning. The first is the fear of man. Although we are very unlikely, unless the thing changes, to undergo physical persecution in our lives here. Yet we are all very prone to the culture's insistence on personal autonomy, authority of emotions, subjective truth that can instigate the fear of man in any of us. The fear of man is tricky because it takes many forms. The fear of conflict, we all want to avoid conflict and discomfort, especially if we're a people-pleasing kind of person. Conflict can be hard if we're in a relationship where emotions have been weaponized to win conflict even over the truth of God. The same questions could apply in the form of fear of man and the fear of rejection, a close cousin to the fear of conflict. Fear of rejection stems from our response to preserve ourselves. And our pride, which is rooted in something other than the promises of God. So let's look at that first question. What are you truly fearing Do you fear people really knowing your weakness that you might be rejected? Do you fear being inadequate due to some physical or some experience you've had in your life? Do you fear the emotion of another person's reaction to you? You see, once we identify what we're truly fearing, We can ask ourselves the next question. How does the word of God stand over that fear? The power over that kind of fear. So let's take our second fear, the fear of loss. The same applies when we think about the fear of loss Outside of relationships, it might be some kind of financial security, like money or possessions. We might fear these things, but we must stand on the truth of God. Luke 12, he says, take care and be on your guard against all covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions. How deeply our lives in Christ are mitigated by our willingness to suffer loss for Christ. Even though homes can be repurchased, jobs could end, markets could disappear, investments could vanish, treasures on earth, moth, and rust will destroy. These are all examples of things we fear losing and prevent us from living as bold as we could for the gospel. Once we know that fear, we can ask that second question, what does God's word say over this situation? Has he not said in Matthew 6, but seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and these things will be added to you? Has he not said, Do not lay up for yourself treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourself treasures in heaven? Or neither moth nor rush destroy, or thieves do not break in and steal, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. He also says, and everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or fathers or mothers or children or lands for my name's sake will receive a hundredfold and will inherit eternal life Do those promises speak more powerfully than your fear of loss? Can you choose to live by this word rather than your fear? Then you can ask yourself the next question. Is my response one of self-preservation or service to the Lord or to others? And then finally, what do I need to do differently by the power of self-control to not succumb to this temptation to fear? These four simple questions can help us not fall into a spirit of cowardly fear, but one of courageous faith, powered by the Spirit, anchored in the authority, the authority of his promises. That are stronger than fear. The last fear, the fear of death Some of you here this morning, I know, do not know the Lord Jesus Christ. Scripture says that the wages of sin is death. And you will die in your sins, possibly even today. I know that you have no truth in what will happen to you when you die. But I know you fear death because fear is the spirit that you have. I've seen it on the face of one dying without the Lord. You fear its pain. You fear the idea of life ripping apart from your body. You fear the idea that maybe you're wrong in what you're trusting in That maybe this Bible that we talk about, and it its destruction of how it talks about those going to hell in eternity, that it may be right, and you can't shake that fear. You've tried, and you're trying. Yet the Bible is absolutely clear that those who die without trusting in Christ as their Savior will enter the fire where there's weeping and gnashing of teeth for eternity. My friend, ask yourself, are you willing to trust in your unvalidated claims and emotions? Are you willing to stand on the truth of God in the gospel? That the Lord Jesus Christ, who walked on this earth 2,000 years ago in history and in time, came down to pay the penalty for your sin. That in believing in him, in his death, you might have forgiveness of sins and eternal life. Jesus says, truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life. If that voice of doubt in your mind is getting louder and you know you have sinned and you don't want to die in your sins, repent and believe in Jesus Christ. I would be delighted to speak with any of you after this and share more of the good news of Jesus Christ because there are those sitting around you this morning. Who will say with Paul, O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting? They do not fear death the way that you do. They like Paul are saying in the end of this verse, henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness Which the Lord the righteous judge will award me on that day, and not only to me, but to all who have loved his appearing. That is the joy of the saints. They do not fear death. They stand on the promises of God in their life in Jesus Christ, and they will dwell with him in paradise. You too can face fear without death. Or sorry, face death without fear. Do not put it off another day. I pray that the Spirit would convict you of this this morning. Yet as we leave here this morning, let us remember Paul's admonition. Fan into flame this gift of God. Build up your faith and confidence even though trials abound. Choose courageous faith. God has not given us a spirit of fear. But one of power, love, and self-control. May the Lord bless you as you seek Him and trust in this promise to live boldly without fear in following Him Let's close in prayer. Father, you are the giver of good gifts worthy of all of our lives. Thank you for giving us a spirit of courageous faith, Father. Help us in our temptation to fear, to choose to live in the power of the Spirit as we stand on your promises. Let us go out of here, Father, renewed, rekindled, fanned to a burning flame to be your holy body for the work you have graciously given us in this world. And we ask this in your Son's precious name. Amen.