You can turn in your Bibles if you'd like to Genesis chapter 3. Stories told of a Pastor, a Boy Scout, and a computer expert who were the only passengers on a small private plane. The pilot came back to the cabin and said the plane was going down and they had a problem. There were four people in the plane, but only three parachutes. And the pilot quickly added, I'm going to take one of the parachutes because I have a wife and three small children and they need me. And so he quickly jumped out of the plane. And just then a computer whiz stood up and said, I should have one of the parachutes because I'm the smartest man here and everyone needs me. And so he took one and jumped out. The pastor turned to the Boy Scout and said, I've lived a full life and I know the Lord, so, son, you can take the parachute. And the Boy Scout said, relax, Reverend, the smartest man in the world just picked up my backpack and jumped out Pride is often ridiculous. And the reason why pride is ridiculous is because it's a distortion of reality. Pride is like viewing oneself in a house of mirrors. It is so distorted and exaggerated that it leads to others. It is humorous. If you were not with us last week, we started a study on humility. And this morning we're going to continue that study by looking at the opposite. trait of humility, which of course is pride. One way to better understand the definition of something or the concept of something is to know the opposite meaning of it And that's what we hope to do this morning. Last week we discovered that humility is an accurate assessment of who you are in light of who God is. Those two components help to define what biblical humility is. It's an accurate understanding of who you are In light of who God is. And pride, of course, is the exact opposite. Pride is living with an inflated view of yourself because of your blindness. to who God is. While humility is an accurate assessment of who you are, pride is a delusional viewpoint. of who you are. This is why a saint from the seventh century said, pride is utter poverty of soul, disguised as riches. Imaginary light where in fact there is darkness. Now most people can see pride in others very easily. But we tend to be somewhat blind to it in ourselves. And even when we acknowledge that we struggle with pride, we tend to see it not as a serious problem. It's just kind of a humorous flaw that we have that manifests itself every once in a great while, but not really anything to be concerned about. But that is not the way the wisest men who have ever lived have understood this problem. Benjamin Franklin, a man who was not a believer, but was a keen observer of human nature, said in his autobiography, there is perhaps no one of our natural passions. So hard to subdue its pride. Beat it down, stifle it, mortify it as one pleases. It is still alive. Even if I could conceive that I had completely overcome it, I should probably be proud of my humility. One man who I think has the most perceptive things to say about pride is the great colonial preacher Jonathan Edwards. He writes, Alas, how much pride have the best of us in our hearts. It is the worst part of the body of sin and death. The first sin that ever entered into the universe. And the last that is rooted out, it is God's most stubborn enemy. Edwards on another occasion, writing to a young lady, said, Pride is the worst viper that is in the heart. and the greatest disturber of the soul's peace and sweet communion with Christ. And in another book he says, pride takes many forms and shapes. and encompasses the heart like the layers of an onion. When you peel off one layer, there is always another underneath. C. H. Spurgeon said, the demon of pride was born within us, and it will not die one hour before us. And we could go on multiplying quotes about pride, but what's most important for us to consider, of course, is what God says about pride. What I want us to see this morning is that pride is not a tiny flaw in your character. But a major source of many of your problems. This is why we should all, by God's grace, seek to root out pride from our lives and come to hate it and fight against it. And I want us to find three biblical reasons why this should be the case today. And the first one is this because every single one of us has a problem with pride. That is why we must fight it. There are no exceptions here today. Every single one of us has a problem with pride. Now, perhaps you know some fine people that appear to be selfless and giving, and you can imagine that they have pride in their hearts. But the scriptures would say otherwise. I think one reason that we might object to this is because we fail to understand the many manifestations of pride. You see, pride does not always appear as an arrogant raggart who walks around insulting people. No, pride can be well disguised. So let me take a few moments and talk about the various manifestations of pride. And let me just say that certainly this is not exhaustive. But for time's sake, we're going to cover a number of them in a very concise way. First of all, pride manifests itself in seeking to live independently of God. I hope that you're in Genesis chapter 3. This of course is the account of the fall. Verse 1. Now the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made. And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden. And the woman said unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden. But of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die. And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof your eyes shall be open, and ye shall be as God's knowing good and evil And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof. and did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her, and he did eat. And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons. Now there's an awful lot that could be commented on here, but I want us just to focus on this one thing. Notice the devil questions God's motives in verse 5. He says that God has forbidden you from eating of this fruit, and he has an ulterior motive. He doesn't want you to be like him. He doesn't want you to be all-wise. He doesn't want you to have the powers that he has. He doesn't have your best interest at heart. Therefore, do not trust him. Do not obey him. And what we see here in this original fall, this original sin here , is that mankind seeks instinctively to live independently of God's. People don't mind believing in God. Most people say they do believe in God. But they don't want God to have any say in how they live their life. They want to live life on their own terms. as if they were a little god who is the sovereign of their little universe. You see, pride manifests itself in seeking to live independently of God. It also manifests itself in seeking to exalt itself above God. If you would like, you can turn with me to the book of Isaiah, chapter 14. I don't have time to explain all of the context here. This is a prophecy about a pagan king, but Bible scholars have for many, many centuries understood this. As really giving us information about the fall of Satan. In Isaiah chapter 14 and verse 12, I want you to notice what it says here. Isaiah 14 verse 12, how art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning? How art thou cut down to the ground? which did weaken the nations. For thou hast said in thy heart, I will ascend into heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation in the sides of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will be like the Most High. And what is striking about this passage are the five I wills. And they all speak of promoting self. Scholars believe that Satan was originally one of the highest ranking angels, but he had this ambition to be in the place of God, and so he fell, and a number of angels who were loyal to him fell with him. And that is the origin of the devil and demons. You see, pride is literally satanic. It is the idolatry of self. It is saying, I really want to be my own God. I want to live life on my own terms. I want my will to be done. And would you notice with me thirdly that pride manifests itself in rejecting the warnings of God? I want us to move ahead just a little bit to the book of Isaiah. Isaiah, Jeremiah. And we're going to turn to the chapter 13, if you would, please. Jeremiah chapter 13. Prophet Jeremiah is a very interesting prophet. Sometimes the Lord had him do things. That were symbolic of spiritual truth. And we read something curious to us at the beginning of chapter 13. God tells him to take a linen girdle And he is to take it down by the sides of the river Euphrates. He's to dig out a rock and he's to stick it down in that little muddy hole and then bury it over, and then after many days he's to come back. Now this What's said in our version here, linen girdle, is is a loincloth or an undergarment. And he's to go back after many days and dig it out, and he's to look at it and see that it's soiled and it's rotten and it's worthless. And then he makes this application. I'll begin reading at verse 7. Then I went to the Euphrates and digged and took the girdle. from the place where I had hid it, and behold the girdle was marred, and it was profitable for nothing. Then the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Thus saith the Lord, after this manner will I mar the pride of Judah and the great pride of Jerusalem. This evil people which refuse to hear my words, which walk in the imagination of their hearts and walk after other gods to serve them and to worship them shall even be as this girdle which is good for nothing The people of Judah did not listen to the prophet's warnings. They did not listen to God's word of warning, and they went their own way. They rejected it. And now God says. That judgment is coming. Pride manifests itself in rejecting the warnings of the Word of God. A person who is proud, Proverbs says again and again is un They do not receive correction. They do not receive rebuke. They will not be told the wrong. They will not be told the path they are traveling is a dangerous one that leads to destruction. Proverbs 29. 1 says, He that being often reproved hardeneth his neck shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy. The idea is his person is repeatedly through the authority in their life, counseled and warned, but they do not receive it. They stiffen their neck and they say, I will not comply. I will live life on my own terms, and God says that person will be destroyed. I can't tell you how many times people have come to see me about issues. And it wasn't necessarily a gray matter or something difficult that took a great deal of wisdom. It's very clear it's black and white what the Bible says about this and you open up your Bible and you read the verses to them and they say, well, you know, I just can't do that, or that's not going to work in my life. Or if I did that, I would never be happy again, and they just utterly reject it. It is the sheer arrogance that leads people to ignore the warnings of God's word. Pride is also revealed in the self-focus of our speech. You want to know where someone's heart is? Listen to their words. Psalm 31, 18 says, Let the line lips be put to silence which speak grievous things proudly and contemptuously. How much of our lying is due to pride? We lie to cover up things that embarrass us, or we lie to enhance our reputation. Jesus said, out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. So what do your words say about your heart? Do you tend to turn every conversation you have into a discussion about your problems or your achievements. Do you find that in conversation you desperately are looking for an opportunity to impress people with how much you know or how much you've done or how much you've seen. You can always top their story with something even more impressive. Or do you find that even when you're listening to people, you're only thinking about what you can say next and turn the conversation, as it were, back to yourself? So often our pride is manifested in our words. And pride is also manifested in our strained relationships with others. Proverbs 13 says 1310 says, only by pride cometh contention. And Proverbs 28. 25 says, he that is proud of heart stirreth up strife. Let me ask you a question. Do you have trouble getting along with people? You know what the reason is? There's only one. Pride. Are there family members that you are estranged from? Are there currently people in this church that you will not talk to? Do you find that you are often hurt by the comments of others? Do you go through the day? Playing in your mind conversations that you've had with people where they have said something that was very hurtful and painful for you. And you feed on that. You play it over in your mind again and again. And maybe you have this grand scenario in your mind where you tell them off and you really put them in your place. And it feels really satisfying. And this is all taking place in your head. Or maybe when someone really hurts you and you really get infuriated about it, then you call up all your friends and tell them what was said. to you and they of course support you and they amplify and they help to just build up that anger in you of how outrageous it was that somebody would say this. Pride is so wasteful. I cannot tell you how many times I've talked to people that they are still replaying a 12-second conversation that took place five years ago that the person who said it doesn't even recall it. But for them, it's their companion every day. Because they are outraged about what was said. The refusal to forgive is a declaration of pride. Anger and bitterness are rooted in pride. They are the fruits of a self-focused life. There are many more manifestations of pride than I have time to cover. I'm not going to turn to the scriptures for these. I'm just going to throw them out like darts. Pride is manifested in our ingratitude. We don't say thank you. We're not moved by the generosity of others because we believe we deserve it. It's manifested in self-pity Of feeling sorry for yourself and going around and pouting and listening from everyone. I'm so sorry, things are so bad for you. And that's your conversation every day. On the other hand, it's shown in immodest dress, in materialism, a focus on gaining status symbols that will show everyone that you have truly made it. It's manifested in the condemning spirit that every time you see a little wisp of a flaw in someone, you quickly point it out to everyone so that everyone sees that person is far from perfect. And seen in things like racism, the idea that somehow we are superior to those who are different from us. It's demonstrated in violence when we aggressively coerce people to do our will. It's manifested in a critical and complaining spirit because when we are tearing other people down, it somehow elevates us and makes us feel better about ourselves. Maybe you feel you're doing all right. Let me continue. What about pride is shown in prayerlessness? You know why we don't pray? This is very profound, because we don't think we need to pray. We don't think we really need God's help. We don't think we really need Him to intervene in our lives. So we go on our merry way, living life on our own terms, until some real crisis comes that we can't handle. Then we turn to God's. Our pride is demonstrated in our lack of compassion for those who suffer. How often do we hear of people Even people we know who are in horrible straits, who have lost loved ones, who have some very debilitating disease, and we just say, oh, that's just too bad. And we really never give another thought about it I've only scratched the surface. I've only scratched the surface. You see, pride. is in all of us. Pride is something that is a profound problem. And this is why we must hate our pride. Because we are all proud in some way. The second point I want to make is this that we must hate our pride and fight against it. Because no one has a good reason to be proud. Now, I wonder what you think of that. Maybe you think it's a little harsh or untrue. If there's something inside of you that rebels that say, I have good reason to be proud. Yeah, that's pride We have a real problem with pride in our culture today for one reason it's inherent within our nature. But secondly, as our culture, our society becomes further away from biblical norms. We have a culture that actually supports arrogance and pride and self-exaltation. You see this with our celebrities, with our athletes, even our politicians, on and on the list could go. And this is part of sometimes, and I don't want to get off on a philosophical tangent here, but one of the biggest problems that people think we face today is that so many people have low self-esteem. Now, for most of Western culture where the gospel is going forth, we have taught people that pride is their enemy and that their problem is not that they think lowly of themselves, but they think far too highly of themselves. But within the last generation, there's been a huge reversal of that traditional thinking. And so for about a generation, the experts have worked under the premise that the reason why people fail in life or why they're antisocial or why they turn to crime is because they don't believe in themselves. They don't think they're any good. They don't think they really are exceptional or they have any specific talents or gifts, and because they think they're worthless, they act out like somebody who's worthless. That's That's the the the the narrative that has been set, and that's what most educators believe and so forth. And so now for a generation We have been working hard to tell everyone that they are superior and that they are actually exceptional. And so we give trophies to everyone, and we inflate grades so that most people get A's and B's. And everyone tells everyone that they are absolutely outstanding and exceptional and awesome and unbelievably gifted and talented But that approach doesn't seem to be working very well. It hasn't produced the results that some people thought that it would. Don't get me wrong, studies have shown that young people today have never felt better about themselves than they do now. Let me give you some examples of this. You know, in order to get into college, you have these questionnaires and entrance exam questions. In a recent year, one of these exams that had over 800,000 participants who responded to They were asked to rate themselves on this question of sociability, of getting along with people. Do you get along with people and you could say That you were above average or you were superior, above average, average, below average, or that you struggled to get along with people of over 800,000 applicants. No one was below average. Can you believe that? Not one person that took this questionnaire of over almost a million people, not one person was average. They all have no trouble getting along with people. So another survey. That said that 98% of people say that they are either above average or average as drivers. 98 %. I don't know why I keep running into those two percent. Ninety-six percent of parents Feel that they are average or above average parents. I have never had anybody come to me and say, Pastor, I'm really struggling as a parent. I'm a poor parent. They will come to me with the opposite premise in their minds. 83 % of people feel that they are average or above average in showing compassion to people. Did you know that? 83 %. And this applies even in the religious realm. Several years ago, U. S. News and World Report did a survey about heaven, and they had a list of all these celebrities and prominent people in the news and politicians, and the person was asked to say whether or not they thought this person would make it to heaven. Now the person who finished number two in the sample was Mother Teresa. You know who finished number one? The person taking the poll Okay? Most people felt that they would go to heaven, but these celebrities and these famous people, even known for their charitable work, I'm not so sure about them, but I'm sure I'm going to make it So you see, we really do have an inflated view of ourselves. In fact, the word average doesn't really mean anything anymore. Did you know that? Average means you're not very good at something. It's almost become that meaning in English. Because everyone wants to believe that whatever the task is, they are exceptional at it. They're unique. They're in the top percentage. But that simply mathematically cannot be true. That's not reality. Now a key verse of Scripture that brings us back to reality is 1 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 7. It says, For who maketh thee to differ from another? And what hast thou that thou didst not receive? Those two questions. Who maketh thee to differ from another, and what hast thou that thou didst not receive? Paul is writing the church at Corinth where he says they were puffed up with pride about their spiritual gifts And other things, and the preachers that they followed. And he says, who made you to differ from other people? The obvious answer to this rhetorical question is God. These verses this verse condemns two ways that we feed our pride. First of all, we compare ourselves with others. And 2 Corinthians 10 12 it tells us that comparing ourselves with others is not wise. It is the pastime of fools. But we always are measuring ourselves against others, aren't we? Whatever little group it is, whatever class you take. You're right as long as you're not in the bottom half or certainly the very bottom of how people are going. And even in the question-answer times in a classroom, you're trying to gauge where you are. Well, that guy sounds really smart. Well, that was a dumb answer. That makes me feel pretty good. I played basketball for a very small private high school. And we were not very good, but we had a lot of fun. I'm very glad I did it. We'd play against other small schools and sometimes we'd play against a guy, you know, who would walk into the gym with his adoring fans behind him because he was averaging 30 or 40 points a game. And he walked around like he owned the gym, like he was God's gift to humanity. So talented, so incredibly gifted. And uh and he would assume that, and I would talk to them afterwards, he would assume that he was going to go to college and be a big star and and then maybe go on to the NBA. And sometimes I followed up on some of these phenoms, and you know what? They didn't even make the practice squad of the college they attended Because they were a big fish in a small pond. And when we're in a little small pond, a little a little group of our peers, maybe even a church or a community or whatever, and we might be the best athlete or the best singer or the best piano player or the best preacher or whatever it is and we think I'm really exceptional. We're little fish in a small pond. And if we were somehow to go out into the ocean of the world, we would see that we're really not that exceptional. And even if we are somehow, what if we are the best singer in the world? Well, where did you get that gift from? Did you order it when you were born? No, God gave that to you. It's a gift from God. You see, we have no reason to brag. Another common approach that we take is we take credit for these gifts. He says in this verse, what hast thou that thou didst not receive? Whatever advantages you have financially or intellectually came from God. Now you might object and say, you know, but I've worked hard to get where I am in life. have the house that I have and the car that I have and the closet full of clothes. Yes, but who gave you a mind to learn? And who gave you the special skills that you possess, and who gave you the health to work all of those years? And who placed you in a stable home? Where mom and dad taught you right from wrong and gave you a good work ethic and a good education. The answer to all of those questions is it all came from God. James 1. 17 says, every good gift and every perfect gift cometh down from above. We have some very talented people in this church. People tell me this all the time when they visit here. Some of you can sing like an angel. Others of you can play instruments. Very skillfully. Some of you are very gifted at teaching. There are some folks here that are so creative and so imaginative. Boggles my mind. But you know what? You have no reason to be proud. You have no reason to feel superior because it's all a gift. given graciously by your Heavenly Father, that you might glorify him. We must fight against pride. Because we all have a problem with pride, and yet we all have no good reason to be proud. But the most important point I want you to remember this morning is this: we must fight against pride because God hates pride. and promises to judge the proud. The scriptures are filled with warnings. We simply do not have time to look at them all This is a very frequent theme of Scripture. If you want the judgment of God, live a prideful life. Now I want to answer an objection that I suspect someone has had come into their mind, perhaps today, perhaps at other times, and I've been asked this question several times. It's a good question. But understandably people feel a little irreverent in asking this question. And the question is this, is God proud? Is God proud? I mean, if you went and you worked for a company And the boss, the owner, called everyone in. And he said, I want to tell you what our mission is. The mission of you as an employee here at this company is to glorify me. I suspect you might want to leave that company. And for good reason. You might say, this guy's an egomaniac. I'm not going to work for a person like this. I'm supposed to be working for his glory. I want no part of that. Or if you had someone who said that they wanted you to praise them. all of the time. I think you would have a real difficulty giving them what they wanted. So why is it not sinful for God to call us to worship Him and to live for His glory? Let me give you two quick reasons. There are more, and it would go into more depth, but I'm going to just answer this as a side note in the sermon with two quick reasons. Number one , Because God's greatness is not delusional. It's reality. Remember what we said about humility and pride? Pride is a delusion. This person has an inflated view of self, but it's not according to reality. They have no reason to feel that way. God is truly great. One reason that it's wrong for us to be proud is because it's simply not true. We are weak and wicked creatures, and we are not worthy of glory and worship. But God 's not like us. He is worthy of our worship and our joy and our glory. But a second reason is this. Living for God's glory does not harm us. It actually fulfills us. And God's request that we live for glory is for our goods. And for our satisfaction, we were made to live for his glory and to find our satisfaction in him. Now, normally, of course, it doesn't work this way in the human world. What's the expression that I believe Lord Acton came up with? Absolute power corrupts absolutely. Have you heard that before? Why do we have checks and balances in government? Because human nature is such that if a person has unlimited power, they can do whatever they want. Usually really bad things happen. Because people 's pride leads to absolute selfishness. This is why when you go to totalitarian regimes, You see some person who's living in absolute splendor and luxury, and the other people are living in abject poverty. He doesn't care about them. But God's not like that. The best thing for us is to live for his glory. That's where we find our joy. This is what is good for us. His will is what is best for us. You see, and this may be an astounding statement to you. When you truly understand the definition of humility, you will say this, God is actually the most humble being in the universe. Because who he is and what he says about himself and what he demands corresponds exactly to who he is. It is reality. It is not a delusion. His greatness and glory correspond to reality. And that is why I'm going to hopefully in weeks to come show this that Jesus Christ, his Son, who is a perfect reflection of his heavenly Father, is the most humble man who ever lived on the earth. Because he's reflecting his Heavenly Father. But for us to live an arrogant life Is a fantasy that is harmful to us because it's not true, doesn't work out, and it's harmful to everyone around us. That is why no one wants to be married to a proud, arrogant person. No one wants to really have a proud and arrogant person for their best friend or for their employer. Because it is not fun living with those kinds of people. But God's not like that. He is actually humble, beneficent, doing what is for our good. Now I want you to turn with me to the passage that we read together this morning, Proverbs chapter 6. We have a listing here in Proverbs chapter 6 and verse 16. It says, These six things doth the Lord hate. Yea, seven are an abomination unto him. So what is the first thing that God hates on this list? A proud look. I wonder if you think that's a coincidence that that is number one. I would suggest to you that it is not. I want to show you, as we're going to walk through Proverbs here very rapidly, I want to show you what the Bible says about pride and the judgment that it brings. Turn with me, please, to Proverbs 15. Proverbs fifteen and verse twenty-five. Proverbs 15:25. The Lord will destroy the house of the proud, but he will establish the border of the widow. Look ahead to chapter 16 and verse 5. 16. 5. Everyone that is proud in heart is an abomination to the Lord. Though hand joint in hand, he shall not be unpunished. Look ahead in the same chapter to verse 18. Many of you know this verse. Proverbs 16, verse 18. Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall. This is repeated in the New Testament. With him that thinketh he stands, take heed lest he fall. Don't brag about your accomplishments and where God has put you, because you can very quickly be brought down. And at Proverbs chapter 18 and verse 12, it says, before struck destruction, the heart of man is haughty And before honor is humility. The Puritan Thomas Watson said, the proud man is the mark that God shoots at, and he never misses his mark. This is why we must hate our pride and fight it by his grace. Now, this message that I preach today is probably not going to be passed on to anyone else as an uplifting, encouraging message. It's about as uplifting as going to a doctor and receiving a terminal diagnosis But it's a truth that we need. We need to seek after humility. gracious humility that is wrought in our hearts by the power of God. But until we see our need and how many problems are caused by our pride, we will not seek it. I want to close with this verse. Psalm 138, verse 6 says, Though the Lord be high, yet he hath respect unto the lowly. But the proud he knoweth afar off. Now you may say, well, I thought God knows everything and knows everyone he does. This is speaking here of a relationship. The person who is proud and arrogant will be distant from God. God will not reveal Himself. God will not seem real to them, to those who are proud and self-righteous and seeking to live life as if they were God. So do you want to know God and be known of God? Do you want to be saved? Do you want to be known as one of God's children? Then you must arrogantly you must stop believing that somehow you can save yourself. And you must flee in humble repentance to the cross. You see, the cross. Is the most humbling historical then in the history of the world. The death of Christ on the cross reveals our spiritual helplessness and our need of a savior. But until you see how proud you are, how inherently sinful you are, you will never bow your knee at the foot of the cross. May God help us to hate our pride and to seek his grace that we might become more like Christ. That we might be humble before the Lord. Let's close in prayer Our Father, we confess to you that we are a proud people. We think we can live life On our own terms. Our culture, our society teaches us that we are to believe in ourself, that we are to rely on ourselves. And that we can do it if we just believe. But your word and reality teaches us otherwise. I pray that you would help us to humble ourselves, that you might lift us up in due time. I think, Father, of those here today who are lost in their sins. Who believe right now that somehow they are good enough, that they are morally superior to others. I pray that you'd show them how arrogant this is. Help them to come to the foot of the cross in repentance and humility, and trust not in themselves, but in the Savior that you have provided For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen