If you have your Bibles, please turn with me to Matthew chapter 5. As Pastor mentioned, we'll be looking at the Beatitudes this morning, continuing our study. Through this very precious, very powerful passage of Scripture, the teaching of Jesus. Jesus is a master teacher. And he loved to utilize common everyday things and common everyday events to teach profound truths. Everyone in the dry agrarian culture of first century Israel would have resonated with the idea, the concept, a reality. of hunger and thirst. And so when Jesus says in verse 6, Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied, they would have lived through dry seasons. And had to work in the intense Middle Eastern sun. They understood hunger and thirst much better than most Americans do. We really rarely know anything about hunger. I mean we haven't eaten since breakfast time. Or thirst when we bring our water bottles everywhere we go. We really don't know much about hunger and thirst. In 2012, I went hunting with another missionary friend near an active volcano known as Odonio Lengay in northern Tanzania. At the base of the mountain, there was a beautiful lake known as Lake Natron. But unfortunately, the waters of Lake Natron are deadly to humans and to most animals Many times birds are deceived by the reflection on the water and the presence of water, and they dive into the water and they come up calcified and die. The only birds that seem to survive on the waters of Lake Natron are actually flamingos. And so you'll see millions of flamingos that come to Lake Natron. You'll see this pink hue from the distance. And that pink hue is the flamingos that cover the water, and they eat the algae, and they're they're able to endure the the heat and the acidity of the waters that are there. While we were hunting there, we were traveling around looking for certain animals and driving a land cruiser vehicle through some of the remote areas. Very dry, hot environments. And there's a tribe that lives somewhat in that area known as the Maasai tribe. And the some several of the Maasai children, when they saw our vehicle, which there are very few vehicles, I think we passed one other vehicle. the entire time we were there, which was a couple days, we passed it way off in the distance. So they saw a vehicle, they knew that there were going to be Westerners in that vehicle. And they thought they might be able to come and get something from us. And that's not unusual in many parts of the world. Children come up and they try to get some sort of gift. But this time the Maasai children didn't beg for candy, which is very common, or money. They begged for water. Do you have any extra water that we can have? They knew what it was to be thirsty, to be desperate, to be consumed with the pursuit, the search of water. And that's the reality behind Jesus' words here in this fourth Beatitude. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. A couple of months ago, when we began examining this introductory section of the most famous sermon that has ever been preached, the Sermon on the Mount. This section called the Beatitudes. And the words Beatitudes means blessing, because you'll notice here as we read this morning that each of these sections is punctuated with a blessing. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are those who mourn. Blessed are the meek. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. There are eight blessings that are found in this passage of Scripture. And Jesus is describing the person who is truly blessed. Who is favored, who is worthy to be even envied. This is the type of person that all of us should want to be. But the beatitudes that are given here are not given randomly in some shotgun fashion. They build one upon the other. And the foundation of all the beatitudes is the first beatitude, which says, Blessed are the poor in spirit. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. This is a portrait of someone who is a citizen of the kingdom of heaven. This is what these blessings that are described here are descriptions, citizen descriptions, of those who are kingdom citizens who are born again and on their way to heaven. By the time we reach Matthew 5. 6, Jesus has already described the poor in spirit. And those, as we saw, are those who are bankrupt. They recognize they have nothing, no righteousness of their own to offer to God. They can't come to God and say, look what I have done, receive this and then receive me. They come bankrupt, empty, beggars. And they beg for mercy. This type of poverty of spirit is the door to the kingdom of heaven. Nobody enters the kingdom of heaven apart from poverty of spirit. And Jesus wants to make that very clear. There is no one that is going to go to heaven apart from being poor in spirit. Apart from coming as a beggar to God and pleading with him for grace and mercy. The second Beatitude speaks about those who mourn. specifically mourn over their sin because they recognize their sin for what it is as wickedness in the face of a holy God. The meek that are the ones who inherit the earth are those who have been humbled before God and have learned to trust in God and commit their life to God and then demonstrate that meekness. And now in chapter 5, verse 6, he speaks of a deep spiritual longing, a hungering and thirsting, not for food, not for drink, but for righteousness. for a right relationship with God, a life that reflects God's holiness It's important to understand that Jesus is not calling for self-righteousness. He's not commending a mere outward religious zeal or outward actions that are approved by men. He's pronouncing a blessing on one who is truly righteous and strives after righteousness because he has been given a new heart. And a new desire. So this morning I'd like us to see that citizens of the kingdom of heaven are characterized by a deep desire for righteousness. The first thing I want us to see this morning is that the Christian life begins with a hunger and a thirst for righteousness. If you think about it, hunger and thirst is a sign of life. When a baby is born, it's a beautiful thing. It's an amazing thing. to see that baby placed on the mother's breast and latch on and begin to immediately nurse. It's really an amazing thing. For all nine months in the womb they didn't nurse. But instantly they are given this ability by God and a desire To nurse. And that's a sign of life. It's a sign of health. It's a very good indication And the Christian life also begins with a hunger and a thirst, but it's not a hunger and thirst for food. It's a hungering and thirsting for righteousness. And the reality that Jesus is saying here is that apart from a hunger and thirst for righteousness, there is no spiritual life. If you do not hunger and thirst for righteousness, then you are not a citizen of the kingdom of heaven. It's that simple. But is that important? These words of Jesus are deadly serious. And so it's important for us to not just skim over them, but to really begin to unpack them a bit. To hunger and thirst for righteousness, first of all, means to be aware of your need. Let's just think about this for a minute. If you have ever been hungry or thirsty, and I mean Really hungry or really thirsty, not just this American hunger and thirst where we haven't eaten in a couple hours, then you know what it means to be desperately in need of something. You need food and you need water, and if you don't get it, there's going to be serious problems. The fact is that the conviction that the Holy Spirit produces in a person is very much like this hunger. He exposes our sin. And it's like the pain of gnawing hunger. If your sin has been exposed, your lack of righteousness has been exposed by the word of God and by the law of God, you stand there and you go. I need a righteousness to be right with God. And there's this sense like, how do I become right with God? And it's this gnawing hunger, a pain even, that I must be right with God. That is the work of the Holy Spirit. Convicting us, awakening our conscience, convicting us of sin, and exposing our need of righteousness. Like hunger and thirst, if you ignore the conviction of the Holy Spirit, it will kill you. And like hunger and thirst, if you try to satisfy it with something that is not food or water, that is not righteousness, you will die. Jesus said, I am the bread of life. He said, Come to me and I will give you living water. If you go to any other source to meet that hunger. You will die. He alone is the source of true life Jesus' sermon here, the Sermon on the Mount, is designed to bring us to a realization of our own personal need. our own personal hopelessness about our own righteousness, to come to the place where we recognize we are bankrupt, like the first beatitude mentions. If you go to verse 20 in Matthew chapter 5. We'll see this. We briefly talked about this a few sermons ago, but I'd like to bring it out a little bit more and explain this in relation to this Fourth beatitude. In verse 20 of Matthew 5, Jesus says, For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees. You will never enter the kingdom of heaven. That's a rather amazing statement. Now, when we come to the New Testament, we read the Gospels, we think of the scribes and Pharisees as the bad guys. You know, they're the ones that are enemies of Jesus. But remember who Jesus is speaking to. In first century Israel, the scribes and the Pharisees were the religious elite. These were the conservative, the strict, the religious people who kept the law and guarded the law for everyone. They were the teachers of the law. Pharisees and scribes were known for their very strict religious observances. They were known for praying three times a day, and not just at their meals. But going to the temple and having times of prayer and quoting of Scripture three times a day. They were known for meticulous tithing. They were known for strict Sabbath observances. They were known for fasting twice a week, usually on Mondays and Thursdays These were the religious elite. And what does Jesus say about them? Unless your righteousness exceeds The righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. With that as a background, imagine hearing Jesus' words, you're going, do we have to fast five days a week? I mean, what do we have to do to have the righteousness that is acceptable before God? The amazing thing is, Jesus doesn't stop there. At the end of chapter 5, he says, you therefore must be perfect. As your Father in heaven is perfect. What You can understand why in Luke chapter 13 there was a disciple that came up to Jesus and said, Lord, will those who are saved be few? I mean, it seems like will there be any almost? It makes sense when you understand what Jesus says here. Maybe you're here this morning. And you hear these words like this and you're saying, I mean, really? I know I'm not perfect, but I'm not that bad. Then I want to tell you lovingly, but really firmly based upon what Jesus says here, if you think that, you are not a Christian. You are not a citizen of the kingdom of heaven because you have never been poor in spirit. The doorway into the kingdom is poverty of spirit, and it's a low door. It requires brokenness. It requires bankruptcy. It requires true humility to say, I have nothing. Be merciful. To me, a sinner. That is the nature of this poverty of spirit that brings us to this place where we hunger and thirst for righteousness. So the hunger and thirst after righteousness is to come to God to satisfy the hunger That you have. It is God who makes us aware of his perfect righteousness. What is the righteousness of God? It's God who makes us aware of our utter absence of it. It's God who creates a deep longing for this righteousness so that we can be right with Him. And it's God alone who can give us this righteousness. So many people today have a sense that they are hungering and they are thirsting. They know that there's something missing, but they don't know where to run to to find. The answer to be satisfied. Augustine, the church father, hit the nail on the head when he said, To God, in prayer, You have made us for yourself, and our hearts are restless. until they rest in you. Augustine is basically describing what Ecclesiastes 3 says. That God has placed eternity in our hearts. He's placed a void in our hearts that cannot be filled, that doesn't correspond to anything in this world. And it cannot be satisfied by this world. So if you observe our nation, if you observe people today, if you look at the culture around us, what do you see? Well you see a people that are desperately and even frantically trying to fill that void with any number of things. It could be the pursuit of pleasure. It could be drugs. It could be alcohol. It could be physical fitness. It could be money, power, sex, relationships, travel, sports. Education, shopping. We see this in our culture tremendously because you see people buying things they don't need with money they don't have. What is that? It's trying to fill a void that is created by God, is designed to bring them to God. They're trying to fill themselves, but they come up empty and dissatisfied. Some people try to fill it with religion or even humanitarian pursuits, but every time and every avenue that man tri, they're left disillusioned and empty. The prophet Isaiah speaks of this, saying, Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread? And you labor for that which does not satisfy. That's really a condemnation of our world today. We spend our money for that which does not satisfy, which isn't life-giving. He says, listen diligent to me diligently to me, and eat what is good, and delight yourself in rich food. He says Come to God. Come to God fulfilling. Come and find His righteousness. But don't spend your life and your time and your money and your efforts after that which is utterly bankrupt. But essentially that's what the world does, because they feel the emptiness, they feel the void, they feel the hunger, and they don't know where to go. Only God can give you a righteousness that perfectly satisfies. And only God can satisfy. By you. Whether you are the prodigal son who has tried all these empty pursuits of life, or you're the self-righteous religious person who has tried to be filled with your own righteous works. The solution is still the same. You need to come to Christ. You need to be filled with his righteousness. The Apostle Paul was one of the most righteous people before he came to know Christ. He was the religious elite. He was one of the Pharisees. He described himself not just as a Pharisee, but a Pharisee of the Pharisees. I don't know if that meant he's fasted three days of the week. I don't know. But he was the religious elite. If anybody could have confidence in religious attainments, he said it was me. But he realized when confronted with the law that he was filled with covetousness, he was filled with pride, he was filled with lust, he was filled with envy. And he was condemned, even though outwardly he was right, inwardly he was condemned. And he describes what happened as a result in Philippians chapter 3. And he turned away from those religious accomplishments. And he says this in verse 8, indeed I count everything as loss. Because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish. In order that I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ: the righteousness from God. That depends on faith. The Apostle Paul said, that righteousness that I thought I had, I count as trash. And I want a righteousness from God in Jesus Christ that comes by faith. And he said, and I received that. The last chapter of the last book of the Bible gives this invitation. Let the one who is thirsty come. Let the one who desires take the water of life without price. That's essentially what the Apostle Paul did. He said, I came to Christ and I received the water of life. without price. By grace. I received it by grace through faith. The righteousness of God in Christ Jesus. Let me ask you this morning, have you come hungering and thirsting to God for the righteousness that only He can provide? Do you hunger and thirst because you are aware of your sin and your lack of righteousness? Do you know and feel deeply that you're not just not perfect, but that you are broken and you have no righteousness of your own? If so, the invitation is for you. Come. Repent and receive the righteousness of Christ. But maybe you're here this morning and you say, honestly, I don't think I'm that bad. You know, when you say uh all this stuff, I still don't think I'm not that bad. Again, I know I'm not perfect, but I don't think I'm that bad. I have something I want you to do. Not now. I want you to go home this afternoon. I want you to read Matthew 5. The rest of what this chapter that we're reading here this morning. I want you to read Matthew 5 and examine yourself by the words of Jesus. Let the words of Jesus examine you. And then I would love to talk to you this evening. I'd love for you to come back and say, hey, I read through Matthew 5. Can we talk? I've got questions, or what does it mean? Or help me understand it better. Or I don't think I understand this. I would love to sit down and talk with you. But Jesus in Matthew 5. Is intent on exposing the extent of our sinfulness and the righteous demands of God. And so would you be willing to do that? Just this afternoon, read through Matthew 5. It'll take you 20 minutes. But these are the words of Jesus, and this is deadly serious. So I would ask you to do that. But you know, the beatitudes, and this beatitude in particular, is not only or not even primarily about justification. The fact is that Jesus is speaking to those who are already kingdom citizens. He is speaking to those who have already come through that low door of poverty of spirit. He's come to those who said, they've hungered and thirsted because they're poor in spirit. So when Jesus says, You can know you're a citizen of the kingdom if you hunger and thirst after righteousness. How do you feel about that? How do you feel about that statement? You are a citizen of the kingdom if you hunger and thirst after righteousness. Do you know what it means to hunger and thirst after righteousness as a believer? I hope so. The Christian life begins with hungering and thirsting after righteousness, but it also continues with a growing hunger for God's righteousness. One of the signs of physical health and growth is a strong appetite. You come to the men's prayer breakfast on Saturday mornings, and I love watching these five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten-year-old boys just pile away food. Because they're growing. And they'll be hungry when they get home from the prayer breakfast. They'll be hungry again. They'll be going through the kitchen trying to get more food. You go to a teenager out to dinner and you have this big meal and you're like, well that'll fill them up till like tomorrow And he gets home and he's like, Mom, what do you got for dinner? What? They're growing, they're healthy, they're strong, and therefore they're eating constantly. The same is true in the spiritual realm. An encouraging sign of spiritual health and spiritual strength is hungering and thirsting for righteousness, and the absence of it is actually a sign that you are either sick. So if you don't have a hunger and thirst for righteousness, it is something that you should be concerned about. It is something that should cause you to pause. and evaluate and come before God. So what does Jesus mean by righteousness here? You know, the the Bible talks about righteousness in various ways. In Proverbs 21, 2 it says, every way of man is right. In his own eyes. Every way of man is right in his own eyes. You go out in the street and you talk to anybody, they say, Yeah, I'm a pretty good guy Rarely do you find someone who's like, I'm a piece of trash. Most of them are like, yeah, I'm a pretty good guy overall. I'm not perfect, but I'm a pretty good guy. You know what the next interesting thing is? That in Proverbs 12 it says, the way of a fool. Is right in his own eyes. So everyone else could say, that guy is going down the wrong path. And he's like, I think I'm doing pretty good. Follow me. I know what I'm doing. So what does Jesus mean by righteousness? The Pharisees were masters of external righteousness. They conformed to outward standards. They looked good externally. They performed religious works to be seen and applauded by others. And Jesus condemns them. Because he says the first thing we need to learn about righteousness based upon the Sermon on the Mount here is that true righteousness is an internal righteousness, not merely an external righteousness. In Matthew chapter 6, just the middle part of this sermon, verse 1, Jesus says, beware of practicing your righteousness. before other people, in order to be seen by them, for then you will have no reward from your Father who is in heaven. I think all of us hate hypocrites. We are we have like a hypocrite radar that goes off like that guy's a hypocrite. Yet We all, if we're honest with ourselves, know our own hypocrisy. Let me just ask you this question. Are you the same person at home as you are in public? Are you the same person in your head as you give off in public? Are you the same person in private that you are to other people at church? We like to castigate people for being hypocrites, but the reality is so often we are our ourselves are hypocrites. Jesus condemns external righteousness, and he says that true righteousness is an internal righteousness. It's a righteousness that's grieved by lust in our hearts and not just by adultery. It's an internal righteousness that is grieved over the pride that is revealed in our angry words when husbands and wives argue with one another and they bite and devour with their words. It's an internal righteousness that desires truth in the inner person. Jesus is saying that true righteousness is a righteousness that is consistent internally and externally. Who you are in your mind is the same as who you are in public. Who you are in private or at home is the same as who you are in public. Jesus says, don't do your righteousness to be seen of men. The fact is, God knows our hearts. And God is the one who is the judge. So true righteousness is internal, not merely external. Secondly, it's positive righteousness, not merely a negative one. That is, it's not merely the avoidance of sin, which is important. It's an aspect, it's in a significant aspect of righteousness, but it's a desire for active holiness. It's a God -like righteousness. Look at Matthew 5, verses 44 and 45. We briefly mentioned this already, but Jesus says, I say to you. Love your enemies, and pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his son rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just. and on the unjust. Essentially, Jesus is calling us to a righteousness that is good even to our enemies, that loves even those that are opposed to us. It's a righteousness that is like God 's righteousness. We're called to forgive as we have been forgiven. We are called to love our enemies because God the Father loved us when we were enemies. We're called to be merciful because we've received mercy. We're called to be gracious because God has been gracious to us. It's not just merely the avoidance of sin, but it is the pursuit of active holiness, conformity to God-likeness, to Christ-likeness. So what does Jesus mean by hungering and thirsting? Maybe when I say these things and you look at your life, you see much discontinuity. Between your public and private life, who you are in your head and who you who men perceive you to be. Maybe your heart falters when you see the hypocrisy that's within you, and you say, Oh. To be hungry and thirsty is not to be satisfied. Yet So to hunger and thirst after righteousness is to know a deep personal dissatisfaction with your own spiritual progress. To hunger and thirst after righteousness is to know a deep personal dissatisfaction with your own personal spiritual progress. Let me ask you this. Do you lament your spiritual condition? If you do, that's actually a good sign. If you don't, there's a problem. If you say, yeah, I've pretty much arrived. You know, there might be a little polishing to the left, but pretty much I'm there. You are so far, and you have no idea. The Apostle Paul in Romans chapter 7 said, For I delight in the law of God in my inner being. But I see in my members another law, waging war against the law of my mind, and making me captive to the law that of sin that dwells in my members. Then he says this: O wretched man that I am. This is the Apostle Paul. The guy who wrote this was transported to heaven He heard things that were too wonderful for him to repeat. He had seen the Lord Jesus. He had preached the gospel throughout the Roman world and started more churches than anybody else that I know. And even he had to fight against the indwelling sin. And even he lamented his spiritual strength. Struggle, O wretched man that I am. He hungered and thirsted for righteousness. Do you long for personal holiness? Does your heart say, I want to please God? I long to be rid of the sin that is in my members. I wish this is over with. Well, that's an encouraging thing. Secondly, to be hungry and thirsty is to long for or to have a strong desire for. Hunger and thirst are the two most powerful desires in the human body. If you've ever gone a couple days without food, or even 12 hours without water, then you know a little bit about this powerful desire. To hunger and thirst for righteousness is to have an intense longing for God to know him and to be like him. The man or woman who hungers and thirsts for righteousness longs to be holy. He longs to demonstrate the fruit of the Spirit in his life. on a daily basis in every situation. He longs to know God and to have fellowship with God continually. In 1 John, the Apostle John says this: if we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, We have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all sin. This describes the strong desire to be free from sin because sin separates us and keeps us from fellowship with God. But not even just sin, even the desire for sin. Do you sense within you, Lord, I long for this desire for sin to be gone? I don't want just sin to be gone. I want even the desire that is within me for sin to be completely eradicated. The Apostle Paul gives us a beautiful example of this in his words in Philippians 3. He says, that I may know him. And the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead, not that I have already obtained. Or I'm already perfect, but I press on to make it my own. Because Christ Jesus has made me his own. He says, brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own, but one thing I do. Forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Do you notice what he says in there? He says, I haven't arrived. I haven't achieved. I haven't attained. But I press on. I strive, I long to know Christ and to be made like him. The Scottish Puritan Henry Scougal famously said The worth and excellency of the soul is Is to be measured by the object of its love. The worth and excellency of a soul is to be measured by the object of its love. What do you love? What has first place in your heart? What do you pursue above all things? Do you love Christ above all things? Do you desire to be like Him? Jesus said, My food is to do the will of him who sent me. I desire to do the will of the Father. He says, above all things. So what do we hunger for? Maybe you're here this morning and you hear these words and you say, I do have a desire to be righteous and pleasing to God. God, but it's faint. You might say, my hunger and thirsting for righteousness is weak, and I fear that it's not even true. I would say that weak desire is still desire. And I want to encourage you, Jesus never quenched the fire that was almost out. Instead, he fanned it into life. He blew on it and he breathed on it and he made it a glowing flame. Look to Christ. Confess that is sin. Ask him to give you a desire, to strengthen your desire for holiness more and more. He is merciful. And he knows our infirmities, and he will help. But I want to give you a few things that may help you to strengthen your desire for holiness. First of all, avoid those things that spoil your appetite. Avoid those things that spoil your appetite. Now, if you have children, you know children are like the cookies are over there and mom 's making dinner and they're they go and they grab the cookies and they're like, ah, ah, ah. There's a place for cookies, but it's not before dinner. That's going to spoil your appetite. And you tell them, put those away. Mom's cooking dinner. I don't think it's ever been more important to say to Christians, especially in the West , simplify your life. Simplify your life. Satan is a master of choking out religious affections by enticing us to multiply activities. And I'm not even talking about sin when I say this. But we can become so busy. We have so many activities. We run our children here and there, and we're involved in this and that, and they're all good things. But they choke out. I no longer have time to pursue holiness. What's the song say? Take time to be holy. It takes time to walk with God. To spend in his word. But I'm just so busy. We we want so much. We we desire. We crave so many things. So I have to work longer hours so I can get those things that I really want. You're hungering and thirsting after things that don't satisfy. They spoil your appetite for holiness. Simplify. Learn to be content with less. David said in Psalm 27, One thing have I asked of the Lord, that will I seek after. That I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. What do you say? Ten things have I just no. One thing. One thing. My pursuit, my greatest love, that I may know God. Remember, we read this already. I don't know if you caught it, but in Philippians 3, Paul says, Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own, but one thing I do. Forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead. Pursuing Christ. One thing. A single-minded devotion. John tells us the world is passing away with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever. Can you say one thing I do? Love not simplify. It's okay. It's good. It's helpful. Secondly, avoid those things that are obviously opposed to the righteousness of God. And here I'm talking about sin. Sin deadens our appetite for righteousness. Nothing deadens the hunger for Christ's likeness like sin. James says, put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness, and receive with meekness the implanted word. Which is able to save your souls. Turn from sin so that you can hunger and thirst after righteousness. Thirdly, be where you will be helped on in this pursuit. You know that there are some people who will never help you to have a hunger for righteousness. At the same time, there are people who will help you hunger and thirst for righteousness. Because they are doing that. This is what Hebrews says in Hebrews chapter 10. And let us consider how to stir up one another and to love and good works. Then he says, not forsaking the assembling of yourselves together. The problem is we're so busy. This goes back to simplify. We're so busy, we're so busy doing things and activities that we don't have time to come together and be stirred up to love and to good works to pursue righteousness. Simplify. Be around God's people. Fourthly, spend time in the Word of God, studying the saints of God, but most of all, the Son of God. If you want to know what holiness is, you want to know what righteousness is, look at Christ. Spend time reading God's Word. Think about this for a second. Again. We spend a lot of time reading the news. There's nothing wrong with that. Watching television, there may not be anything wrong with that. Spending time on social media, there probably is a lot wrong with that. But how much time do we spend on those things? And how much time do we spend on the Word of God? Let me encourage you. Read your Bible. Look at Christ. Let me encourage you this. Read good biographies. One of the things that has strengthened me in this area so much is reading the biographies of Christian heroes. And seeing how far I have fallen short of their example and being challenged by that. And lastly, pray. And pray persistently. Give the best time of your day, not what's left over when you're exhausted. Pray. Ask, Jesus says. Seek and not. Be like the like Jacob who was wrestling with the angel, and he says, I will not let you go unless you bless me. Persistently pray, God, increase my hunger for righteousness. The beautiful thing is that Christ promises to satisfy us with righteousness. There is a limited sense in which we will be satisfied with growth in the Christian life as you proceed. But that's not ultimately what Jesus is talking about here. But the fact is, as you grow in holiness, you begin to recognize, like John Newton said, I am not what I ought to be, I am not what I want to be, I am not what I hope to be in another world. But still I am not what I once used to be, and by the grace of God I am what I am. And he was saying, I'm not content with where I am, but I do praise God that he has changed me. And he's continuing to change me. And I'm pursuing after that more and more. But ultimately, what Jesus says here, for they shall be satisfied. He's not talking about fully satisfied in this life. He's talking about full satisfaction which comes in the next life. And it's something that God does. That he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. He will. If he has shown you your own lack of righteousness and he has brought you to faith in Christ, he is even now doing this work through his word, even this morning, but he will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. God Himself will glorify us when this mortal body will have put on immortality. The Apostle John says, Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared. But we know that when he appears, we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is. And the next verse says: everyone who has this hope in him, Purifies himself even as he is pure. This is the last key to increasing our hunger. Looking for that day when we will be satisfied. And then striving towards that because Christ will bring it to completion. May God help us to pursue holiness more each day. Let's pray Father, we thank you for your word. Thank you for creating a hunger and a thirst for righteousness within us. Thank you for Jesus Christ, who is our righteousness. Oh God, help us to long more perfectly for the righteousness of Christ, to be conformed more fully and more perfectly to the image of Christ day by day. Help us to put aside these other things that choke out that hunger and to love supremely our God and our Savior Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen.