Isaiah chapter 7. If I were to ask you, what is the greatest theologian that has ever come from the state of Maryland, I wonder what you would say. There's not really a great dispute about it, at least not among evangelicals. The answer would be Jay Gresham Machin. A man who was born in Baltimore over a century ago, graduated from Johns Hopkins University And became a great defender of the faith, especially in the 20s and 30s. In 1930, he wrote a 400-page book entitled The virgin birth of Christ, it is the definitive defense of the Bible's teaching on this doctrine. This was at the height of what was known as the fundamentalist modernist controversy. The modernists claimed that the Bible's teaching of the virgin birth of Christ was an embarrassment to educated people. To these liberals, the virgin birth was nothing more than a remnant of ancient superstition. And the battleground for this theological skirmish was Isaiah 7. 14. And this text, as we read together this morning from Matthew chapter 1, is of course an essential part of the Christmas story. And so on this Christmas day, I would like us to examine this prophecy. Probably more has been written about our Lord and prophecies concerning him from this verse than any other verse in the Old Testament. tells us that Jesus would be born of a virgin. But to be more precise, it was his conception and not his birth that was miraculous. Last Sunday, if you were with us, we looked at our Lord's genealogy as recorded in Matthew chapter 1. And today we continue where that chapter continues. It goes on to describe his birth, his conception, and it ties it in with this prophecy in Isaiah chapter 7. Matthew chapter 1 says in many different ways that Jesus was born Of a virgin in Matthew chapter one and verse eighteen, a verse that we read together a moment ago. It says, Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise when as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph. Before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. In verse 20, It says, but while he, referring to Joseph, thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary, thy wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. And then in verses 22 and 23 we read, now all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying, Behold, a virgin shall be with child. and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. And then finally verse 25, and knew her not Till she had brought forth her firstborn son, and he called his name Jesus. So you see again and again and again and again in Matthew chapter one, the reader is told that Jesus Christ was born of a virgin. Now the virgin birth of Christ is part of the larger doctrine of the incarnation of Christ. And this truth is a wedge that separates those who believe in God's miraculous work and those who do not. Now the doctrine of the virgin birth was never really a contr matter of controversy until modern times. If you look at any of the ancient creeds of the church. It is found there. The church has always believed in the virgin birth of Christ. But in the 19th century, German rationalists began to remove the search supernatural elements from the Bible And within a generation, their influence was felt in seminaries all across this country. And so by the beginning of the 20th century, There were many preachers who were not ashamed to stand up in church and say, frankly, that they did not believe in the virgin birth of Jesus Christ. This controversy raises the question of what difference does it make whether we believe in the virgin birth of Christ or not? I suspect that perhaps your first response would be that there is a connection between the virgin birth of Christ and the sinlessness of Christ. Indeed, there does seem to be some connection. Now, I heard as a boy in Sunday school that if Jesus was not born of a virgin, he would have inherited a sin nature. And therefore would have been a sinner because the sin nature is passed through the man. Now I suspect that many of you were taught the same thing because I've heard numerous people in this church Inform me of this truth. There's only one problem with that theory. It's not spelled out in Scripture. It is simply a theory. It is true that according to Romans chapter 5, verses 12 through 19, that if Jesus was a natural descendant of Adam, he would have inherited Adam's original sin. But Jesus was not the son of Adam, he was the son of God, as Luke chapter 3 tells us in that genealogy. Having said that, I do not think it is correct to infer that the sin nature comes exclusively through the Father. The Bible does not teach this. Nowhere can you find a verse that tells you that somehow through the genetics of a man, the sin nature is passed on to the next generation. David said in his great penitential Psalm, Psalm 51 and verse 5, in sin did my mother conceive me. And what David is saying there is, I'm a sinner. Because my mother was a sinner. And this is why the vast majority of theologians down through the centuries have discounted this very popular theory. There is every reason to believe that the mother contributes equally to the sinfulness of a child as does the father. This is a dangerous hypothesis to put forth and say this is scriptural truth. Because if you were to carry that theory to its logical end, it would mean that if you could clone a woman That her clone would be sinless. But that, of course, I think is very highly unlikely. And so it's very careful that we say what the scripture says, but we don't go beyond what the scripture says. and make connections that are not there. I know this doctrine is very popular, especially with women. I've heard many women joke about the fact that if it wasn't for men, we would all be sinless. No, the scripture teaches that we are all men and women totally depraved. And so we need to understand what the scripture teaches about this. So what is the significance of the virgin birth of Christ? The virgin birth of Christ points to the identity of Jesus Christ. It tells us something about who he is. And I want to show you this in three different ways in the scriptures today. First of all, the virgin birth of Christ reminds us that Jesus came to save his people. I hope that you're still in Isaiah chapter 7. I'm turning back there now, because we need to always understand the scripture in context And this famous verse in verse 14 says, Therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign. Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. Now, before we can grasp the significance of this verse, we must take a running start at it. Verse 1, it says, it came to pass in the days of Ahaz, the son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, that Razan, king of Syria, and Pikah the son of Remuliah, king of Israel, went up towards Jerusalem to war against it, but could not prevail against it. The backdrop for this prophecy is that the people of Judah, the people in Jerusalem, were facing a real crisis. The king of Judah at the time was Ahaz, and his capital city of Jerusalem was surrounded by the forces of the northern kingdom of Israel as led by King Pikah, and by the nation of Syria, as led by Rezin. These two kings have formed an unholy alliance to crush their neighbor Judah. Their plan was to conquer the city and set up a puppet king who would do their bidding. Anxious King Ahaz goes out to inspect his water supply. This is recorded in verse 3. And it's here that Isaiah's message comes to him. And he says to him, listen, do not be afraid, because this will not come to pass. And so the Lord seeks to calm his fears by giving him a sign. Look at verse 10. Moreover, the Lord spake again unto Ahaz, saying, Ask thee a sign of the Lord thy God. Ask it either in the depth or in the height above. But Ahaz said, I will not ask, neither will I tempt the Lord. And he said, Hear ye now, O house of David, it is a small thing for you to weary men, but will ye weary my God also? And then he says, therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign. Now Ahaz declines the offer of a sign from God. It may sound very humble and pious But it was nothing of the sort. It was hypocrisy. Ahaz was a wicked man. If you doubt me, read second chronicles chapter twenty-eight sometime. He was a Baal worshipper. In fact, he sacrificed his own children. to this pagan idol. Ahaz didn't want the Lord to intervene. He had his own alliances. that he was working on and he had his own scheme to get himself out of this crisis. And so he's basically saying to the Lord, no, thank you. I don't need your help And God says, all right, you won't ask for a sign. I'm going to give you a sign, verse 14. But the sign was not just For Ahaz. Notice in verse 13, it's for all the house of David. It's for all of Judea to understand and consider in days and years and centuries to come. And the you in verse 14 is plural. The Lord Himself will give you, you all, all of Israel, all of Judah a sign. And the sign, of course, was that there would be a deliverer that would be born of a virgin. And he would be the embodiments of God with us. Now, the problem with this is that verses 15 and 16 are puzzling to us. Goes on to say, butter and honey shall he eat, that he may know to refuse the evil and choose the good. For before the child shall know to refuse the evil and choose the good, the land That thou abhor shall be forsaken of both her kings, referring to the northern kingdom that was in alliance with Syria. So this verse seems to indicate that before this virgin-born child would reach maturity the ability to discern between right and wrong and really make decisions, Judah's foes would be defeated. But how can this be because Jesus was not born until 700 years later? So how do we deal with this apparent contradiction? Well, there's several suggestions that scholars make. Number one, It could be that there is a great gap in the prophecy between verses 14 and verse 15. We see this same occurrence often. in the pages of Scripture where two events are put side by side, but yet there is actually a great a great gap of time between them. We see sometimes in Old Testament prophecies that the the first coming of Christ is set right next to the second coming of Christ. And a person reading those verses might think that they are one and same event, but we know from our perspective that there's actually at least 2,000 years between those two segments of prophecy. And so perhaps that's what we have here. Another possibility or explanation is that there is some sort of double fulfillment going on here. Some have suggested that the birth of Isaiah's son in the next chapter is part of the fulfillment of this. He has one of those wonderful Hebrew names, Maher Shahal Hashbaz. It's not a very popular name for boys today. Now, this of course would present the problem because Isaiah's son certainly was not born of a virgin. But it could in some way point to the ultimate fulfillment in Christ. We have examples of double fulfillment, for instance. In the life of David, David had an advisor, a trusted friend, who he went to especially for military counselor. His name was Ahithophel. And if you know your Bible well, you know that Ahithophel betrayed David and sided with one , a man who was trying to take over the throne from David. And David writes about this in his Psalms , his pain and his sense of betrayal, that one, a close friend and advisor who was with him, with thick and thin, would turn from him and deceive him like this. He writes about it in Psalms 41 and 55 and 109. And the scripture takes those descriptions of betrayal and applies them to a man named Judas Iscariot. So there was a fulfillment of that when David was writing of Ahizaphael, but ultimately it pointed to the ultimate betrayal of Judas Iscariot. Maybe that's what we have going on here. What we do know is that God is saying for that immediate audience, That was facing crisis in Jerusalem. He's saying, listen, you do not need to panic. You do not need to form a pagan alliance to get yourself out of this trouble. I want you to know that in just a few years Both of these adversaries, these kings who have conspired against you, will be out of the picture. And we know historically from Scripture that in three years Both of these kings, Raisin and Pika, would be dead. And the crisis, the threats, would be over. But what we find in the New Testament is that the people of God were once more hounded by an oppressor. And in need of deliverance. And that was the people of Israel were under the yoke of Rome. But their ultimate problem was not Rome, just as Judah's ultimate problem was not Syria and the northern kingdom. Their ultimate problem and our ultimate problem is the bondage of sin. That is why when Matthew Refers to this prophecy. He says that this Christ child that would come would save his people from their sin. That's the ultimate deliverer. In the Old Testament we have the book of Judges, which tells us of these deliverers who came and delivered God's people from their foreign oppressors. And we have all these records of other kings who came later and delivered God's people. But all of that was pointing to the ultimate deliverer, the Lord Jesus Christ, who deliver us from our ultimate problem, which is sin. Christmas is a reminder that man needs a savior to save him from his sins. You see, your greatest problem is not your finances. Your greatest problem is not your health insurance. Your greatest need is not medical. It's not your failing marriage or your unruly children. Your greatest problem is your sin. And therefore, the greatest solution that you can ever find is the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what the virgin birth points to. It points to the ultimate deliverer in Jesus. The virgin birth of Christ, secondly, is a reminder that Jesus is the unique Son of God. It says here, behold, a virgin shall conceive. This is an amazing statement. We've grown comfortable with it because we hear it all the time as part of the Christmas story. But those words don't belong together. A virgin shall conceive. This phrase begins with the word, behold. It's calling the reader to attention. Look, consider this. This is amazing. Now I want you to understand that in the Hebrew text here there's actually a definite article Before the word virgin. In other words, it could be rendered not a virgin, but the virgin. The virgin shall conceive. A very specific person. This verse is a battleground between liberals and conservatives. And ground zero of this dispute is this word virgin. I'm not going to take a great deal of time, but I do want to cover this a little bit. The Hebrew word is nauma. It's used nine times in the Old Testament. Refers in Genesis 24, 43 to Rebekah before she was married. It refers it and it's used in Exodus 2. 8 of Miriam, Moses ' sister when she was a young teenager It's used in 1 Chronicles 15. 20 and Psalm 46. 1 , referring to a tune of the day that was known as virgin, and the psalm was to be sung to that tune. In Psalm 68 and verse 25, it's referring to a group of temple musicians who were to have a reputation for purity. And in Proverbs 30 and verse 19, this word is used to describe the mysterious love between a man and a maid, an unmarried young woman. It's also used twice in the book of Song of Solomon, where these virgins are set in contrast to the married woman that is presented in that book. And the ninth and final reference here is Isaiah 7. 14. What is clear, and all the scholars agree, is that this word is never used of a married woman. It refers to a young woman of marriageable age who is chaste and pure. If this text was just saying that a young woman would give birth to a child, what kind of a sign would that be? The Lord says, this is a sign, this is something to get your attention. Well, women give birth to children every day. That would be no special sign. but a virgin conception that results in the birth of a son. Now that is unique And any doubt about this should be removed by the Greek translation of the Old Testament that was done 150 years before Christ. And that rendering, they use this Greek word Parthenos, the same word that's used in Matthew 1. 23, and the scholars are agreed that that word can only mean virgin. This sign was a powerful demonstration that this baby would be unique. It would be the unique son of God. This is exactly what the angel says as recorded. And Luke chapter 1 and verse 35, when Mary asks, How can this be? Seeing I know not a man, the angel responds, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the highest. shall overshadow thee. Therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God This was a spectacular sign that God was doing something unique and sending his only son, the Lord Jesus Christ. This was unprecedented. Yes, God has opened the womb of barren women countless times. We read in the scriptures of Sarah and Hannah and Elizabeth. And their conceptions were miraculous, but not at all on the same scale as the birth of Christ. His birth, his conception was utterly unique. The only one that has ever happened in human history. And this points to the unique identity of the Son of God, the Lord Jesus Christ. Only one child was born to a virgin. And that child is the only Savior that God has provided. He is the only Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. He is the only mediator between God and man. He is the only name given among men whereby we must be saved. He is the only way to the Father. Biblical Christianity, can I say this, is not politically correct. We live in an age where the greatest virtue is tolerance. In being inclusive, we must not exclude anyone, any group, or any claim. But the scriptures reveal that God sent only one Savior. And that he had a unique conception and birth, and that he is the only answer to our problems. If I can speak clearly. Buddha was not conceived in a miraculous way. Muhammad was not born of a virgin. Joseph Smith did not have a divine origin. No, they were all born naturally, like you and me. But Jesus was different. He was conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit in the womb of a virgin. He is the only person to live a perfect life and to die in place of sinners. He is the only human being to rise from the dead and never to die again. This is why the most famous verse in the Bible says, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. And that expression means the unique Son of God. There is no one like him, the only begotten. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. We like to think That life is filled with all of these options like a great buffet. And we have all of these philosophies and all of these theologies and all of these founders of various religions and we can go through and we can choose one of them or we might choose to just walk away and choose none of them. But that's not the way the Bible presents things. The Bible says there is only one option that saves, that will give us eternal life that will save us from our sins, that will give us the forgiveness through God, and that is the option of the Lord Jesus Christ. So let me ask you this morning, on Christmas morning, have you placed your faith and trust in Jesus Christ alone? Is he your Savior? The whole message of Christmas is born this day is a Savior, Christ the Lord. Is he your Savior? Is he your Lord? Is he your only hope of salvation? He's the only one that can save you because he's the only savior that God has provided. And thirdly, I want you to see in this passage that the virgin birth of Christ is a reminder that Jesus is the only way that we can truly know God. It says, and shall call his name Emmanuel. Now we hear this name all the time at Christmas. It's in so many Christmas carols. We see it on greeting cards. We see it on signs. Emmanuel, it's a name intrinsically connected with the Christmas story. Now, Isaiah does not interpret this name for us, but Matthew does. In Matthew chapter 1, he says it means God with us. Now, it's interesting to note that we have no record in the Gospels that Jesus was ever called by this name We never see Mary or Joseph calling him by this name. We never see his brothers or sisters or the disciples or his adversaries or anyone calling him by by the name of Emmanuel. That's because it really is more of a descriptive title than a name, the way we use the term name. It tells us something about who that person is. It tells us that God has come to earth Now, the concept of the presence of God, of God with us, sometimes called by theologians the Emmanuel concept, is found all through the Old Testament. We read of God being with Abraham. In Genesis 26, we read of God promising that he would be with and bless Isaac. In Genesis 28, we read of Jacob sleeping out under the stars. And he sees as it were a ladder extending up to heaven. And God says to Jacob, I am with thee and will keep thee in all the places whither thou goest. In Genesis 39, we read four times that God was with a man named Joseph, even as he served in Potiphar's house. In Joshua chapter 6, we read of fearful Joshua. At the conquest of Jericho, and the Bible concludes this chapter by saying, And the Lord was with Joshua. In 1 Samuel 18, we read of a boy named David, and the Bible says the Lord was with him. And that same man would write a psalm that everyone knows, and in that psalm he would say, Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. By the way, God is especially with his people in the dark valleys of life. And I have just skimmed the surface. There's so many other promises and scriptures and individuals where God came and gave them this promise, I am with you. Recently we studied on Sunday nights the life of Gideon, and that was God's message to Gideon. Who was so reluctant to take on the Midianites, God says to him again and again, I am with you That is the great promise of Scripture. That is the great antidote to our fear, the presence of the Lord's. But the ultimate understanding of God's presence was in the incarnation of Jesus Christ in a different way than all those other promises. God came to earth in the incarnation of his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. John puts it this way, the word was made flesh. and dwelt among us. Colossians puts it this way. Paul writes in Colossians 1. 19, for in him dwelleth the fullness of the Godhead bodily. This great verse indicates that this virgin-born child would be God, God in flesh. And in John 17 and verse 3, the Lord Jesus says, This is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. You see, the only way that mankind can truly know God is through Jesus Christ. Because he is the one who came and lived and died and made a way for us to the Father. The birth of Emmanuel means that God has come to man, because man would never come to God's. That's the meaning of the incarnation, and that is what the virgin birth points to. We sang together this morning. That great Christmas carol by Charles Wesley, Hark the Herald Angel Sing. And it says in one of those verses, pleased as man with men to dwell, Jesus R. Emmanuel. So let me ask you this morning on Christmas morning, is Jesus your Emmanuel? Do you truly know God because you know his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, because you've acknowledged your sin And you recognize that you can never save yourself, you can never be good enough, and your sin is a real problem because it separates you from God. You can't really know him or have a relationship with him because of your sin, because he is a holy God and he cannot accept you the way you are. But he made provision for you to have a relationship with him, and that is through his son. He sent his son, his only son. The second person of the Trinity, the Son of God, to come to this sin-cursed earth. It was a great condescension. He left the glories of heaven. He came, he was born in a manger. because there was no room for them, and that was symbolic of the fact that the world would in large part reject him and have no time for him and would not listen to his message. John 1 11 says, He came unto his own, and his own received him not. But it goes on to say, But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Yes, the world in large part still rejects the Son of God, the idea that they are sinners and in need of a Savior, but some receive it by faith. And those are the ones who will become the children of God because they are resting in the atoning work of Christ. This was the greatest gift ever given. The gift of the Son of God. Paul calls it the unspeakable gift. My question to you is, have you received by faith that gift of salvation? Long ago there was in Persia a good king who lived a life of comfort and ease in the palace. But he often wondered what it was like to not live as a king, but to live as a peasant. And so he began to dress in very shabby clothing and go out into the highways and byways and experience the life of a peasant. Sometimes he would be invited into their homes and he would share a meal with them. But he kept his identity a secret. One day he went with a very poor man into his home, which was in a little cellar. It was dark. It was dirty. The man ate coarse food. And he had very little to eat. But he shared it with his unknown guest. The king spoke very cheerfully and kindly to the man and gave him company, this man who rarely had human company And some time later he visited this man again, and he could keep his secret no longer, and he told the man, he says, I have not been truthful with you, I have not given you my identity. You see, I am the king. And sometimes I dress in the shabby clothing to go out among my subjects and to better understand them. The king was reluctant to share his identity with people because generally when he did, people would instantly begin to ask him for things. They would ask for riches, they would ask for favors for relatives, they would ask for money. And he was afraid that perhaps this poor man would do the same, but the man did not ask. For any of these things. He said, You left your palace and your glory to visit me in this dark and dreary place. You ate the coarse food that I ate. You brought gladness to my heart and to others. You have given me the richest gift. You have given me yourself. You see, Jesus came to earth not to enrich your life. Not to remove all of your problems, not to be a means to an end, but to be the gift himself. I think of Simeon when he held the Christ child there in the temple, he referred to the Christ child as God 's salvation. Jesus Christ is the embodiment of salvation. He is the great gift. He is not a means to something we want. He is the gift himself The question I have for you is, have you claimed the gift of salvation through the Lord Jesus Christ? Who came to this earth, who died for sinners, and rose again the third day. That is the great message of salvation. That is the message of the incarnation. That is the gospel. That is the good news. The only message that saves sinful people like us. May you, by God's grace, receive it today by faith, by saving faith. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you so much that you sent your Son, Lord Jesus Christ, to die for sinners He is the only son that you have ever sent. He is the only savior, the only perfect man who walked on this earth. The only man who could die a substitutionary death for sinners, and the only man to rise from the dead and die nevermore Father, he is a unique Son of God. I pray that you would help someone today to see the magnificence of this gift, the beauty of the Savior The logic of the gospel, the way that a just God could retain his sense of justice and yet declare wicked, sinful people like us. to be not guilty but righteous in Christ. Help us, Father , to rejoice in this truth And for some to receive it by faith. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.