If you have your Bibles, please would you turn with me to John chapter 19? John chapter 19, I want to begin reading at verse 31. It says the Jews therefore, because it was the preparation That the body should not remain upon the cross on the Sabbath day, for that Sabbath day was a high day, besought Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away. Then came the soldiers and broke the legs of the first and of the other which was crucified with him. But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was dead already, they brake not his legs. But one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and forthwith came thereout blood and water. And he that saw it bare record, and his record is true, and he knoweth that he s that he saith true. that ye might believe. For these things were done that the scriptures should be fulfilled, a bone of him shall not be broken. And again another scripture saith, They shall look on him whom they pierced. Longinus is the name given by church tradition to the Roman soldier who pierced the side of our Lord. Supposedly he was the Centurion in charge of the crucifixion, and the one who said, surely this is the Son of God. Legend says that he was from Caesarea and that after the crucifixion he became a believer. It's also claimed that he continued to serve the Lord and Many now regard him as a saint. Of course, the scripture does not give us those details. We don't know the name of the man. We don't know if he was a centurion. But we do know that there was a Roman soldier who thrust a lance into the side of our Savior. This event is treated as a significant occurrence at our Lord's crucifixion. Only John records this, but he takes some time devoted to this incident. making mention of two prophecies of Scripture and of the fact that he was an eyewitness to this event. Obviously he considered this to be something important. This was the last act of humiliation and degradation that our Savior would face. He's been scourged with 39 stripes. He's been mocked by soldiers. On more than one occasion, he has had his beard plucked out. He has had a crown of thorns beat into his head. He has been spit in the face. He has been struck on the face, and he has carried a heavy crossbeam before a jeering crowd. He has also had his wrist and his ankles nailed to an old rugged cross. And now, even after he is dead, there is one more assault on his broken body. But this brutal act has with it great significance. Tonight as we gather to observe this table, I want us to consider the symbolism, the teaching that is intended by the Holy Spirit for us to find in this event. There are many of these embedded in the account of our Lord's crucifixion that are intended to help us better understand the full meaning of what took place. So I want us to look at what we can learn from the piercing of our Savior's side tonight. First thing I want you to notice is that it teaches us that God was in control of Jesus' death. In verse 31, we read about how this came to pass. The Jewish leaders who conspired to murder the Lord are now consumed that his dying body might spoil their religious observance. The Romans would generally, as their practice was, leave the body of a victim of crucifixion to rot on the cross. and eventually to be eaten by vultures. They consider this to be an effective deterrent because it was obviously a very disgraceful death. But the Jews thought it an act of desecration to leave the body up after nightfall. And they base this on what is said in the book of Deuteronomy, chapter 21. You don't need to turn there. I will. You can if you'd like. Deuteronomy 21, verse 22. It says, and if a man have committed a sin worthy of death, And he be to be put to death, and thou hang him on a tree, his body shall not remain all night upon the tree. But thou shalt in any wise bury him that day. For he that is hanged is accursed of God, that the land be not defiled, which the Lord thy God hath given thee for an inheritance. Certainly, if this was the Lord's desire, these Jewish leaders thought, then certainly how much more important would it be that they take him down or they make sure that he dies? Considering that this was a Sabbath day during the Passover weekend. The Sabbath would have begun at 6 p. m. on that day. And so these guardians of everything Jewish made certain that the sacrilege would not occur. Once more, we see an example of them straining out a gnat and swallowing a camel. These religious leaders have just murdered the only innocent man who ever lived And their chief concern is that they would not violate the sacred Sabbath. So they go to Pilate and request that the legs of the condemned be broken to hasten their death. This was a common Roman practice. These hardened executioners would take a large iron mallet and crush the legs of those suspended on a cross. We have historic records of this. In nineteen sixty-eight, archaeologists found Some skeletons that were obviously victims of crucifixion in Judea in the first century, and their bones were shattered below the knee. This is not something that John has made up. This was the practice. This has been verified repeatedly in history. This would prevent the victim from pushing up with their legs to get abreath It's a very disturbing thing to think about. We read here that they did this to the two criminals, one on our Lord's right and the other on his left. But when they came to Christ, they found that he was already dead. And of course, the reason why Jesus was dead is not because he was weak, but because He controlled the moment of his death, and he died triumphantly, saying, Into thy hands I commend my spirit. We see that God is in control. These men were commanded by Pilates, their authority to break the legs of these convicts. But they did not. They did not break the legs of Jesus, thus fulfilling prophecy. These men were not told to pierce the side of our Lord, but yet they did. also fulfilling prophecy. Obviously the Lord's decrees prevail over the commands of the Caesars of this world God sovereignly used the hypocritical request of these religious men and the careful checking of a Roman soldier to accomplish his purposes. Because God was sovereign at the crucifixion of his son. The piercing of Christ also teaches us the reality of his death. This may well be The primary reason initially that John records this incident in his gospel. John was the last gospel that was written. And we know towards the end of the New Testament, there was a heresy on the rise that taught that Jesus Christ did not actually have a human body. This was rooted in pagan philosophy. They believed that anything material was inherently corrupt. And therefore, a being as great as the Lord Jesus Christ must have only appeared to have a body. Because if he had a body, he could not have been sinless, was the reasoning. And John, we know in his first epistle and the second and third epistles, he, if you look carefully, he combats this heresy, this insipid Gnosticism and Dacetatism, as it's sometimes called. And here he wants the reader to understand, writing a generation after the other gospel writers, that Jesus indeed had a body. In fact, he was an eyewitness to the crucifixion. And he saw the details that he records here. More modern skeptics have tried to explain away the resurrection of Christ by saying that he did not actually die but was only unconscious on the cross and that when he was put into that cool tomb, he revived and he came back to life. But John provides a detail that removes any doubt concerning the reality of his death. These Roman soldiers were hardened and they were used to being able to determine if a man was dead or not. This was their duty, this was their job. The last thing in the world they would want is for someone to somehow escape execution, because of course that would result in their execution. And that's why this Roman soldier, even though Jesus was obviously dead, made certain that he was dead by thrusting that spear into his side. And we know that this was a significant wound. This was not a superficial stab wound. This was not something that was small because remember in the upper room after the resurrection of Christ, doubting Thomas comes the Lord. And he says he will not believe unless he sees. And Jesus says, take your hand and thrust it into my side. There was still a hole there. So this clearly confirms that Jesus was dead. We read that water and blood came out Now scholars debate about exactly why this was the case. Some s speculate that he has been dead for enough time that uh the blood has begun to separate between uh the red blood cells and the serum, and that's what we have a record of here. Other medical experts believe that the spear pierced Christ's heart and that a puncture of the pericardial sac Other doctors say that the water mentioned here is a fluid that has filled up the space between his lungs and the rib cage. We cannot know for certain. But what the doctors are agreed on is that this is clear evidence that someone has expired, that they are dead. In Deuteronomy chapter 19 and verse 15, we read, for the law required that there be two witnesses for murder. And some have speculated here that the water and the blood serve as two silent witnesses to this murder. But John also adds his name as a witness. It seems that all the other disciples have fled into the night. But you'll remember, John did watch from afar. And he puts himself here in the story in verse 35. He that saw it bear record, and his record is true. John says, I was an eyewitness. I saw this. I saw the blood and the water come out. This was not something that was made up. Obviously others had related this to other believers For decades now, and John says this is not a fairy tale. This is what I saw with my own eyes. Jesus Christ indeed died on the cross, and from his side came out blood and water. Thirdly, I believe that the piercing of Christ teaches us of the blessings that come from his death. It seems clear that John wants to make more of this event than just that Jesus was dead and that the blood and the water confirmed his death. In a book so filled with obvious symbolism, I think it's clear that John is saying more, and preachers down through the centuries Have preached many sermons on the water and the blood that came from the side of Christ. Some of them have been quite fanciful. Chrysostom. One of the great orators of the early church, an incredible preacher of the gospel, saw these two elements, the water and the blood, as symbols for the two ordinances or sacraments. He saw the blood representing the Lord's Supper and the water representing baptism. There are others who have seen this, a reference to Christ's humanity. And the blood and the water as a reference to his deity. Matthew Henry, the famous English commentator, suggests that the blood represents our justification. while the water represents our sanctification. So how do we interpret symbols like this in Scripture Well, the only objective way that I know to do it is to try to trace out how those terms are symbolically used elsewhere in Scripture and preferably by that author. And if you can, even within that book. And John does speak a great deal of these things. Let me read for you John chapter 3. We read of water here. John chapter 3. This is the Lord's conversation with Nicodemus at night. Verse 5, Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, that which is born of the spirit is spirit. Marvel not that I say unto thee, you must be born again. Now there's some debate about what the water symbolizes here. But what is clear is whatever the original reference is, it's something that gives life, spiritual life. Turn with me to the next chapter, to John chapter 4, verses 13 and 14. The Lord dealing with the woman at the well, Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever shall drinketh of this water shall thirst again, but whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst. But the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life. Notice the reference to life again. Now I want you to turn to a reference concerning the blood, John chapter 6, verses 53 and 54. Then said Jesus unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, except ye eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life. in you. Whosoever eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood hath eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day. Speaking, of course, symbolically here. He is not advocating cannibalism. But again, we see here that the bottom line is that this brings eternal life. And John chapter 7, the last great day of the feast, we read this verse 37. In the last day, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst , Let him come unto me and drink, and he that believeth on me, as the scripture has said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. Notice the kind of water that's mentioned here. Living water, water that gives life. So I think rather than asking what does the water represent and what does the blood represent, we should understand that both of these together are pictures of spiritual life. They give life. It is in the death of Christ that we gain life. His blood demonstrates the reality of his death. And the atonement that has been provided, the water that flowed from his side, speaks of the spiritual cleansing that brings us new life. 1 John 1. 7 says the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. We sang together Rock of Ages a moment ago. Did you notice the verse there that says, Let the water and the blood from thy ribbon side which flowed be of sin, the double cure, save from wrath. And make me pure. In his death, we find life. We find cleansing for sin. And I also believe finally that the piercing of Christ teaches us the meaning of his death. John makes reference to Old Testament prophecy in John 19, 36. He says, for these things were done that the scripture should be fulfilled. A bone of him shall not be broken. This is a reference to the account of the first Passover in Exodus chapter 12. Let me read this for you, Exodus chapter 12, verse 46. It says, In one house shall it be eaten, thou shalt not carry forth aught of the flesh abroad out of the house, neither shall ye break a bone thereof. This detail is also mentioned in Numbers chapter 9 and verse 12. We need to remember that this was written some 1500 years before the death of Christ. We have here the regulations of the observance of the Passover feast, and one of those regulations is that the sacrificial lamb was not to have any broken bones. I can just imagine. As they gathered there in Egypt for the first Passover, some child in the family asking, Daddy, why do we not, why does the lamb have to not have any broken bones? And perhaps he said, you know, son, I don't know. That's just what Moses told us. I don't know why that's so important. I don't know why this sacrifice that we're doing here has this exact regulation, but I know it's got to be important. What they did not know is that these lambs prefigured the Lamb of God who would take away the sin of the worlds. And that lamb would be spotless and sinless. He would have no broken bones. 1 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 7 tells us that Christ is our Passover. A wonderful thing for us to consider. Now there's another passage that scholars think is also in view, and that is found in Psalm 34. Verses 19 and 20. At the very end of this Psalm, the Psalm of David , It says, Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivereth him out of them all. He keepeth all his bones, not one of them is broken. Now, what David is expressing here is that God protects his people I feel certain that is what he's desiring to communicate. And he uses figurative language guided by the Holy Spirit That was exactly fulfilled with the Lord Jesus Christ. We know it's not to be understood in this context generally because there have certainly been many righteous people. Many believers throughout the ages who have had their bones broken as they were persecuted by their oppressors But there's only been one who was truly righteous, who was absolutely perfect and innocent. And he was kept whole. Not one of his bones was broken. This is really an amazing thing, is it not? When you think of the brutal treatment that our Lord received Before the cross and at the cross, the scourging, the whippings, the striking, that in all of that violence no bone was broken Both of his companions had their legs broken, but Jesus did not have his legs broken. God was testifying. through prophecy, that Jesus Christ was not only the Passover, but he was the righteous one that promised, was promised over a thousand years earlier that they would be preserved by the Father. But there's another quotation that John mentions. They shall look on him whom they have pierced. This quotation is found in Zechariah chapter 12 and verse 10. And this is in the future tense. I believe that the complete fulfillment of this prophecy is yet to come. Matthew 24 and verse 30 says, Then shall appear the sign of the Son of Man in heaven, and then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn. In the first chapter of Revelation, we have something else that's interesting to consider. Revelation chapter 1 and verse 7 says Behold, he cometh with clouds, and every eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him, and all kindred of the earth shall wail because of him, even so. Amen. You see, the first advent of Christ invariably points to the second advent. Christ is our Passover, he is the righteous one, and Christ is coming again. Now, did you know that John wrote these things for the express purpose that we would believe? Back in John chapter 19 He says at the end of verse 35, And he that saw it bare record, and his record is true, and he knoweth that he saith true, that ye might believe. In the Gospel of John, sometimes called the Gospel of Belief, a form of the word believe is used some ninety-eight times. And in the purpose statement of this book. And in the very next chapter, in John chapter 20 and verse 31, we read this, but these are written that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you might have life. through his name. These truths that John has recorded here, this incident that he saw with his own eyes has been preserved for us who are reading them nearly 2,000 years later, that our faith might be strengthened. Our dear brother Charlie Main, who passed away last year, he always liked to point to this verse and he would always tell me, you know, I know this verse is often used as an evangelistic verse, but this verse is also for believers. Because it's not just lost people that need to believe. Christians need to believe. And every time we read the scriptures, it should strengthen our faith. And we should say as we read these things, like this account of the cross, yes, this is true. This is what I believe. I think it happened exactly the way John describes it here. And it should feed our faith and keep us near the cross. We're going to sing a closing hymn. I want you to consider this phrase, and it says, Jesus, keep me near the cross, there a precious fountain free to all a healing stream flows. From Calvary's mountain. Have you been cleansed by that stream? Do you believe these things? Do you believe that Jesus died for sinners, that he literally died on an old rugged cross, and that he fulfilled all the prophecies of the Old Testament, that his bones were not broken? He was the righteous one. He was the Passover Lamb. He is the one who is pierced, who is coming again. These are the foundations of our faith. The death and resurrection of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. May God help us to believe these things with all of our heart and to live more and more for our Savior. Let's close in prayer. Father. We thank you so much for your word. We thank you for the cross. We thank you for This insight that John has provided for us so many centuries later, as eyewitness telling us of what is really a gruesome scene. That depicts incredible brutality and violence, and yet it is beautiful because it is the basis of our redemption. And it reminds us of the great sacrifice of our Savior for sinners like us. We thank you that through his blood Through his death we live. Through his blood, we have been washed clean. I pray that you would help us to relish this truth, to meditate upon it. And to walk in light of the cross, for it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen