Give your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to John chapter 3? John chapter 3. We're looking at the final paragraph in this great chapter. this morning. In eighteen ninety-three, the city of Chicago hosted the World's Fair. This spectacular event brought in 27 million visitors in the span of six months. And that was before the age of the automobile. It was a great sensation. There were 46 nations that were participating. in this event that gave it a cosmopolitan flair. One of the unique aspects of this fair was they had the World Parliament of Religions. This was An attempt by several elite individuals to first present before the American public the view that all religions are basically the same. and they're all valid. Well Dwight El Moody was a resident of Chicago, and he saw the fair and this Parliament as a great wonderful example of evangelism, but of course He was not invited to speak or participate in the World Parliament of Religions. But he decided that he would set a preaching post throughout the city and he rented a large circus tent where every night he preached the gospel To many visitors at the World's Fair. And the result was that many thousands of people were saved. It was one of the great evangelistic successes of Moody 's life. And the theme that he preached on night after night was the supremacy of Christ. That he is the only way to God. This morning we come to the supremacy of Christ. as the major theme of this paragraph. You'll notice in verse 31, it says twice of Christ that he is above all. And verse 35, we read that the Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand. The scriptures teach throughout its pages, that Christ is supreme , that he is preeminence. That he is superior to every other person and anything that exists. But what does this mean in context? Well, if you were with us last week, you know that we were looking at the paragraph previous to this one, which tells us of John the Baptist. And his answer to his disgruntled disciples. They saw that more and more people were going to follow Jesus. instead of their leader, John the Baptist, and they were jealous, they were frustrated, they were angry, and so they come to John the Baptist with their complaints. And he corrects them. He says in verse 27, a person cannot receive even one thing unless it is given him from heaven. You yourselves bear me witness that I said, I am not the Christ. But I have been sent before him. The one who has the bride is the bridegroom, the friend of the bridegroom who stands and hears him rejoice. This is greatly at the bridegroom's voice. Therefore, this joy of mine is now complete. He must increase, but I must decrease. And then what we have in verses 31 and following is an explanation of why it is that the ministry of Jesus Christ must increase. While the following of John the Baptist will completely diminish and fade away. Now, I want to mention something to you that I hope does not distract you. in any way or shape or form. But once again, I want to say to you that it's the opinion of most scholars that verses 31 through 36 are not the words of John the Baptist, but the words of John the Apostle, the writer of this book. We've seen this phenomenon in this chapter already. I mentioned to you that that is my view also of verses 16 through 21. John presents something, he presents someone's testimony, and then he comments on it. Now, today when we write, we often use quotation marks. In the ancient world, they did not do that. So it's a little more tricky sometimes to know who is saying these things. But for most scholars, they believe that these are the words of John the Apostle because verse 36 wraps up the chapter by tying together these various themes of belief. and eternal life and the Son of God and the wrath of God. And it would not seem that these words would really fit the context Of John the Baptist and what he was explaining here. You're welcome to disagree with me about this. What we do know is this is the word of God, and whoever said it, whether it was John the Baptist or John the Apostle, it's true. Now We find this wonderful truth that Jesus is better than John the Baptist. That is what is being demonstrated in this chapter. And what we see is that he is the ultimate and final revelation of God. John has already touched on this in this book, the very opening of this book. John chapter 1 and verse 1 says, In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. We read in verse 14, and the Word became flesh. and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. So Jesus is the revelation of God, the final word And in Hebrews we find something very similar. It begins this way. Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. But in these last days he has spoken to us by his son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom he created the world. The reality is that we can know nothing about God but what he has revealed to us. When man tries and says, I kind of like to think of God like this, he's just using his imagination. And it will always be a distortion of the one true God that exists. God has spoken He has revealed himself to us in three primary ways. He's revealed himself to us in creation. We read of this like in passages like Psalm 19 and Romans chapter 1 and other passages. God made us rational, reasonable human beings, and we can look at creation. We can look at the cycle of the seasons, the rising and setting of the sun. The way we have a very regular and predictable day and year and month, and a person can reason there's a being that's greater than me. That created and ordered and designed all of this. Then we have the revelation of his word Which gives us much more specific information and tells us in clear focus who God is And how we can know him. But the ultimate revelation of God is found in his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. The only way that we can truly know God is through his divine son. He is the ultimate revelation of God. Now, I want to have three main points that come from our text this morning. The first is this Jesus is the ultimate witness to God. Please look with me at verse 31 of John chapter 3. It says, he who comes from above is above all, he who is of the earth belongs to the earth and speaks in an earthly way In this first phrase, we see the preeminence of Christ. He is above all. When it says that Jesus came from above, it's saying that he came from God or from heaven. This was his origin. Yes, Jesus was born in Bethlehem, but the Son of God existed from eternity past. This is how he is much different from John the Baptist and from all of us. You did not exist before the moment of conception. But Jesus, the Son of God, existed from eternity past. This origin makes him superior. to John the Baptist or anyone else. Now Jesus often makes a claim to his heavenly origin in this book. I'm going to read just a few verses. In John chapter 3 and verse 13, he says, No one has ascended into heaven except he who descended from heaven, the Son of Man. In John 6, 33, he says, For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. John 6. 38, for I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. John 6. 52. I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats this bread, he will live forever. So Jesus was very clear about his origin. He knew that he came ultimately from God. But then we read, he was of the earth, belongs to the earth, and speaks in earthly ways. Now the term earth is not denoting sin, but limitation. When we come to the word world used by John, it is denoting something that is wrong and fallen. But here it has the idea that human beings are limited. John the Baptist was a great prophet. He was a man of God. We saw last week how humble he was, but he was just a man. When John the Baptist was put into prison not long after this incident, he began to question the identity of Jesus Christ. This is really remarkable. Here he is a prophet of God. Jesus said the greatest man born of woman. And here he was the forerunner to herald the coming of the Lord. But when he was in that dark dungeon He began to doubt. Perhaps because things were not playing out the way he thought they would. He didn't see Christ establishing a great kingdom. He didn't see him throwing off the yoke of Rome as all the Jews were anticipating. He was expecting that he would come in power and great glory immediately. And perhaps that he would there work and be a part of his great and glorious kingdom, but now he is in prison and he would soon be beheaded And so he sends some of his disciples to Jesus and they ask, are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another? And Jesus tells them, go back and remind John the Baptist of what I am doing, that I'm healing the blind. I'm opening the ears of the deaf. I'm healing the lame. These are all things that were predicted in the Old Testament of the Messiah. He's saying, in essence, I am fulfilling. What the Old Testament scripture said the Messiah would do, remind him of Scripture, remind him of God's truth And so we see that indeed John the Baptist, great as he was, was of the earth. And just like us, sometimes he doubted when he was in the darkness. Now look with me at verse 32. We see another distinction in the witness of Christ. It says he bears witness to what he has seen and heard, yet no one receives his testimony John the Baptist was a great witness to Jesus Christ. He's presented in the prologue as the first witness. But he was not the ultimate witness because he was not a first-hand witness. He did not see those heavenly things. He was not in the councils of heaven. In a court of law, a credible witness tells what they have seen and heard, but they're not allowed to really tell what someone else told them that they had seen and heard, because that's rejected as hearsay. You didn't hear it. It could have been altered and changed by the time that message came to you. So John the Baptist received revelation from God, but he was not the revelation of God like Jesus Christ. But then we find this interesting explanation of the world's response to Jesus' witness that says, yet no one received his testimony. This is a reminder to us that we must always interpret Scripture in light of Scripture, right? That may sound like an absolute statement to you, but the very next verse qualifies it Because we read in the very next verse, whoever receives this testimony sets his seal to this that God is true. This is saying that in general, people rejected his witness. This is nearly identical to what we see in the prologue. Remember in John chapter 1 and verse 11, it says of Jesus. He came unto his own, and his own people did not receive him. And then the narrative next very next verse, verse 12, says, But as many as received him So not everyone rejected him. Most did, but there were some who received him. And so here we have a similar situation. And in chapter 3 and verse 11, we read, Truly, truly I say to you, we speak. of what we know and bear witness to what we have seen, but you do not receive our testimony. So this is a very interesting thing here, and something that in a strange way can be an encouragement to us. You ever witness to someone and feel that because of their response, that you just blew it, you know? You share the gospel with them or you say something to them and they're just completely unconvinced and unpersuaded. And maybe they make some smart comment or they have some objection to it that you don't really know how to answer. And then like, you know, a few hours later you think, oh, I should have said that. I should have said that. I shouldn't have said that. I should have thought of another way of addressing it. I should have answered his question this way. And you feel like I'm such a failure as a witness for Christ. Well, I want you to know that God's ultimate witness, the Lord Jesus Christ, was rejected by most. And it was not because his witness was not credible or clear. It is because they did not want to believe. Now in verse 33, we read the mention of a seal, and this reminds us of the ancient practice of signing important documents. by pressing one's signet ring on a wax seal. This indicated acceptance and approval and authenticity. Now verse 33 Sounds odd to us at first glance, does it not? Whoever receives his testimony sets his seal to this that God is true It's not saying that when a person believes the gospel, it makes God 's truthful. God is true even if everyone in the world rejected him. He is true. What this verse is saying is that when a person accepts the claims of Christ, they are acknowledging that God is trustworthy and they begin a relationship with Him And conversely, when a person rejects the gospel of Jesus Christ, they are denying not only Christ, but the the God who sent his witness. And they are turning away from the only path to truly knowing God. Because they have rejected his ultimate revelation in his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. So Jesus is the ultimate witness to God. He comes from heaven. He speaks as a first-hand witness to heavenly things. And that leads me now to verses 34 and 35. Jesus is the ultimate messenger for God. Look with me at verse 34. For he whom God has sent utters the words of God, for he gives the Spirit without measure. You'll notice the verb sent here. The Greek word behind that is the origin of our English word apostle. You all know this word. You know the 12 apostles. They were the 12 men who were sent out to take the gospel to the ends of the earth. Well, Jesus is the ultimate apostle, the one ultimately sent by God. In Hebrews chapter 3 and verse 2, some of you remember this from a year or so ago. We covered this verse. It refers to him as the apostle and high priest of our confession. He is the ultimate one sent by God. And you might say, well, weren't there others before him that were sent by God? Yes, they were. We call them the prophets. And the last of the prophets and the greatest of the human of those prophets was John the Baptist. In John chapter 1 and verse 6, we read that he was a man sent from God. But John was just one of many prophets. But in Jesus We find the ultimate prophet, the ultimate messenger, the ultimate apostle sent from God. John emphasizes that Jesus was sent by God on a divinely ordained mission And Jesus knew this and the depths of his being. Let me read a few verses for you that demonstrate this. In John chapter 4 and verse 34, he says. My food is to do the will of him who sent me. And John chapter 5 and verse 24, he says, truly, truly. I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes on him who sent me has eternal life. John chapter 5 and verse 30, I seek not my own will, but the will of him who sent me. John chapter six and verse twenty nine. This is the work of God that you believe in him whom he hath sent. John six, thirty-eight for I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him. Who sent me? I could go on and on because there are literally another dozen references where Jesus says, the Father has sent me. He knew that he was sent on a mission. And we read here that he speaks the word of God. You might say, well, didn't all the prophets speak the Word of God? They did. Some of them were writing prophecies, some of them were more speaking prophets, where they preached and exhorted people to repent. But Jesus incarnated the truth that he preached. You see all those prophets that called on people to repent? This is the thing, they were all sinners too. Maybe not in the same way or to the same degree as the people they were ministering to, but they were sinners themselves. This is why Isaiah says like in Isaiah chapter 6, woe is me, because he's being condemned when he sees the holy presence of God. This is true of every pastor and every preacher and every evangelist and every missionary who has ever lived. We have been sent out to give the gospel to sinners, but we are sinners ourselves. We sometimes don't live up to the truth that we know, but not true of Jesus. He spoke the words of God and he lived the word of God. And then we have, I think, an explanation of this. Look at the last part of verse 34. It says, for he gives the spirit without measure. Now, there's some ambiguity in this phrase because we're not certain who the he is in this verse. And so there are three main interpretations. This could be saying that Jesus, that he's the he, and he gives the Holy Spirit to believers. However, it raises some questions to think that believers possess the Holy Spirit without measure. That doesn't seem to be our experience. I don't think that's what it's saying. Secondly, it could be saying that the Holy Spirit gives himself to believers without measure. But if this is the case, then the wording is. just a little bit awkward and again does not seem to fit our experience. So most Bible scholars going back hundreds of years Up into the present, believe this phrase is saying that the Father gives the Spirit without measure to his Son. And this is how I take it. This is another way that Jesus was far superior to John the Baptist. John the Baptist was at times filled with the Spirit, but Jesus was continually filled with the Spirit. And this is prophesied in the Old Testament. In Isaiah chapter 11 and verse 2 we read, of the Messiah, the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the Spirit of wisdom and understanding, the Spirit of counsel and might. the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord. We read in Isaiah 42, Behold my spirit, whom I have hold my chosen in whom my soul delights, I have put my spirit upon him. In Isaiah chapter 61 and verse 1, Messiah says, the Spirit of the Lord God is upon me And many of you know that when Jesus returned to his hometown of Nazareth, we read of this in Luke 4. 18. He went in and he opened the scroll and he read from Isaiah 61 and verse 1. The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me. And he closed after that reading and he said, Today the scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing. What a remarkable event. That verse that had been written 700 years earlier by Isaiah was fulfilled that day in that synagogue. And so we read things like this in the Gospel narrative in Luke 4, 1. And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness. Luke 4. 14, and Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit to Galilee. Luke 10, 21, Jesus rejoiced in the spirits. And this is at least one part of the explanation of why Jesus perfectly exhibited the fruit of the Spirit. Did you know that? You can go through all of the fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, and so forth And you will find if you study the Gospels carefully that every single one of those attributes is perfectly presented in his life. Because the Father gave the Spirit without measure to him. And this is why As we grow in grace, we can do so only through the power of the Spirit as believers. And what happens as the Spirit of God changes us? We bring forth the fruit of the Spirit, or to put it another way, we become more and more like Jesus Christ, the one who was always filled with the Spirit. But why did the Father give him this gift? Verse 35 gives the answer. The Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand. The scriptures reveal something that we cannot fully comprehend the Father loved his son from all eternity. He calls him my beloved son. And when he speaks from heaven, he says, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Or this is my beloved son. Hear him. And this truth should bring great assurance to every believer. You know why God doesn't abandon you when you fail Him? You know why his love for you does not come to a close? It's because you are in Christ and he has an unending love for his son. And so we read things like this in John 5. 20, for the Father loves the Son And in John 10, 17, Jesus says, For this reason the Father loves me because I laid down my life. And in John 15 and verse 9, he says this remarkable expression that if we could wrap our heads around it would change our lives. Jesus said, as the Father has loved me, so I have loved you. And so how has the Father demonstrated his love to his son? Look at verse 35. He has given all things into his hand. Sometimes parents want to demonstrate their love to their children in an extravagant way with some incredible gift at Christmas. Some maybe have been financially blessed to do that, to give them like a brand new car Or perhaps even others who are more wealthy, a house. And we might scratch our head and say, you know, you're kind of spoiling the kid. That's it might be good for them to earn that. Well, you know what the father gave to his son because he loved him so much? He gave him everything. It says there, he has given all things into his hand. This is a comprehensive statement. All things This is something that John the Baptist or no other servant of the Lord, of course, would ever dare say. And Jesus knew this was true. He says in Matthew 11, 27 and again in Luke 10, 22, all things have been handed over to me by my Father. And in Matthew 28, 18, right there at the Great Commission, he says, all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. And in 1 Corinthians 15, 27, Paul says, For God has put all things in subjection under his feet. So let me ask you something. Can't you see how foolish it is for people when they say that Jesus never claimed to be God? He said, All power has been given unto me. The only person who says that is either a madman or they're telling the truth, and all power has been given to them. Jesus is the ultimate witness, the ultimate spokesman, the ultimate revelation of God. He has been sent by God. He speaks the words of God. He's been given the gift of the Spirit, and he's been granted all authority. And so when a person rejects Christ, They are cutting off the only avenue to eternal life and to knowing God. And that naturally leads us to this final point, verse 36. Jesus is the only way you can know God. Look at this verse. Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. Whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. In this verse, John is summarizing. the message of this great chapter. That encounter that Jesus had with Nicodemus, the witness of John the Baptist. These themes of believing and eternal life and the wrath of God, all of these things are Brought together in culmination in this final verse. We have three points to this final verse. First of all, we have a great promise. Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. And then we have a great warning. Whoever does not obey the sun shall not see life. And then we have what I think could be described as a great incentive to seek the Lord today, but the wrath of God remains on him. Let's first briefly consider this first promise. Whoever, notice this invitation. Who is it for? It's for whoever. This is what we've seen already in this chapter. In verse 15, it says, whoever believes in him may have eternal life. Verse 16, it says, whoever believes in him should not perish. And in verse 18, whoever believes in him is not condemned. Anyone who comes to trust in Christ as their only hope of redemption will be This offer of salvation is for people like Nicodemus, who is very self-righteous and very religious, and a man of high status. This offer of salvation is for people like the woman at the well who is immoral and is rejected by society. This gospel is for Jews and Gentiles, for rich and poor, for men and women, for the educated and the illiterate. for young and old. It is to be offered to everyone without exception. What is the condition for salvation here given? Well, what we've seen earlier in this book, it is you must believe. This is the sixth time in this chapter that we find this answer. Notice that this is a present activity. It's not that a person once believed, but now they no longer believe. No, it's a person who came to believe and trust in Christ, and now they continue to trust in him And the person who trusts in Christ, who is relying on him alone, not on their good works, not on their supposed good record, but on his perfect record. And of his death on the cross. The person who trusts in Christ has eternal life. And what's interesting here is eternal life is presented as a present possession. There's a sense in which we receive eternal life in its fullness when we go to glory But there's also a sense in which we enjoy eternal life right now, the moment you believe you have the gift of eternal life. This is what this text is saying. But then consider the warning. We have the converse of it, the exact opposite of it. In this warning, whoever does not obey the sun shall not see life. And when it says life there, it's speaking, of course, of eternal life. Notice again the first word is whoever. Everyone who does not trust in Christ will not see eternal life. We see here this very inconvenient truth. that people like to deny that there are only two paths and only two destinies for all of humanity. Now perhaps there's a word in this phrase that bothers you. It's that word, obey. Because when you hear the word obey, you think of working your way to heaven, and that's not what the Bible teaches. The fact is we find this word often in connection with the gospel. In Acts chapter 6 and verse 7 it says, And many of the priests became obedient to the faith. In Romans 1. 5 we read of the obedience of faith. In 2 Thessalonians 1. 8, it says that God's judgment will fall on those who did not. Obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. And there are several other passages just like these. So what does it mean? It means that when a person hears the gospel, understands the gospel, and they reject the gospel, they are responding in disobedience. Because within the gospel, God calls on individuals to believe And when you say no thank you, you are responding and not only unbelief, but disobedience. Now we come to this third part, which I've described as an incentive to seek the Lord today. Our text says of the person who refuses to believe that Can you believe this? The wrath of God remains on him. Why does he put that there? Why does he need to say that? Because the wrath of God is not something that's far and distant away that maybe someday when they die they will experience. But right now, you are estranged from God. This is parallel to what we just saw. When a person is saved, they right now have eternal life. And so a person who refuses to believe the gospel, right now they are already condemned, as it says in chapter 3 and verse 18. They are right now under the wrath of God. The wrath of God is not like the anger, perhaps, of your parents First of all, the wrath of God is always just. Sometimes parents get it wrong. And second, you know, sometimes There'll be a parent who's really angry at their child, but maybe after a couple days they'll settle down and it'll just dissipate and be gone. No, the wrath of God stays the same. It's very consistent. It's not driven by emotions or how he feels. It's very just and it's very consistent. It does not change. And so the point is, you must not think, well, maybe if I do some good things in God, God's wrath will be appeased and it'll go away. Or maybe someday I'll live my life and before I die. I will trust in Christ, get things right, and then I won't have to experience the wrath of God. No, my friend, right now you're under the wrath of God. And any moment you could die and you could experience the fullness of that wrath and being cast into the lake of fire. This is why you must not delay. You must see yourself as a person on death row, and your execution can come up at any moments. Some of you travel internationally and you know sometimes the the tenseness and the danger of trying to catch your flight when your flight is delayed and you only have a couple hours layover in an international airport and your flight is late landing and now you've got to race to the airport and you've got to catch your flight before it leaves or else you might have to wait for another day. And as you're running with your luggage, you hear this announcement saying that this is the final call, the final boarding call. They're going to close the doors. The gate will be shut. Now, why do they announce that? It's not just facts they're throwing out. They want to encourage you that if you're going to come, you better come right now because they're going to close the door and you will miss the flights. And the reason why John includes this is because he's calling on the reader one last time in this chapter to trust in Christ. to come to him, to repent of your sins, to obey the call of the gospel. And so you must not delay. You must come to Christ. Now I want to apply this briefly in just a few ways. Verse 36 destroys many false ideas that people have about salvation. Number one, this verse destroys the common notion of universalism. That is, that everyone will make it to heaven. The Bible is crystal clear that it's one of two destinations, not one destination. Those who do not believe will experience the wrath of God. Secondly, this verse destroys the false notion of purgatory. There are not three possible destinations when people die. There are only two, heaven and hell. Eternal life or eternal death Number three, verse 36 destroys the common idea that people must work their way to heaven. No, you can only be saved by believing in Christ. The sinner is exhorted six times in this chapter that salvation is by faith alone, is by believing in him. And this verse destroys the common fallacy that God is a God of love, and so he would never exhibit any wrath to anyone. Many people love to quote John 3. 16, but they don't like John 3. 18 or John 3. 36 because it speaks of the same God who loves humanity so much that he sent his beloved son to die on a Roman cross. The same God also is a God of wrath, a God of just wrath. And that wrath is upon those who will not believe. And this verse destroys the popular notion that there are many ways to God. Today, educated elite people and virtually any any um university or college except for perhaps Christian colleges. will teach courses on comparative religion. And they will present the idea that if you believe that Jesus is the only way to God, you are arrogant and bigoted and narrow-minded. Because you're excluding these huge cultures and these huge groups of people and various religions like Islam and Buddhism and Hinduism And you're saying that you're right and they're wrong. How arrogant of you. Can't you see that a modern, tolerant person recognizes that there are many ways to God, there are many paths. And they will all basically worship the same God just in different ways and with different names. That is the religion of the world. And it seems persuasive to many people. Because it seems so tolerant, so gracious. But it's false. It's utterly false. If it's true that there are many ways to God, then Jesus was sent to die on an old rugged cross for nothing. Because there are other ways. The very core of the Christian gospel is that there is one Savior and there is one way to God. And Christians can never ever back away from that fundamental assertion. Jesus said the night before his death, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but through me. If you reject the Savior, you have no hope of eternal life because He is the only way to God. If you refuse his witness, if you reject his message, you have responded in disobedience to his call to believe. And if you perish eternally, you have no one to blame but yourself. This is the final message from John 3. Do not misunderstand me. I will be preaching the gospel throughout this book. But in the time, by God's grace, that I have been preaching through John chapter 3, there have been three individuals who have made professions of faith. They have come to see what they didn't see before, and that is, wow, I'm in trouble. I'm under the wrath of God. I'm condemned. I'm not good enough to save myself. I can't earn his favor. I've got to trust in Christ alone. And they've repented and believed the gospel. What about you? I feel certain that there are still some here in this room right now Who have yet to put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Perhaps you're still believing a lie that I'm a pretty good person and I think God will accept me. Everything in Scripture says the opposite of that. Just because it's a common answer doesn't mean it's the right answer. And let me just say that you can never give the excuse, which by the way doesn't save a person But you can never give an excuse for I didn't know. I never heard the gospel. I never understood the gospel. I didn't know that Jesus died for me. I didn't know that I needed his righteousness. I didn't realize these things. It has been taught to you, it's been preached to you, has been exhorted of you to repent and believe And so I would call on you to stop responding in unbelief and disobedience and believe the only gospel that saves and to receive the only Savior that God has provided. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, I pray That you would trouble some souls with the warnings in this verse, so that they would seek the Lord today in sincere faith and repentance. And stop trusting in their own righteousness. And I pray, Father, that you would not give them any rest in their hearts until they come to rest in you. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen