Give your Bibles, please. Would you join me in John chapter 12? John chapter 12. The origins of modern Jewish evangelism go back to the 1830s. And a group of Scottish Presbyterian preachers who in their study of Scriptures recognized that God still had great promises for the descendants of Abraham. And that they needed to be evangelized. And so there was a survey trip made of all through Europe in 1839, and then some of the first missionaries went out. one of which was a man named John Duncan, who went to the city of Budapest in 1843. And there he encountered the Eddersheim family, a very wealthy family that lived there, and they had a young son who was 20 years old. His name was Alfred. He was very bright and very interested. He'd never heard the gospel before, and he listened carefully, and he came to trust in Christ as his Messiah. He would go into England to study theology, and then he would become a professor and a preacher, and he wrote a monumental book entitled The Life and Times of Jesus the Messiah. This would become the most influential life of Christ ever written because of his careful research into ancient Jewish sources. However, in the history of the church, there have been relatively very few Jewish converts. Have you ever wondered why that is the case? One might expect that most Jews would be followers of Jesus because Jesus, after all, was Jewish, and he came and he ministered to Jewish people. I mean just think about this. Muhammad was in what is today Saudi Arabia, and that country today is nearly 100% Muslim Most Arabs proclaim that Muhammad is Allah's great prophet, but most Jews do not profess that Jesus is the Son of God. And yet Jesus performed many miracles and gave many sermons and many teachings to them, and he taught with them of them with authority, and not as the scribes, and yet. The vast majority of them did not follow him. In the Gospel of John, at the very beginning in the preface, John alerts his readers. That this is what will occur in our Lord's ministry. It says in John chapter 1 and verse 11, he came unto his own, and his own people did not receive him. Why was this the case? Well, the Bible gives many answers to this, and two of which we are going to see this morning In the Word of God. Let me remind you of where we are in the life of Christ. We are coming to the very end of his life. The events that we're reading about today took place either on Monday or Tuesday of what we call Holy Week. I believe it's on Friday that he will die. On Sunday he will rise from the dead. Today, of course, is often referred to as Palm Sunday. Well, the events we're reading about would have been a day or two after that. So some Greeks have come to seek him, and Jesus uses this event. To express the fact that his hour has now come. Look with me at verse 23 of chapter 12. Jesus answered them, the hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Throughout the Gospel of John, earlier we read that his hour has not yet come, but now for the first time we read, his hour has come. The time for his death and resurrection is close at hand. And Jesus declares that the cross will change everything. Look with me now at verses 31 and following. He says, now Is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out, and when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. He said this to show by what kind of death he was going. And what comes next is the response of the people to his announcement of his approaching death and then his plea for them to believe. And I believe as John is concluding the end of this first half of his book, which concludes the end of our Lord's public ministry. Chapters 13 through 17 will deal with our Lord's private ministry with his disciples in the upper room. But John is now, I think, anticipating a question that his readers might have. And that is, if Jesus was truly the Messiah. If he performed all of these miracles and he said these remarkable things unlike anyone has ever said before, why is it That the majority of the people he ministered to did not follow him. You'll notice what he says in verse 37 of this chapter. He summarizes his whole ministry this way. Though he had done so many signs before them, they still did not believe in him. Now in the verses that follow, verse 37, John is going to provide a theological reason as to why the Jewish people did not trust in him. But here before this, he is going to provide two reasons that are found within the people themselves of why they did not follow the Lord Jesus Christ. So we're going to be looking at why did the Jewish people reject their Messiah? But there is a deeper thing because most of us here are probably not Jewish. We did not live in the first century, of course. So how does this ancient event in this ancient book have any relevance for us. What I want us to see is that people often reject Christ even when they have great exposure to the truth. The people that Jesus is talking to here in this occasion are people who had a profound privilege. Of seeing him in the flesh and hearing his words and witnessing his miracles, and yet most of them walked away as unbelievers. And what we see that is true here for the Jews has relevance and it has parallels to why people still respond in unbelief today. So I want to look at two points this morning as to why the Jewish people rejected their Messiah, the first being because they were not looking for a suffering Messiah. Look with me please now at verse 34 in John chapter 12 So the crowd answered him, We have heard from the law that the Christ or the Messiah remains forever. How can you say that the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man? The reference to the law here is a reference to the whole Old Testament. Sometimes it can refer to the Ten Commandments, sometimes it can refer to the Mosaic Law. Sometimes it can refer to the first five books of the Bible, but here it obviously refers to the entirety of the Old Testament. The people understood that when Jesus speaks of being lifted up, that he is referring to his approaching death. Jesus speaks of this earlier in the Gospel of John in John chapter 3 and verse 14. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness So must the Son of Man be lifted up. We find another reference to this in John chapter 8 and verse 28. And yet some people wonder how is it that these individuals knew when he mentioned lifted up that he was referring to his crucifixion because he hasn't mentioned it very often. Well, let me remind you That the record of our Lord's teaching and preaching and actions in the Gospels is a summary and it does not include everything that He said or did. Undoubtedly, Jesus has referenced his coming death and being lifted up on previous occasions that are not recorded in Scripture. But whatever the case that people have picked up on this, he's talking about his death. And this is their big objection. In their understanding of the Old Testament, there are numerous passages that speak about the Messiah ruling and reigning forever. And this man who claims to be the Messiah says that he is going to die. So how can those two things be true? They are absolutely right that the Old Testament is filled with examples and promises of the Messiah's everlasting reign. For instance, in Isaiah chapter 9 and verse 7 it says of the Messiah, of the increase of his government and of his peace there will be no end. On the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. And in Psalm 89, verses 35 and 36 We read, Once for all, I have sworn by my holiness I will not lie to David. His offspring shall endure forever, his throne as long as the sun before me. Ezekiel 37,25, it says, David, my servant, will be their prince forever. And in Daniel chapter 7 and verse 14, it says, his dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass And then this truth is picked up and repeated in the New Testament. In Luke chapter 1 and verse 33, when the angel Gabriel announces to Mary that she is going to have a son, it says, And he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. So you see, these people were not ignorant of their Bible. They summarized the truth well. The Messiah will abide or reign forever. And then they have this follow-up question. Who is this son of man? Now they knew that Jesus, when he spoke of the Son of Man, was referring to himself. In fact, this was Jesus' favorite designation for himself. Over 80 times in the four Gospels, Jesus refers to himself as the Son of Man. This title expresses both his humility and his deity. And these people knew that it was some type of a messianic title. So what they're essentially asking is not, are you the one who's claiming to be the son of man? They knew that already. What they were asking is what kind of Messiah, what kind of son of man is going to die? That doesn't make any sense. You see, the people were looking for a political Messiah who would restore the glory of Israel. They were anticipating a king greater than Solomon who would overthrow The pagan oppressors, the Romans. At this time, Judea was under the control of Rome, as was that entire region of the world. And the Romans, of course, were pagan. They did not worship the one true God. And so the Jewish people were greatly troubled by this, and they wanted so much for a Messiah to come, a political figure, a great king with power and pageantry and majesty who would come and who would crush these pagan oppressors. And let me remind you just a day or two earlier, what we call his triumphal entry. They cried out, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel. And now with the Passover approaching, they're hoping that this might just be the time when this man will stand up and he'll perform incredible miracles. And he will cast off the Roman oppressors, and we will be free. We will be a sovereign, independent nation again. That's what they were dreaming of, of peace and prosperity. But they left out all of those Old Testament passages that spoke of a suffering Messiah. One thinks instantly of Isaiah 53 and perhaps Psalm 22, and these passages give details about his coming death. It talks about his piercing. It talks about the crowd mocking him. It talks about the authorities that would bring this to pass. It talks about the fact that he would die with other transgressors. And it even contains the words that the Messiah himself would speak at his death. For instance, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? So why didn't the rabbis and the people think of these verse and apply it to this situation, to this man who claims to be the Messiah? I suspect it's because they did not want this kind of Messiah. They wanted a glorious king. They wanted a powerful king. Not a king who would die at the hands of the Romans. In a strange sort of way, there's a parallel here with this in the prosperity gospel. There are millions of people who claim to be followers of Christ today. who believe that it's God's will for them to live in prosperity and in health. And that's what He's promised for His people. And yet the Bible is filled with passages that tell us that we will face suffering, that we will face difficulty, that we will face trials, that we may indeed endure poverty. But it's like a buffet. They don't like those verses. They take the promises they like and they leave the vegetables behind. But it's there. It's there. This is probably an example of the blindness of these people and the coming of Christ, part of it is what we would explain as confirmation bias. Do you know what I mean by confirmation bias? That when you come, when you have a theory about something, when you have a belief about something, everything that happens fits into that narrative. Even if anyone else would say, no, that doesn't fit at all. You see how it fits because you strongly believe that this is the case. In other words, we expect to find what we expect to find. Let me give you an example. When I was here, it had been here for like a year and a half over at the old building, Calvary Baptist, over there, in 2002, everyone in our church was talking about The Beltway Sniper. Do you guys remember the Beltway Sniper or the DC sniper? These two men that were going around shooting people randomly. And people did not know where the bullets were coming from or who was doing it, and there was all this terror, and everyone was talking about it. And in one of those shootings, one of those early shootings, someone saw a white step man and they became convinced that that was that they were in that van and they were driving it and that's where they were shooting from. And so it remember seeing it on the TV news and there was Uh uh it was a bad time for a person if they owned a white step van because you were going to get pulled over. And every white step van in the three-state area was pulled over in question pretty much. And every subsequent shooting, people would say somewhere on a side street or somewhere they saw a white step van. All right, and so the the police and the public were all fixated on finding this white step band. Guess what? It had nothing to do with anything They were driving a blue Chevy Caprice. And that was present at every one of the shootings, but no one saw it. You know why? Because they were all looking for a white step fan. That's what they expected to find. We have inherently within our minds we have to connect things to form a story. I use as an example of these people were taught and were brought up from the time they were very small to believe that the Messiah would be glorious, and he was glorious, and he is glorious. But they were not taught that he would come and suffer and die. So that's not what they were expecting. That's not what they were looking for. We tend to interpret events according to our presuppositions. This explains, of course, why people can look at the same facts and come to radically different conclusions. A Messiah who would come and be crucified by the Romans was unthinkable to them What what weakness, what humility, what shame, that can't be what the Messiah would do For this was all part of God's great plan of redemption and was all prophesied in the pages of the Old Testament. The Jewish people rejected their Messiah because they were not expecting a suffering Messiah. But there's another reason why they rejected Jesus as their Messiah. And that is because they rejected the revelation that God had abundantly provided. I want you to notice something here. Look with me at verse 34. I'm going to read the verse that I've already read and then read it into verse 35. So the crowd answered him, we have heard from Allah that the Christ remains forever. How can you say the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man? So Jesus said to them, the light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. While you have the light, believe in the light that you may become sons of light. Did you notice something interesting there? Let me ask you this question. Did Jesus answer their question? It's not that hard. No, he did not. He did not answer their question. Was he being rude? I mean, that they seemed to be honestly inquiring for the truth, and he just Says what he's going to say. He pleads with them to believe, but he doesn't say, well, let me explain to you guys. You see, there's some verses that say that the Messiah will reign, but then there's these other verses you may not have thought of that say that he's going to suffer and die. And you see, the Son of Man goes back to Daniel chapter 7, and it speaks of him being both divine and human. That's me. He didn't answer their question that way. Instead, he pleads for them and he warns them to believe. Why does he answer their question this way? Why doesn't he really answer their question? The answer is because he has been teaching them for three years, and he has answered their objections again and again and again. And he has performed a multitude of miracles before them. Their problem is not lack of information. Their problem was not, if only I had a few more of my questions answered. The problem is that there was an unwillingness on their part to believe. They didn't need more revelation or more answers. They needed to trust in him as their Messiah. So Jesus doesn't answer their question. Instead He uses the imagery of light and darkness, which is a major theme in this gospel. Twice in this gospel in Roman, excuse me, in John chapter 8 and chapter 9, Jesus says, I am the light of the world. And now in our text in verses 35 and 36, four times he's going to refer to the light with a definite article, not a light. Not like there's many sources of light out there in the world of truth. No, he is the light. And this is what he says. He says, the light will be with you for a little while longer. Jesus was aware that his earthly ministry was coming to an end. And we see this often in this gospel. In John chapter 7 and verse 33, he says, I will be with you a little longer, and then I'm going to him that sent me. In John chapter 13 and verse 33, he says, Little children, yet a little while, and I am with you. John 14 and verse 19, yet a little while and the world will see me no more. John chapter 16 and verse 16, a little while and you will see me no longer Jesus was keenly aware that his time on earth was short and he urges them to believe. Now that might raise a question in your mind. Jesus seems to be implying that after he is gone, they will no longer be able to trust in him. And yet we know that after his death and the coming of the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost, That more people believed at that one event than they ever did during our Lord's earthly ministry. Thousands and thousands of people came to believe in Jesus as their Messiah. So why does he say that? Well, he's saying this because let me mention two reasons. Number one, the unique revelation of Jesus to his father was about to leave them. In other words, the privilege they have of seeing God in flesh was about to be gone. And John chapter 1 and verse 18 Speaks about the fact that Jesus is the one who makes the Father known, and the word make known means to interpret or to fully explain or to disclose, because Jesus is the ultimate disclosure. of his father. You can't really understand God apart from Christ This is why Jesus could say to his disciples in the upper room, whoever has seen me has seen the Father. Not that they are the same person. But the Son fully reveals in the exact image of his Father. And this ultimate revelation would soon be gone. But there is another reason for this warning from Jesus, and that is because if his miracles and his presence and his teaching was not enough to convince them to trust in him , Then after he is gone, it very well is likely that they would never trust in him because their hearts had become hardened to the truth. I'm going to say much more about this, Lord willing, next week when we come to the next passage which gives a theological explanation of this. But notice what he says next. Walk while you have the light, lest the darkness overtakes you. Jesus here is referring to walking or moving about while the sun is still up. So when Jesus exhorts them to walk in the life, he's not talking about the fact that they're already believers and they're to follow him. No, he's talking about the fact that while they have the opportunity to seek him , They should seek him because that window of opportunity is closing, just like the sun is setting, and there's just a little bit of light left, and that light is about to go out. And he says if they fail to do this, they might find that the darkness will overtake them, which I take as a reference to the hardening of their hearts. So they would have no longer any interest in seeking Christ or the truth. And Jesus adds this warning. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. People in the ancient world rarely traveled at night. You could easily be attacked by others. You could lose your way. This is not a problem for us today. We live in the age of electricity. Our streets have bright lights. We have flashlights, we have headlights, we have these very bright LED lights that perhaps blind you while you're driving at night. In the ancient world, they didn't have any of that. They had little lamps that gave about as much light as a candle. Imagine walking out in the wilderness with a candle. Can't see very much. You wouldn't feel very safe. And so in the ancient world, people wouldn't go out at night because everything was dark and dangerous. I remember years ago when I first started here at Calvary, family had visited our church and they lived out on a farm. And so I went out to visit them. And it was off the beaten path a while and had a very, very long driveway getting back. And when I got there and turned out, turned off my car and got out, I realized it was absolutely dark. They had not there was no light on outside and it was far away from any street. And I could see the house vaguely, and I could see a door there. And I thought to myself, you know, if there's a hole in the ground, I'm going to fall into it And some some of you young people are saying, well, why didn't you use the light on your phone? Because they didn't exist then. That's why And so I prayed and walked and moved forward and finally made it to their door and had a delightful visit. But this is a picture of what Jesus is saying here, to live your life without Christ. It's like walking in the darkness at night. It's dangerous and bad things happen. You have no direction. It's uncomfortable. This is the path of all who reject Jesus as their Savior. And now we come to verse 36, where Jesus makes a heartfelt appeal to the people who have come to see him that day. He says, while you have the light, believe in the light. Once again, Jesus is reminding them that he will soon be gone. The analogy again is of the sun is setting. This is kind of like the last call Jesus calls on them to believe in the light, which is a call for them to trust in him personally. Notice how he first of all talks about walking in the light, and now he talks in verse 36. It calls on them to believe in the light that you may become sons of light. I've said to you many times in our series That the word believe is the key verb in this gospel of John. It's used 98 times. But what exactly does that mean? It does not mean that you agree that there was a Jewish carpenter who lived 2,000 years ago who died on a cross. It means that, but it means much more than that. Because the vast majority of people in America and many other parts of the world know that fact. They've heard that story. But to believe means to trust, to depend, to rely. It's sort of and and the great hindrance to this is that so often People trust and rely on themselves. In fact, we're told in the world that that's a great thing. You gotta believe in yourself. You gotta trust in yourself. That's nonsense. I hope you know that. You cannot be your own savior. Most people who are lost, at least probably in this country, Think that they're a pretty good person. And then they they think they haven't done too many horrible things. They're probably above average in the morality. And that God will look down and he'll see that they have a good heart, and that they've been kind and responsible, and he's going to allow them to come into heaven Maybe that's the way you're thinking this morning. Maybe you're here and they said, yeah, that that sounds reasonable. That's always the way I've thought about it. That's what I've heard before. I've got news for you. That's the wrong answer. That's an answer that will send you to hell. Think about it. If that were true, if you were a pretty good person and hell heaven was for people who try to do their best , Then why did God the Father send his only beloved Son to come and die? a cruel and painful and shameful death in your place. It would be completely unnecessary. And so you trusting in yourself, you believing what most people intuitively think is actually an insult to God. You're saying, no, thank you. I don't really need your son's sacrifice on my behalf because I can get there myself. And I want to assure you, you can't get there yourself. No, you must come to trust and believe and rely on him. We often have trouble understanding the difference between intellectual ascent and real dependence. I'm always reminded of the story of years ago of this great French uh tightrope walker named Charles Blondine. He came to America and put on several exhibitions, one of which is he stretched a cable in front of Niagara Falls and he walked from one side to the other. And then he did all kinds of crazy things. He took a wheelbarrow and he he took the wheel, the the rubber wheel off the front and he Went from one side to another, and there's thousands and thousands of people on both sides of Niagara watching this. And he went to one side and he said, to this group of people. How many of you think I can put a person in this wheelbarrow and take them safe to the other side? And this man and all these people raised their hand. He said to the man in the front, very good, then you get inside the wheelbarrow. And the man quickly put his hand down. You see, the man saw the skill of this man, and he believed that it was certainly possible, and he could probably do it, but he wasn't going to put his life on the line. And see, there are lots of people who think, yeah, I guess the idea of Jesus dying on the cross, I suppose that happened. But if that's not what you're depending on, where you're resting your eternal destiny in that fact You will perish eternally, my friend, because you didn't get in the wheelbarrow. You didn't, you said, no, no, no. I'm not going, I'm going to trust in myself. I'm not going to trust in Christ. And by the way, you can't do it both ways. You can't say, well, I'll do a little bit of reliance on myself and a little bit on him. No, no, no. It's got to be all in Christ. It's all or nothing. And Jesus gives this wonderful promise that if indeed a person does trust in Christ alone, they will become the Son of Light. An expression that means that they will, for the rest of their days, they will walk in the light and not in the darkness. Not that they will be perfect. But they will have the presence and the illumination of the Son of God with them. There are many other passages that refer to this. For instance, in Ephesians 5. 8, it says, For at one time you were darkness But now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of lights. And in that context, there, if you look at the verses before it, he's talking there about sexual purity. Christians should be known. Followers of Christ who walk in the light should be known for their sexual purity. And then there's another passage in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 that says, But you are not in the darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief, for you are of You are children of light, children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness. And it's saying there that we live our lives with a sense of purpose because we know the Lord could return at any time. He goes on to say we don't run around in drunkenness. We don't try to medicate our minds with all kinds of drugs and substances because we can't really handle the reality of life. No, we face life as it is, but we can do so because we have Christ with us. And Jesus said, let your light shine before others that they may see your good works and give glory to God who is in heaven. And he said, for God who said, let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. So let me ask you this morning, are you a child of light? Have you come to trust in Christ alone? Is it clear to those around you that you walk in the light and not in the darkness? Are you trusting in Jesus, the light of the world? I want to make just a few points of application before we conclude this morning. Number one, most people Who are lost in the world have been taught and embraced a false theology. Sometimes people think, oh, it doesn't matter what you believe. Theology doesn't matter. It's just that you live a good life. And the problem is the way you live your life comes out of your theology. So you can't really Separate the two. For instance, have you ever shared the gospel with a Muslim before? I have. several occasions. And if you do, you will instantly find something very shortly. Before you get very far in your presentation, they will say, wait a minute, you have to understand. The Christians corrupted the Bible. They changed all these things around. We believe in the New Testament, but the Christians corrupted the New Testament. Like the part about Jesus dying on the cross that never really happened. The Christians changed all of that. And they'll say that to you very, very quickly. That's their answer to the gospel. And what I always ask them about that is, well how would you know that they changed it? Is there any evidence for that? Do we have manuscript evidence that says way, way back they changed this? And so we have some Bibles that exist without the cross account or where Judas is actually the one who switched places with Jesus. Do we have any manuscripts like that? No, we do not. The only reason you're saying that is because from the time you're a little child you were taught that. And it's been ingrained in you. But what if the people who taught you were wrong? I'm not just talking now about false religion. How about the average Christian, the average person in America who believes the gospel is this? Do your best. God knows you're not perfect, but he knows you have a good heart, and so he'll let you in. You'll be fine. That's false theology. That's a distortion of what God has said and who he is. And if you trust in these answers, you will perish eternally. The second thing I want to say is that life is short And so you must live life with an eternal perspective. If you want to be like Jesus, you know what Jesus did? He lived with the understanding that his time was very short on earth. Now the world says that the reality that your time on earth is short means that you should have a bucket list, right? Of all these self-indulgent dreams that you've had that you've never been able to fulfill, but now, maybe towards the end of your life, you can fulfill them. You can do these things you've always wanted to do. That's the viewpoint of someone who thinks death is the end and there's nothing beyond that. No, we should live with the idea that our time on earth is short. This day might be the last day. And so I need to live it for the glory of God. I need to let my light shine. I need to be a witness for Him. I need to serve Him. I need to minister to others. I need to look out for others. I need to stop thinking so much. about myself and my problems and start ministering to others because this might be the last opportunity I have. The third thing I want to say is this church is a dangerous place. These people that spoke to Jesus this day in Jerusalem were very religious people. They were observant Jews. They're there for the feast of Passover. They've come early. They know their Old Testament. They knew the teaching of the Old Testament about the reign of the Messiah, that it would last forever. They knew these things And they got to have the privilege that very few human beings have ever experienced. And that is they happen to live at the right place and at the right time to see Jesus with their own eyes. and to observe his miracles and to listen to his teaching and to interact with him. And they had this, many of them saw this on numerous occasions over a period of some three years, and yet most of them still did not belief. And as we're going to see next week when we look at this following passage, it's because their hearts had become hardened. You see, some of the most vitriolic unbelievers that I've ever met in my life were raised in Christian homes. and came to churches and went to church like ours growing up. And they heard the gospel and they heard the truth. But they didn't receive it and they became hardened and angry and resistant to the gospel. Everyone here this morning will leave here in a different place than when you came in spiritually. You're either having your faith increase and your faith grow and you say, I believe this to be true, I believe what God's word says is true, and I'm trusting in Christ alone. And I'm so thankful that that is my only hope. Or you're responding in unbelief. And you'll leave here with your heart just a little bit harder than when it came in. Because you've been exposed to the truth. And just like the same sun that melts the wax hardens the clay. And for some of you, that might mean that your heart's a little bit harder today than it was when you came in here. Because you've responded in unbelief. That's why I say it's a dangerous thing to come to church. Don't get me wrong. God has called us to worship. It's delightful to worship Him in faith, but it's also a dangerous thing to respond in unbelief when we're exposed repeatedly to the truth of God's word. This explains at least partially the unbelief of these first century Jews. And the unbelief of many people today who have heard the gospel repeatedly But my call to you is to trust in Jesus alone. He is the light of the world. He is the only one who can bring you out of the darkness. And if you trust in him, you will become a child of light Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it is true. And it always has truth that is relevant for us to consider. I pray that you would use the Word of God today to soften hearts. And to generate belief in those who are dead and trespasses and sin. Help them, Lord, to be born again even today, and to see that indeed Jesus is the light of the world, the Savior of the world. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen