If you would turn your Bibles to Matthew chapter five, Matthew chapter five, and we're going to be beginning to look at The Beatitudes. The Beatitudes are kind of the opening salvo of the most famous sermon that was ever preached by our Lord, the Sermon on the Mount. And I don't usually announce the title of our sermon, but I think it kind of catches things that might bring it to a kernel truth. And the title of the sermon is simply The Blessing of Bankruptcy. The blessing of bankruptcy. Now I just want that to kind of just sit in your mind a little bit and think about that for a little bit. But the Lord begins this with the first of these beatitudes, blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. You probably know the name of William Carey. If you know anything about missions history, you know the name of William Carey. Perhaps you've read a biography of him. He's often called the father of modern missions. He was initially a bivocational pastor in England, but he had a passion for the glory of God. His his vocation that paid the bills, you might say, was he was a cobbler, a shoe cobbler. And he took some of the shoe leather that he had and he made a globe as best as he could understand and he outlined the nations of the world and he wrote the names of those nations and the languages they spoke. and the population that he could roughly estimate and what religions that they they were worshiping and that they were a part of. And the need for the gospel. And every day as he was working on shoes in his cobbler shop, he would pray for the glory of God, for the gospel to go to these nations. In a time when most people never went more than 50 miles from where they were born, William Carey was exceptional. He went around the world to India and was mightily used by God to bring the gospel to a continent that was lost in the demonic darkness of Hinduism. We have missionaries that we support in India even to this this day. It was South India Baptist Bible College. And we had a missionary going to south to southern India as well in our church just this past week. And they are building on the foundation that William Carey was able to build by the grace of God. For over forty years, he labored in India and he labored through amazing and abundant obstacles. What he didn't realize fully when he was a cobbler in England was that he also was gifted as a linguist. And the Lord used William Carey to translate the full Bible into six different languages. And if that's not enough, he translated portions of the Bible into twenty-nine other languages. Now for most Americans, the idea of learning one language seems like a daunting task. But the Lord used him to translate the Bible or portions of the Bible in well over thirty different languages. Towards the end of his life. A lot of people knew William Carey. They were a bit amazed at what God had allowed him to do, and he became somewhat of a a minor celebrity. But the secret to his strength really was his utter dependence upon God. When he died, before he died, he gave instruction about what his tombstone would look like. and what was to say. And it simply has this information on it. William Carey, born August 17, 1761, died June 9, 1834. A wretched, poor, and helpless worm, on thy kind arms I fall. William Carey was a great success But his success was due to the fact that he was poor in spirit. And he recognized that he was utterly dependent upon the grace of God, and in the strength of that grace, he was able to minister. When we come to the Beatitudes, we are beginning not only Jesus' most famous sermon, but perhaps the most famous sermon that was ever, that has ever been preached in the history of the world More people know this sermon than probably any sermon that has ever been preached. And it's often this first part is often called the Beatitudes. And that just simply comes from the Latin translation of this word, blessed. And it would be beatuse, the b the blessings, the blessings that come that Jesus describes here A variation of this sermon is actually something that Jesus preached in a numerous numerous different places in the different times. It's kind of like When a politician goes to a new state or a new arena and he gives what's called his stump speech. And he has his policies that he wants to proclaim and share. He gives a stump speech, the same speech that he he talked about in Pittsburgh, he talks about in Philadelphia, he talks about in Baltimore, and he goes when he goes to Arizona, he presents that same speech Similar to what a missionary does or an evangelist does as they travel from church to church, location to location, they use a sermon that really is the highlight of what they want to get across. And they'll oftentimes use that same sermon I was a missionary. I've done that before. My kids practically had some of my sermons memorized. So they know what that's like. Jesus did the same thing, so you can't blame me. Jesus did it. Jesus would go to a new place, a new location, a new crowd, and the great truths of the gospel, he would preach those same truths to them. So we see this very similar or very similar sermon to this in Luke chapter 6, slightly different, to a different crowd, different time. Different location, but the same truths are being brought out. This sermon here is preached by Jesus when a large crowd of people had come to him because he was healing Those that were sick, he was casting out demons, he was working great miracles, and people from all the surrounding regions came to hear him. And when he saw the great crowd, the Bible says he walked up on the hillside and he sat down. And the disciples came and he began to preach this message, which covers Matthew 5, 6, and 7 to that crowd. We know it was not just the disciples, because at the end, end of chapter 7, it says that the crowd was amazed at his preaching, the multitudes that were gathered around. The purpose of this sermon really was threefold. The first thing that he was trying to do in this sermon was to expose the hypocrisy of the Pharisees. Now when we think of the word Pharisee, we think of bad guys. Because that's what we come into the New Testament and we're so used to hearing the Pharisees are the bad guys. But if you were a New Testament Jew, you would think of the Pharisees as the most righteous people in your nation. They were the ones who were the most conservative. They were the ones who were most careful about keeping the law. They were the ones that everyone looked to to understand how a Jewish person was to behave. But Christ exposes their hypocrisy. Chapter 6 begins by contrasting their hypocritical practices with what true religions should look like. And he talks about three main areas in chapter 6: Giving. Fasting and prayer. And he says, don't be like this, which is how the Pharisees were, do be like this. He also, not only is he trying to expose the hypocrisy of the Pharisees, he's really trying to awaken the conscience of his hearers, the multitude of people that are around him. are just looking for a miracle to be done, they're looking for a healing. They're not thinking about their great spiritual need. And Jesus exposed the righteousness of the leaders there as insufficient. And he says something that's startling to them. He says, unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, you will in no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven. And you can imagine the people in the crowd are going. Who gets to go into heaven then? If those guys don't go, I ain't going. I was hoping to pull in on their coattails, but if they're not going to make it, who's going to make it? And then Jesus says something that's startling. He says, be perfect, as your Father in heaven is perfect. Be perfect like God, and then you'll get into heaven. What? Talk about awakening the conscience. Chapter 5 is full of instruction that is designed to show them how far they fall short of God's holy standard And then the last thing he's trying to do here is to express to Christians the way in which they are to live This doesn't, the sermon doesn't tell people, live like this, and you will become a Christian. Rather, it's written to those who are Christian, saying, This is how you must live. You are a follower of Christ, live like this. So when you think about this, there there are some people that think of the Sermon on the Mount and they say this is just too high of a standard. This is an impossible standard. It's not for us. And there are some very godly men who will actually teach that the Sermon on the Mount is not for Christians. And there are there are pastors that will say, I would never preach from the Sermon on the Mount because it's not for us today. Well, I think they're entirely wrong. There are those, especially of those of what are what are known as classical dispensationalists, that would say the beatitudes in the Sermon on the Mount really don't apply to us today. This is a message from the perspective of Jesus as the King in his millennial kingdom, but it's not for believers today. It'll be for believers in the millennial kingdom, but not for us today. In fact, if you have the old Schofield Reference Study Bible, there's actually a note that that was written in that reference Bible that says the Sermon on the Mount in its primary application gives neither the privilege nor the duty to the church And that's just wrong. I'm just gonna say just simply that is not true. That is wrong, and it's not correct to think that way. And there's three reasons for that. There's actually more than three, but three very simply. First of all Jesus is addressing people in a world that looks a lot like our world. It looks a lot like what we see around us today. It's a world full of religious hypocrites. It's a world full of thieves, of adulterers, of divorce, of deceit, of false teachers. Even in the Beatitudes, we're told to do what? Rejoice when others revile you and persecute you and say all manner of evil against you falsely on my account. Is that going to happen in the millennium? No. No, absolutely not. Christ will be ruling with a rod of iron at that time. There will be righteousness on the earth. That doesn't make any sense to say that this is for the millennium. Secondly, Jesus in this sermon gives us a lot of present-tense commands. He says things like, rejoice. Not like you shall rejoice, but rejoice in the face of persecution. Give. Pray in secret. Then he gives us the Lord's Prayer. Pastor Tobin has been teaching on the Lord's Prayer, and it's instruction for us on how we ought to pray. Not for the millennium, but for now. The third reason is there's nothing in this sermon. Jesus doesn't say anywhere, this is for the future. He's saying it for us. Today, now. What's amazing about this, these beatitudes that we have here in the beginning, that this is really a message that Jesus is giving to teach us about eternal happiness. Eternal happiness. You know the name Blaise Pascal. Blaise Pascal was a mathematician, he was an inventor, he was a philosopher of the 17th century, brilliant man, brilliant man, he was a believer. But he famously said this: all men seek happiness. This is without exception. Whatever different means they employ, they all tend to this end, the cause of some going to war and of others avoiding it. Is the same desire in both, attended with different views. The will never takes the least step but to this object. This is the motive of every action of every man Even of those who hang themselves. It's true. Think about it for a second. We make decisions based on How will this make me happy? And sometimes if we say, well, it's going to make me happy in the long run, so I'm going to do this, even though it's not comfortable right now, it'll make me happy in the long run. When we look at the world around us, at the nation around us, you can see the truth of this reality. The problem is that people are pursuing happiness. in ignorance of what actually leads to true, eternal, lasting happiness. And they have no idea of how God created them to actually find it and enjoy it. Instead, what do people do? They selfishly pursue happiness. And in their pursuit of happiness, they run headlong into someone else who is also selfishly pursuing happiness. And they have to try to get that person out of the way so that they can enjoy the happiness that they want. And as a result, we have conflict. Jesus begins this message by pronouncing eight marks of the truly blessed, the truly happy person. You can be sure that Jesus got people's attention. If if I stood up here this morning and said, I'm going to preach to you on how to gain happiness. It's kind of what Jesus did. He said, Happy is the man that is poor in spirit. Now that you'll what? That's not what I would have said. Happy is the man who gets everything he wants. Happy is the man who's poor in spirit. He says you're blessed. The word blessed is a great Greek word. It most often is translated blessed. It can also be translated, it is translated in our New Testament, fortunate. It's also translated happy in the New Testament. And when Jesus says this word, he's not talking about the idea of happiness like what we often think of, a happy, superficial, emotional state. A state that's not based on truth, but just fluctuating eternal or external circumstances in our lives. We've all heard the person, maybe you've said it, I know I've said it, after a good meal, you push away from the table and you say, I am fat and happy. Now, that's not a continuing state. The fat part might be, but the happy part isn't isn't a continuing state. That's going to change. I'm going to feel hungry again and I'm going to want some more to eat and I'm not going to be happy. I'm going to be hangry. And that's that's not a continuing state. Or perhaps You've whistled along or sung along, maybe even danced along to Pharrell Williams' song Happy, which says, clap along if you feel like happiness is the truth. What does that mean? That's that essentially is nonsense. I mean, it's a catchy talk song. I get it. But it's a catchy tune That actually just kind of like bury your head in the sand and don't think about real life and just whistle a song with me and dance and clap and snap your fingers if you want to be happy. When Jesus speaks of blessedness or happiness here, he's talking about a deep abiding happiness that is based on the true condition of that person. Not a passing emotional state. And Jesus does this based upon an Old Testament context. He's using this word because this word, if you know the Bible, the Old Testament was written in Hebrew. And at the time of Christ, most people read the Greek Old Testament. They translated it from Hebrew into Greek. And this word that Jesus used here that's translated blessed. Actually has a rich Old Testament history. And in the gr in the Greek Old Testament, this word is found in many places. But probably one of the most important in the very first time we read it in the Old Testament. is in Deuteronomy chapter 33. Moses is saying this to the people of Israel. He says this, the eternal God is your dwelling place. And underneath are the everlasting arms. And he thrust out the enemy before you and said, destroy. So Israel lived in safety. Jacob lived alone in a land of grain and wine whose heavens dropped down dew. Happy Are you, O Israel, who is like you? A people saved by the Lord, the shield of your help and the sword of your triumph? So here he says, Israel, you are a happy people. Why are you a happy people? Because you are privileged. You are even in an enviable state. Because you have a unique relationship with God. The everlasting God is your God. And underneath are the everlasting arms. What do you have to worry about if God is holding you up? If the eternal, unchanging, almighty God is under your arms and he's holding you up. What do you have to worry about? You are his. So he says, happy are you, O Israel. There's another place where the same word is found, and that's in Psalm 32. And David sings this song. It's one of the penitential psalms when David is repenting. This is after his sin with Bathsheba, after Psalm 51 that we sang, now in response to God's forgiveness, he says this. Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no deceit. Happy is the one whose sins are forgiven. Happy is the one who God does not impute his sin to him, but that he is forgiven. True happiness, as Jesus was talking about, is based upon a relationship with God and comes from unchanging promises as a gift from God. It refers to a person who deserves to be congratulated, even envied. If you see a person who fits these characteristics here, you should congratulate this person. James Boyce said, when Jesus spoke these words, he was telling his listeners how they could be deeply, spiritually, and profoundly happy, and how they could maintain that happiness even in the midst of life's disappointments and hard times. So these eight blessings are marks of what we call true citizens of heaven. True citizens of heaven. When we lived in Tanzania, we would often see tourists from various countries. And they're coming to the Serengeti or they're coming to Mount Kilimanjaro. And you could we'd be in town and we would watch these tourists come through. Some of the things we like to do is just guess where they're from. We would sit there maybe at a restaurant, we'd watch these guys go by and we're like, where do you think they're from? We would we'd just have competitions to see if we could guess where they're from, then we'd try to get close enough to we could actually identify where they're from. Probably a little creepy, but it was kind of fun to do. You could observe their clothing. You could observe their conversation, the way they spoke not necessarily the language they spoke but the conversation. If they spoke English, you could observe the accent that they spoke with, the volume that they spoke, the loudest people, anywhere you go in the world. are Americans. So I tell you that you walk to an international airport, you can pick out the Americans just by how loud they are. Maybe you've never noticed that about yourself. You may think not me. Check it out. It's interesting. Attitude. There is an attitude that different nations have. Even hairstyle could help you point to a certain Country. I remember being on an airplane and there were there were Dutch people at one spot and then there were Spaniards and another spot of the plane and the Dutch people were all business And the Spaniards were having a blast. I mean, they were social, they were up in the aisles, they were talking, and they never sat down. But the Dutch were like, what are you doing? Sit down. We're on a plane. And it was fun just to sit back and observe the different characteristics of nations. What Jesus is describing here in these Beatitudes are characteristics of people who are citizens of the kingdom of God. They're citizens of the kingdom of God. Here we have these eight qualities that are in the life of every true believer If you are a believer in Jesus Christ, if you are a follower of Jesus Christ, if you have heaven as your home, these qualities will be in your life. Maybe not to where they should be, but they will be in your life. And you'll notice as we read this, as Pastor Tobin led us in reading this, there's a definite structure. There's an organization to these Beatitudes. Each of them starts with the word blessed. And then it has a certain characteristic. Blessed are the poor in spirit. And then it says four. And then it gives a reason why they're blessed. The first and the last. Are unique. It says, For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Both the first beatitude and the last beatitude say the same thing. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Two different Blessed are, but theirs is the kingdom of heaven. It's not that Jesus was going along, he's like, blessed are the poor, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are are those who mourn, for they'll be comforted. What should I say for this last one? I'll just go back to the one I started with. It wasn't like he just ran out of things to say. Jesus is using what's known as a literary device called an inclusio. It's kind of like when you're talking and you mention something here and you mention something here, the same thing, and it brackets those items off This is one reality. This is one truth. All eight of these things refer to a person who is A possessor of the kingdom of heaven. If you are a believer, if you're a possessor of the kingdom of heaven, these eight realities are yours. It's also interesting what you you probably noticed as Pastor Tobin was leading us through this, that the first one says, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. The next six say shall. You notice that? Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. I would encourage you to underline that, highlight that. I circle, I highlight the word is and shall, so I know. Present tense? Future tense. Present tense, possessor of the kingdom. Future tense, ultimate blessing for those who possess the kingdom. There's structure to what Jesus is saying here. But Jesus is teaching that this eternal happiness is only available to those who are poor in spirit. This first beatitude says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And this first beatitude is the foundation of the other seven. It's not just randomly put together. This is the foundation. Apart from being poor in spirit, you don't have the other and you don't have the kingdom of heaven. We mourn over our sins because we are poor in spirit. This leads to meekness because we're painfully aware of our own sins. From this, we learn to hunger and thirst after righteousness. We desire to be more righteous. As we hunger and thirst for righteousness, we're aware of our own need for mercy, and therefore we become merciful. This leads us to become pure in heart, desiring to be more pure, not just externally but internally From this vantage point, we strive to bring peace between man and God. We want people to know our God, to know the peace of God. And also peace between man and man. And lastly, when we do these things, when we live this way, we can expect persecution. We can expect trials. We can expect suffering. So this first beatitude, blessed are the poor in spirit, this marks the door into the kingdom of heaven. No one enters the kingdom of heaven unless they are first poor in spirit. This is like kind of when Jesus said to Nicodemus, unless you are born again, you shall not enter the kingdom of heaven. That should make you go, well, what does it mean to be born again? Jesus says, blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs are the kingdom of heaven. Well, what does it mean to be poor in spirit? I want to ask you this honest this honest question this morning. Are you poor in spirit? Can you say, I am poor in spirit? If you're not, then you're not a citizen. Of the kingdom of heaven. You are not a Christian. That's a really serious matter. So in order to understand what it means to be poor in spirit, we need to really begin to ask some questions. We can understand what poor in spirit means by first understanding what it doesn't mean. To be poor in spirit does not mean financial poverty. Does not mean financial poverty. It's true that financial wealth can be a huge impediment to eternal life In fact, in the same sermon that Jesus gives here, he says this you cannot serve God and money You cannot serve. Not as hard to do. You cannot serve God in money. They are diametrically opposed to each other. If you are serving money, you are not serving God And vice versa, if you're serving God, you are not serving money. When the rich young man came to Jesus in Matthew 19 He asked, What must I do to inherit eternal life? Jesus first confronted him with the commandments, and he said, You know the commandments? And he lists off several commandments, and the young man says, All of these I have kept. Pretty amazing. That's also what Jesus deals with in the Sermon on the Mount. No, you haven't. But he said, All of these I've kept. Then Jesus says to him, If you will be perfect. Go. Sell what you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. And come follow me. Wow. Aren't you glad that Jesus isn't saying that to you? You want to go to heaven? Sell everything you have. Give it to the poor. Come follow me. The Bible tells us this young man went away sorrowful because he was very wealthy. Then Jesus turned to the disciples and said, Truly I say to you, only with difficulty will a rich person enter the kingdom of heaven. Again, I tell you, it's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God You say, well, that's good, because I'm not rich, Pastor. Don't you worry about me. Guess what? I bet you you eat better than this rich man every day of your life. I bet you live in a house nicer than this rich man. I bet you you have transportation that's better than this rich man. I bet you you enjoy comforts and more clothing. than this rich man ever enjoyed. Of all people on the face of the earth, we are the richest that have ever walked this earth. We are the most blessed financially. And so when Jesus says it's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven, we ought to be afraid. We ought to stop and really think. We ought to be concerned. When Jesus says, only with difficulty will a rich person enter into heaven, we should say, He's talking to me. Not those people, not Bill Gates, me. Because I am in the top 1% of the top 1% who have ever walked the face of this earth. Being poor in spirit, though, is not the same thing as being financially poor. It's not the same thing. However, they are related. There is a connection between these two things. One who is wealthy is far less likely to be poor in spirit. Because wealth often results in what? Self-confidence and self-reliance. And self-confidence and self-reliance are the very opposite of what it means to be poor in spirit. And so being wealthy is not the same thing as being uh Um or being poor is not the same thing as being poor in spirit, but they being wealthy is related. And that it is a connection here that you need to think about. Being poor in spirit doesn't mean that you you're weak, you're not confident, you lack courage and confidence The Bible repeatedly urges believers to be strong and courageous. So being poor in spirit is like, I can't do it. I just can't do it. That's not what it means to be poor in spirit. To be poor in spirit is to recognize that you are spiritually poor. You are spiritually poor. You have no righteousness to commend you to God. Your sin makes you unworthy to enter into the very presence of a holy God. Being poor in spirit is the opposite of what we said: self-reliance and self-confidence. And this is talked about in the Old Testament. Jesus is taking an Old Testament reality and he's bringing it into the people that he's speaking to and presenting them with this truth. In Isaiah chapter 61 and verse 2. The Lord says this, all these things my hand has made, meaning all creation. And so all these things came to be, declares the Lord. But this is the one to whom I will look. This is the one that I will look upon with favor, with blessing. What type of person will God look upon with blessing? He who is humble and contrite in spirit and trembles at my word. That word humble is literally the word poor. The majority of the time in the Old Testament is translated poor. What type of person does God look to? The poor. Physically poor? No. What does he say? Who is contrite and he trembles at my word. He recognizes the condemnation that he feels and he fears because of the word of God. This truth comes up repeatedly in the book of Isaiah. When we did our Isaiah study, we saw this again and again. In Isaiah 55, 1. There's this beautiful, beautiful verse. He says, Come, everyone who thirst. Come to the waters. And he who has no money, come, buy and eat, come by wine and milk without money and without price. He says, You don't have money. You don't have the ability. Come anyways, freely, receive the gift of eternal life. Come to me, and I will give you a great feast of forgiveness and joy and everlasting life. In Isaiah 57, it says, For thus says the one who is high and lifted up. Who inhabits eternity, whose name is holy. I dwell in a high and holy place, and also with him who is contrite and lowly in spirit. To revive the spirit of the lowly and to revive the heart of the contrite. Who does God look upon? Upon the person who realizes he's bankrupt. He has nothing to make himself commendable to God. This word poor, I titled the sermon Blessing, The Blessing of Bankruptcy. Bankruptcy is probably not the best term for it. Bankruptcy, if you file bankruptcy, if you're careful, you know what you're doing, you can actually still save your house. You can still move forward. This word poor here isn't a word for the working poor, the people who struggle to make ends meet. That's not the word at all. The word for poor here is actually a word that's used in Luke chapter 16, the parable of the rich man in Lazarus. And you know the rich man, he fared sumptuously every day, he ate a feast every single day. And then outside his gates, the Bible says a poor man named Lazarus was laid. Was laid. Meaning what? He can't walk. He's crippled. He's disabled. He was laid there, and the dogs would lick his wounds, and he desired to just eat the scraps that fell from the table of the rich man. And every day when the trash would be thrown out, maybe Lazarus would get a little bit of it. The word poor there is the word the poor that is used here in Matthew 5. The poor in spirit. It's talking about one who is absolutely destitute. Not trying to make ends meet, but has no means to make ends meet. When we lived in Tanzania, we saw people like this on a regular basis. We would see someone who was crippled. I remember walking down the road many times and coming across a man dressed in rags. Different men, different times. Sometimes they were they were crippled and they would have like a uh what they call a lopa a a sandal on their arm, and they'd be dragging themselves down the road on their arm. And they would have something in one hand usually if they had a hand they could use, and it'd be a little plastic cup. And they would sit there and they'd tap, tap, tap, tap, tap, and they'd see you, they'd tap, tap, tap, tap, and they'd try to hold it up. Anybody that passed by, tap, tap, tap, tap, tap. Hopefully you come by and you put a few coins in their little cup. That's what this word means. He's destitute. He can't get a job. He can't make ends meet. He is utterly dependent on the mercy of another person. And Jesus says, blessed are the destitute in spirit. You're not trying to make ends meet before God. You're there with your plastic cup tapping. God be merciful to me, a sinner. God be merciful to me. If you're not merciful to me, I have no hope. If you don't, if you don't, you don't show me mercy, I have nowhere to go. God be merciful to me, a sinner. To be poor in spirit, then is the complete absence of pride and self-reliance. It is a humble awareness that we have nothing in the presence of God, and we are nothing in the presence of God. I have nothing good to offer. We sang about it. Nothing in my hands I bring. Simply to thy cross I cling. I have nothing to offer. I'm just tapping. I'm begging God be merciful to me. In Luke chapter 18, Jesus told a parable to illustrate this truth. And in verse 9, it says that Jesus told this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous. and treated others with contempt. And he says, Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee standing by himself prayed thus. God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all that I get But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven but tapped. He beat upon his breast and said, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. And Jesus says, what? This man who said, God be merciful to me, a sinner, went away justified. And the other went away lost in his sins. This is what Pastor Layman talked about last week. Remember in John 9 about the parable or the not the parable, the story about the rich man. The blind man that Jesus healed. And at the end the Pharisees come around and Jesus is saying, Blessed are you because you were blind, but now you see. And the Pharisees say, We're not blind, are we? And Pastor said, it expects a negative response. You don't actually think that we're blind. And Jesus says. If you understood that you were blind, then you would see. But because you think you're seeing, you're stuck in your blindness. The mercy of God, the blessing of God, comes to those who sit there and simply tap and say, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I have nothing to offer. Forgive me. The Apostle Paul, before he came to know Christ, was a was a Pharisee. He was one of those elite that said, I fast twice in a day, and I give tithes of all that I had. And in Philippians 3, he describes his spiritual pedigree. And he said, if anyone thinks they can boast about their position spiritually, I more. I'm better than I was better externally than anyone else. And he said, but I realized all of that was like garbage He said, I count all that as garbage so that I might gain Christ. And the righteousness that comes as a free gift. Not because I'm so good, not because I'm so worthy, but because Jesus Christ has done everything for me and I am a helpless beggar. And he said, I learned to count all of that as nothing so that I might gain Christ. Have you ever come to God as a beggar, begging Him for mercy? Have you ever been so low that you cried out, God, be merciful to me, a sinner? I hope that's a daily prayer. Have you ever been so humbled and aware of your sinfulness that you cried out like Isaiah did? Woe is me, not pity me. The word means I deserve to die. For I am ruined, because I am a man of unclean lips, and I live in the midst of a people of unclean lips. Have you ever been to that place where you said, God, just be merciful to me. There's no hope for me. I am wretched. I am poor. I'm a worm. And like William Carey said, a poor, wretched worm. You can have a degree from a seminary. You can memorize scripture. You can be have perfect attendance in Sunday school. But if you've never come and tapped with your cup and said, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. God, I have nothing to offer you. Then you are not a citizen of the kingdom. You do not know eternal life. And I fear to say this, but one day, if you do not come to him this way, you will hear the words: depart from me, you who work iniquity, for I never knew you. Like the Pharisee did. But the tax collector who cried out for mercy found mercy. Jesus teaches that Christians are to live as poor in the spirit. Being poor in the Spirit is not a one-time event. We don't just come once. We come continually poor in the Spirit It's a life-transforming reality. That's why there's a structure to these beatitudes. This first beatitude is the doorway in to the blessed life. And you live this way, this poverty of spirit brings about the other realities that we find in the other seven beatitudes. Someone who is poor in spirit will treat others graciously. Maybe you notice as I was talking about the parable in Luke. Where Jesus says that he told this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous. And what's the next thing say? And treated others with contempt. Those who think they're righteous, think they're something, think they've got it all put together, they look down the nose of people and say, they've made a total mess of their lives. What's wrong with these people? But someone who's poor in spirit says, but by the grace of God, I've made a total mess of my life and he's been kind to me. He's been gracious to me. If you are poor in spirit, you'll be gracious to others. You'll be keenly aware of your own unworthiness and your own wretchedness of God before God. And that makes you aware Of the need for others to experience grace and you treat others with grace. Are you a person who's critical to others? Then you need to grow in this area of poverty of spirit. You've never really seen yourself as you are. Someone who's poor in spirit will glory in Jesus Christ. And the grace of God given to him. If you were poor in spirit, if you ever sat there begging, God just be merciful to me, a sinner. And God Doesn't just throw a couple coins in your cup. God says, You are my child. You are my son. I give you eternal life. I give you the keys to the kingdom. What? How can this be that such grace was given to me, a wretched worm, that I was just tapping asking for a few coins? You'll never tire of praising God. The Apostle Paul was like that. He never got over the grace of God. That's why he wrote Ephesians 1. That's why he wrote the book of Romans. That's why he wrote Galatians. He never tired of the grace of God. That's why he could say things like I am the chief of sinners. And I am the least of the apostles and not even worthy to be called an apostle. Because he never got over the grace of God. And he gloried in Christ. If you've ever been poor in spirit, the grace of God will be so beautiful to you. Someone who's poor in spirit not only treats people graciously and glories in Christ, but they never complain about their situation. Instead, he's a sanguine person. What do you have to complain about? You were asking for a few coins and you've been given the kingdom. When we complain, when we murmur, When we grumble, we're saying, I never really saw myself as being that bad. I never really saw my condition as being all that horrible Paul said, I have learned in whatever state I am therewith to be content. Because I was just a wretched beggar. And God has given me his kingdom. If you're a complainer, then it's obvious that you're not poor in spirit. Next, someone who's poor in spirit will not argue with the demands of following Christ In 1 John 5, the Apostle John says, For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments, and his commandments aren't burdensome. They're not burdensome. He's not asking a great thing. He has given me eternal life. He has made me a son of God. His commandments are not hard. He's not asking a great thing. And the demands of following Christ to the one who is poor in spirit Are quite reasonable. Lastly, someone who's poor in spirit will spend much time in prayer. Why? Because you're a beggar And beggars beg. Beggars come repeatedly pleading for mercy. We don't get over being poor in spirit We don't come into the kingdom by poor in spirit and then we get rid of that. We live poor in spirit, dependent upon the grace of God, begging him for his kindness and his mercy and his grace day by day, moment by moment. We are utterly dependent upon the grace of God. Have you? Become poor in spirit? Can you say I am poor in spirit? I'm not saying perfectly poor in spirit, but can you say I've come to God as a beggar, tapping my cup, saying, God be merciful to me, a sinner My sins are so great. I have nothing to give to you. If so, you are to be envied. You are in a blessed position. You may not have all this world has to offer, but you are truly, eternally happy. And maybe say I have not done that. I don't know what that means. I think there's something here. I think there's some truth to what you're saying. And there is. It's the truth of Jesus. Because I don't know how to become poor in spirit. Well, can I give you just two things before as we close here? Ask God to show you how bankrupt, how destitute you really are spiritually. Say, God, this is what your word says. I'm struggling to understand this. Show me how bankrupt I am. Come like a beggar. And ask God to open your eyes. And He will. The Bible says that there is none righteous. No, not one. There is none that seeks after God. We've all gone after our own way. We've all pursued headlong our own wickedness, our own selfish desires. We've pursued happiness in our own ways. The Bible says that all our righteous actions are so polluted with wickedness that even our righteousness are like filthy garments before God. Ask God to show you your wretchedness and He will. Secondly, read the Bible. Read your Bible with your eyes focused on what is revealed about God. What does it say about who God is? As we see God for who he is, we begin to see ourselves for who we are. Only in that light do we understand who we really are. Read Exodus 19. The power of God revealed when he gave the law. Finish reading Matthew 5, 6, and 7, and you'll stand in awe of what is revealed there. Read Isaiah 6. Read Daniel 7. Read the gospels and see the glory of God revealed in the face of Jesus Christ. Think about the cross of Christ and the grace that is found in the cross. Jesus said, blessed, happy are the poor in spirit, for theirs and only theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Have you ever cried out to God like a beggar? Have you ever received his mercy? If not, it's available for the poor in spirit who will come to him today and say, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for our Savior Jesus Christ, who loved us enough to tell us the truth. To show us our wretchedness, to expose our pride and our sin. and to make himself a sacrifice for us. Father, I pray for any here this morning that has never come before you like a beggar. And instead is trusting in his own good works. And I'm a pretty good person. I'm not perfect, but I'm pretty good. God, I pray you'd show them that they're nothing but a wretched worm, needing your grace. God, I pray that they would be humbled to the dust, so they might find the true blessedness that comes to those who are poor in spirit Father, for those who have come to know this, I pray that we would be made more and more poor in spirit. That this reality would transform our lives. And that it would affect our worship of you and our love for one another. Father, we praise you. We thank you for the true happiness that comes in Jesus Christ It's in his name we pray. Amen.