I want to speak to you this evening, as I announced this morning, on the priority of preaching. And uh I want to begin by reading uh a letter that was sent to the editor of a religious periodical some time ago. It says, it seems ministers feel their sermons are very important and spend a great deal of time preparing them. I've been attending church quite regularly now for 30 years, and I've probably heard 3,000 sermons. To my consternation, I discovered I cannot remember a single sermon. I wonder if a minister's time might be more profitably spent on something else. And there were a lot of responses to that. One of the responses was this letter. Dear sir, I've been married for 30 years. During that time, I have eaten 32,850 meals, mostly my wife's cooking. Suddenly I've discovered that I cannot remember the menu of a single meal. And yet I have the distinct impression that without them I would have starved to death long ago. The first letter question if preaching is really all that important. And there are many today who I think would question that or perhaps answer no. They believe that preaching is a leftover from ancient times, and to many Christians today, it's an antiquated way of expressing God's truth. Many reason that if it's the message and not the method that matters, and so if we discover better methods Of communicating God's truth, and we should not hesitate to abandon the pulpit. And we have seen that there have been many changes in uh recent years. within the church. Many preaching services are being widely eliminated in favor of cell group Bible studies Most churches today have only one service. That of course would be Sunday morning. Sermons are being replaced with drama, music, videos, liturgical dancers, dialogue skits. and many other things. And we are told today that people have been conditioned to respond to video imagery and so it is no use trying to reach them with this outdated method of communication called preaching Sermons are being reduced in many cases to brief motivational speeches that are filled more with worldly wisdom than with the Word of God. And in many services, the time given over to the music parts and to drama and other things far exceeds the time given to the preaching of the word. And consequently, pastors are spending less and less time in sermon preparation and more and more time in administration, counseling, and visitation. What I want to demonstrate to you tonight is that preaching is not just another means of communicating God's truth. It is the primary method that God has ordained. I want to follow up on what I preached on several weeks ago, where I tried to define the question, what is preaching? Now, to a preacher to preach on preaching may seem self-serving to you. People tend to have uh exaggerated uh emphasis on whatever they do. Uh if they're a reporter, they think that being a reporter is the most important occupation in the world. If they're a farmer, they will point out that if it wasn't for us, everybody would starve to death. If they're a builder, they would say, well, you know, if it wasn't for us, you wouldn't have a roof over your head. And on and on it goes. This is not uh me uh trying to uh uh exalt what uh God has called me to do, but simply to investigate what the scriptures say And I think it's vitally important that we have God's perspective on this issue. I don't want you to think that the reason why almost all of our services are preaching services is simply because we're old-fashioned or we're stuck in a rut. The reason our services are filled with biblical instruction is because of what the Word of God reveals to us in statements and in patterns that we find. So I would have preached you this evening on the priority of preaching. And the first thing I want you to notice with me is that preaching is one of the essential duties of a minister of the gospel. And I would invite you to turn with me to Acts chapter 6. Acts chapter 6, please. And I would like to begin reading these first four verses in this chapter. And in those days when the number of the disciples was multiplied, there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration. Then twelve called the multitude of disciples unto them and said, It is not reason that we should leave the word of God and serve tables. Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. But we will give ourselves continually to prayer and to the ministry of the Word. This historic incident in the early church chronicles really the beginning, as I understand it, of the office of deacon. And I realize that the men who make these statements here about prayer and the ministry of the word were apostles, and I do not claim to be an apostle. I don't think there are any apostles walking around today. I know there are many who claim that there are, but I think they're wrong. I don't think they meet the qualifications of an apostle as found in the New Testament. However, when the apostles did utter these memorable words, they were functioning as pastors to that large congregation in Jerusalem. And I believe, and so do uh preachers and pastors for many, many centuries, that their words reveal the absolute essential duties for any pastor. And that is prayer and the ministry of the word. This is not saying that a pastor can't do anything else. However, what he does, in addition to these things, must not cause him to neglect these two primary duties. Did you know that a preacher would not necessarily be derelict of duty if he did not baptize? 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 17, Paul says, For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel. We'll go to that passage in just a few moments. Did you know that a pastor is never told in Scripture to perform weddings or funerals? You don't find that there. Did you know that a pastor is nowhere instructed to provide marriage counseling? I personally don't think the Apostle Paul did much marriage counseling. I'm not saying that's evil or wicked, but I don't think that's what he spent his time doing. Did you know that a pastor is not told that he is to go out visiting at least one or two days a week and visit the shut-ins and see everybody and how they're doing? We're not told that a pastor is commanded to do that. Did you know that a pastor is never spoken of in Scripture as an administrator or an executive? Now, just about every pastor you've ever heard of does visit and perform weddings and funerals and administration and perform these other duties. But they must never be the priority. And it is so easy, it is so easy for a pastor to neglect prayer And preparing to preach and to fill up his time with these other responsibilities. Every single week that I am in the ministry, I have to fight tooth and nail. to have time for prayer and to prepare for preaching. I am not at all exaggerating and this is not something I'm saying to say, you know, please stop calling me. Please stop coming into the church office. You know, just this is this is not the purpose of this message at all. But I am not exaggerating when I say that I could very easily fill up 40 hours a week with doing ministry stuff And never open my Bible or pray because there's more than enough things to do, necessary needs that take place. But this is not what God has called a pastor to do. One of the Main directing passages of Scripture is found in 2 Timothy chapter 4. These are Paul's final words as he writes from that prison cell about to be executed. And they have a note of finality to them as he writes to his uh his young man that he has mentored in the ministry, Timothy. He says in 2 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 1, I charge thee therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ who shall judge the quick and the dead and his appearing. And his kingdom preach the word. Be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine, for the time will come. when they will not endure sound doctrine, but after their own lust shall keep for themselves teachers having itching ears. And they shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned unto fables. But watch thou in all things, endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist, make full proof of thy ministry. Paul didn't say to Timothy, make sure you visit. Make sure you're the administrator or the executive of that church. Make sure that you counsel. He said, preach the word. Notice that we are to continue to use this methodology of preaching. even if it's not popular or well received. Notice what it says, verse 3, for the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. What does that imply? That implies they will no longer gather to hear the preaching of the word, but they'll go somewhere else. But after their own lust, they will keep themselves teachers having itching ears. And they shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned unto fables Which is a reference probably to very interesting tales that early false teachers would tell about genealogies and mythical things that took place in the past. Paul says, Timothy, don't get caught up in that. This is where the modern marketing movement is wrong in its approach. Because the church church growth experts would say, wait a minute, the object is to grow your church and to get as big as possible and get as many people gathered together in one place as possible. So If people are leaving, you must be doing something wrong, and you've got to get more and more people coming. Now please do not misunderstand me. It's easy for preachers to develop a bunker mentality and to think that because their church is small, obviously it's because they preach the truth in any church that is growing. It is because they don't preach the church. I have mentioned, I have met many pastors in my life who had that feeling, and that's not the right approach either. Because you're small and because people are leaving, it does not necessarily because you're preaching the truth. I'm just saying that Paul says here to Timothy That your approach is not to say, wait a minute, I need to preach a message that will entice people, entertain people, and be certain that they never leave. No, the preacher is to preach the word. And the primary term that the Bible uses for preaching, as I have mentioned to you before, is the is a term that refers to the proclamation of a herald. I mentioned you before that a herald was a man who came with a message from the king to the people in a particular geographic area. He would go to a place. We might call the town square, and he would lift up his voice and he would say, Hear ye, hear ye, or something like that. And he would read out of a scroll the message of the king, and he had a loud voice, because they had no amplification back then And people would gather around and hear the message. And he was not to alter that message or to change that message. He was not to embellish it and make it funny and interesting and and and everything else. He was simply to say, this is what the king says. That was his job, and that is the word that is most often used. of the New Testament. Now this is what Paul did. This is how he planted all those churches Throughout the Mediterranean world. He went and he preached the gospel. And he taught those under him to do the same. And he gives this final instruction to Timothy about this. This is what we find in the book of Acts. The book of Acts is essentially a record of apostolic preaching. The apostles' ministry of preaching and teaching is mentioned more often than any other ministry activity. They did do other things. They did travel. They did study with people, they did meet with people one-on-one, but that was not the primary point of their ministry. What we find is that they were preaching the word because that's was the essential duty of their ministry, that in prayer. The second point I want you to notice is that preaching is the primary method. that God uses to save the lost. And would you turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 1? 1 Corinthians chapter 1. Notice what the Apostle Paul says. I'm going to begin reading at verse 17. For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel. Not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none effect. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But unto us which are saved it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For after that And the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. Now in verse 17, Paul makes this statement, which is a very important text because it reveals to us in crystal clear, dogmatic fashion that baptism is not an essential part of the gospel. It's not essential for salvation because he says, Christ sent me not to baptize. But to preach the gospel. These are two different things. Not that pre -baptism is not important. Every Christian should be baptized. But it's not a part of the gospel. It's not a part of salvation. And notice in verse 18, he begins with the word for. He's going to give an explanation. Paul, how can that be? Why would you say something like that? For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. Why is it that you focus so much on preaching, on conveying the gospel message? He says it's because that is what saves people. It's not baptism, it's the preaching of the gospel. Now the word here for preaching is a word that refers more to the message of the cross, the word of the cross. Some of you might have that. in your Bibles as an alternate reading. It's the word of the cross, the gospel that saves. Then he goes on to say that the gospel and the proclamation of that gospel is set at odds With what people consider intellectual people, elite people consider to be wise. Paul was writing in the culture of the Greco-Roman world And they had their elites just like we do today. And these individuals, uh, when they heard about a man getting up and preaching the gospel about a Jewish Messiah who died for sinners. That sounded foolish to them. It was nonsense. This was not, this did not seem to them to be sophisticated and intellectually credible. And so they dismissed it. This is what he talks about when he in verse 20 has these rhetorical questions. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For after that in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. Now I want you to be very careful here. It doesn't say that God uses foolish preaching. Alright, I've heard a lot of foolish preaching in my life. This is not a proof text for foolish preaching. For people who just get up and And say whatever and say outlandish things that are not even rooted in the Word of God and say, well, you know, the Bible does say that God uses foolish preaching. This is not a proof text for that. The reference here, the word for preaching here, is a reference, again, not so much to the activity of preaching, but to the content of the preaching. Which in essence is the gospel. However, it is that which is proclaimed , that which a herald would do. Paul is saying that to most Greeks, to those who are educated and sophisticated, this message of a crucified Savior was absolute foolishness. He says the Jews require a sign. Remember, they were always asking Jesus for a sign, a sign that he was the Messiah. And of course, he gave them abundant evidence that he was the Messiah, but they still wanted more and rejected it. And he says that the um The Jews require sign and the Greeks seek after wisdom. They wanted sophisticated, erudites, philosophical explanations. That's what they were into. And they were offended at the idea of a Jewish Messiah, people that they considered to be, first of all, barbarians, inferiors. That somehow there was a Jewish Savior that they had to believe in, the Jewish people? We have to believe in one of their people, in a Jewish Messiah who died on a cross, something that was reserved for the lowest of criminals. You see, there was a real hindrance here to them. This did not seem attractive to them at all. But of course the preacher cannot change the gospel. Paul says in verse 23, but we preach Christ crucified. That's been a great theme for preachers through the generations. This is what Spurgeon had at the Metropolitan Tabernacle written there on all their stuff. We preach Christ crucified. A wonderful ministry directive. And then he goes on to talk about this is the way God always works. He says, we preach Christ crucified, verse 23, unto the Jews a stumbling block, and under the Greeks foolishness. Literally, it's moronic. What a moron believes in. But unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God and the wisdom of God, because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. Verse 26, conclusion, for you see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called. You should never think for a moment that the reason why you're saved is just because, you know, you're really smart and you understood the gospel. This verse says God didn't choose the intellectual elite generally, choose the weak and the foolish to be saved. I think this is always a very humbling truth for every preacher of the gospel. And I think it's important for us to realize that it is not our sophisticated analysis or our penetrating insight into the latest philosophy of the day that's going to convince people No one has ever been reasoned in to heaven. No one now people might have hurdles and intellectual strawmen that they put up, pushed out of the way through some type of biblical truth But no one becomes a Christian simply because, intellectually, what they have heard is so deep and profound. that now they are saved. Now the fact of the matter is the gospel is the most profound and deep truth the world can ever consider. Don't misunderstand me. But lost people consider it to be foolish. So if God uses a preacher, it's not because he's so talented, but because the gospel is so powerful. I would invite you to turn with me to Romans chapter 10. This is a great text for us to consider I want to begin with this very famous verse, verse 13, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. What a wonderful promise! Then we come to verse 14, and we have this chain of reason here. How then shall they call on him on whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe on him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? A person will never receive this promise unless they believe, and they will never believe unless they hear the gospel, and they will never hear the gospel without a preacher. And how shall they preach except they be sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace, and that bring glad tidings of good things. But they that have not all obeyed the gospel, for Isaiah saith, Lord, who hath believed our reports, so then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. How shall they hear, it says, without a preacher. Now many people have been saved through the years simply by reading the Bible. Because the gospel is the power of God into salvation. Millions and millions of people have been converted by the faithful witness of a concerned Christian. And I do not want to minimize personal evangelism, dealing with someone on a one-to-one basis. Do not take this message in any way as discouraging that. Gospel literature has been greatly blessed by God in the conversion of multitudes. But I believe that most conversions have come directly or indirectly through the preaching of the Word of God. We see this repeatedly, this pattern in the book of Acts, where Peter or Paul preaches the word, and it says that people are converted. This was the way that people were saved and churches were formed throughout the known world. It's the pattern that we find again and again in the book of Acts. And this has been true historically. God has used preachers of the gospel to save multitudes of people. This is one of the most fascinating things to me in the history of the world. How a person, a man can stand up and proclaim the gospel and people respond in faith and are saved. I think of men like George Whitfield, who in England and in this country preach the gospel in an amazing way Preaching multiple times every day of their adult lives, and people being saved in great numbers. I think of John Wesley who did the same, and then in the 19th century Charles Spurgeon, and a little bit later Dwight L. Moody. God using these men to bring many thousands of people to salvation in Jesus Christ. And many of you undoubtedly were saved by the preaching of the word. It may be that someone dealt with you weeks later, but it was still the word of God proclaimed. that lodged in your heart and eventually bore fruit unto salvation. Thirdly, preaching should be a priority because it's the the primary way that God manifests his word to his people. I want you to turn with me to the book of Titus. Book of Titus, and I want to read the opening words of this book from chapter 1, verses 1 through 3. Paul writes, Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ according to the faith of God's elect and the acknowledging of the truth which is after godliness in hope of eternal life, which God that cannot lie promised before the world began, but hath in due time manifested his word through preaching. which is committed unto me according to the commandment of God, our Savior. This is Paul's testimony. This was his method of evangelism. He preached the word. And this has been the primary method that God has used to communicate his truth. We read in scripture about this man Enoch in the book of Jude, who long before the flood was a preacher of righteousness. We read of the prophets of Israel and Judah. who preached with the familiar message, thus saith the Lord. And the early church, the apostles, were all preachers of the gospel. And I want you to notice that their preaching is often equated with the Word of God. If you'll turn with me to the book of 1 Thessalonians. First Thessalonians chapter two Paul writes, reflecting back on the time he came with the gospel to them, 1 Thessalonians 2, 13. For this cause also thank we God without ceasing, because when ye receive the word of God which you heard of us, Ye received it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth the word of God which effectually worketh also in you that believe. Now if you turn with me further back to the book of Hebrews Chapter 13 and verse 7. Hebrews 13, verse 7. It says, remember them which have the rule over you who have spoken unto you the word of God. whose faith follow considering the end of their conversation, a reference to preachers who have passed on. They are to be remembered. You'll notice here it mentions again who have spoken unto you the word of God. And then in 1 Peter chapter 4, and verse 11. It says, if any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. If any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth, that God in all things might be glorified. through Jesus Christ to whom be praise and dominion forever and ever. Now listen to me carefully. I am not at all saying that everything that a preacher says is the word of God. Preachers are not inspired. And so folks need to be like the noble Bereans who receive the word with all readiness and search the scriptures to see if these things were so. One of the problems that we have, we have two problems. Sometimes people approach every sermon with a great deal of skepticism And they never receive anything because they're so skeptical. And then we have other people who no matter what a preacher says, they believe is gospel truth and they follow it. And they follow a man more than they follow God's. Neither one of those approaches, of course, is right. We should listen carefully, but we should also compare scripture with scripture and search the scriptures to see uh is this really true. I've said many times before, if what I proclaim is not in accordance with the word of God and you cannot make sense of it and you cannot see how it lines up with scripture, then put it away. Don't listen to it. Don't receive it. But when a scripture, when a preacher is simply amplifying and explaining exactly what the text says, And as Pastor Steve often prays that his words are filled with God's word, then we need to receive it. attentively and carefully. Hebrews chapter 4 has this amazing passage That always strikes me. Hebrews chapter 4, verses 12 and 13. For the word of God is quick. and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even unto the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and morrow, and as a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight, but all things are naked and open unto him, unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. The Word of God is alive. We are not simply speaking from an ancient book that is dead. We are speaking God's truth That is why if you are a believer and you attend worship services, I'm sure there have been times that you have felt the sharp pain of conviction when the word of God is preached, just like a sword was stabbing into your hearts. That's because the word of God is alive. It's not a dead book. And that is why a preacher should strive to simply amplify what God has said in his word. The word itself is powerful. It is alive. It doesn't need help. It just needs to be let loose. Jai Packer in one of his books put it this way, the preacher should be a mouthpiece for his text. He's simply saying, this is what it means, this is what it says. This is why we favor expositional preaching in this church. The style of preaching tends to be more word-saturated than any other method of preaching. The sermon should be filled with the Word of God, not the stories or opinions of men, because preaching is one of the most common ways that God speaks to his people. This is why people both positively and negatively will say, I feel like you were preaching right to me. See, it all depends with the tone of voice. Sometimes they'll say, Pastor, I really feel like you were preaching right to me, and they're angry about it. Who told you about what I was involved in? I don't know anything about your circumstance. And then other times people will say to me, Pastor, I want you to know I really feel like you were preaching right to me. Why is that? Because the preacher has some unusual skill, no. It's because the word of God is alive and it's powerful. And God speaks still today through the proclamation of his word. Now you might object and say, well, I think the primary way that we get the word is by reading. I certainly do not want to ad uh to minimize the importance of personal Bible study. And I hope that every single one of you have time that you spend in studying the word and reading it for yourself. That's a very important Christian discipline. But even the reading of the Word of God is no substitute for the preaching of the Word. If it were enough, we could just save an awful lot of time and money. by shipping out Bibles, by giving people Bibles, by sending them around the world, and that would be that. We would be done with it. And it's wonderful to pass out Bibles and gospel literature to people, but it is the preaching of the word that often makes it calm alive. This is why staying at home on Sunday and just reading the Bible is not a good option. God wants you to hear the preaching of the word. And that brings me to my final point, and that is that preaching is the primary means that God has used for spiritual renewal. In the Old Testament, we read a prophet sin of God to awaken his sinful and slumbering people. They did not come with dialogue. They did not sit down at a round table and say, let's discuss what is truth. They stood up and they said, Thus saith the Lord. The very first preacher that we read of in the New Testament was a man known as John the Baptist, and he prepared the way by calling people to repentance. Later in the New Testament, we read of the preaching of the apostles that literally turned the world upside down. And the same has been ever true. The history of the church is the history of preaching. In the first few centuries of the church, there were some giant preachers. We read, of course, in the New Testament era of men like Paul and Apollos and Peter And after the apostolic period, we read of other preachers of the gospel such as Chrysostom and Ambrose and Augustine. But after the first five centuries of the church, the preaching of the word became less common. Services became less preaching-centered, and they became more liturgical and centered on the Eucharist or on the Mass. And that is why in Roman Catholic churches at the center, you don't find the pulpit. You find an altar. You find the place where the Mass was observed. That was the focal point of their services. If you talk to a really devout Catholic, they don't think they've gone to church unless they've taken Mass, right? Some of you know exactly what I'm talking about because that's what church is all about. But when the Protestant Reformation occurred in over a thousand years of what historically it's known as the Dark Ages occurred. What happens? The pulpit was put back in the center. And the service was centered around the preaching of the gospel. And God used preachers. To bring spiritual renewal. In the late Middle Ages, God raised up men like John Wycliffe in England who trained common men who were known derisively as lollards. Because they didn't speak clearly like the educated people, but they preached the gospel of Jesus Christ to common people. John Huss was preaching the gospel in Bohemia and Savonarola in Italy. And later God would rise up, raise up men like Martin Luther and Ulrich Zwingli and John Calvin and John Knox. And all of these men were first and foremost preachers of the gospel. And after the Reformation in England and in much of Western Europe, they slipped back into spiritual deadness. And so God raised up preachers again. We commonly refer to them as the Puritans. Men like John Owen and Richard Baxter and John Bunyan and Thomas Manton and hundreds more. beside them. And these men were expositional preachers. They preached through books of the Bible sometimes over many, many years. But by the late 17th century, deadness crept in once more. England and America were affected by the so-called Enlightenment, the Age of Reason. And deism came into being. And so how did God work? Well, God raised up preachers like George Whitfield and John and Charles Wesley. And in America, a man by the name of Jonathan Edwards. And these men were all preachers. And they stood up and they preached the gospel in powerful ways. And great numbers of people were saved. And in the 19th century, God used men like William Carey and Edinham Judson to awaken the modern missions movement. They were all preachers. And later he used great evangelists like Dwight L. Moody and Billy Sunday and many others. My point is that God has always used preachers to stir his church to spiritual renewal. It is true that he used other methods as well, such as prayer meetings And the writing of literature and so forth, but primarily it has been the preaching of the word that has revitalized the church. As preaching goes, so goes the church. In every era of history where there has been a decline in the church, when the church has lost its power, when it's become weak , There's also been a time when the church, when the pulpit has become weak and quiet, and the gospel has not gone out clearly. So preaching is vital to the life of the church. I want to conclude with some practical application. Most of you here are not preachers. So how does this apply to you? Number one. Pray that God would raise up preachers in our own assembly. I'm glad that Lord has. We have men like Greg Schei and Ryan Day And Nick Maurer and others in the process of training who God has raised up. And I hope there will be many, many more. We need to recognize how important this is And we need to pray that God, as the Lord said, would raise up those who would work in his harvest fields. We should pray that God would raise up gospel preachers throughout the world. This should be an important thing that we pray for. Every Sunday morning I pray for preachers. I pray for preachers that I know all over the world. And so many of these men are facing very difficult circumstances. where they preach to a small group of people and they perhaps see very little evidence that what they're doing is accomplishing anything. And it's so easy for them to be discouraged. That is why there's such a high attrition rate and so many men are getting out of the ministry. That's why we need to pray that God would raise up preachers. I think another application of this is that we must be careful that we do not neglect the preaching of the word. It's very easy for you to think to yourself, I don't need to hear any more preaching. I've heard preaching all my life I know what God says in this word. I've read through the Bible several times. I know the truth. I don't need to hear more preaching. But the fact is, we all need to hear preaching, including preachers, by the way. And by the way, I listen and read preaching all the time. It's very important for our souls. And then you should listen to preaching of the word as if your very spiritual life depended on it. Should listen carefully to it. This is how one of the primary methods that God uses to speak to us and direct us and to guide us and to show us our wrongs and our mistakes. Because so often, even when we read God's Word, we kind of excuse ourselves and we uh we we don't let the Word of God really penetrate our hearts, but when the Word of God penetr is boldly proclaimed and explained, then it pierces our hearts. And we respond So preaching must be a priority. And we need to pray that God would continue to use preaching. To renew his church. This is something we desperately need. I am not going, I don't want to give you the impression that Christianity is going to disappear because that will not happen. Jesus said, I will build my church. But we are in a time of decline. Gospel preaching churches are closing their doors. Most of us see a very tiny cross section of what's happening. Those who travel a lot and visit many churches have a better view of this. But so many of our churches that preach the gospel faithfully and hold to the truth of God's word, so many of them are becoming small and seem weak and about ready to close their doors. What we desperately need is revival. And when revival comes, there will be a revival of bold proclamation of the gospel. We don't need new methods. We need God to work through the methods that He has ordained in the Scripture. And one of those methods is the preaching of the Word. Let's close in prayer. Our Father, how desperately we need you to work We look out in the world in our own land and we see that the truth is so often distorted and compromised. The gospel is so often preached in a compromised and worldly manner. And Christians are often told what they want to hear, not what they need to hear. And Father, so many of the churches that are faithful in preaching the gospel are dying and growing weak. And so, Father, we would ask that you would work. That you would revive us again and that you would renew the preaching of the word in a way that you have done many times before in history. We would ask that you would do it again. And we pray that you would help us here in this assembly to be people who value preaching, who pray for preaching. and who listen carefully to the preaching of the Word of God, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.