Give your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to John chapter 5, the passage we read together? We have been away from the Gospel of John now for about two months almost. And we are returning to it. When I was a boy, we often celebrated Thanksgiving at my grandparents' house in Pennsylvania. What was odd about those meals was the seating arrangement. We had a large dining room table where everyone sat, except for one person. And that is my grandmother. And she sat at a card table that was placed right up against the main dining room table. And that's where we would eat our meals. And the story behind that is that when my grandmother married my grandfather , She was required to convert to a splinter groove that had come off of the Mennonite church. And so she did. But she soon discovered that the bishop, which would be like the pastor to us, was actually a notorious womanizer. And everyone in the community knew it, but because of this authority, nobody could say anything about it. And so she said, well, I'm not going to go every Sunday. and listen to a serial adulterer preach the word of God. I'm not going to do it. I'm not going to play that game. And as a result, the church leaders were unhappy with her and she was excommunicated. My grandfather was also unhappy, and so he left the church for several decades, but in middle age he returned to the church. Wanted to be right with the church, but there was this problem. He was married to a woman who was excommunicated. So what should you do about that? And they said, well, the important thing is that he reflect this by not eating at the same table with her. This is based in 1 Corinthians chapter 5, which talks about lost people that are that claim to be Christians but have been Put out of the church with such a one it says no not to eat. And it's talking, it may be talking about the Lord's table. That's a debated point. Anyway. So they said, eat at this card table, and that way you're keeping with she's excommunicated, even though she's sitting right next to you as she eats the meal. And I remember my father explaining that to me when I was a young boy, and I said, that doesn't make any sense. And he said, exactly. That is the type of reasoning that we find with the rabbinic understanding of the Sabbath The passage that we read today is all about the Sabbath and our Lord's supposed violation of the Sabbath. The rabbis put great, great affinity into Sabbath-keeping. They considered it the most important of the Ten Commandments. And of course, the fourth commandment says that you're not to work on the Sabbath day. But the big question is what? How do you define work? Right? So they developed 39 different categories of work, and there were subcategories under each of those categories. And they found ingenious ways of finding loopholes around their own laws when wanted. For instance, They determined that a Sabbath day's journey would be the equivalent to us of about a thousand yards. Think of ten football fields. That's how far you could travel. But If you put a rope across your path, you can consider that the end of your household territory, and now you just earned another thousand yards. But then you could strategically hide a basket another thousand yards and you could arrive there and you could eat a meal there. Where do you eat your meals at? You eat them in your home. So now this has essentially become your home. So now you just earned another thousand yards. And you could travel for miles and miles and miles on the Sabbath day and say, hey. I didn't violate the Sabbath rules because I carved out these little loopholes that are going to make me acceptable before God. Let me give you some other restrictions on the Sabbath days. They were prohibited from moving a chair on the Sabbath day because you might drag it on the ground and it might create a furrow which would be like plowing the ground and that is work. You couldn't spit in the dirt on the Sabbath because it might be considered cultivating the soil, which was the work of a farmer. Women were forbidden from looking in a mirror on the Sabbath day because they might be tempted to pluck a gray hair, and that would be like reaping grain, which was work. I could give you many, many more examples, but I think you get the idea. Now it's important for you to understand that none of these regulations were given by God. They were created by men. And the result was they turned that a day that God intended to be a blessing into a burden. Today, as we pick up our study of the Gospel of John, we see Jesus' identity demonstrated in a Sabbath controversy. In the first nine verses of John chapter 5, we read of Jesus healing a disabled man at the pool of Bethesda. The last phrase of this account informs the reader that this healing took place on the Sabbath day. And this is the beginning of the Sabbath controversy. There were at least five Sabbath controversies in our Lord's life that are found in the four gospels, and this would become The issue that would generate the most intense hatred and conflict between Jesus and the Jewish religious establishment. In fact, it would lead to their plans to murder the Messiah. If you look with me at verse 18, the last verse of our text today, we see this. It says This is why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own father and making himself equal with God. Over the centuries, the rabbis had built up a hedge around the law, lest anyone get close to violating what God said they must not do. But in time this hedge became the law. And it became so restrictive That what was intended to be a day that was free of labor and a day of rejoicing and worship became a day that no one looked forward to. And became a problem. It seems clear, if you can imagine this, that Jesus intentionally healed people on the Sabbath day. to help to raise this issue and expose the legalism and the hypocrisy that was evident in the keeping of this day. And this is what we see, I believe, in our passage today. This chapter records the first public hostility of the religious leaders to Jesus, which would continue throughout this gospel. until his crucifixion. And it's in this contemptuous atmosphere that we see a revelation of the person of Christ. We must never forget that all of the Gospel of John is intended to drive the reader to ask this question, who is Jesus? And we see this in our passage today. In fact, it's even found in our passage in verse 12 when the religious leaders are questioning this man, they ask him, who is this man? that spoke to you. And so this is at the very heart of this passage. So I want to preach this morning on the identity of Jesus revealed in controversy. And the first thing I want you to notice is that Jesus is the healer of hopeless people. Let me begin reading at chapter 5 and verse 5. One man was there who had been an invalid for 38 years. When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had already been there a long time, he said to him, Do you want to be healed? The sick man answered him, Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up. And while I'm going, another steps down before me. Jesus said to him, Get up, take up your bed and walk. And at once the man was healed, and he took up his bed and walked. Now that was the Sabbath We see here Jesus healing a hopeless man. This healing is very interesting in that in most of the healings, almost all of the healings you have in the gospel record. The person puts their faith and trust in Christ and then they're healed. Or shortly thereafter. But this man doesn't even know who Jesus is. And yet Jesus heals him. And we see Jesus' grace in helping this hopeless man be restored to full life. Now, it's very interesting for us to see here the reaction of the religious leaders to this man 's indisputable healing. Look with me at verse 10. It says, so the Jews, that is, the Jewish religious leaders, in our passage today, when it says the Jews It's talking about, it's shorthand for the Jewish religious leaders. , The Jews said to the man who had been healed, it is the Sabbath. It is not lawful for you to take up your bed. Undoubtedly they knew this man because he had been a fixture at this pool for some 38 years. You would expect them to rejoice that this man who had no mobility, who was an object of pity, is now walking around as a healthy man. But we see no joy. We see them not giving glory to God. The power of God has been evident in his healing. Instead, they want to charge him with violating some infraction. And that is that he rolled up his mat. You should not think of a nice mattress when it says bed. You should think of a mat that's maybe An inch and a half thick or something like that that's rolled up and carried. It was the bed of the very poor And Jesus tells him to take up his bed and walk, which was symbolic that you are healed now. You need to get up and you need to go live a productive life. But the point I'm trying to make is that they did not care at all about this man's well-being. They didn't care. They weren't rejoicing that he was healed. They were instead concerned that he may have violated the word of God in carrying his bed. Now it is true that in Jeremiah and in Nehemiah in these books there are mentions of the fact that people were not to carry things on the Sabbath day for purposes of commerce, for selling things and so forth. But this man was just picking up his mat and walking a demonstration that he had been healed. These men who were supposed experts in the Old Testament law had forgotten that the God who is revealed in the Old Testament is a God of mercy and compassion. And they had no mercy and compassion for this man. Now notice his reaction to their accusation. in verse 11. But he answered them, the man who healed me, the man said to me, Take up your bed and walk. This man defends himself by essentially blaming Jesus. He tells his interrogators, I'm just following orders. This man, if I can put it this way, is not the most attractive individual in the gospel record. Your heart doesn't warm to this man. Now these leaders get to the heart of the question in verse 12, and they ask him, Who is the man who said to you, take up your bed and walk? I strongly suspect that they thought it was Jesus, but they wanted confirmation from him so that they could charge him with violating the Sabbath. But this man can't help them because he doesn't know the name of the man who healed him. And then we come to verse 13. Then the man who had been healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had withdrawn as there was a crowd in the place. That is, when Jesus healed him right after that at the Pul Bethesda, a very crowded and busy place. He withdrew himself, which is something we read often in the Gospels, by the way. He withdrew himself. And so the man did not have further conversation with him We see here that Jesus is the healer of helpless people. But now I want to come to another aspect of his identity. Jesus is the ultimate prophet that warns sinners. of coming judgment. Look with me now, please, at verses 14 and 15. It says, afterward Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, See you are well. Sin no more. that nothing worse may happen to you. And the man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had healed him. Like the prophets of old, Jesus warns this man of coming judgment. Now verse 14 is the most controversial verse in our text this morning. It begins with the word afterward, that is after this healing. We don't know how much time elapsed. From the healing to this conversation, it may have been a matter of hours or days or perhaps even weeks. We simply don't know But Jesus finds this man in the temple. And by the way, this was not just a random occurrence where you run into somebody you haven't seen. I think that Jesus intentionally was seeking out this man to deliver this message to him. First of all, Jesus rejoices that this man is permanently healed. He says, see you are well. And the idea is this is not a temporary thing. You are healed. Your health is restored. Your mobility is sound. But then he has this command: sin no more. And then a warning that nothing worse may happen to you. The clear implication of this statement is that this man's fake physical infirmity for those 38 years was the result of his own personal sin. This should not this may strike us as very odd or unusual or strange It should not. But let me explain. We read often in the Bible of God bringing physical infirmity upon people as judgment for their sin. The Bible's filled with this. You ever heard of Jeroboam or King Ahaziah or King Asa? There are verses that say that God brought like this disease upon them, or God brought this weakness upon them, or God brought death to them because of their disobedience to the Lord. And this is not just a New Testament phenomenon. You ever heard of Ananias and Sapphira in Acts chapter 5, who lied about the money that they had given to the Lord. They exaggerated the amount that they had given. And they were struck down for that. In 1 Corinthians 11, we read of some who partook of the Lord's table in an unworthy way, and they suffered serious illness, and some even died. We read in 1 John of a sin unto death. So what Jesus says to this man is in keeping With the rest of Scripture. However, this is not all that the Bible says about this issue. In John chapter 9, Jesus and his disciples passed by a man who was blind from birth. And they asked Jesus, who sinned, this man or his parents? And Jesus says, it was not that this man sinned or his parents, but that the works of God should be made manifest. So physical suffering is not always the result of our personal sin, but sometimes it is. Let me make application for this for a second. We should be very leery and very careful that we never assume in our hearts when we see someone with a physical problem that's probably because of their sin. It would be wrong for you to think that way. But if the Lord does bring some physical hardship into your life, and you know you're not walking with the Lord , It would be good for you to think that there might be a correlation there and that you need to repent of your sin and draw near to God. Notice this warning that nothing worse may happen to you. What could be worse than physical disability for 38 years? Well, how about an eternity in hell? That's a lot worse than any physical disability So how does this man respond? Well, not in a way that we would be warmed to. This man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who healed him. We have no record of him thanking the Lord for healing him. We have no record of him trusting in Christ. But Jesus has come to this man and warn him. Because Jesus desired not only to heal him physically, but to heal him spiritually. But it seems that this man has no interest in following Christ. We see here a beautiful picture of God's patience with sinful people. Thirdly, I want you to see that Jesus is the Lord of the Sabbath, verses 16 and 17. It says, and this was why the Jews were persecuting Jesus because he was doing these things on the Sabbath. This is John, the author's commentary, that this incident explains why Their persecution now was solidified and intensified because of this supposed violation of the Sabbath. Now in verse 17, Jesus defends his actions on the Sabbath day. This is very interesting. Notice what he says. But Jesus answered them, My Father is working until now, and I am working. You ever read that and thought, what does that mean? My Father is working until now. Jesus here is engaging them in a well-known theological debate. So the rabbis debated about whether or not God kept the Sabbath day. And some people would say, well, it says that on the seventh day he rested. And so maybe he continues to rest, but then others would say, wait a minute. But the Bible also teaches that he rules over heaven and earth. That he's involved in the affairs of men, that he does not slumber, neither does he sleep. So apparently he's very active. So it can't be that God categorically takes a day off. If I can put it that way, and does nothing on the Sabbath day. He's got to still be active. And so there was a general consensus that yes, God did work on the Sabbath day. That was an early theological debate. And so Jesus says to these theological men, my father works on the Sabbath, and so do I. This was a very good answer that was very hard for them to push back against because how could they say that God was wrong? God is the one who created the Sabbath, and so he is the one who defines the boundaries of the Sabbath. Our Lord's answer here reminds me of another Sabbath controversy. When the disciples were plucking grain in a field on the Sabbath day, and the Pharisees considered this harvesting, they considered it work. And they called on Jesus to rebuke his disciples. But Jesus, remember, argued from an incident in the life of David, where his men were starving, and they ate showbread. that this was indeed appropriate because he says the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath day. The Sabbath was to be a blessing and a help to mankind, not a burden. And then Jesus said, so the Son of Man is the Lord of the Sabbath. And this would have been indeed a confession of deity. the Lord of the Sabbath. And so once again we see Jesus clearly demonstrating his identity in this healing as the Lord of the Sabbath. He is a healer of the hopeless. He is the Lord of the Sabbath He is also the unique Son of God. This passage funnels down to this conclusion in verses 17 and 18. But Jesus answered them, my father is working until now, and I am working. The religious leaders are going to seize on one word in Jesus' statement. That filled them with anger. Do you know what that word is? It's that pronoun my, my father , that bothered them very much That doesn't strike us as something that is a real problem. If you talk to another believer about your heavenly father or my heavenly father, they're probably not going to rend their garments. and being angry at you, but no pious Jew would ever say anything like that. It may surprise you to know that the Jews did not address God as their father in prayer. Now we do that because of what? The Lord's Prayer. Our Father which art in heaven. This is how Jesus taught us to pray. But if you went through the Old Testament and you look at all the prayers in the Old Testament and you look at the prayers of David and the prayer prayers of Samuel. Or some of the kings and Abraham and others, you will not find them ever addressing God as Father. In fact, if you were to get a concordance and look at the 929 chapters of the Old Testament A reference to God as Father is only found 14 times. But in the New Testament, which is significantly smaller, it's found over 200 times. This is all due to the teaching of Jesus. Jesus, however, here doesn't say just our Father. He says my Father. Jesus here is claiming to have a unique relationship with God. Look with me at verse 18. This is why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, But he was even calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. This is an astounding statement. Notice the implication of it. It says they were seeking all the more to kill him. What does that indicate? They were already seeking to kill him They were already conspiring to murder their Messiah. But this added fuel to the fire, and now they're all the more rushing to that. We see this growing hatred throughout the book of John. In John chapter 7 and verse 19, Jesus asked the religious leaders, why do you seek to kill me? And in John 8. 37, Jesus says, You seek to kill me because my words find no place in you. And in John 8. 59, we read of these so-called holy men picking up stones to kill the Son of God. But he evades their capture because his hour had not yet come. This is something we see throughout the Gospel of John Remember in Matthew 23, Jesus accused the Pharisees of wanting to like strain out a gnat, but swallowing a camel. They're so careful about little regulations, and yet the big things of the law, like mercy and judgment and truth. They routinely violate it. Let me give you an example. At the end of this Gospel of John in chapter 19, they request that Pilate have someone a soldier come and break the legs of those who are being crucified because they didn't want their bodies to be hanged there on the Sabbath day because that would be a violation. Here they have murdered a man they knew to be innocent, and they're concerned lest God be upset that they violate the Sabbath. Now I want you to notice in verse 18 that there are two reasons given as to why they wanted to kill Jesus. First of all, they said that Jesus was a Sabbath breaker. I want you to know that this is not true. If Jesus was a Sabbath breaker, then Jesus would be a sinner. He would have broken God's law. Jesus never violated the fourth commandment in letter or spirit. But he did break their petty man-made rules that they had developed Around the law, because they came to love the Sabbath more than the Lord of the Sabbath. But the other reason they wanted to kill Jesus was because he was claiming to be equal with God. Look with me. At the last phrase in verse 18, but he was even calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. These Jewish men understood the significance of his words, my father. that he was claiming to be the only begotten Son of God. In their minds this was blasphemy. And indeed it was blasphemy if it was not true. Often you hear skeptics say that Jesus never claimed to be God. Have you heard that before? I've heard it many times It's absolute nonsense. No one can honestly read the New Testament without encountering overwhelming evidence of his deity. Let me mention just a few categories. Jesus claimed the names of God. He claimed the titles of God. He received the worship that was to be given to God. He did the works of God. He spoke with authority like God. And there are many quotations in the Old Testament of things that are said about Yahweh that are said in the New Testament to be true of Jesus. And indeed, if it was simply a misunderstanding, why didn't Jesus refute The numerous times that people worshiped him were said that he was making himself equal with God. He could have very easily said, no, no, no, I'm not saying that at all. I'm not saying I'm equal with God. You've got me all wrong But he never does that because they got it right. He was the co-eternal, co-equal son of God. They understood him perfectly. So this is what John is revealing to us. This is his intention in this passage this morning. That we see the identity of Jesus Christ, that He is the healer of hopeless people. He's the ultimate prophet who warns sinners. He is the Lord of the Sabbath, and he is the only Son of God. And what John wants his readers to understand is that he is worthy of our trust, that he indeed is the Messiah, the Son of God of God. Now I want to make some points of application. And this first one is difficult. It's difficult for me to say it without being misunderstood. I'll do my best. Christians should beware lest we add to God's law and judge others harshly. Let me just say that it's appropriate for believers to add structure and to have convictions in their personal life. and in their household of things that we do and things that we don't do, even things that are not specifically spelled out in Scripture. You might know your own heart and know that you have a weakness in this area. And so we're just not going to go down that road at all. I'm not going to allow that in my life at all. They're sort of like guardrails. And that's a good thing. And that's a good thing for your household. But you must beware lest in your zeal to follow the Lord you erect these guardrails to the place where they become absolutes. like God's word, and then they become a means by why whereby you condemn other people. Do you know what I'm saying? Do you understand? I knew a man when I was in college who liked to go around and tell people, I haven't missed my devotions in 12 straight years, not one day. And nobody liked him. He was the most obnoxious person in the world. All right? He was so proud of his discipline that he never ever missed his devotions. He was proud of that. Did you know, and I'm I'm probably going to have tomatoes or things thrown at me for saying this. because it can be easily misunderstood. I want to be technical here. Did you know the Bible does not say, there's not a command in Scripture that you must read your Bible every day? Did you know that? There's a reason for that. For one, most Christians in the history of the world did not have access to a Bible, so it would be very hard for them to obey that And sometimes we can elevate to this false sense of guilt that like if we ever miss a day, we feel like God is profoundly disappointed with us and thinking about, you know. um sending us away from him or something. That's nonsense. But if you really love the Lord and you want to grow in your knowledge of him and you want to begin each day by walking with the Lord, it's a very, very helpful practice. But you need to beware lest you're with a group of believers sometimes and you're maybe staying overnight with them and you notice that you didn't see them spend any time in the word you say wow they must not be Christians at all I'm so superior to them This is the way people think. This is the way your hidden heart is. You become proud of your discipline and your order and your structure and the way you do things. And you you develop this own measuring rod of your convictions and your standards and your structure of your life, and you measure other people by it and they keep coming up short and you say, wow, I really am a good Christian. And we have to be so careful. Parents, you have to be careful about this. Again, I going into dangerous waters here. You need to be careful, parents, that you don't set up rules in your home so that your children think that the essence of the Christian life is a long list of do's and don'ts. This is what it means to be a Christian. We don't do this and this and this and this and this. In fact, we don't have any fun at all. We sit around and we frown all day and we judge other people. You know what happens with children that brought up in that environment? As soon as they come of age, they say, see ya, I want no part of that. There's another reaction that can come from that. You know what it is? You might create little Pharisees Your children might embrace it and they might go around saying, oh, I'm so much better than all my friends. And this other family, I spent the night over there, and they're so pagan over there. And so what I'm saying to you as parents is you have to have conversations with your children And explain to them, this is why we do what we do. It doesn't really say in the Bible that we have to do this, but we find this to be helpful for us. In our Christian life. But some Christians might see things differently. They might do things differently. That doesn't mean they're bad Christians. It just means that they do things a little differently. And we have to be very careful of making Christianity and something that is our heart relationship with God into all things that are external. Because it's very easy for a person to keep a list of external things and yet have no heart for God. And so when you're dealing with your children, when you're dealing with yourself, you have to get to the heart of the matter. So if I would summarize it this way, I would say put up all the guardrails you want in your life. Be strict with your life. Don't trust your flesh at all. But be very gracious in your judgment of other people. And do not make it one size fits all. Now, when it comes to things that are clearly revealed in Scripture, obviously there's no give on that. But have you ever noticed in the New Testament, we don't have a long list of rules. We have things like love God with all your heart and love your neighbor as yourself. And you work out how that's going to look in your life before the Lord. All right, number two. Christians should be known for demonstrating mercy and compassion even to those who don't deserve it. So let me ask you this. Do you find that you have compassion in your heart for people who have brought trouble on themselves by choices that they have made? Or do you say, he's getting what he deserves? I have no ounce of sympathy for him. I don't care if he's homeless. I don't care if he freezes to death at night. That's the lifestyle that he chose to follow, and so that's his just desserts. I've heard a lot of Christians say things like that. You know what? Jesus wasn't like that. Jesus We read again and again, was moved with compassion. He was moved with compassion over this guy who wasn't even loyal to Jesus. And betrayed him and never came to trust in him and never said thanks. Just went on his way, living his life So we need to be filled with compassion Thirdly, we should recognize that unless a person repents of their sin and trusts in Christ, they will perish eternally. Again, I want you to hear everything that I'm saying. It is good and appropriate to minister to people's physical needs. We have out, you know, food giveaway Sundays where we give out food and we go down to downtown Westminster and we talk to people and we give them food. If people come by here and they tell me that they need food, that they haven't had anything to eat in a long time, you know what I do? I get them food. I don't say be warmed and filled Let me pray with your brother. No, no. I try to take care of them and help them how I can, but I also share the gospel with them. I also tell them that they need the Lord. There are a lot of Christian relief agencies and ministers, ministries out there today who I am afraid so often work hard to meet people's physical needs. But they do very little to meet their spiritual needs. And that should not be our Christian approach. Number four, we must realize that only those who believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God are truly born again. In 1 John 5. 1, everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God. To believe that Jesus is the Christ or the Messiah is to believe that he is the only begotten Son of God. John equates these two things at the end of this gospel. He says, I've written these things that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ. and that he is the Son of God. What we see here and what I want you to grasp Is that it's very important for us to never tolerate or budge for an inch on the deity of Christ. From the very beginning of the church, the doctrine of Christ was under attack. I'm not going to use all the big fancy terms for these heresies. I could, but I'm not. There was a heresy that Jesus only looked like a man, but he he really was like a phantom. There was nothing there. You know, if you reached out to touch him, your your hand would go through him. He looked like he was human, but he really wasn't human. Then there were people that said he was just a normal everyday man, but at his baptism, the Spirit of God came upon him and he became the Messiah. That's equally false. Then there were people that a few centuries later said, well, he was the highest created being. There was a man named Arius. who came up with this heresy. It's still around today with Jehovah's Witnesses. It's a modern form of Arianism that that Jesus was, they would say, the son, a son of God, but he didn't always exist and he's not equal with God. But he was created by God. And then he created everything else after God created him. That's not what the Bible teaches. And throughout the history of the church, this doctrine has always been under assault. We still have it today with many cults that long to be considered as Christian. And they say, we follow Jesus too. We believe in him too. Yes. But what Jesus do you trust in? The Jesus revealed in Scripture? Or Jesus who's less than God, who's less than the scriptures reveal him to be. And so it's very important that we be careful that we do not embrace those who do not have a full biblical Christology. That teaches that God is 100% man and yet 100% God. Anyone who does not hold that, we cannot call Christian brothers or sisters. And anyone who does not hold to that is not truly born again, because as John says, to be Transformed by the Spirit of God is to have a right understanding of these things. Christianity makes an absolute amazing claim That God came to earth in human flesh. That he's the Son of Man and the Son of God. You might say, it's hard to understand that. It's hard to fully grasp what all that means. Yes, it is, but it's exactly what the scripture teaches And this is the only person that can save us, one who is fully man and yet fully God. And therefore, we must always defend that as an absolute essential of the faith. And so let me ask you this morning as I conclude, have you come to trust in the only begotten Son of God? These men who opposed Jesus in this passage were very, very religious. They were probably more disciplined than anyone here this morning. They fasted twice a week. They kept the Sabbath very, very carefully, but they had hearts that didn't care for people, and they murdered the Messiah when he was in their midst. It's very possible for a person to be very disciplined and very religious and yet very lost. This passage is all about the identity of Christ. Won't you trust in Him as your Savior