Exodus chapter 3. In 1856, a Presbyterian minister named Horace Bushnell preached a sermon. That was later published with the arresting title, Every Man's Life, A Plan of God I do not recommend this book to you because Bushnell had some very unorthodox views. You know, sometimes the best thing about a message is the title. And I think that's the case with this sermon. The fact is that God does have a plan for all of our lives. It's a fascinating thing, at least it fascinates me, to trace a person's life, to hear how God has providentially brought things into their life that have directed them, that has led that have led them, that have shaped them. I confess to uh very much enjoying reading biographies. I read many biographies of the lives of prominent believers. And the Bible is filled with many fascinating biographies, and one of those is This man, Moses. Moses is a remarkable man. He's first in many categories. I don't know if you've thought about this before or not. God spoke to Moses, first of all, more than any other person recorded in biblical history. There is no close secret second. A hundred and ten times the Bible says. That God spoke to Moses. And the Bible is very clear that God spoke to Moses in a more intimate way than anyone else. Thirdly, Moses is called the meekest man on the earth in Numbers chapter 12. Moses is called the servant of the Lord more than any other person in biblical history. Moses is the first individual to be called the man of God. And Moses, of course, was the giver of the law and the author. of the first five books of the Bible. This man holds a unique a unique place in human history. His life very conveniently divides into three time periods, each of 40 years. His first 40 years, you could put under this title a prince in Egypt. And then there was a defining moment that ended that period of his life And that, of course, is when he slew the Egyptian taskmaster. And then you have the next period of his life that could be titled A Pilgrim. in the wilderness. This is from ages 40 to 80 when he was on the backside of the desert. And that period of his life is interrupted with one very significant event, the one we're going to look at tonight, which was God's call to him at the burning bush. And then the last third of his life, from ages 80 to 120, he is the prophet of God who delivers his people from Egypt. Now tonight I want us to look at that great turning point in this life that I just alluded to that took place at the burning bush. Moses at this period in his life is 80 years old. He has spent the last 40 years on the backside of the desert. The fact is, the Bible records that God often uses a time of isolation and waiting to prepare his servants for the accomplishment of Of his call for their life. If you think about it, this was true of Jacob. This was true of Elijah. This was true of John the Baptist. This was true of the Apostle Paul who spent that time in Arabia. This was even true of the Lord Jesus Christ. You ever wondered why it is that the Lord did not begin his ministry till he was 30? He spent 30 years, as it were, in preparation, waiting for the three years of ministry. So why is it that the Lord spent so much time preparing Moses for this task? Well, the desert was a place of healing for Moses after he was rejected by the people. It was also a time period of humbling and testing and waiting on the Lord. It was also a time of learning. He learned about the wilderness, which would be essential because he would soon be leading the children of Israel through the wilderness. He learned about himself and who he was. But most importantly, he learned about God. There was much time for contemplation and reflection. as he was out looking for pasture land, guiding the flocks of his father-in-law. I think it's significant. That we often find a pattern in Scripture of revelation and then commission Think about this. We see this in the life of the prophet Isaiah. We have that great chapter, Isaiah chapter 6. Where the Lord calls Isaiah. Yes, he's already begun his ministry, but the Lord really puts his stamp upon him. And he sees the Lord high and lifted up. It's only after he was humbled by the holiness of God that he was ready to answer the call and say, here am I, send me. In Luke chapter 5, we read of Christ calling Peter for a second time to become a fisher of men. And you remember that after fish fishing all night and coming up empty, the Lord directs him to a miraculous catch of fish. And he falls down on his knees before the Lord, and he says, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. It was only then when he saw the glory and power of God that he was ready. To really do the work of God. You see, God prepares his servants to do his will by showing them the glory of God. And I think that before we can effectively serve the Lord, We must know the Lord. I want to speak to you tonight from Exodus chapter 3 with this truth that knowing God is the key to doing God's will. I want you to notice how God reveals himself to this fearful, reluctant man. First of all, God reveals himself intentionally. When this glorious revelation occurred, we have no sense that Moses was seeking the Lord. Perhaps he was, but I agree with most commentators that Moses was probably very content To be on the backside of the desert. Life was good. It was simple. It was quiet. He had gotten accustomed to this. He did not miss the grandeur of Egypt. The court life that he enjoyed for his first forty years. He had turned his back on that, and I'm sure he had no intention of ever returning to the scene of his crime, because the last time that he was in Egypt he was wanted for murder. And also in Egypt, he was painfully rejected by the people that he chose to identify with the Hebrews. And contrary to his expectations, they did not rally around him and say, this is our great deliverer, but they rejected him. in a wholesale fashion, causing him to flee into the desert for his life. It must have pained him to realize and to think about and to consider the sacrifice that he had made in leaving the palace and wanting to become their deliverer, and though he made this tremendous choice as we read of in Hebrews chapter 11. They did not appreciate his choice, and they rejected him. Moses had the next forty years to mull over his past life. And the incredible turn of events that took place, where he went from being a prince to being a pauper, from being a nobleman to a nomad. So why did God wait so long to call him? Why did he wait forty years Well, I think there are two reasons. First of all, Israel was not ready to be his deliverer. They were not ready. They were not desperate. They were not crying out to God in their affliction. They were not broken. And so they needed that time to come to that place. But secondly, Moses wasn't ready to be a deliverer. There were some lessons that he had to learn on the backside of the desert before he would be ready to take this very daunting task. God indeed moves in mysterious ways. Two-thirds of Moses ' life was spent in preparation for what God would have him to do. This may seem like a waste to us, as I mentioned earlier. We note this in the life of our Lord as well, but in the fullness of the time, God came and called Moses. to deliver his people. Look with me at verse 1 of chapter 3. Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian. And he led the flock to the backside of the desert and came to the mountain of God, even to Horeb. It's not a coincidence that God led him to this place and the revelation occurred at Mount Horeb. Mount Horeb is another name for Mount Sinai. It is here that God, of course, would deliver to Moses the Ten Commandments. It's here that Moses would go up on the mountain and have that communion with God in a very unusual way. The location of this vision was intended to buttress the faith of this reluctant prophet. If you look ahead with me to verse 12 of this chapter, You'll notice that the Lord says to him, Certainly I will be with thee, and this shall be a token unto thee that I have sent thee when thou hast brought forth the people out of Egypt. Ye shall serve God upon this mountain. The Lord is saying to Moses, as surely as you see this mountain spread out before you The promises that I'm making to you will come to pass. It's as certain, as everlasting, as solid as this rocky mountain. We see here that God is intentional in his revelation to his people. The Lord comes to Moses. We don't see Moses going to the Lord. Now I'm not suggesting that the Lord will come to you in a burning bush. Have you ever thought about the fact that Moses did not have one page of his Bible at this time? Can you imagine being a believer and having no Bible, no written revelation? How do I know that? Because Moses wrote the first five books of the Bible and he has not done that yet. He had nothing. So to hear from God, to know definitively that this was the Lord, the Lord comes to him in this spectacular vision. We should not expect to receive a vision like this, but we should understand that God will guide us through His Word and disclose His plan for our lives if we will learn to wait. for him and to focus our mind on his truth. Secondly, would you notice with me that God reveals himself powerfully? Look with me at verses 2 through 4 of chapter 3. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush, and he looked, and behold, the bush burned with fire. And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see God called unto him out of the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses, and he said, Here am I. This bush was probably a thorny acacia shrub, which is very common in the area. What took place here is known technically by theologians as a theophany. a visible manifestation of the invisible God. So what was God seeking to reveal to Moses? Well, in order to answer that question, we have to answer two other questions. First of all, what does the bush represent? Over the centuries, theologians have made several suggestions. One is that this is a picture of Israel and her affliction, and the burning of the bush is to betray the pain and suffering that Israel was going through. But I don't think that's the case. There are others who say that the bush represents Moses, who after spending time on the mount with God in future days would reflect. That same radiance that you saw from that burning bush. In other words, this is a picture of God empowering and revealing himself to Moses. But I agree with most Bible scholars that this burning bush represents God. And the burning, the fire, is very suggestive. What does this speak to us about? Well, it speaks to us the fact that God is a jealous God, that He demands In Deuteronomy chapter 4 and verse 24 it says, For the Lord thy God is a consuming fire, even a jealous God. God will not tolerate rivals. Number two, God is a glorious God. The very light that is radiated from a fire speaks of glory. In Exodus chapter 33 and verse 18. discouraged Moses after repeated disobedience by the children of Israel cries out to God and says, Show me thy glory And I think that Moses wanted to see another spectacular revelation like he saw at the burning bush. But what was tr chiefly revealed in the burning bush was the blazing holiness of God. How do I know that? Well, look at the verses that follow. Verse 5 And he said, Draw not nigh hither, put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. Moreover, he said , I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob, and Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God. This passage is very significant for several reasons. One being, it's the first time that the term holy is used in reference to God Now what do you think of when you think of the term holy? I think that most Christians think of it as another word for sinlessness or purity. But I want you to know that that is only a secondary meaning. The primary meaning of the concept of holy means that God is completely different. That he's in a category of his own. He is not to be lumped with everything else that we see or know or have ever experienced. He is radically different. As one writer put it, he is holy and we are not. God in the burning bush reveals both his transcendence. and his eminence. I don't want to get too theological here, but these are important concepts for us to understand. God, remember, comes near to Moses in the burning bush. He calls out to him from the burning bush This is his eminence. This is God drawing near to mankind, breaking into human history and revealing himself. But the God who comes to Moses is also transcendent. This is why Moses is commanded to take off his shoes because the ground upon which he is standing is holy ground. This ground was sacred because God is there in an unusual way, and God is holy, and the God who is there is resplendent in glory. You know, it's only in revealed religion that we have an accurate picture of God. If you were to study all the religions of the world. You would find in all the pagan notions, you would find that they all tend to sway either towards an emphasis on the eminence of God. God is very much like us. He's only a little bit stronger, a little bit wiser, a little bit older. Or they go to the other side. of the seesaw you might say and they say God is so much different from us. He's kind of so d apart from us that he has no interest in us. He's not he's not really aware of what's going on. He's not really concerned about our burdens and our needs and our cares because he's just too great, just like the man who is the head of some huge corporation that has thousands of employees, that man, that CEO You would think does not have time or any interest in what the lowest level employee has going on in his life And that is man 's distorted concept of God. He's either so transcendent that he doesn't care, or he's so eminent, but he's not really that much more powerful than we are. But the God who reveals himself in Scripture is a God who is both transcendent and eminent. He is both concerned about the details of our lives, like the number of hairs that we have on our head. But he is also the transcendent God of the universe, whose thoughts are not like our thoughts and whose ways are not like our ways. He is both of those. He is truly God with us. He is God and He is with us. He is both transcendent and He is imminent. And until we understand God as he is, we are not ready to really follow him and do his will for our lives. Would you notice with me thirdly that God reveals Himself personally? I say this because when you tell someone your name, it's a personal revelation, especially If it's a name that is rarely used or that people, that very few people know, and that's what we see in this next incident God is going to reveal his covenant name to Moses, but before we come to that climactic point in verses 15 and 14 and 15, I want to comment. on the verses that are in between, verses 7 through 10. Look with me. And the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people which are in Egypt. and have heard their cry by reason of their taskmasters, for I know their sorrows. This is the eminence of God. And I will come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians and bring them up out of that land unto a good land and a large, unto a land flowing with milk and honey, unto the place of the Canaanites and the Hittites. and the Amorites and the Perizzites and the Hivites and the Jebusites. Now therefore, behold, the cry of the children of Israel is come unto me, and I have seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptians oppressed them. Come now, therefore, I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou mayest bring forth my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. Here the Lord reminds Moses of the great task that is his life's calling, something that he was called to do long ago. This passage reminds Moses of something he may have long forgotten about, and that is the affliction and suffering and sorrow of his enslaved people. You know, we have this expression out of sight, out of mind. When we don't see the suffering of others, when we're not exposed to it daily, we tend not to think about it or let it trouble us or burden us. And perhaps it was like that with Moses, who hadn't heard their cries, who hadn't seen them being whipped and beaten, and seeing the brokenness in their faces. He had not witnessed that now for 40 years, and it really did not concern him at all. But now God reminds him that it's actually gotten worse. And that his call is in response to their cry for help. God's response to their prayers is to send his chosen deliverer. This is the reason that God has come to him at Mount Sinai in such a powerful way. Because God will be glorified in the deliverance of his people from Egypt. But amazingly, after this spectacular revelation, Moses passes on the offer. Look at verse 11. And Moses said unto God, Who am I that I should go unto Pharaoh and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt? There's some debate among scholars, and I don't know that we can be dogmatic about it as exactly how to take this. Is this the expression of a broken and humbled man? Who am I, Lord? I'm not up to this task. I don't have the qualifications. I don't have the drive to do this anymore. I'm 80 years old. Or is this simply a callous Unbelieving, disobedient response to the call of God. Perhaps it's a little bit of both. We weren't there to hear the intonation of his voice, and we certainly cannot see what is in his heart. But what we do see. Is that Moses was at least reluctant to go and do this great task. By the way I want to say that I believe that Moses is a type of Christ. I'm not going to take the time to develop that, but there are many evidences of that. But here once again we see that our Savior is so far superior. to Moses because he was not reluctant to do his father's will and rescue us from the bondage of sin. But what we see in Moses is that he is still focused on himself rather than on God. Instead of saying, God A God who could do what he did and this revelation, this great power, could certainly even use a weakling like me to deliver his people. But he's not looking at the greatness of God. He's looking at the weakness of God of himself. And that is so often what we do when we face a seemingly impossible task. We respond in fear rather than faith. Moses knows that he is not sufficient for the task. And indeed he is not. Moses knows from firsthand experience the power of Egypt. Their mighty army, which was the most powerful in the world. He knows their wealth, their resources, and he also knows the stubbornness of the Hebrew people. And so he is not eager to sign up for this very difficult assignment. And he also knows his own inability. But I want you to notice the patient way that God responds to him. Look at verse 12. of chapter three and he said that as God said certainly I will be with thee this is a phrase that you find often In Scripture. This is always God 's answer to our fear, the presence of the Lord. It is only the presence of God that drives out our fear. This is what the angel of the Lord said to Gideon When he was called on to deliver, he was told, the Lord is with thee. Remember Joseph, or excuse me, Joshua, who would come after Moses and had to fill those giant shoes of this legend, the lawgiver. He felt very insufficient. And in Joshua chapter 1 We find again and again God saying to him, I will be with thee. David would write in the 23rd Psalm, Yea, I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with Me, the prophet Isaiah would write, Fear thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God. And Jesus said to his fearful disciples at the Great Commission, he ended with this promise, and lo, I'm with you always, even unto the end of the world. This was a continuation of that pattern that we see in Scripture that God gives to fearful people who are given a seemingly impossible task. They are given this promise and only this promise: I will be with you. God's presence is always the answer to our fears Fear must never keep us from doing God's revealed will because God is with us. We must, as the hymn writer put it, trust and obey. And despite this reassuring promise, despite the fact that God tells them, you see this mountain in verse 12, you're going to come to this mountain once more with the children of Israel. Moses offers another excuse. Look at verse 13. And Moses said unto God, behold. When I come unto the children of Israel and shall say unto them, The God of your fathers has sent me unto you, and they say to me, What is his name? What shall I say unto them? This is what is known as a hypothetical problem. You know what's interesting? In the biblical record, when Moses goes back, no one asks him that question. Hey, by the way, who sent you here? What's his name? We don't have any record of anybody asking Moses that. We just pause and say, so often The objections that we pile up for why we can't do the will of God never materialize. We raise all these fearful things. And if I obey God, oh man, I know it might be the right thing to do, but really bad things are going to happen in my life. I mean I just know this is going to happen and this is going to happen and this is going to happen. This is why I cannot come clean about that sin. This is why I can't step out and serve in that avenue. This is why I can't really move forward in my Christian life because if I do everything that the Bible calls me to do, really bad things are going to happen. And we stay in bondage rather than in obedience because we have all these imaginary fears that dominate our mind minds. I have spoken to so many Christians who have lived in a sense of slavery and that way for years and years and years, never stepping out because they're afraid if I do, you know, this horrible thing's going to come into my life. And sometimes when you get them to finally take those baby steps and move out of that lie, they're amazed when it never occurs. That thing they were so afraid of never materializes. We need to be so careful. The longer I'm a pastor, the more I look in my own heart, the more I look and counsel people, the more I realize we are so fearful. Human beings are so fearful. We're so controlled and driven by fear. So many times when we try to propose something and move something forward, people are always like so fearful. Well this could happen and this could happen to the church and this could And then when we do move forward, those things never happen. But so often in our minds we live in a sense of fear rather than trusting in our God who is leading us. But despite the fact that this objection would not occur, the Lord does tell Moses his name. Now, this raises a little bit of a theological and interpretational conundrum. I know that I have careful readers and people who know the Bible well, and so I want to answer a question that may very well arise in your mind. Let me say that God here reveals Himself in verses 14 and 15 as the great I am, which most of you know is the origin of that sacred Tetragrammaton, as the scholars call it. Which is the fancy way of saying a four-letter word. And it means, and it comes from this ontological term to be. God is the greatest reality in the universe. He is the ever-present one, the I am. And that is the origin of the name Jehovah or Yahweh. Now, if you turn with me ahead to Exodus chapter 6. I want you to look with me at verse 2. And I want to comment on this. Exod 6 and verse 2. This caused me to scratch my head for many years. And God spake unto Moses and said unto him, I am the Lord, L-O-R-D. That's the word Yahweh there, or Jehovah. And I appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob by the name of God Almighty, or El Shaddai. But by my name Jehovah was I not known to them. And I have also established my covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan, the land of the pilgrim of their pilgrimage wherein they were strangers. And I have also heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians kept in bondage, and I have remembered my covenant. Wherefore say unto the children of Israel, I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians. And I will rid you out of their bondage, and I will redeem you with a stretched out arm and with great judgments And I will take you to me for a people, and I will be to you a God, and ye shall know that I am the Lord your God, which bringeth you out from under the burden of the Egyptians, and I will bring you in Unto the land concerning the which I did swear to give it to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, and I will give it to you for inheritage, for I am the Lord, or I am Yahweh Now I'm going to go back to what he says in verse 10. He says that he did not reveal himself by this name to the patriarchs. You say that seems simple enough. There's only one problem. When we turn to the book of Genesis, we find this name all over the place, the name Yahweh. So did God reveal himself by the name Yahweh, or didn't he reveal himself by the name Yahweh? Well, the best minds that have considered this seeming contradiction would say that the Lord, first of all, he didn't predominantly reveal himself by that name If you look at the patriarchal period, you will often find the name El Shaddai more prominent than you will Yahweh, but The name Yahweh is used many times in the book of Genesis in connection with the lives of the patriarchs. What the Lord is revealing here is that the patriarchs didn't fully understand the meaning or the significance of this covenant name. They knew the name, they knew they heard it from God, but they didn't really know it in the depths of their being. It would only be when God, by his mighty hand, brought them out of Egypt, out of the most powerful nation in the world. That they would understand that our God is a covenant-keeping God. He has kept his promise to Abraham and He is able to bring his people out of the most impossible of circumstances. See, it's one thing to know something intellectually, to know it as a fact, and then sometimes when an experience occurs in your life, when your life is on the line, then you really know something. You may have been taught all of your life that God was faithful and that he answered prayer. But when your life or the life of your loved one is on the line and then God answers your prayer, then you really know in a different way that God really does answer prayers. and does the impossible. That is what is in view here. All right, so I explained that. Let's turn back to Exodus chapter 3. And let's look at this amazing portion of God's Word. And God said unto Moses, verse 14, I am That I am. And he said, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I am, have sent me unto you. And God said moreover unto Moses, thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, The Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob, has sent me unto you. This is my name forever. This is my memorial unto all generations. Now, what are we to take? What are we to understand derive from this very nebulous, open-ended expression, the form of the verb to be, I am. I've mentioned this to you before. It's not unique with me. It's been around for a very long time. But it's always convenient for me to remember. It's one of those portable truths that I have. uh that is uh alliterated. They all begin with I. First of all, this name reveals that God is an independent being. God is the independent being. He is the great I am. Did you know that? Did you know God is independent? Do you realize that? This is what Matthew Henry said. God is who he is to himself. He is not dependent on anything. else because he has existence from himself. Every single one of us has come from someone else, ultimately going all the way back to Adam and Eve who came from God. Everything that we know, we've ever touched, has a beginning, but God has no beginning. He is independent. He's not dependent on anyone else This is a very humbling thought. It is arrogant for anyone to say, I don't need anyone. Because God has made us dependent creatures. We all need other people's help for things. You would not exist if it were not for the help of other people, especially your parents. You would never be here. But God does not need anyone's help. Sometimes preachers, missionary appeals, evangelists give the impression that God really needs our help. And he's having a really difficult time doing what he wants to do in the world, and we need somehow to figure out a way that we can solve this dilemma. And so we've got to roll up our sleeves, we've got to volunteer, we've got to help him out because he got himself into a real fix. I want you to know that is absolutely false. God does not need any of us. We are all dispensable. We need Him. We are all dependent, but He doesn't need us. Sometimes I've heard preachers even talk about God, you know, being lonely and was out there in the vast universe all alone. And he says, you know, I'm really lonely. I need to create. uh some people and things that I can have fellowship with. That's nonsense. God was never lonely. He had perfect fellowship in the Trinity. Which is a model really of all social creatures, of humanity interacting with one another. You have a perfect model there. That's another message. God was never lonely. God doesn't need our help. And the Psalms we read of the psalmist are saying, if God were hungry, he says, I would not come to you. He owns the cattle in a thousand hills, Psalm fifty. He doesn't need uh sometimes preachers and trying to get people to give more money, they give the impression, you know, that God is really kind of in debt right now. And we really gotta pony up and we've got to bring the money in to help him out. God doesn't need your money. He says the silver and the gold is mine. He owns all of the resources in the universe. Do you think you're going to put your dime in the collection plate and that's going to help him out? No, no, no, no. God is an independent being. He is the great I am. We have the privilege to give and to support and to serve. And he has ordained to use our paltry gifts and our money and our resources to accomplish his purposes, but he doesn't need us. It's kind of like a parent who's going out and buying a car and they're going to pay cash for that car and the little boy says, Dad, let me help out. And he reaches into his pocket and he pulls out a dime. And the dad says, thanks, son. I'm glad that you're having a part in helping me purchase this. Now that dime didn't do anything to purchase that car. But the the buyer and the seller are both smiling as this transaction takes place. That's the way it is in our service for the Lord. This name reveals, secondly, that God is an infinite being. The name I am is open-ended, it's unlimited. As A. W. Tozer said, infinitude, of course, means limitlessness, and it is obviously impossible for a limited mind to grasp the unlimited. We can't think in that way. Remember when I was uh Teaching before and and sometimes when I was teaching younger kids, you try to teach them uh that uh you know there there's no such thing as the largest number you can ever come up with. Because there's always a number larger than that. It's in the concept of infinity. And kids say, no, that can't be true. That's impossible. So they'd write out as long as number going across the whole end of the paper, and the teacher would come and just put a zero behind it. I just made it a whole lot larger. We can't really wrap our minds around eternity or infinity because we are finite creatures. But God is an infinite being. Thirdly, this name reveals that God is an immutable being. That's simply a word that means he never changes. Notice his name is not I was. His name was not I will be. His name was not I have been. His name is I am. And the God who revealed himself on that mountainside 3 ,500 years ago approximately is still the same I am today. One of my college professors who's now with the Lord used to say this concerning his name. I will always be who I have always been. We can trust in God because He never changes. One of the things that makes older people this kind of unsettled is that the world seems to change so rapidly, and as they become An older person, they realize this is not the same place that I grew up in. The standards, the values, the norms, the things that you thought would never ever change have changed. Including me. But you know what? God never changes. Therefore, we can trust in him Fourthly, this name reveals that God is an incomprehensible being. You might say, I don't know that I fully grasp what you're saying about this I am. Exactly. You can't fully comprehend this. God's ways are past finding out. He is the great I am. This name was so sacred to the Hebrews over the years that they developed superstitions about it. Before the scribes would copy this name, these four letters, these four consonants now, and they would take a ritual bath. Unless they violate the commandment and take God's name in vain , they would substitute the name Adonai in place of Yahweh. And over time, they substituted those vows so that today there's no one who can say dogmatically how that sacred name actually sounded. But because over time, because of their their practice of reading the Old Testament scriptures in the synagogue, they would always substitute that name or at least substitute the vows. How it actually sounded was forgotten. And so we can only speculate what it may have sounded like when it was pronounced. Now I want to make some concluding applications tonight. Number one, God delights to use people who know they are inadequates. Do you feel inadequate? Guess what you are? We as Americans especially like to put on the front we've got everything together. We've got all this confidence. and self-esteem and courage and everything, but when the first problem faces us, we just collapse. Because so often it's an act that we put on. Forty years earlier, Moses was brimming with confidence when he killed the Egyptian. But now he knows that he is inadequate, and so now God can use him. Came across this poem some years ago. It says, How ready is the man to go, whom God hath never sent. How timorous, diffident, and slow God's chosen instruments. Sometimes we will have a young missionary come through here who's just out of Bible college in his 20s. And he's brimming with all this zeal and everything. I remember distinctly many years ago talking to a young man and he was telling me, you know, he was going to go to this country. And he was going to turn the world upside down, and he was going to plant church after church after church, and thousands of people were going to be saved, and that's the way it was going to be. And I told him in my office, it's not going to work out like that. And God's going to have to humble you before he can use you. The second application I'm going to make is this. Our response to our fears should not be to build up our self-confidence. but to learn to depend on God. We have a whole generation of people who have bought into the whole self-esteem psychology. That what you need to do when you feel fearful and inadequate is just keep telling yourself, I can do this, I can do this, I've got this, I'm a very strong person I'm a very wise person. I've got all these resources. I can do this. That is nonsense. Don't look at yourself. Don't try to convince yourself of something that's not true. Look to God's Depend on him. Moses didn't rescue the people. God did Many times in the Old Testament scriptures, we read of God bringing them out with a mighty arm. It was God who performed those miraculous plagues. And it helped them to cross the Red Sea and provided the manna from heaven and the quail who provided for their every need. It was God that did it, not Moses. Moses was just the humble, flawed instrument that he used to bring them out. The fact is that Moses and all of us are vessels of clay. We all have our cracks. We're all weak. We're all perishable. And we should not allow that to discourage us, but to realize that God delights. to use us in our weakness because then he gets all the glory. And thirdly and finally, I want to say the reason why We so often fail to trust and obey is because we don't know God well enough. I say this often, I know But I think it's a very important thing to consider. Our problems and obstacles seem much larger than God. Because we have trained our minds to focus on the obstacles and problems rather than on the greatness of God's. And before Moses could go into that royal court, he had to see the great power of God. He had to know a God who was most transcendent. And amenant a God who was all-powerful, who was the great I am, but a God who came near to him and condescended to his fears and his insecurities. And when we really understand that God is the great I am, we will then be ready to go and do His will. Because God is more than enough. Let's close in prayer this evening. Our Father. We thank you that you are a great God. You're beyond our comprehension. And we thank you for your word. That reveals to us your greatness. I pray that you would help us to keep our eyes on you. I pray that you would help us to obey What you've called us to do, and stop looking at all the possible problems and our own inadequacies. And look to you, the great I am. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen