I invite you to turn with me to Psalm 119. Psalm 119. Many of you know the name of Jim Elliott. He was the pioneer missionary who took the gospel to the jungles of Ecuador in order to reach the Auka Indians with the gospel. On January the 8th, 1956, he along with four other missionaries were brutally murdered. His story is well known due to the books that his wife, Elizabeth Elliott, has written, especially through gates of splendor and shadow of the Almighty Both of these books had a profound impact on my life when I was a young man. The Journal of Jim Elliott is the basis for a lot of the material in those books previous to his career as a missionary And uh it's quite uh interesting to look at that journal that was written while he was in college and to read the aspirations of a godly young man. In that journal we find entries like this. He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain that which he cannot lose. And wherever you are, be all there. Live to the hilt in every situation you believe to be the will of God. And God always gives his best to those who leave the choice with him. He wrote, Lord, give me firmness without hardness. steadfastness without dogmatism, love without weakness. He said, Lord, make my way prosperous, not that I achieve high station. but that my life may be an exhibit to the value of knowing God. He said, the world cannot hate us. We are too much like its own. Oh, that God would make us dangerous. And he also wrote, God, I pray thee light these idle sticks of my life. That I may burn for thee. Consume my life, my God, for it is thine. I seek not a long life, but a full one like you, Lord Jesus. These prayers and aspirations revealed a young man who had a vision for walking with God. I have often mentioned to you that I enjoy reading Christian biographies, and one of the common features that you find in reading the lives of great men and women is that so often in their youth They had very serious thoughts of God. They wrote down serious resolutions and aspirations about what they wanted to do for the Lord. You can read the private thoughts of people like Jonathan Edwards or Charles Spurgeon or Robert Murray McSheen and find similar passionate prayers for God's guidance and blessing. My point is that getting off to a good start in the Christian life is very important. Intentional focused thought is essential to success in any endeavor The same, of course, is true of the Christian life. To become Christians that really are effective and walk with God, we have to start with the right vision of life. Tonight I want us to look at the first stanza in Psalm 119. I'm sure that most of you know that this entire psalm is In a sense, like reading someone's devotions, someone's private journal. It is about the Word of God. It's about the believer's relationship with God in his word. It is a prayer to God, and it I think reflects for us a spiritual journey. Not all scholars. And commentators are agreed to this. Some feel that it's just a loose gathering of all kinds of aspirations and quotes, but that there's no rhyme or reason to it. But I don't think that is the case. It is not always easy to trace, but I do believe that it does chronicle for us A spiritual journey that begins with a man in his youth and ends with a man who has come to maturity, has come to the end of his life. Opening standas certainly speak like the aspirations and the zeal and the struggles that a young person would face and the final stanzas certainly point to someone who has come to the end of their life. And in between we have all the ups and downs that we experience in our Christian journey. I've mentioned to you before that this is one of the Torah Psalms or Psalms that deal with the Word of God, and very conveniently and providentially they're easy to remember. You have Psalm 1. And you have Psalm 19. And then you have Psalm 119. They all deal with the Word of God. In this particular Psalm, we have necrostic. Every one of these stanzas begins with another letter of the Hebrew alphabet. And so we have 22 stanzas because there are 22 letters. in the Hebrew alphabet and every verse in each stanza begins with that same letter. This was arranged this way to help people, especially young people, memorize this portion of God's Word. By the way, I would say to you that this is a real challenge to memorize. I'm throwing that out to some of you You know why it's such a challenge? Because well it's long, 176 verses, but many of you have memorized whole whole books of the Bible. I know I've talked to you about it, but because it's so repetitious, so many verses sound like other verses. And I have endeavored to memorize this before, but I've never been able to really get it down because I'll be in a verse and I'm starting to quote another verse which is very, very similar. But it's different just slightly from this one here. So it is a real struggle, especially for us English speakers. But for those who were the original Hebrew readers. They had the structure of every line beginning, and so it was a help to them in their memorization. It is like an entire book of the Bible itself. It's like a book within a book. There are eight verses in each stanza, and it's thought that this is the case because there are eight different. synonyms that are used for the Word of God here. They are variously translated as law, word, testimony, judgments, commandments, statutes, precepts, sayings. This, of course, is the longest chapter in the Bible. And it's a psalm that reads like someone's personal devotional journal. We don't know who wrote this. The older scholars tend to assume that it was David. And it's possible that it was David, for the scriptures do not tell us. And perhaps that's intentional because it's not that important as to who wrote it. What's important is that this should be the aspirations and the experience of Christian people throughout the centuries. The opening stanza begins with the enthusiasm and hope of a godly young person who is just beginning their walk with God in earnest They have come of age. They now have a faith of their own. They have certain aspirations and resolutions that they want to accomplish in their life. And so I'm going to preach to you this evening on a vision for walking with God in his word. Look at these eight verses that we're going to work through quickly. The psalmist writes, Blessed are the undefiled in the way who walk in the law of the Lord. Blessed are they that keep his testimonies and that seek him with the whole heart. They also do no iniquity. They walk in his ways. Thou hast commanded us to keep thy precepts diligently, all that my ways were directed to keep thy statutes. Then shall I not be ashamed When I have respect unto all thy commandments, I will praise thee with uprightness of heart, when I shall have learned thy righteous judgments, I will keep thy statutes. Oh, forsake me not utterly. Now, how should we begin our spiritual journey? I want to begin by just really quickly surveying what we have here. I want you to look at the first three verses. The first three verses are a description of those who God describes as the blessed. This young person has set these godly, mature individuals as his model, and he says, I want to be like them. And then verses four through six, we have some youthful aspirations. He says in verse 4, Thou'st commanded us to keep thy precepts diligently. And then he adds, Oh, that my ways were directed to keep thy statutes. Because following God in this way seems so difficult and even impossible. Then shall I not be ashamed when I have respect unto all thy commandments. And then the final two verses we might call, notice they both begin with what? Verse 7 and verse 8. I will, I will. What do we call it when you say, I will do this? We might call it a resolution, or we might call it a commitment. This is what I'm going to do. And so this is what we have. We have three parts to this opening stanza. And it helps us to, and it's not a coincidence that this is the beginning stanza of this lengthy psalm. Because this is how we must begin our spiritual journey. We must have a vision for walking with God. I want you to notice with me, first of all, we must aspire to be like the people who walk with God in his word. Picture a young man looking at older saints who obviously exhibit the traits of spiritual maturity, and he says in his heart, I want to be like them. Well, what do they look like? He gives four descriptions in these first three verses. First of all, they are a blessed people. It is not a coincidence that the first two verses of this psalm begin with the same word that begins Psalm 1. You remember Psalm 1? Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. In fact, Psalm 119 has been called a commentary on Psalm 1. Just like the psalmist took that little brief psalm, Psalm 1, and then he expanded on it. and explained it in much greater detail. Let me remind you of the meaning of this Hebrew word, blessed. It is The Hebrew word ashere, it's used some 44 times in the Old Testament. It's most often found in the book of Psalms. It's always translated as blessed or happy. The idea of this Hebrew word is that of being in an enviable position, not that the Bible is promoting envy. But when people look at the life of these individuals, the stability and the joy and the peace that they possess, they say, you know, I want to be like them. I want to have what they have. We read about this use of the term like in Deuteronomy 33. 29 where it says, Happy art thou, O Israel, who is like unto thee, O people, saved by the Lord? And it's saying, that they were the envy of the nations. The nations that surrounded them looked at how God provided for them and how God blessed them and they say, wow, Israel Is a people that are certainly blessed by God. This is the term used by the Queen of Sheba when she observed the wisdom of Solomon. She said, Happy are thy men, and happy are these thy servants which stand continually before thee and hear thy wisdom. She's not saying that all of your servants have a big wide grin on their mouths. She's saying that they're in an envious position because every day they're right there in your court next to you and they hear all of this wisdom and they're learning so much. It's used in Psalm 127 of the man who has many grown sons who would defend his cause against all enemies. And so it says, happy is the man who hath his quibber full of them. This individual has the kind of life that people upon mature reflection would like to have. This is not a description of what they do, but of who they are. The most common characteristic of the blessed man given in Scripture is that he trusts in the Lord. This is one reason why we sang tonight, trust and obey. The blessed man, the man who walks with God throughout his life in the Word, is a man who trusts in God. Now when we read in verse 1 that the blessed person is undefiled, we could say that he's blameless, not that he is perfect, but that he is spiritually mature. that they have a consistent reputation for godliness. Now notice the next thing it says, who walk, verse 1, in the law of the Lord. That is, secondly, they are biblical in their practice. In verse 2, we also read that they keep his testimonies The spiritually mature individuals that should be our model are the kind of people who live their life by the Word of God. What they say, what they think, and how they behave all are in line with Scripture. Not again that they are perfect. But when you look at the structure, the contours, the goals, the aspirations of their life, they are biblical. This is the single greatest factor that has shaped and molded their life. It is the authority of the Word of God. This has become particularly evident in the decisions that they make. They ask themselves, what would God want me to do? And the best way of knowing what God would want you to do in any given situation is to further ask yourself, what passage of Scripture most gives me insight and direction in this matter? And that is what the godly and the mature do. They turn to the Word of God when they need to make those important decisions. This type of lifestyle only comes about by meditating day and night upon the law of the Lord. Remember Psalm 1 and in his law doth he meditate day and night. His life is saturated with Scripture. I think some of the most godly individuals that I've ever read in the history of the church are people that when you read their writings, their journals, their letters, their sermons. It seems that almost every phrase has some biblical reference to it. It's just like distilled scripture. They cannot think or express themselves without doing so with through the lens of Scripture, because that has become the way that they think. This is the way it is with the blessed. Would you notice with me thirdly, they have a passionate, passionate personal relationship with God. It says here that they seek him with the whole heart. A godly life is a life that is focused on knowing God, and this must be done with a whole heart. This is a repeated theme. In Psalm 119, one of the interesting things to do is to look at these themes that come up again and again in this portion of God's Word. I've done that and you can highlight them and color code them so that you see there's there's all these reoccurring themes. This is one of those, a whole heart. Let me show you this. Like look at verse 10. With my whole heart Have I sought thee. Look with me ahead to verse 58. I entreated thy favor with my whole heart. Look at verse 69. The proud have forged a lie against me, but I will keep thy precepts with my whole heart. Psalm verse 145, much further along in the Psalm. The psalmist writes, I cried with my whole heart, hear me, O Lord, I will keep thy statutes. This expression speaks of undivided affection. It speaks of a sincere desire to know and do the will of God. Now you could argue and say that nobody ever really has a whole heart because we are so sinful and so flawed, and I would not argue with you about that. But what it's saying is as much as we can humanly possible and with the Spirit of God, we yield our wills and our hearts and we say, God, I want to follow you. I want to do your will. I've mentioned to you before that the main reason why we find it difficult to find God's will for our lives is because we don't want to find it. And we need to yield to God and desire to do his will as we find the psalmist doing so here. And fourthly, this godly individual that this person wants to model their life after demonstrates a consistent walk with God. Verse 3 says they also Do no iniquity, they walk in his ways. We must always interpret Scripture with Scripture. I'm amazed at how many Christians have trouble doing this. When it says they also do no iniquity, it's not saying that these people, they never sin. They never fail God at all. How do we know that? Because we have all these things in Scripture that says there's not a just man upon the earth that doeth good and sinneth not. What's it saying then? It's saying that they have a consistent practice of godliness. That when a person who who just sees them on the outside, there's nothing that they look at and say, oh wow, look at them. Look at how they're sinning with that. Or look they don't they don't see that. Now certainly if you were to zero in on their life and you knew all of their thoughts and all of their actions and all of their words, you would be able to say, oh look, they're not perfect after all. But from man's perspective, they're consistent. And for years and years and years they live with the reputation of godliness. Now let me apply this for just a moment. Don't want to run out of time. But young people, one of the great keys to becoming the kind of person that God wants you to be is aspiring To follow the godly and having the right models and mentors in your life If your goal, if the person that you look at, the person that you admire, the person that you say, now they really have life all figured out, that that person is God is worldly and wicked and lives for the flesh , you're going to be following their path because we invariably become like the people we admire. So I would encourage you, as young people, perhaps as a teenager or a middle schooler or even someone in college to study and learn from people that obviously have the marks of spiritual maturity about them. Get to know them. Seek to be mentored by them. Study their life. Look at the decisions they make. Look at how they handle certain things. Look at the disciplines that they've established in their life and say, so that's how I can become that kind of person. It's so important that you choose your models carefully and that you seek to live your life like those who have come to this place where they are truly the blessed. Now secondly We must desire to walk with God in His Word. Look with me at verse 4. We see here that we must yield to the authority of God's word. It says, Thou hast commanded us to keep thy precepts diligently. The word diligently means fully or deeply or earnestly. This Hebrew word is one of those reoccurring ones in the psalm as well. It's used in verse 8 where it says, forsake me not utterly. That's the same word. It's translated that way in verse 43. It's also translated And verse 51 as greatly, and in verse 96 as exceedingly, and in verse 107 as very much, and in verses 138 and 140 as very, and in verse 167 as exceedingly. This word basically expresses intense attention, diligently, like someone who is looking at something very, very carefully. It has their undivided attention. They cannot be distracted by anything. This is the attitude that we must have for the Word of God. And that raises the question, is God's word truly authoritative in our lives? Or do we obey it only in a general way? So often we fail to really consider what God's Word teaches about various areas in our life. We don't think deeply about the application of God's truth to our situation. Where do you go to as a young person, especially? You know, have you ever thought about this? Most people make the decisions that will direct the rest of their life within a time period of about five years. Where they're going to go to school, what kind of career they're going to follow, who they're going to marry, who will be their best friends, all of those really important decisions. are made in a very short period of time, relatively speaking. Well, how do they have the wisdom to make the right choice? Because life is filled with so many options. So often young people do what comes natural to them. You know that's what they do They seek the wisdom of their peers. They're 19 years old and they're making a life-changing decision, so where do they go? They talk to another 19-year-old. That is a foolish thing to do. It's the natural thing to do. It's the most common thing to do. But it's not a wise thing to do. The first thing you should say is, what does God say about this in his words? And the next thing I would say about that is what do the people that truly are spiritually mature that could be described as in this passage as the blessed who have a consistent reputation of godliness and obviously walk in his word, what do they think about the situation? We need to let the word of God be authoritative in our lives. So often we're not earnest, but casual about our conformity to God's word. We see in verse 5 that we must long to walk with God in his word. I love this expression. Oh, that my ways were directed to keep thy statutes. This is a desperate prayer for God's intervention. One of the true signs that's been said of spiritual health. is when these kind of desperate cries that begin with, oh, come back to our prayer life. When we cry out from the depths of our heart, Oh God, would you help me? You see, the psalmist realizes that the ultimate reason that he does not obey God as he should It's simply because he doesn't want to. And so he's asking God to change his heart. We find this attitude often in the Psalm. In December, I preached from the Psalm as well, you may recall. Look with me at Psalm 119, verse 34. I love this chain of verses. Psalm 119, verse 34. Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law. Yea, I shall observe it with my whole heart. Make me to go in the path of thy commandments, for therein do I delight. Incline my heart unto thy testimonies, and not to covetousness. Turn away my eyes from beholding vanity, and quicken thou me in thy way. You see, these are a desperate cry for God to change our hearts from the inside so that we are more pliable, so that we really want what we know What God wants us to do. When we carefully consider the obedience that God requires of us, we find ourselves unable to do it. The godly are the most aware of how ungodly they truly are. Now some preachers and writers Teach, either directly or indirectly, that you can reach a place in the Christian life where you rarely, if ever, sin. This used to be more common. Fortunately, it's not as common as today. I can remember hearing preachers that I have many books that talk about Living in spiritual victory and triumph. And the impression that they give to the reader or to their listener is that there's some people, like myself, who've reached this level where we just never mess up. We never fail. And if only you could come up where I am and really yield your life to God, then you would experience the absolute victory over sin that I've experienced. I do not think that that is an accurate reflection of what God's Word teaches or of their own experience. In fact, I think it's a dangerous distortion of what the Bible teaches because it makes hypocrites out of people who have to redefine sin. And it also discourages many earnest people who truly are trying to grow in their Christian life, but they say, why can't I be like those people who never sin? But here we find something and throughout this psalm that we can all identify with, the man who was the author of this psalm, who gives us his spiritual journey, is obviously a man with godly aspirations A man who wants to walk in the law of the Lord and yet he falls and he stumbles and he becomes depressed and he is afflicted. Again and again and again, because this is an accurate reflection of our spiritual journey. One writer called it spiritual realism. Spiritual progress will only occur when we are honest with our failures and desperately look to God for the grace to love him more. This is the heartbeat of holiness. And we say with the hymn that we sing here often, my heart has no desire to stay. Where doubts arise and fears dismay, though some may dwell where these abound, my prayer, my aim is higher grounds. And we must consider the blessings of walking with God in His Word. Look at verse 6. He says, Then shall I not be ashamed when I have respect unto all thy commandments. I don't have the time to show you the multitude of references in Scripture where you find this term ashamed. Now when we when we read that, we think instinctively of like an emotional reaction of someone calling us out and we're kind of embarrassed in front of our peers, but that's really not the idea of this expression that you read often in Scripture. It's talking about the fact that no one who walks with God will ultimately be disappointed or regret his course of action. I mentioned this this morning. No one comes to the end of their life who has lived a godly life and says, you know, if I had it to do all over again, I would have lived more for myself. But there are many, many who have lived for sinful indulgence, who have expressed grave regrets at the end of their life. Those who walk with God throughout their life will not be ashamed. They will not regret. They will not be disappointed with the blessings that God brings into their life. And thirdly, in this passage, we must commit or resolve to walking with God in His Word. Notice in verses 7 and 8, we have two resolutions. We have two I will statements. First of all, I will praise thee with uprightness of heart, when I shall have learned thy righteous judgments, and these things are connected. Why is it that we don't perpetually have a heart of praise to God because we don't have uprightness of heart? What is it that takes the praise and the worship out of our lives? It is unconfessed sin. You cannot really worship God with great joy and gladness and freedom in your heart when you know you're holding on to something and you will not let it go. But when you have released that matter to the Lord, you will have a heart that will desire to to praise him. This is something again that's found throughout the Psalms and throughout the Word of God. You see, we must not only grow in our obedience, but we must grow in our delight in God. We must strive to be like our Savior who said, I delight. to do thy will, O my God, thy law is in my heart. And notice that we must commit to a life time of learning from God. In verse 7 at the end, he says, when I shall have learned thy righteous judgments. The Christian life is a life of learning. We will never master the Word of God in this life. We will never come to the end of our lives or any place in our lives and say, you know, I can close this book because I got this thing down. That will never happen. We will always, all of our days, be learning and studying and meditating. That's what it is to be a disciple. I've mentioned this to you before, but the word disciple. means one who follows and learns. Sometimes Christians think that in just two or three years they can learn the basics of the Christian life and then they really don't have to learn anything more. That is not true. All of your life you will be learning. Because being a Christian is a call to a lifetime of learning. And notice that we must commit to a lifetime of depending on God for our obedience. Verse 8. He says, I will keep thy statutes. But then he follows it up with this. Oh, forsake me not utterly. As the psalmist voices his determination to follow God, he realizes his utter inability to do so. When you really get serious about doing God's will and obeying Him, you will be very conscious and aware of how short you come in reaching that goal. And so he begs for God's presence and power. Spurgeon says that this writer trembles lest he be left to himself. It is to the trembling man that God will look. It is to the weak man that God will help. And those who resolve to follow Christ will become The blessed men and women described in verses 1 and 2. This is where we must start or start again. This message is particularly appropriate for our young people who are starting out on their course of life. It's also for people who are starting a new chapter in their lives or need to start a new chapter and begin again. The Christian life is filled with new beginnings. A just man falls seven times and rises up again. I mentioned to you earlier Jonathan Edwards, the man who has still left an incredible impact. on this nation. His writings still minister to many people. As a young man, as a teenager, he wrote out many resolutions. determinations that would govern his life. I'm just going to read three of them. He said, resolve never to do anything Which I should be afraid to do if it were the last hour of my life, and resolved never to act as if I were in any way my own. But entirely and altogether God's, and resolved that I will do whatever I think to be most to God's glory And it was those early resolutions and his early study of Scripture that would chart the course for a life. That would have an incredible impact not only on his own family, on his own community, but on our nation and on the world, because those who start out at the right place. We end up being the people that God will bless and use in incredible ways. May God help us to start out with the Word of God on our spiritual journey. Let's close in prayer this evening. Father, we thank you for your word We thank you, Father, that it is exactly what we need to hear. I pray that you would take what I have said tonight and use it in the lives of those here. I pray that it would especially minister to some young person. who is seeking to begin their spiritual journey in life, I pray that they would resolve to follow you with all of their heart. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.