Would you turn with me to Genesis chapter 22? Genesis 22. Many years ago, a world-class architect designed a high-rise office building. And as was the custom of the time, he made the skyscraper with a glass exterior walls in order to provide a spectacular view of New York City. The only problem was that once the building was inhabited, no one would go within six feet of the exterior walls. They were afraid. to get close and plunge through the glass to their death below. This fear greatly hindered the productivity Of those in this office building. So one day the architect visited the building, and he had all of the employees in that building join him on the top floor. He explained to them that the glass was shadowproof. He talked about the thickness of the glass and that it could withstand a great deal of pressure and how it was installed and how it would not fall out. And how it was entirely safe for them to bump against it or to come close to it. But they still looked unconvinced despite all of the technical information that he gave them. So this legendary architect backed up and took a running start and crashed with all of his force against that glass wall and fell back against the floor. And after that test, no one was ever afraid to walk close to the walls again. It is one thing to know theoretically that something is true. It's another thing to know experientially that something is true. Most people do not like tests. Whether it's a driving test or a medical test or a calculus test, no one likes the idea of an examination with significant consequences. But whether we like it or not, our lives are filled with tests. And in Genesis 22 , We read of a very significant test that God gave to Abraham. Look with me at verse 1. It came to pass after these things. That God did tempt Abraham and said unto him, Abraham, and he said, Behold, here am I. Now let me first of all before we proceed into this passage. Answer a question that some people have about this incident. Our King James version says God did tempt Abraham. What's confusing to people is that in James chapter 1 and verse 13 It says, let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. The Hebrew word that's used here in Genesis 22 does not convey the idea of enticing someone to do evil. It is rather a test of the worth or quality of something. This does not mean, of course, that the Lord does not know our hearts or what's inside of us or how committed we are to him. He knows all of these things. But the Lord will sometimes put situations into our lives to challenge us and to demonstrate to us and to others The trust that we have in God for his glory. And tonight, as we prepare for the Lord's table, I want us to consider this significant incident in the life of Abraham, and I would like to look at it from two viewpoints. First of all, I want us to look through this passage and see that the Lord indeed will test the faith of his people. And then I would like to point out the parallels between this event in the life of Abraham and our Lord's death on the cross. So let's first of all look at the reality that the Lord will test the faith of his people. And we see, first of all, that God will test the faith of his people. throughout their lives. Abraham, as best as we can reckon, is about 115 years old when this incident occurred. Isaac, his son, is a teenager. Abraham has been living by faith now for over 50 years. His whole life, as recorded in Genesis, is a series of tests. He was tested when he was called out of Ur of the Chaldees. And he did well with that test. He obeyed. He went to a place that he had never been to before. And he followed the Lord's leading. He was next tested when he stopped at Haran. This was on the way, but not entirely where God had called him to go. And we know that he stayed there for about 15 years. As best as we can tell, it seems that he was afraid. of what his father might think because his father wanted to remain there. It was more like the land they had come from. It was familiar. And so for 15 years, he was halfway between the promised land and his homeland. And then he was tested after he arrived in Canaan with famine and the land. But rather than trust God, he went down into Egypt and got into a real mess. Abraham was tempted when he gave Lot the first choice of pasture land, leaving God to bless him and to provide for his needs. And he passed that test with flying colors. He was tested, of course, uh very powerfully with the delay and the conception of Isaac God had promised for him. That from him would come an heir of the covenants. But there was a long delay in the fulfillment of that promise. And rather than wait on the Lord, he listened to his wife Sarah and took Hagar as a wife. And that created some additional problems. He was tested when he lied about his relationship with Sarah, and he failed that test on two occasions. You see, the testing of our faith is not a rare event. It is the common experience of the people of God. I think it's significant to note that the Lord did not give Abraham this test at the beginning of his journey of faith. It was only after he had walked with the Lord for some 50 years that God sent him what is An incredibly difficult test, a test that I think every parent here feels that they would fail. And the point is that God knows what we can handle and when we can handle it. His tests that he sends into our lives are not an act of judgment, but an opportunity for us to demonstrate to the world that he is worthy of our trust. We see secondly that God will test the faith of his people to see if he has first place. Look with me at verse 2 and following. And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah, and offer him therefore a burnt offering. upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of, and Abraham rose up early in the morning and saddled his ass, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his sons, and claved the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up and went unto the place. of which God had told him. And then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place afar off. Why would God ask Abraham to offer up his son Isaac as a sacrifice? The reason that is implied in this text is because Isaac was the great rival. for his affections. Notice how Isaac is described in verse 2. Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou lovest. The word Isaac, the name Isaac means laughter. Both Abraham and Sarah laughed. initially at the idea of having a son and their advanced age, but God promised was true, and the miracle boy was so precious because they had waited so long. And how much laughter did this little boy bring into their lives? There was no one quite like Isaac. We find here in this expression the first use of the word love in the Bible. Abraham dearly loved his son Isaac. I'm sure that Abraham would have been willing to die for his son in an instant. His son was in many respects a walking and talking reminder of the faithfulness of God, of the fact that God could do the impossible. But now God was asking him to slay his son, his beloved son. Abraham had already given up his past. When he left Ur of the Chaldees, now it seemed as if God was asking him to give up his future as well. God often tests his people with situations that are difficult. I think of the author of Pilgrim's Progress, John Bunyan. He, of course, was thrown into prison for some 12 years because he was preaching without a license at that time period in English history. Uh there was restrictions. There was a real battle going back and forth between the established church and nonconformity. And Bunyan refused to sign a document saying that he would never preach. again. And so he was kept in prison. All that he had to do was sign that document and he could go free. The real trial was not the loss of his freedom. It was the fact that he was separated from his family and found it very difficult to provide for them. This was particularly difficult because he had a blind daughter that had such a tender heart and he loved her so much. But yet, he loved the Lord more and would not sign documents saying that he would never preach his word again. He wrote. I saw in this condition that I was a man who was pulling down his house upon the head of his wife and children. Yet, thought I, I must do it. I must do it. The dearest idol I have known, whatever that idol be, help me to tear it from thy throne And worship only thee. The greatest battles in our lives are not between love and hate, but between competing loves. And we see here that you never lose by giving someone or something to God. Thirdly, God will often test the faith of his people with perplexing circumstances. Abraham faced a very confusing situation Think about this for a moment. Why would God promise him a son and then ask Abraham to take his life? It seems arbitrary and cruel. Why would God give him this miracle and then demand his death? And more importantly, why would God base his covenants on the birth of this promised boy and then ask that his life could be taken? How would God fulfill his covenants? If you look just down in verse 18 of this same chapter, it says, And in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth Be blessed, because thou hast obeyed my voice. It seems as if there was a real conflict between God's promises and God 's command. Why would God ask Abraham to do what the pagans did to their children in behalf of their false gods? This is one of the things the Bible tells us about the residents of Canaan is that they frequently sacrificed infant children to their false gods. How many times did Abraham pass by their high places in revulsion as he heard the screams of little babies who were burned to appease their gods? And he would say to himself, but Jehovah is not like their false deities. He's a God of mercy and compassion, a God of loving kindness. But now it seemed as if the very character of God was being tested by this command. That three-day trip to Mount Moriah seemed much longer than the arduous trek from Ur of the Chaldees. But Abraham obeyed despite the confusion. Look with me at verse six. And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it upon Isaac, his son. And he took the fire in his hand and a knife, and they went both of them together. And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father and said, My father, he said, Hear my, my son. He said, Behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? And Abraham said, My son God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering. So they went both of them together, and they came to the place which God had told them of, and Abraham built an altar there, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son. and laid on him the altar upon the wood. And Abraham stretched forth his knife and took the knife to slay his son. This is an amazing demonstration of faith. It reveals to us something that's very important for us to understand. In our Christian lives, and that is that you do not have to understand everything that is happening in order to obey the Lord. So often we find ourselves in situations where we ask God a lot of questions. But it's important to realize that God is not obligated to answer your questions He's not obligated to explain everything that he's doing in your life and the purpose of it and how things are going to work out so that you can then say, all right, that makes perfect sense to me. I will obey. Obviously, if the Lord had revealed to Abraham how things were going to play out, that he was going to provide a ram, and that he in fact would not have to offer his son, then it really wouldn't have been a test. And so we must realize that God is not obligated to answer all of our questions in order for us to obey. So why doesn't God often answer our questions? One reason I think is because often we wouldn't understand even if he did fully explain the situation, because his ways are past finding out. We are finite creatures. We are focused on the here and now. He is looking at the big picture. But we are stuck in this little realm of time. And it's the height of arrogance for us to demand answers from God. And of course, as I mentioned earlier, if God were to answer all of your questions, then you wouldn't be living by faith, but by sight. And God desires that his people walk by faith. Fourthly God will test the faith of this people to see how well we know him. Abraham's faith was a remarkable demonstration of obedience. Notice that Abraham obeyed instantly. He left, it says, the next morning. He didn't wait for a sign. He didn't put out a fleece. He didn't say, God, show me that you really mean this. No, he obeyed as soon as he could. He obeyed confidently. In Genesis 22, 5 we read that he told the servants, I and the lad will come again unto you. Now we are not told here in the book of Genesis how Abraham came to that realization But we get divine insight into his thinking in Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 19. We read there that the way Abraham had worked this out in his mind is he believed that God would raise his son Isaac from the dead. That's how they would come back down that mountain. That's how strong Abraham believed in the power of God. Thirdly, he obeyed resolutely. He didn't turn back during that three-day journey And he was undeterred by his son's question about the sacrifice. He should have known that this question would sometime come up. Where's the sacrifice, Dad? What a difficult question. He could have just crumbled right then, but he did not. He obeyed resolutely. And fourthly, he obeyed in an exemplary way. As I mentioned a moment ago, we don't know how old Isaac was exactly the scriptures do not say, but he would have been around fifteen or sixteen years old. He was a young man. His father was very old. He certainly could have resisted his elderly father and said, I will not lay down my life on this altar. But he followed his father's example of faith and obedience So let me ask you, why was Abraham able to follow and obey God in this extreme example? The answer is because he knew God He is the only man in Scripture that is described as a friend of God. He walked with God and talked with God, and he'd been living by faith now for over 50 years. He knew that God was faithful to him even when he was not faithful to God. He knew that God could do the impossible. He could take an old barren woman and allow her to become a mother. And so Abraham obeyed God up until the last moment. And the Lord stopped him from slaying his beloved son. Look with me at verse 9, please. And they came to the place which God had told him of. And Abraham built an altar there. And laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar upon the wood. And Abraham stretched forth his hand and took the knife to slay his son. And the angel of the Lord called unto him out of heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham, and he said, Here am I. And he said, Lay not thy hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything unto him For now I know that thou fearest God, seeing that thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me. And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behind him a ram caught in a thicket by his horns, and Abraham went. And took the ram and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead of his son. So how well do you know your God? The more you know your God, the more you will trust him. You've heard me frequently say that from this pulpit. The reason why we do not trust and obey as we ought is because we don't know God well enough. I've used this illustration before, so uh bear with me please. You would never think of walking through the mall If you were a parent and you had little toddlers as your children and you saw some man sitting there in the center of the mall while his wife is shopping and you would go up to him and say, Listen, we're going to be gone for a few hours. Would you please watch our children? If you had never met that person before, you didn't know them at all, you would never for a moment think of leaving your small, vulnerable children in a stranger's care. But if you were walking through the mall and you saw their grandfather there and they ran to him and embraced him and hugged him, you very well may leave your children with the grandfather for a while while you did that. some shopping. Why? Because you know him. You have a relationship with him. You know he loves your children and he will take good care of them. The reason why we have trouble obeying God is because we don't know Him well enough. A test often reveals how well we know our God. But now I want us to look briefly. At a picture of Christ's work of redemption. And this is touched on in several ways in this passage. First of all, We see in this chapter a picture of Christ as the Father's only begotten son. Genesis 22 and verse 2 describes Isaac as thine only Son. Now let me ask you, was he the only son, the only physical descendant of Abraham? No, he was not. Ishmael existed. He was also a son of Abraham. This is speaking of that unique relationship as the beloved son, not to mention, I don't extrapolate from this that there are other sons of God in that same sense as our Savior. But when this passage is referred to by the anonymous writer of Hebrews in chapter 11 and verse 17, he uses the theologically significant term only begotten son. to refer to Isaac. The author of Hebrews is clearly identifying Isaac as a type of Christ. The same Greek term is used by John to describe the Lord Jesus Christ on three occasions. In John chapter 1. And verse 18, a very, very important verse in this opening prologue It says this. No man has seen God in any time. The only begotten Son, the monoganes which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him. And then if you if just a few ver uh chapters ahead and the most famous verse in the Bible We see this term again, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish. but have everlasting life. And two verses later we find this a third time. He that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already, because he is not believed in the name of the only begotten. Son of God. This term refers to one who was unique or preeminent. There was no one like Isaac in the eyes of Abraham. He was the promised seed. And Jesus is unique. He is the promised Messiah. And there is no one like him in our eyes. Secondly, we see in this chapter a picture of the Father's love for his beloved Son. In Genesis 22, in the opening verses, an emphasis is placed upon the special relationship that Abraham had with his son Isaac. The first time the word love is used, he described as his beloved son. He dearly loved him. He was the son of promise. He was the son of his old age. He was a miracle. But Jesus is the ultimate son of the covenant. And although Abraham had spent some 15 or 16 years In his relationship with Isaac, the father enjoyed perfect fellowship with his son from eternity past. And Jesus always did those things that pleased his father. The father was so pleased with his son that on several occasions he spake from heaven and proclaimed, This is my beloved Son. Like a parent who cannot restrain their pride in their child, God speaks from heaven about their special relationship. But we also see in this chapter a picture of the Father's willingness to sacrifice his only son. Some of you may know this, but and some make, I think, more out of it than they should, but Mount Moriah would have been located right in the region of Jerusalem. There were a whole range of mountain peaks known as Mount Moriah, and some scholars like to believe, and perhaps it is true, it cannot be disproved. That Christ was crucified on the exact spot where Isaac was about to be slain by his father. We cannot know that the Bible does not say that, but it is certainly in the same region. Although Abraham dearly loved his son, he loved God more and was willing to sacrifice him to the Lord. And our heavenly Father dearly loved his son. And yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him that we might be saved. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. We see in this chapter a picture of the Lord providing a substitute to die in our place. Isaac did not die on that altar. A ram was provided by the Lord to die in his place. And the Lord Jesus Christ died the death that we deserve. Jesus is indeed the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. This is the first mention in Scripture. of a substitutionary sacrifice, this ram in place of Isaac And it's a reminder to us, a picture of the Lord providing a substitute to die in our place. The Lord spared Isaac. The Lord did not force Abraham to go through and slay his own son. But the Father did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for us all. Romans 8. 32. What a precious truth for us to contemplate. this evening. And we also see in this chapter an allusion to the resurrection of Jesus from the dead. As I already mentioned, Abraham made sense of this incredibly difficult command. According to Hebrews 11, 19, it says, that he accounted that God was able to raise him up even from the dead. Abraham's ancient faith was a foreshadowing of the resurrection of Christ from the dead And all the true spiritual children of Abraham trust in a Savior who died and rose again from the grave. Tonight, as we partake of these elements, let us reflect on the love of God that spared not his own son. But delivered him up for us all so that we might be saved. Let's close in prayer. Father We thank you for this picture of the atonement that you've provided in Jesus Christ. I pray that you would help us never to forget what our Savior has done for us. I pray that tonight as we gather around this table That our thoughts would be of you. And Father, that we would be reminded once more of that substitutionary sacrifice that you took on our behalf. For it's in Jesus' name we pray.