In my neighborhood, the streets are lined with Bradford pear trees. These trees, you may know, are fast growing and they flower beautifully in the springtime but they are very brittle. and they often come down in severe weather. Uh the joke in our neighborhood is that these trees were planted to provide job security. for the companies that could that's contracted to remove the trees. Sometimes the trees that are splintered and broken or removed have shoots that grow out of the stumps. It's not particularly attractive and if those trees were in front of my house, I would cut those shoots off. Uh but some of my neighbors don't see it that way, they're oblivious to this, and uh I know that tree is never going to grow up Those shoots are never going to develop and become a beautiful tree. They're just an eye sort, really, in our neighborhood, but uh it's in their yard, and so I leave them alone. Now I say all of that to let you know that the scripture uses this kind of picture, believe it or not, for Lord Jesus Christ. It's under the title and scripture of the branch. Which all Bible scholars understand as a messianic title. The Hebrew word does not refer to a substantial branch like we might think of. with our English use of the term branch, but really of a shoot that grows off the trunk of a tree or out of a stump. This does not seem like an appropriate symbol for our Savior, but it is when rightly understood. This morning I began the message by referring to Isaiah 53 and I want to ask you tonight to turn there to begin with. We won't remain here for long, but turn with me, please, to this famous chapter, Isaiah 53. As I mentioned this morning, this passage actually begins in Isaiah 52 and verse 13, but I want to begin reading in chapter 53 and verse 1. It says, Who hath believed our report? And to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry ground. He hath no form nor comeliness, and when we shall see him, There is no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. This is the second stanza in this five stanza poem. And if you were to reduce this stanza to one word, it would be rejection. The Lord's people would reject him as their Messiah. Now the word for branch that we are going to follow tonight is not specifically used in this passage But the concept is identical in the first phrase in verse 2, which says, For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant. And as a root out of a dry ground. The picture here is again of a shoot that sprouts up. From a severed branch or trunk. It is weak and vulnerable and not at all impressive. It's not like the cedars of Lebanon. And we see here The idea that Jesus' background was not what people would have expected from the Messiah. He was not born in a palace, but in a stable. He was not brought up in luxury, but in a rough stone enclosure. Those are the types of homes that you would have expected to find in the first century in Nazareth. He was not served by others, but he would grow up giving his life in service of others. Some scholars believe that this imagery may also include the idea of something that is unwanted. A new growth can drain the life-giving energy from the fruit of a tree, and so it's often cut off by the gardener. And Jesus would indeed be considered unwanted by his people, and in time he would be cut off. Now this is not the first time that Isaiah refers to the Messiah in this way. I want you to turn back with me to Isaiah chapter 11, please. Isaiah chapter 11. The first verse says, And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse And a branch shall grow out of his roots. You'll notice that verse 2 makes it clearer that this is the Messiah. And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord. The word that's translated rod in verse 1 also means a stem or a shoot. This passage reminds us that Jesus would come from the line of David, but the term David is not used here. Instead, we find Jesse, who of course was David's father. It's as if Isaiah is intentionally avoiding the use of the name of this famous king. And he does so probably to convey the idea of the humility of his beginning. This reminds us once more of our Savior's humility and his true humanity as coming from the line of David. But a greater than David would come from this royal line. Look with me as this imagery is taken up again in verse 10 of this chapter. It says, And in that day there shall be a root of Jesse, which shall stand for an insense of the people. To it shall the Gentile seek, and his rest shall be glorious. This picture of the Messiah reminds us that Jesus was at the center of God's glorious plan of redemption. Now the remainder of our time together tonight, I want us to consider several passages in the prophets that use a specific Hebrew term for branch to reveal the multifaceted identity of our Savior. So I'm going to speak to you tonight as we prepare for the Lord's table on the revelation of Christ. in the title of the branch. And I invite you to turn earlier in the book of Isaiah to Isaiah chapter 4. Isaiah chapter 4. And I want you to see that the title branch reveals Jesus or the Messiah as God. In Isaiah chapter 4, look with me in verse 2. And in that day shall the branch of the Lord be beautiful and glorious. And the fruit of the earth shall be excellent and comely for them that are escaped of Israel. Now in verse 2 it begins in that day, and our immediate question as readers of the scriptures is in what day? This is a shorthand reference to the day of the Lord. The day of the Lord is a very important biblical concept found most often in the Old Testament, but also in the New It refers to a time when God dramatically intervenes in the affairs of men, either for the judgment of the wicked or the blessing of the righteous. There are many different days of the Lord referred to in Scripture. The destruction of Edom was a day of the Lord. The Babylonian destruction of Jerusalem was a day of the Lord. Even the day of Pentecost. is referred to as a day of the Lord. But these all point to the ultimate day of the Lord, which is yet to come, a day that will bring judgment to the wicked and blessing to the righteous. Now I want you to notice especially this expression, the branch of the Lord. I said under this heading that this passage reveals that the branch is God, and you might ask, how does this passage do so? Well, it's in the expression, the branch of the Lord. Now, this particular construction could be communicating several things. It could be saying that this branch comes from the Lord, or it might be saying that this branch belongs to the Lord. But many Hebrew scholars believe that it is revealing that this branch is the Lord. And thus it would be a declaration of deities, of deity. Bible scholars and preachers have found a correlation between the four portraits of Christ in the Gospels. And these branch declarations that are found in the Old Testament, you may have never thought of that or heard of that before, but I think it is legitimate. And I want to demonstrate that to you this evening. Now this particular reference in Isaiah chapter 4 and verse 2, if indeed it reveals, as I believe it does, that Jesus is God, then it would correspond to the fourth gospel, the Gospel of John, which of course emphasizes the deity of Christ. John says that he wrote his gospel so that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ the Son of God, and that believing you might have life through his name. This branch would be both human and divine. He would come from the seed of Jesse and yet be God. And this verse seems to be pointing to a day when the world will recognize his identity. There is coming a day when the despised branch, that insignificant shoot, will be considered beautiful and glorious. Jesus, who was mocked at the cross by all the various representatives of humanity, will someday be seen for who he is, the glorious Son of God. This is a biblical truth that is taught repeatedly in the Old and New Testaments. A hymn that captures this sense of reversal is a hymn that I would like us to sing later. It says, look ye saints, the sight is glorious. See the man of sorrows now from the fight returned victorious, every knee to him shall bow. Crown him, crown him, crown become the victor's brow. As we come here tonight to remember the humiliation of our Savior at the cross, let us not forget his exaltation that followed. Secondly, I'd like you to see tonight that the title branch reveals that Jesus is king. Turn with me to the book of Jeremiah Specifically Jeremiah chapter 23. Jeremiah 23. And I'd like you to look with me. At verse 5, please. Jeremiah 23, verse 5. I want to begin by reading actually verse 1. It says, Woe unto the pastors. That destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture, saith the Lord. Pastors, here's a reference to the leaders of Israel, the shepherds of Israel. Specifically, perhaps he is referring primarily to the prophets that were supposed to warn the people and preach the truth of God and yet They were saying what the people wanted to hear. They were trying to calm the people and bring stability to the kingdom rather than give God's message. These false prophets did not preach God's truth, but would one day God would send an ultimate shepherd to feed his people. And this ultimate shepherd is mentioned in verse 5, Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that I will raise unto David a righteous branch. And a king shall reign and prosper and shall execute judgment and justice in the earth In his days Judah shall be saved, and Israel shall dwell safely, and this is his name whereby he shall be called the Lord our righteousness. Now I want you to notice that once more we see a reference to the day of the Lord. Notice the branch here is identified as a king. who would have a righteous reign. And we find an almost identical statement ten chapters later in Jeremiah 33. Would you turn with me now to Jeremiah 33? I'd like to begin reading in verse 14. I want you to notice how similar this is. Jeremiah says, Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that I will perform that good thing which I have promised unto the house of Israel and to the house of Judah. In those days and at that time will I cause the branch of righteousness to grow up unto David, and he shall execute judgment and righteousness in the land. And those days shall Judah be saved, and Jerusalem shall dwell safely, and this is the name whereby she shall be called the Lord our righteousness. Once again, the context is the day of the Lord. And here we read again of the ultimate Davidic king reigning in righteousness. The people of Israel and Judah had longed for a righteous king, but they never found one. The fact is that all the leaders throughout human history Have turned out in some way to be a disappointment to their people. Saul, Israel's first king, turned out to be a disaster, although he was very impressive to look at. Solomon Who was a very wise man took many wives that led him into idolatry. And David, the sweet psalmist of Israel, committed adultery and murder. And so it is not without significance that some of David's final words before he died are found in 2 Samuel 23 and verse 3, where he says, He that ruleth over men must be just or must be righteous ruling in the fear of God. No political leader has ever measured up to this standard. In both of these passages in Jeremiah, we read of this wonderful title, The Lord Our Righteousness. And I think there is found in this title several different wonderful applications. One is, of course, that God would someday bring a king who would fulfill the longing and expectations of people that finally they would have a ruler who would reign in righteousness. A ruler that would not be corrupted with his power. A ruler that would not show favoritism to certain kinds of people, but a ruler who would be absolutely righteous. But I think we also have here an allusion to the imputed righteousness of Christ. Which is our standing before God. Not only would the Messiah come and someday reign in righteousness, which I take as a reference to his millennial reign. But he is our King who has provided for us his own righteousness, that we might stand before God And be accepted because we are in Christ. Tonight, as we come before this table, let us remember that Christ is our righteousness. Thirdly, the title branch reveals Jesus as the servant of the Lord. By the way, that last point, of course, corresponds to the Gospel of Matthew. Which presents Jesus as the king. The title branch thirdly reveals Jesus as the servant of the Lord. Now I must ask you to turn with me to the book of Zechariah. Zechariah, one of the minor prophets, chapter 3. This passage may seem familiar to you because when we celebrated communion last month, we considered this vision. And Zechariah chapter 3. We're going to continue on with some of the interpretation of that vision. Zechariah chapter 3, I would like to read, beginning at verse 8. It says, hear now, O Joshua the high priest, thou and thy fellows that sit before thee. For they are men wondered at, for behold, I will bring forth my servant the branch. Right after this vision, which we applied as a picture of the imputed righteousness of Christ We read of God's message to Joshua, the high priest. Joshua was a real man. There are many Joshuas in the Old Testament. This one was the high priest who came back into the land after the Babylonian captivity and was a leader. But a man who felt not quite adequate for the job that God had called him to do. The Lord addresses them here. And we see here a reference to the men who are with him, which is a reference to the other fellow priests that were ministering with him. We have this curious phrase men wondered at, which could be translated, men who are a sign. What does this mean? It means that Joshua and his priestly friends were intended by God to be a sign. that just as they survived the Babylonian captivity and returned to the land, so God's promise of a coming Messiah would be fulfilled. Just as God made many promises that his people would not remain in exile in Babylon, but that he By his power would bring them back into the land, even though it seems so unlikely to them. So God has promised that he would someday bring a Messiah, the ultimate servant of the Lord. And that's what we read in, and that's the great contribution of this verse, because he's described as my servant, the branch. Now in what way would the branch serve the Lord? Well look with me at verse 9. For behold, the stone that I have laid before Joshua upon one stone shall be seven eyes, or we might say facets Behold, I will engrave the graving thereof, saith the Lord of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity of that land in one day. The mysterious stone here is probably a reference to a stone with seven facets that was worn by the priest on his turban. It had the names of the tribes of Israel engraved upon it and symbolized his bearing the iniquity of the people. And of course, what really stands out to us about this verse is the last phrase that this priest will remove the iniquity of the land in one day. And I can imagine that Joshua and his men, when they heard this message from the prophet, must have wondered how could that be accomplished? How could the iniquity once and for all be removed? This would be accomplished by the ultimate servant of the Lord, the ultimate high priest. Jesus would die on an old rugged cross. This was the great purpose of the sermon of the Lord. If you know your Bible well, you know that this corresponds to the Gospel of Mark. Which presents Jesus as the servant of the Lord. And the key verse there is Mark 10, 45, where Jesus said, For even the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto. but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. Fourthly, the branch reveals Jesus as fully man. Turn with me ahead three chapters to Zechariah chapter six. Zechariah chapter six This designation corresponds, of course, to the Gospel of Luke. I want us now to consider the last reference to the branch, Zechariah 6. 12. It says this, and speak unto him, saying, Thus speaketh the Lord of hosts, saying, Behold, the man whose name is the branch, and he shall grow up out of his place. And he shall build the temple of the Lord. You will notice in the center of this verse we have this expression, Behold the man. This should sound familiar to you. It's what Pilate says of Christ as recorded in John chapter 19 and verse 5. As he was trying to him, and as he brought him out before the crowd, he said, Behold the man. And he said more than he knew. This was an expression that pointed to the fact, and perhaps he was saying it in a mocking way. But that this is the ultimate representative of humanity. This is the ultimate man. I find it fascinating to note that there are a series of messianic behold statements in the Old Testament. There are four of them. And once again, they correspond to the four gospels. In Isaiah chapter 42 and verse 1, one of the servant songs, it says, Behold my servants. In Zechariah chapter 9 and verse 9, we have Behold your King, corresponding to the Gospel of Matthew. In Isaiah chapter 40 and verse 9, we have behold your God, corresponding to John. And then here in Zechariah 6. 12, we have behold the man. corresponding to the gospel of Luke. As with the four designations of the branch, so these behold passages confirm the extraordinary unity and design of the Scriptures. Now the office of high priest in Israel's history was far from perfect. Aaron the first high priest Revealed a lack of character, to say the least, at the golden calf incident. And Eli, that venerable high priest, did not restrain his sons. And in that context, we find this promise in 1 Samuel 2 and verse 35. It says, I will raise me up a faithful priest. that shall do according to that which is in my heart and my mind. This priest that was prophesied by Samuel would be the Lord's ultimate high priest. And this, of course, is a reference to the Lord Jesus Christ. In verse 13 here, in Zechariah chapter 6, It says, even he shall build the temple of the Lord, and he shall bear the glory, and he shall sit and rule upon his throne, and he shall be a priest upon his throne. And the council of peace shall be between them both. We see here that a resting phrase, He shall be a priest upon his throne. Jesus would be both a priest. and a king like Melchizedek. This is the point, of course, that the author of Hebrews brings out in his book. And this final phrase in verse 13 is very interesting. It says, in the council of peace shall be between them. What does that mean? It means that there would be perfect harmony between his high priesthood and his position as king of kings. Often in Israel's history there was tension between the office of high priest and king, just as in our own day there was often tension between the different branches of government. But the prophet reveals that in Israel's future there would be perfect harmony between the priestly and kingly office because they would be held by the same man, the Messiah. This is God's revelation of his son in this title, the branch. What a wonderful Savior we have. He is our King, our King of Kings. He is our righteousness. He is our great high priest. He is the servant of the Lord. He is the God man who dies for sinners like us. He is our branch and our only hope. And tonight, as we come before this table, we remember him and what he has done for us. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it can never be exhausted. That the deeper we look, the more treasures we find. And we thank you, Father, that we find once more that all of the scriptures Point to your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, and remind us that indeed He is a beautiful Savior. I pray that tonight as we gather around this table, that what we do would exalt him and would be pleasing to him and would draw us closer to him. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.