If you have your Bibles, please would you open with me to 1 Peter chapter 2? 1 Peter chapter 2. debated about whether or not to continue in First Peter or to do something special for Memorial Day. But we've been away from this for a little while, so I've decided to return to our continuing study of this book. Several years ago, actually it's been quite a few years ago now, my family and I took a little day trip to Harper 's Ferry, West Virginia. I'm sure that probably most of us have been there at one time or another, and perhaps you recall that this is the place where the abolitionist John Brown and his followers took control of the Federal Arm Armory. John Brown had hoped to incite the slaves in the South to come and join him in a holy crusade against slavery. His plan did not work. He was quickly captured and eventually executed for his crimes. And at Harper's Ferry, they have a whole museum chronicling the event and touching, of course, on the issue of slavery. There is an exhibit there. I'm not sure if it's still there or not, but I remember it very vividly. There was an exhibit with an old Bible from the 1800s and it was under glass and there was this typed message next to it. It says both abolitionist And slave owners use the Bible to defend their position. And then it said, the Bible contains contradictory information about slavery. Now, I wonder what you think about that statement. Does the Bible contradict itself on this issue? I would strongly suspect that the vast majority of you would say, no, it does not, because the Bible does not contradict itself. It is the Word of God. So what exactly does the Bible teach about slavery? Does it condemn slavery or does it condone slavery? The fact is the Bible never directly and that's the key word, directly addresses the institution of slavery. There are about six passages in your New Testament. One of them we are looking at today in our study of 1 Peter that addresses this issue. The fact is that there are many who use This issue to discredit the Bible. In fact, atheists, if you get into a long, drawn-out argument with atheists, they will bring this up. And they might say that the Bible supports slavery, or they might say simply that the Bible does not condemn slavery And they like to embarrass Christians with verses like the ones we come to this morning. Look with me at 1 Peter 2 and verse 18. Servants, be subject to your masters with all fear, not only to the good and gentle, but also to the froward. For this is thankworthy, if a man for conscience toward God endure grief suffering wrongfully, for what glory is it when ye be buffeted for your faults, ye shall take it patiently But if when you do well, you suffer for it, you take it patiently, this is acceptable with God. Before we really get to our exposition of this passage, I do want to deal with this issue. of slavery. And let me first of all say that slavery in the first century was different. from the slavery that took place in our nation before the Civil War. It's important for us to understand that when we as Americans think of slavery We have a very vivid image in our mind from our past before the Civil War, especially in the South. But let me make some important distinctions. First of all, slavery in the first century was not a racial matter. There were slaves of every race in the Roman world. Secondly, slaves in the first century were often well educated. There were slaves, believe it or not, who were doctors, professors, and teachers. That was not at all uncommon. First century slaves were sometimes paid for their services and could buy their way out of slavery. And in the first century, people sometimes sold themselves into slavery to pay off their debts. Perhaps they had limited skills. They had a huge debt, and they had no way of paying it. They did not have credit cards back then. They couldn't just say, I'll just pull out another piece of plastic. They had to make dire choices. And sometimes people decided that rather than being arrested and thrown into some dungeon somewhere For not paying your bills, they would sell themselves into slavery. Now having said that there were differences between uh American history of slavery and first century slavery of Bible times, I'm not at all suggesting that it was a wonderful and easy life. Because the slaves were still owned by another human being, and as such, they had absolutely no legal rights. It's as if they weren't a person. It's hard for us to imagine this, and one of the things that distinguishes the Bible from other writings of the time is that the Bible implicitly gives them dignity and addresses them. Most other books of the time that dealt with ethical issues and so forth, did not even address this issue because they weren't even really considered something worthy to address. They weren't really people. But the New Testament does address them as individuals, as individuals who have a purpose and a plan and a soul that will live somewhere forever. But it still leaves this question. Why doesn't the Bible clearly denounce slavery as an institution Why didn't Jesus and the apostles call for change in society? Well, let me give you two reasons. First of all, there's a practical reason. Remember that Christians in the first century were a persecuted minority who had no political ability to bring about change. They did not have a representative government. They could not go out and protest and vote somebody out of office or hold up posters advocating their position. That wasn't done. You would be arrested in prison. That would be the end of it. People were not able to do that. They had a completely different form of governments. So the writers of the New Testament do not call for revolution or rebellion. They call for slaves. to make the best of the difficult situation they find themselves in. But there's another reason the New Testament does not denounce the institution of slavery. And this you could say is a philosophical or theological reason. And that is because the Bible was not written To make the life of individuals better. Did you know that? That may be an astounding fact to you. The Bible's not a man-centered book. It was not written to make everyone's life a little bit better. I know there's a lot of preaching, a lot of teaching today, even in evangelical circles, that give that impression. But this Bible was written So that we could know how to derive certain principles from it and then live a very happy, full, and satisfying life That's not why the Bible was written. It was written to glorify God. It tells us primarily about God and not ourselves. But do not misunderstand me. The way to live a truly full and satisfying life is to embrace the Master's plan for us and to have a personal relationship with him. So the Bible was not written to make the world a better place for as many people as possible. Christianity changed the society not by violent revolutions. but by saving individuals who in time will change society. And as the gospel began to permeate cultures and society, culture and society began to change. The fact is that Christian teaching directly attacks the root of slavery. I should say indirectly attacks the root of slavery. The basic concepts of do unto others. as you would have them do unto you, and loving your neighbor as yourself undermine the institution of slavery. This is why where the gospel has permeated a culture, Christians began to question this practice of slavery. This is why those who sought to overflow slavery slavery on both sides of the Atlantic were mainly Christians. Men like William Wilberforce and John Newton understood that the gospel of grace was incompatible with the institution of slavery. Undoubtedly, it should have been extinguished much earlier, but sinful cultural patterns are hard to break. So Peter does not write here addressing the institution of slavery itself, but addressing Christians who find themselves in this setting, in this situation. And this would not have been a small portion of his original audience. We know that the Roman Empire, about a fourth, at least a fourth of the people in the Roman Empire were slaves. That amounts to some 60 million people. And many Bible scholars speculate that it could very well be that the very first audience who heard this epistle read out loud to them that most of them were actually slaves. And Peter's message to them may not have been very popular. It may not have thrilled their souls when they heard that they were to be in subject to their masters. So how does this message apply to us in the 21st century? Our experience is so far removed from the readers of the first century. But there is a timeless message in these verses that is very profitable and instructive for us. I want us to see this morning that Christians should submit to authority even in difficult circumstances. And I have two main points I want you to consider with me this morning. The first is this. We should submit to the authority in our lives as the servants of God. Notice what it says in verse 18. Servants, be subject to your masters with all fear, not only to the good and gentle. but also to the forward. First of all, we have the command to submit. Now this is part of what theologians call the household commands. They are dressed to people who were in a typical first century household. Notice and uh continuing in this discussion in chapter 3 and verse 1. Peter's going to address wives, and then in chapter 3 and verse 7, he is going to address husbands. Now the word that it's used that's translated servants here is a term that refers specifically to servants in the household. That's why these are part of the household commands. And some of you know that you have similar instructions given In Ephesians chapter 5 and in Colossians chapters 3 and 4. This is something the Bible addresses consistently with the identical message Now we have trouble imagining this, but in the first century most Roman households had a servant who was considered part of the family. So why does Peter feel compelled to address this issue? It's probably because some Christian slaves were thinking like this Since Jesus is now my master, I should no longer be a slave. God must want me to leave the situation in life so that I can better serve the Lord. So perhaps I need to plan, find some way of escape, some way out of this difficult situation that I am in. So what options were available to a first century Christian slave? Just imagine that you're one of the first people to hear this epistle read and you are a slave. You are a household servant. What would be your options for removing yourself from that situation? Well, some were able to save up enough money to buy their freedom. But that was only a very small minority that had those resources. Some would take a very violent thing and they would actually join a revolt with others and they might murder their master Others would simply run away, but this was very dangerous because if you were captured, you might very well be executed. Another thing that sometimes would happen is when there was no way of escape, they would just try to make their owner as miserable as possible. By sowing discontent among other servants, by having a bad attitude, and just expressing a silent protest. I can't get myself out of these bonds, but I can still make my voice ver my voice heard by making your life difficult. But Peter says no to all of these options. Instead, he calls them then to serve God where they are. They are to remain in the place that God has providentially placed them. Notice what we have in verse 21. Look at that verse phrase. We're not going to look at that verse really today, but notice what it says. For even hereunto were ye called. This is your calling to serve in this capacity. And I want you to turn with me. Keep a finger here, if you would, and turn with me to the book of 1 Corinthians. 1 Corinthians chapter 2. 1 Corinthians chapter 7. This is another one of these passages I alluded to earlier. And notice how Paul says this very bluntly here in 1 Corinthians 7, verse 21. Art thou called being a servant? Care not for it, but if thou mayest be made free, use it rather. For he that is called in the Lord being a servant is the Lord's freeman. Likewise also he that is called being free is Christ's servant. Ye are bought with the price, be not ye the servants of men, brethren. Let every man wherein he is called therein abide with God There's a lot there that's worthy of explanation, but I just want you to grasp that last summarizing exhortation that Christians are to remain in the station where God has placed them. He says basically if you can better your situation, if you can buy your freedom, then so do So do it. But it could very well be that there's nothing you can do, and you should not let this bother you, but serve God where you are. You see, grace can flourish in any climate. The Puritan commentator Robert Lighton put it this way: there is no pill so bitter. But respect and love to God will sweeten it. Now we are very quick to avoid any hardship, are we not? This has become increasingly, this is part of our human nature, but it's also become a part of our society, our culture, our way of thinking. And it's not wrong to want to better our situation or to remove some painful stigma from our life if possible. But we live in a culture that tells us if something isn't working well for you, then just quit it and try something else And so people are in an endless quest for a better job or a better spouse or a better house, a better health, a better way of life. So often we want to improve our situation, but God wants to improve us. Now consider the motive for submission here. It says in 1 Peter chapter 2, it says with all fear. Now I always thought over the years as I read this that it was naturally saying that we were to give fear or reverence or obedience. The slave was to his master. But upon further inspection of this text, I believe it's referring to our fear for God, because notice it says, with all fear. With all reverence. There's only one person that we can give unqualified obedience to. And that is God. So what Peter is saying here is that we are to obey and submit to the authorities in our life, not because they are worthy of it or because they're excellent bosses or wonderful employers But because we reverence and obey God, and this is his calling and his plan for our lives. And this is the way Peter uses this term fear all throughout his epistle. Most recently we looked at chapter 1 and verse 17 where he says that we are to fear God. We see it again in chapter 2 and verse 17 and in chapter 3 verses 14 and 15 So the reason that Peter says that a Christian should submit to another in authority is simply because of our relationship with God. This is a very difficult task of our submission to the Lord. Sometimes people and leadership make it very hard to obey. Because of the way they deal with us, because of their personality. Many of you here have an employer, you have a boss, someone that you answer to. It would be interesting if I were to go around here and ask you about your boss and what your thoughts are about your boss and whether it's a good boss or a bad boss, whether they're attentive to your needs or they're uh callous to your needs, whether they care for you, whether they manage people properly, I'm sure we would get some interesting responses. And so we see here that the Christian is to respond with submission despite how their authority might deal with them. This does not mean that that somehow the authorities are off the hook. They have to answer to God someday as well But our role, our calling, is to yield to the authority in our lives Often this passage is addressed by modern expositors to Christians who work for various employers, and there is a parallel there, but there are also many, many differences. I just want to share this passage from Colossians chapter 3 and verse 22. It says, servants obey and all things your masters according to the flesh, not with eye service as men pleasers, but as in singleness of heart, fearing God. And whatsoever you do, do it heartily as to Lord and not unto men, knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward of the inheritance, for ye serve the Lord Christ We are to be motivated not to please our boss so much as to please our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. This is why I say that Christians should be the best employees in the world. We should be faithful, hardworking, conscientious. We should not be filled with complaints. There should not be all this backbiting. We should not assassinate the character of our boss when he's not around because God has called us to be difference. We are to be model employees, not because our boss is wonderful, but because our God is worthy of our service. Now we see here that there are two types of slave owners that are mentioned here. The first one is uh look with me It says in verse 18, not only to the good and gentle. Good and gentle. The idea of this term is that they are reasonable, caring, honest. Submission is never easy, but it's a whole lot easier when the person you're submitting to It's someone you respect, someone who you know genuinely cares for you, and they're reasonable and fair with their demands. That's the kind of person that everyone wants to work for. That's the kind of authority that we want in our lives. But notice the emphasis of this verse, verse 18, is that we're not only supposed to submit to them, but also to the frowards. Now we don't use the word froward very much today, do we? So last time you called someone froward. Probably never. The Greek word that's translated froward here is the origin of our English word scoliosis You know what scoliosis is? It's the deformity of the spine. Makes it crooked. So this has the idea of an authority figure in your life who is crooked. They don't treat you fairly. They don't give you what you deserve. They're not looking out for you. They could care less about you. This is something that's very, very difficult for us to even consider. The idea here is a person who is bent, warped, or twisted. God expects, just catch the brunt of this, God expects a person to remain submitted in their heart, in their attitude, and their actions, even to someone who doesn't deal rightly with them Now that seems so out of touch with our experience and our values and our culture. And this is hard for us to fully understand. Because for us today, if you had a boss who made your life unbearable, what would you do? Well, you'd quit. You'd go get a different job. Or if it was a situation that you thought you could remedy, you have a lot of options available to you, don't you? You could go to the HR department and talk about how your boss deals with you. You could go to his boss and complain and register your displeasure with that You could perhaps bring your case to the labor union and say that you're not being treated fairly You could gather up other people who have been similarly mistreated and you could go and you could protest and you could pick it and you could refuse to work unless your conditions and your demands were met. Or you could go on social media and you could just completely assassinate the character and everyone within a few days would be calling for his resignation. We have all of these ways to deal today with someone who doesn't treat us fairly. But imagine that you were in a circumstance where there was no recourse available to you. There were none of these options. The word that's translated master here is the origin of our English word despot. That's a word we don't use very much today either, but it's a wonderful English word. Let me just say that if someone calls you a despot, it's not a compliment. It means that you have a tyrannical rule over others. Now, most commentators think that what is being addressed here is not so much that this boss is just naturally a crooked, horrible person. but that he has become this way in response to his servant who has become a follower of Christ. So just imagine this situation. You work in this household, you've worked there for years, you have a fairly decent relationship with your boss, and you know the other people in the household. And then you hear the gospel from someone else. You begin to worship with other believers. You become a follower of Jesus Christ. And your master hears about it, and he begins to make your life miserable. Maybe he mocks you. Maybe he cuts back on the food rations that he gives you. Maybe he makes the living quarters that you have very uncomfortable and he verbally berates you for your faith and calls you foolish for being a Christian. This was not an unusual circumstance for very early followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. Perhaps their godliness, their growth and grace, their inner joy just infuriated him because he knew deep in his heart this master that his slave was a better man than him. He was honest and hardworking and dependable. And he did things with a sweet spirit. And the more he saw that from day to day, the more infuriated he became. So how could God require this of such a person? This leads us To the following two verses and my second point. We should submit to the suffering in our lives as the servants of God. Look with me to verses 19 and 20, for this is thankworthy. If a man for conscience towards God endure grief, suffering wrongfully, for what glory is it When ye be buffeted for your faults, if ye take it patiently, but if ye when ye do well suffer for it, and ye take it patiently, this is acceptable with God. Notice that the first word in verse 19 is the word for. Peter is going to explain the question that comes naturally to our minds. Why would the Lord require a slave to submit to even a crooked master? That seems to us so harsh and unfair. And the reason that he calls on Christian slaves to yield to their wicked masters is that this is the path to grace. Follow with me on this. Peter uses a term for grace twice in this verse. In verse 19, the word that is transw translated thankworthy. is the word for grace. And then at the end of verse 20, that word acceptable, that is acceptable with God, that word is also grace. Remember that the book of 1 Peter is all about God's grace and our suffering. And this passage is not saying that God is somehow just naturally pleased when we suffer. That would be to misread this. But it's talking specifically about suffering that we endure Because we are followers of Christ, because we are accepting the persecution and the stigma that comes from walking in his footsteps. Notice it mentions in verse 19 for conscience toward God So this early servant remains submissive to his master, not because he loves his master, but because or his owner has earned his respect, but simply because of his commitment to Christ. This does not mean that it's easy. The words used here to describe the situation describe a person who is sorrowful. who is discouraged, who is frustrated with life's circumstances. He is not being treated fairly. Perhaps he's a little discouraged because he believed that by following Christ his life would have so much more meaning and significance than it does, but it's also brought with it more suffering. And this is not something he really bargained for. But God desires that our testimony when we suffer to Christ be a powerful witness. I want you to turn back with me, please, to Matthew chapter 5. This is part of the Sermon on the Mount And I want you to see this connection. Jesus concludes the Beatitudes with these statements. Matthew chapter 5 and verse 10, blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Now notice what follows: ye are the salt of the earth. But if the salt hath lost his sabre, wherewith shall it be salted? It is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out and be trodden underfoot of men. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid, neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. Notice the connection between those who are persecuted for Christ and are called to be salt and lights. When we receive that persecution for following Christ, and we don't buckle under it, we don't become bitter under it, we don't find some way to escape from it that's displeasing to God, but we stay there and we maintain a sweet and submissive spirit. That is a powerful testimony to the transforming effect of the gospel. That is what our Lord taught, and that is what Peter is echoing. Notice, turn with me a page over to Matthew 5, verse 43. You might say that this master is treating his servant like he's his enemy. So what should our response be? Verse 43 of chapter 5, ye have heard it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thy enemy. But I say unto you, love your enemy. Bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you, that ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven For he maketh his son to rise on the evil and the good, and sendeth rain on the just and the unjust. For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same? And if you salute your brethren only, what do you more than others? Do not even the publicans sow? Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. And then in the New Testament, in Romans chapter twelve We have this famous admonition at the end of that chapter, recompense verse 17 recompense to no man, evil for evil, provide things honest in the sight of all men. If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men. Dearly beloved, listen to this. Avenge not yourselves. But rather give place unto wrath, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. Therefore, if thy enemy hunger, feed him, if he thirst, give him drink. For in so doing thou shalt keep coals of fire on his head. Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good That is God's high calling for people who are persecuted for their faith. That they would not become vengeful, that they would not become bitter, but that they would leave it with the Lord and to continue to trust in Him. Now look with me at verse 20. I'm looking now back at 1 Peter chapter 2. Peter adds this clarification. For what glory is it when ye be buffeted for your faults, ye shall take it patiently. But if when ye do well and suffer for it and ye take it patiently, this is acceptable with God. You have two conditional clauses. In this verse that begin with the word if, it lays out two possibilities. One is a person who suffers because of their own wrongdoing. Peter says, make certain That your persecution is really because you're Christian and not because of your own wrongdoing. I have known Christians Who have told me that they were fired for their job because of their strong Christian testimony. What I found out later is because they were lazy. Peter says, you get no credit for suffering for some wrong that you have done. The word that's rendered glory in verse 20 is a rare word that's used only here in the New Testament. It refers to someone's reputation for a great deed, some notoriety. Some of the so-called persecution that Christian organizations have experienced in this country falls under this category. I've known Christians. who have failed to pay their income tax and then they have been penalized by the IRS and they go around from church to church telling of the tragic tale of oppression by the governments. Peter says you get no credit for that. God is not impressed with that kind of suffering. That affliction you brought on yourself. But what kind of suffering does bring glory to God? It is suffering for his namesake. It is suffering that is endured by the grace of God. This passage is a real challenge for a preacher to apply to a 21st century American audience. There are no slaves here today, at least not in the sense that is addressed here And I doubt that there's anybody here right now who is really suffering painful persecution for your faith. But there are some parallels and some points of application. So let me take this approach. What circumstances are you facing right now that are a real source of suffering in your life? And you are unable to change it. That is the parallel, because this first century slave had absolutely no ability to change his circumstance. He couldn't quit his job because it wasn't a job. He couldn't run away because he very well might be captured. He couldn't murder his master because that would be murder, and that's against God's law. What option did he have? He's stuck. He has no way out And although we live in the 21st century and slavery is thankfully no longer here, at least not in a prevalent or noticeable way We still have many, many people who find themselves facing circumstances that are filled with suffering and they can't change their circumstance. It might be a marriage to an unbeliever. And it's difficult to be unequally yoked. On the deepest possible level, there is not alignments. And that's a grief. And you come to church and you see other Christian couples that seem so happy and so connected. It grieves your hearts. And boy, have you witnessed, have you tried to show your spouse the gospel. But they don't want to hear it. They reject it. They push it aside. What a difficult circumstance to be in. Or it may be that you are married to a believer. But you're in a loveless marriage. I wish I could say that these were rare in Christian churches, but they're not. Marriages where there's very little communication, where there's very little tenderness, where they live under the same roof, but there's no real connection between them. And perhaps one seeks counsel and tries to spur the other on to find improvements and counsel and therapy, whatever is needed, but the other person wants no part of that. They're fine with the status quo. So what do you do in that situation where you're suffering And you can't change it. Or it may be a chronic illness, an illness that is present there in your life every single day. Or it could be a lifelong disability that you've always had that limits you, that robs you of joy. Other people don't realize how much of a struggle that is for your spirit to bear with this. It may be something that's not that noticeable, but it does. It's very noticeable to you Could be your inability to be a father or mother, inability to have children. And in situations like this, you may have consulted many counselors and doctors and looked for solutions for years and for years, and finally you resign yourself to the reality that there is no solution to your dilemma. So what do you do? You seem stuck in a world of misery. Well, you could do what some people do. They throw a tempered tantrum and become bitter at God. Stop going to church. They stop reading their Bible. And they feel that God has somehow let them down. He hasn't fulfilled his word. Because they were convinced that if you follow God, good things are going to follow that. And it hasn't worked out that way. You could become a terror to live with, a scourge to your spouse and to your co-workers and to your family You become sour on life because things have not worked out well. And every day you remind yourself, you meditate on this problem that you have, this irreconcilable difficulty. And you become angry at God. The question is, will you bow in submission to the Lord's will, like these first century slaves are exhorted to do. You may say, oh, it doesn't seem fair, it doesn't seem right. I'm sure it didn't seem fair and right to them at times as well. You might say, well, I think I deserve something better. I think I need to get a new start in life. I need to reinvent myself. I need a a new marriage and a new life and a new career. The Bible says that we are free to improve ourselves where possible, but we must always do so. within the bounds of the gospel and the bounds of God's truth. And sometimes God hemms us in, so there are boundaries on all sides, and there's no way of escape. And so the only thing that we can change is ourselves. The only thing we can change is our attitude. That says, Lord, I'm going to bow to this painful situation. I'm going to live with this daily suffering With joy in my heart, because this is your calling for me. This is where you place me This is the situation that you've put me in. I don't like it. It's difficult. It's painful. But this is your calling on my life. And I am going to flourish where I am. I'm going to let my light shine in this dark place. And I am going to have joy despite the pain. This is the path of blessing. This is that sweet submission that is well pleasing to God. This is the road to receiving the grace of God. The Apostle Paul knew something of this. Our choir today sang about God's grace. In 2 Corinthians chapter 12, the Apostle Paul talks about his thorn in the flesh. We don't know what it was, but we know it was painful. The Apostle Paul endured a lot of suffering. But this suffering really, really brought him to his knees, and he begged God to remove it. But God's answer was, My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. That was God's answer to the Apostle Paul. And often that is God's answer to us. He does not remove our burden. He gives us the grace and the strength to bear up under that burden for his glory. This book of 1 Peter I've been saying is all about God's grace and our suffering, and that's exactly how the book ends. In 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse 10 it says, But the God of all grace who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus after ye have suffered a while, make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. And you might still say, I still don't think that's fair. I still don't I think that's too much for God to ask of anyone. I'm not going to preach next week's sermon, but you'll notice how Peter concludes this argument. Verse 21, for even hereunto were you called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that ye should follow his steps. This path of suffering was not something that even the Son of God was exempt from. Why do you think you should be exempt from it? We need to follow his example, his path of suffering. This is the pathway to grace. May God help us to follow our Master. Let's close in prayer. Father. These are difficult words to receive. Everything in our flesh Cries out for our own personal sovereignty, our own personal right to conduct our affairs our own personal comfort and pleasure. And our society echoes this. But Lord, your word calls us to do something that's counter-cultural. And that is not to live for our glory and our pleasure, but for God's glory and for his pleasure. I pray for those who are here this morning who find themselves in a situation that they cannot change. A situation that often elicits in them a response of grief, frustration, depression, bitterness, anger. Help them to see, Lord, that this is not the way of the master. Help them, Lord, to bow to your will. And to be a light in the darkness where they find themselves. Help us, Father, to take this timeless truth and apply it. to our personal lives. And fathers, for those here today who are yet lost in their sins, who are spiritual slaves, I pray that today they would find freedom in Christ. and that they would be saved through his glorious gospel. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.