Give your Bibles, please. You could be turning to Exodus chapter 12. Exodus chapter 12. You probably heard the name of John Wesley. He's known as the founder of the Methodist. One night he was returning from service that he preached at, and he was. robbed by a man and the man was a little disappointed because Wesley hardly had any money on him. And as the bandit was leaving, Wesley called out, he said, Stop, I have something more to give you. And he said, friend, someday you may regret your way of life and what you have done tonight. And I want you to remember 1 John 1. 7 It says, the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. And the thief hurried away, and Wesley prayed that this verse might bear fruit. Many years later, when Wesley was preaching in a certain location, he met a man after the service, and the man mentioned that he was the man who had robbed Wesley so many years ago. And that that verse had stayed with him. And in time he came to repent of his sins and believe the gospel. And now He was a successful businessman and a committed Christian. The verse that Wesley quoted is a very significant verse. It is, I don't know if you've thought about this before, it's an oxymoron, a seeming contradiction. The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. We don't use blood as a cleansing agent. In fact, it stains. But the blood of Jesus is what cleanses us from all sin. You ever notice that the Bible mentions blood a lot? There are about 460 references to blood in the Bible. And this frequent mention of blood has turned many people off to Christianity. They will call it a bloody religion. And sometimes they mean by that that it's a violent religion, which is a false claim. Yes, there have been Christians who did violent things, but they were disobeying what the Word of God teaches. There are many churches that are a little embarrassed about the blood, and so they would never sing, there is a fountain filled with blood, or are you washed in the blood, or there's power in the blood. But you can't get away from the fact that blood is mentioned from cover to cover in the Bible. We find it In the very opening chapters of the book of Genesis, we read in Genesis 3. 21 of God making a coat of skin for Adam and Eve after the fall. And it's very likely the Lord shed blood to make those coats. In the very next chapter, we read of the first murder of Abel. being killed by his brother Cain, and we read that the blood of Abel was crying out to God from the ground. We read of blood being applied to the doorpost at the Passover in Exodus chapter 12. The book of the Bible that has the most references to blood is the book of Leviticus, which contains the procedures for the various sacrifices. But we also find many references to blood in the New Testament. In fact, there are 43 times in the New Testament that we read of the blood of Christ. And in the epistles, we find a frequent explanation of the effects of Christ's blood and the various aspects of our salvation. And of course, we find the reference to blood often in the book of Hebrews and Revelation. So from Genesis to Revelation, the Bible refers to blood. Blood is at the very heart of the Christian message of redemption. It's at the very core of the gospel. This morning, as we prepare to partake of communion, To drink of the cup which represents the blood of our Savior, I want us to consider the meaning of the blood. And I want us to consider four truths. That we should remember when we consider the blood of Christ. The first thing we should remember is this: the blood of Christ reminds us that Jesus died a violent One of the most famous verses on the blood in the Old Testament is Leviticus 17, 14 that says, the life of every creature is in the blood. What does this verse mean? Well, in sacrifice, the animal's life is poured out in death Some have taken this verse to mean that blood is a symbol for life. But actually, blood is a symbol for death in the Bible, especially violent death. Alan Stibbs, a conservative English theologian, wrote an important book a number of years ago on the blood. He did a very in-depth study, and this is what he says: blood is the visible token. of life violently ended. It is the sign of life either given or taken in death. Now, the numerous references to the blood of Christ in the New Testament are not suggesting that there was something magical. or supernatural about the blood of Christ itself. Sometimes Christians have thought this. I believe that if you looked at the blood of Christ under a microscope, it would look just like human blood. The blood of Christ is used as a very intentional symbol for the totality of our Lord's sacrificial death at the cross. It functions exactly the same linguistically as the phrase the cross of Christ. For instance, when Paul says in Galatians 6:14 that he boast in the cross of Christ. It doesn't mean that there was something special about those wooden planks, that somehow they're sacred, they're magical. No, when he speaks of the cross of Christ, he's symbolically referring to the sacrificial death of Christ that took place at the cross. In the same way, the reference to the blood of Christ is a symbolic and graphic way of referring to the violent death that Jesus died in place of sinners. Now let me just add, I'm not saying that Jesus could have died any old death, because the Bible prescribed the kind of death he would die. if you look at the imagery and the descriptions of the Old Testament. His death had to be a fulfillment, a commensurate fulfillment of those Old Testament sacrifices that involved the shedding of blood. And the Bible speaks of him being high and lifted up that John uses in a double meaning to refer also to his crucifixion. But it's not like his blood somehow, if he shed his blood in his earthly life, that if someone applied that blood to their body somehow they would be magically healed or things like that. Sometimes people have thought that. No, Christians should be careful that we do not endorse superstition. But the blood of Christ, which represents his sacrificial death, has done incredible things that I want to share with you this morning Blood is the disgusting evidence that a life has been taken. This is how the word blood is often used over 200 times in the Old Testament. And it's used in the plural, literally bloods. And in Hebrew, words have plural meanings that mean more than just there's more than one. There's other significance to the term plural, and in connection with the word blood, it is used to refer to blood that's been shed in violence. in murder. For instance, in Genesis 4. 10, God says, Thy brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground. Literally, thy brother's blood. plural cries to me from the ground. In Psalm 51 and verse 14, David, who writes the psalm after he had committed adultery with Bathsheba and murdered her husband Uriah, he says, deliver me from blood guiltiness. Literally, it just says in the Hebrew text, blood 's plural. The guilt he's talking about of his murder and the blood was the symbol of that. The blood of Christ that was shed on the cross was shed in a violent death. Jesus was not killed in a humane way. His scalp was pierced by a crown of thorns, and there are many blood vessels in your scalp, so undoubtedly there was much blood. that was shed because of that. He was flogged with a whip that was intended to cut open the flesh, and there were many men historically we know who died from this flogging because they lost so much blood. And then Jesus at the cross had those spikes driven through his wrist and his ankles. This would have also caused a great loss of blood. But the only actual mention of blood in connection with our Lord's crucifixion is found in John chapter 19 and verse 34, where we read of a Roman soldier. piercing his side and it says, there came out blood and water. And John probably includes this detail as conclusive evidence that Jesus did in fact die, that it's not that he just revived in the tomb because he was unconscious, but that in fact this blood and water separated points to the fact of heart failure and death. Crucifixion was not a painless form of euthanasia. It was a brutal form of torture that involved a great loss of blood. And it was done publicly so that people would see, they would see a large quantity of blood below the cross, and it was to be a graphic deterrent to anyone breaking Roman law. So the first thing we see is that the blood of Christ reminds us of his violent death, and secondly, the blood of Christ reminds us that Jesus was the fulfillment of of the Old Testament sacrifices. We first read of this in connection with the Passover. I ask you to turn to Exodus 12. That's why. And I want you to look with me at verse 5. We have the procedures here for the observance of this. God says, your lamb shall be without blemish, a male a year old. You may take it from the sheep or from the goats. and you shall keep it until the 14th day of this month, when the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill their lambs at twilight. And they shall take some of the blood and put it on the two doorposts and on the lentil of the house in which they eat it. And then in verse thirteen, the blood shall be assigned for you on the houses where you are, and when I see the blood, I will pass over you. Verse 23, For the Lord will pass through to strike the Egyptians, and when he sees the blood on the lentil and on the two doorposts, the Lord will pass over the door, and will not allow the destroyer to enter your houses. to strike you. So we see here the application of the blood. Now, turn with me please to the next book of the Bible, the book of Leviticus, the third book of our Bible. The book of Leviticus has more references to blood than any other book in the Bible. I'm going to look at just a very few of these. Look with me at Leviticus chapter 1. And verse 5, it says, Then he shall kill the bull before the Lord, and Aaron's sons, the priest, shall bring the blood and throw the blood against the sides of the altar. that is at the entrance of the tent of meeting. And then again look at verse 11. And he shall kill it on the north side of the altar before the Lord. And Aaron's son, the priest, shall throw its blood against the sides of the the altar. And now turn with me ahead in Leviticus to chapter 16. This is The chapter about the Day of Atonement, the Yom Kippur. Look with me, please, at Leviticus chapter 16 and verse 14. Here's the procedure again, and he shall take some of the blood of the bull and sprinkle it with his finger on the front of the mercy seat. on the east side and in front of the mercy seat, he shall sprinkle some blood with his finger seven times. Then he shall kill the goat of the sin offering that is for the people and bring its blood inside the veil. and do with its blood as he did with the blood of the bull, sprinkling it over the mercy seat and in front of the mercy seat. Thus he shall make atonement for the holy place because of the uncleanness of the people of Israel. And because of their transgressions and all their sins. This is the day of atonement. And later at the tabernacle, and even later at the temple. There was a great deal of blood that was shed. The Jewish historian Josephus tells us that on the day of Passover , There was a great amount of blood that was shed as so many thousands and thousands of animals were slaughtered. So much so that from the Temple Mount they had to bring conduits. Down to the valley of Kidron to drain the blood. And at the end of the Passover season, that little valley creek ran red with blood. Why were all these animal sacrifices necessary? Well, they all were pointing to the ultimate once-for-all sacrifice. of Jesus Christ. Hebrews chapter 9 says, For if the blood of goats and bulls and the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer sanctify for the purification of the flesh, how much more will the blood of Christ who through the eternal Spirit offer Himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God. And in Hebrews 10, 4, it says that those Old Testament sacrifices could never take away sin. But they pointed to the once-for-all sacrifice of Christ. Listen to the words of Isaac Watts, the hymn writer. Not all the blood of beasts on Jewish altars slain Could give the guilty conscience peace or wash away its stain. But Christ, the heavenly Lamb, takes all our sins away, a sacrifice of nobler name and richer blood than they. Thirdly, the blood of Christ reminds us of the cost of our redemption. And now I want you to turn from the beginning of the Bible to the very end of the Bible, almost the very end. Turn with me to the book of 1 Peter. 1 Peter chapter 1, please. 1 Peter chapter 1. In this passage, Peter is writing to suffering Christians and he's calling on them to live holy lives, to be holy even as God as holy. And he provides some motives for them to live holy lives. Look with me at 1 Peter 1 and verse 18. Knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold. But with the precious blood of Christ like that of a lamb without blemish or spots. I want you to notice this passage provides a contrast. He says that you were not redeemed with perishable things like silver and gold. This is a reference to the buying of slaves in the marketplace. And how were they paid for? Well they were paid for with gold and silver coins. But it's interesting he calls them perishable. You may say, well, one of the reasons why gold and silver are valuable is because they don't tarnish, they don't rust, they last for a really long time. Yes, but they only last for your lifetime. You're you're no no one's if I can put it this way, no one's in hell counting their money. All right But there's something that has eternal consequences, and that is the precious blood of Christ. He talks here about its preciousness One of the things that makes something precious is its purchasing power Gold is over $4,000 an ounce now, a troy ounce. You can take that. You can sell it at a precious metals dealer. And you can take those $4,000 in cash and you can go out and you can purchase a lot of stuff with it. That's the purchasing power of gold. But what is the purchasing power of the blood of Christ in comparison The blood of Christ has purchased all the redeemed for all the ages. All the way from the beginning of human history, all the way through to the end, the blood of Christ. provides forgiveness and eternal life for eternity. Who can calculate the value of that? Our redemption is free, but it was not cheap. We were purchased with the precious blood of Christ. This is true of every believer. This is one reason why we should treat one another with kindness and love and compassion and grace. Because our brothers and sisters have been purchased with the precious blood of Christ. And the price of our redemption should motivate us to live a holy life. This is the way Peter is using this imagery. It should cause us to want to live in lights of the sacrifice for our sin. Paul uses the same kind of motivation in 1 Corinthians 6 and verses 19 and 20 he says, Do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit within you? whom you have from God, you are not your own, for you have been bought with a price. So glorify God in your body. What is the price? Well, it's the precious blood of Christ, his death in our place. And Paul in that passage in 1 Corinthians chapter 6 is writing the church at Corinth that lived in a very pagan environment where people had accepted as norm Lifestyles of immorality, homosexuality, prostitution, incest, all of it was commonplace in the city of Corinth. And these believers who heard the gospel and believed and repented of their sin, they had to be reminded, your lifestyle must be different now. It must be pure. Because you've been bought with a price. You're not your own. The Holy Spirit of God dwells within. You must live lives of purity. The blood of Christ is a reminder of the cost of our redemption. And then finally, I want you to see that the blood of Christ is a powerful reminder of all the blessings of our salvation. Do you realize that this is the foundation or the basis of all the blessings that we enjoy as believers in Christ Jesus? I want to mention seven of them briefly. Number one, the blood of Christ is the basis of our redemption or forgiveness. Do you understand that if Jesus had never gone to the cross, if he had not come to this earth and lived a perfect life and died a substitutionary death, and shed his blood for your sins. There's not one of us that could ever be forgiven. we would stand condemned because we can never measure and live up to God's standard of holiness and perfection. This is what the Bible teaches. It says, In him that is in Christ we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace. Ephesians 1 7 Let me ask you this morning, have your sins been forgiven? Do you know that? And if you're here and you're thinking to yourself, well, you know, I don't even know that I've really committed that many sins. Remember talking to a man one time and I asked him about this and he thought for a while and he says, I think maybe I've committed two sins in my life. And I said, trust me, it's more than that. You see, until you come to see and realize how incredibly wicked and selfish And how far you stray from the law of God until you come to see how inherently evil you are, you will never treasure the blood of Christ that was shed for your forgiveness. Hebrews 9. 22 says, without the shedding of blood there's no remission or no forgiveness. Revelation 1. 5 tells us that Jesus has freed us from our sins by his blood. Revelation 5. 9 says, by your blood you ransom people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation. The blood of Christ is the basis of our redemption or forgiveness. Secondly, the blood of Christ is the basis of our propitiation. There's a word we don't use very much, propitiation, but it's a good Bible word. It means the satisfaction of God's just wrath against our sin. Listen to Romans 3, 24 and 25. It says we are justified by his grace as a gift. through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. God has a holy wrath for sin. Sin is not just some arbitrary violation of a law. It's a personal front against God's very holy nature. The Ten Commandments, the law of God, are reflection of his very character. They're personal, if I can put it this way. So when we say, I want to live life on my own terms, and I'm just going to reject his law and I'm going to do what I want to do, that is rebellion, and it stirs up the wrath of God. A just wrath. But the blood of Christ satisfies God's wrath against our sin. Thirdly, the blood of Christ is the basis of our justification. We read this together this morning. Romans 5. 9. Since therefore we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God The doctrine of justification is at the very heart of the gospel. The doctrine of justification teaches That because of Christ's sacrifice on our behalf, the Holy God can declare us like a judge to be righteous. And not guilty because the righteous one died in our place. And that way, God, the judge of all mankind, can retain his standard of holiness and righteousness. He's not a corrupt judge. And yet still have the demands of the law met because a righteous one sacrificed and died in our place. But this great freedom of being justified and not under condemnation is only for those who trust in Christ. Number four, the blood of Christ is the basis of our reconciliation. You may not realize this, but the Bible teaches that before you were born again, you were an enemy of God. You were a rebel against them. Now, whenever I share this with lost people, they almost inevitably say, that's not true. I've got nothing against God. I'm not angry at him. But when you press the demands of the law on their personal life, they do get angry. Because at heart, we are all like Adam and Eve in the garden. We are rebels who want to do things our own way. And we don't want anyone telling us how to live. And so we read in Colossians chapter 1 that in Christ and through his sacrifice uh Peace has been made by the blood of his cross. He says, and you who were once alienated and hostile in mind, doing evil deeds. He has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him. This is our only hope, you see. The only way we can be reconciled to God and truly love Him from our hearts is because His blood has changed us. Number five, the blood of Christ is the base basis of our sanctification. Hebrews 13, 12 says So Jesus also suffered outside the gate in order to sanctify the people through his own blood. Justification happens the moment we believe and we are declared not guilty but righteous. And that begins our journey of sanctification where we become more and more holy. And throughout our Christian lives, God uses his word God uses the influence of other people. God uses tragedy and difficulty and hardship to mold us and shape us and refine us and burn out the sin that remains in our hearts. so that we become more like Christ. And at the end, we are glorified where we are indeed wholly like Christ. That is the work he is doing. And the blood of Christ is the basis of our growth and grace and holiness. And number six, the blood of Christ is the basis of our fellowship with God. Listen to 1 John chapter 1, but if we walk in the light as he is in the light, We have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all sin. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. It is only through the blood of Christ that we can enjoy fellowship with God, that we can enjoy his presence, his communion. Where we don't have to be afraid that he is going to abandon us or condemn us. And even when we fail and we sin and we rebel against him We don't have to get saved all over again, but we confess our sins, and he is faithful and just to forgive us and redeem us and that fellowship is restored. This is the glory of the Christian life. And then finally, number seven, the blood of Christ is the basis. of our victory over Satan. The Bible tells us that we have a foe described as the accuser of the brethren. He accuses us to God. He says, listen, you need to give up on that guy. He's no good. But God's not going to do that. And he also accuses God to us and says, you know, God's not very good to you with all the problems you have. Let me read to you from Rev Revelation chapter twelve, verses ten and eleven. And I heard a loud voice in heaven saying Now the salvation, the power, and the kingdom of our God, and the authority of his Christ have come, for the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down. who accuses them day and night before our God, and they have conquered him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, for they love not their lives unto death. You see, Satan was defeated at the cross. You may say, well, he still seems to be alive and well. He is. He's still waging a war, but it's a losing battle. Because the victory was secured at the cross when Christ shed his precious blood in our behalf. So my question for you this morning is this. Are you washed in the blood Have you come to recognize that you are a sinful, wicked person who needs to be forgiven? You'll never come to Christ for forgiveness unless you think you need forgiveness. You'll never understand How precious his blood is until you see how dark and how evil and vile your sinfulness is And it's only then that you can truly enjoy all of these blessings and benefits that I've just mentioned. Of knowing that you're not under condemnation, of knowing that you've been redeemed, of knowing that your sins have been forgiven, of knowing that You're no longer under the wrath of God because his wrath has been propitiated by the blood of Christ, of knowing that you have been reconciled, of knowing that you've been sanctified. Of knowing that you enjoy fellowship with him and that you will ultimately triumph over Satan and all of his schemes to destroy you. It is all through the blood of Christ. That is what we are remembering here this morning as we partake of communion. And if you have never repented of your sins and put your faith in Christ in put your faith in Christ who shed his blood for you, I would encourage you. to seek him even today, to trust in him now. Let's close in prayer. Father We thank you for your word. We thank you for giving us a great Savior. We thank you that He has shed His blood for our sins. And that through His sacrifice, Poor, sinful, flawed people like us can be forgiven and enjoy the gift of eternal life. I pray that you would use the gospel today to work in hearts. and encourage your people for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.