If you have your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to Luke chapter 24? Luke chapter 24 this morning. On June the 18, 1815, General Wellington commanded British forces to victory over Napoleon at the famous Battle of Waterloo It was a decisive victory that spelled the end of Napoleon's conquests. Those in England, of course, were very anxious to hear about the news of the battle, and so they had set up a system where signals would be sent from one tower to another by means of a coded message. The message that was originally sent was this. Wellington defeated Napoleon at Waterloo The problem was that fog set in, and the message was only partially received. The message that England got was just the first two words, Wellington defeated. The people of the island kingdom were beside themselves with grief. But when the weather finally cleared They got the whole message. Wellington defeated Napoleon at Waterloo. Getting a clear message is very important. The fact is that many people get the wrong message concerning Easter. Millions of Americans think of Easter as simply a celebration of spring. It conjures up images of beautiful flowers and Easter egg hunts and the Easter bunny and family gatherings and a festive meal. and perhaps the visit to a church service on Sunday. For most people, Easter is nothing more than a spring holiday. But of course, it is the day we celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. But what exactly is the meaning of the resurrection and what relevance does it have for us living in the 21st century? Does it really matter that Jesus rose from the dead? The Bible very emphatically says that it does. And one of the clearest ways of discovering the message of the resurrection is in the words, the message that the angels gave to the women that first resurrection morning. We need to remember that the biblical word for angel in both Hebrew and Greek, in both the Old and New Testaments, means messenger. Angels are messengers of God. We often read of angels speaking for God to man in the Bible. Remember, it was angels who interpreted the message of the birth of Christ. to the shepherds in Bethlehem. And now it is the angels who interpret the meaning and the reality of the resurrection. to the women who came to the tomb that Easter morning. Look with me, please, at Luke 24. I want to begin reading at verse 1. Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared and certain others with them. And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulcher, and they entered in and found not the body of the Lord Jesus. And it came to pass, as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments. These verses provide the setting for this angelic announcement. In order to get a complete picture of what happened, at the tomb that morning, we have to kind of piece together the accounts of the four gospel writers. We know that those who came to the tomb that morning. We have three of their names mentioned in verse 10. Notice what it says. It was Mary Magdalene and Joanna and Mary, the mother of James, and other women. We know that at least one of the other women was named Salome because her name is Gimot given in the Gospel of Mark. It seems that they all left together and that this journey was a journey of several miles But it seems that Mary Magdalene was a little impatient and she ran ahead of the others. Perhaps she even took a shortcut. Because in John's account, we find that Mary Magdalene came to the tomb first before the other women. John informs us that when she arrived it was still dark and discovered that the stone had been rolled away and apparently she went back another way. to tell Peter and the disciples, and on her way, the Lord appeared to her. That's what we find in John chapter 20. Meanwhile, the other women arrive at the tomb just as the sun was beginning to rise, and they find that the stone has been rolled away. Matthew tells us. that the angel of the Lord had rolled the stone from the opening to the tomb. He did this not to let Jesus out, but so the women could go in and bear witness to Christ's resurrection. We clearly see that these women were not expecting the resurrection of Jesus. Immediately they are joined by two angels in dazzling garments. And the women responded in the same way that you and I would have responded if we were visited by angelic beings. They were afraid and they bowed down to the ground. Now Matthew and Mark mention one angel and Luke mentions two. This is no contradiction. We see this kind of thing elsewhere in the gospel record. It seems that one of the angels was the leader, the spokesman, but there were two actually that were there. Now, I want you to notice the importance of this angelic announcement. We find it here, the essence of it in verse 5 and 6. The angel says to them, Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen. The message of Easter, the message of the resurrection is simply that Jesus is alive, that he rose from the dead. But what is the meaning of this? What difference did this make to our lives? I want to bring out several truths from this account in Luke's gospel. First of all, I want you to notice that the resurrection of Christ is a message that brings comfort. Look with me for a moment at verse 3 in our text. It says, and they entered in and found not the body of the Lord Jesus. I want to make mention of that last two words in that verse, Lord Jesus, that they are not unusual or striking to us. But this is the first time that you find those two words together as a title of our Lord Jesus Christ. You find it often after this. But Luke here is signaling the fact that that Jesus has, as it were, attained a new status. Now he was already Lord, of course, before the resurrection And we do see him referred to as Lord. And of course he is often referred to as Jesus. But here they are brought together for the first time to indicate to the reader that something has changed. There's something new that he is now Lord over. And what it is, is that now he has conquered mankind's greatest enemy, death. In 1 Corinthians 15, we read it this way, O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? This is the great comfort. of the resurrection. There are many people in this room that I know have lost Christian loved ones in the last few years. And your sorrow is painful and recurring, and it is magnified at festive seasons of the year like today. But the Christian's comfort is that because Jesus defeated death, we will see our Savior and our loved ones who know the Lord again. This is our great comfort. Death has not conquered us. And therefore we do not need to fear death. What a comforting message this is. Now in Matthew's account, we find another comforting message. I want to invite you to turn with me. if you would, to Matthew chapter 28, the last chapter in Matthew's gospel. Matthew chapter 28, I want to read verses 2 through 5. Matthew brings out a few details that are not found in Luke's account. It says, and behold, there was a great earthquake, for the angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came, and rolled back the stone from the door, and sat upon it. His countenance was like lightning, and his raiment white as snow, and for fear of him the keepers did shake, and became as dead men. And the angel answered and said unto the women, Fear not ye, for I know that ye seek Jesus which was crucified. He is not here, for he is risen as he said. Come, see the place. Where the Lord lay. It's interesting to note that the first thing the angel says to these women is, fear not. This is normally what we read in Scripture when an angel encounters a human being. That's their first opening remarks. Fear not, because people are generally terror are terrified at the sight of this angelic creature. But notice the next thing the angel says, For I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified. Now remember the angel is a messenger from God. He's not giving his own message. These are comforting words from God himself. He knew the distress of their hearts as they ran to the tomb that s that morning. He knew how troubled they were that the stone had been taken away, that the tomb was empty, assuming that someone had taken his body and desecrated his grave. And so he sends to them a messenger that says, I know that ye seek Jesus which was crucified. What a wonderful message of comfort and sympathy we find in the resurrection. It is the most comforting message in the world that there is this wonderful hope of life after death, that death is not the end for those who know the Lord. Now, if you're not already back in Luke 24, I would invite you to turn there. Luke 24 We have these two angels who stand as witnesses to the resurrection of Christ. And notice the words that are recorded here in Luke's gospel. At the end of verse. 5. They say, why seek ye the living among the dead? Or it could be translated, why seek ye the living one among the dead? This is one of the titles. For God. It's something that we find often in the Old Testament. I believe there is a mild rebuke from these angels to their unbelief. He's saying to them, why have you come to the tombs? Because a person goes to the tombs to see the dead. And Jesus is alive. He is the living God, the risen Lord. I suspect that these are the same two angels that 40 days later would rebuke the disciples at the ascension when they said, Why stand ye gazing into heaven? Now we come to the climax of this angelic message this morning. In verse 5 it says, He is not here, for he has risen. This is the most essential truth of the resurrection of Easter. If you could boil it down into one phrase, this would be it. He is not here, for he has risen. This is an astounding thing for us to consider. Christianity is not based in someone who lived long ago and died long ago. Yes, Jesus did live 2,000 years ago, and he did die on the old rugged cross, but he didn't remain there But I think sometimes we read the resurrection accounts and we think, yeah, well, his resurrection happened 2,000 years ago. We think of it as just a historic event, and it was a historic event, don't get me wrong. But it continues to this day. The implication, obviously, of this is that since he is the ever-living one, he is still alive today. Have you ever really thought of that? Jesus Christ is alive today. He has a glorified body. The body that appeared to the disciples is right now in heaven at the right hand of the Father. Just as certain as we are here at 3200 Ridge Roads. Jesus Christ, who conquered death, is in heaven because he is alive. It's not, our relationship is not based on some some writings in an ancient book or some some memory that we have of him. It is a real relationship with a person who is alive today. That's what the message of the resurrection is all about. I'm sure that the statement that the angels gave had a pr tremendous impact on those women. And by the way, if you were to go today to the garden tomb in Jerusalem, which I know some of you have been there, and you go in there, you go in of course Uh they don't know that this is the actual tomb, but it is an ancient tomb, and the tomb of our Lord would have been very similar to this. But you go in there and there's just this empty cave. And on the back of the door, as you turn around to leave, you see these words, he is not here, for he has risen. And it's a very striking thing to read as you're in that empty cave. It's interesting to note that Matthew and Mark record that the angels invited them to look at the very place where Jesus' body had been placed. He offers visuance to buttress their weak faith. Sometimes people will say, and I've heard it many times. that Christianity is an anti-intellectual religion. And they will say something like, like, you believe in religion and I believe in science. You believe in fantasy, I believe in facts. And unfortunately, there are sometimes preachers and movements and churches and groups that do kind of lend credence to that suggestion. But that's not what you find in Scripture. Notice that the angels here provide evidence and appeal to their reason and their ability to put two and two together. God does not call on people to set aside their reason and accept the irrational. He provides abundant evidence that what he says is true. Jesus was no longer in the tomb because he was alive. That is why the angel says he is not here, but is risen. This message is found in Matthew, Mark, and Luke, these exact words. Now it's interesting to note that in some places in the New Testament it says that Jesus raised himself from the grave. That is true. He is sovereign. He said in John chapter 10 that he had power to lay down his life, and he had power to bring it up again. But most often in Scripture we read that God raised him. The Father raised him from the dead. Both expressions are true. The one that's found here is that God raised him from the dead. This was a clear indication that God received his sacrifice and was acknowledging him as his beloved son. This was divine vindication. This is why the resurrection is so essential and important. If Jesus did not rise from the dead, he died on an old rugged cross, but he remained in that tomb. It would be an indication that he was an imposter. Because the Old Testament prophecies and Jesus' own predictions on at least ten occasions said that on the third day he would rise again. So if he didn't rise again, he would have been a liar, an imposter, and not the son of God as he claimed to be. But he did rise again. The Father did raise him up. And therefore we can rejoice. And we can receive this by faith. The fact is the Bible presents much evidence for the resurrection of Christ. The gospel writers We're not ignorant of the fact that people would say, oh, this seems far-fetched. I don't believe in this. And so they provide embedded within their narratives Lines of evidence so that the discerning reader will say, oh, that's interesting. That does kind of support what they're saying In fact, here in this opening paragraph of Luke 24, we have seven evidences for the resurrection of Christ. I'm just going to name them all very quickly. Notice in verse 1, it talks about the first day of the week. What day is that? That's today. That's Sunday. Now, why does Luke put it that way? Because in not too distant future from this time, Christians would be worshiping on the first day of the week. These were Jewish believers who had been all their lives steeped in the importance of the Sabbath as the day of worship. So what could convince a whole group of devout Jewish people to switch to a new day of worship? The answer was the resurrection of Jesus Christ. We have the witness of the moved stone in verse 2. We have the witness of the empty tomb in verses 3 and 4. We have the witness of the angels in verses 4 through 6. We have the witness of the Lord's words because he predicted this all these times. Sixthly, we have the witness of the skeptical disciples in verses 9 through 11. What is clear is that all the Lord's followers did not expect him to rise from the dead. These women didn't expect it. And when they came back and told the disciples they didn't believe them, notice what it says in verse 11, and their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed them not. And then in verse 12, you have the witness of the grave close. So you see The Lord is providing all of this evidence for the reader to consider that points to the unmistakable conclusion that Jesus rose from the dead. But at the end. It must be accepted by faith. This is one of those truths that separate a Christian from a non-Christian. Perhaps you've come here this morning at the invitation of a friend or family member. And maybe as as you've heard people singing about the resurrection, you've heard me uh talking about the resurrection, you've read it together with this congregation maybe, and your mind you're thinking, this is all a bunch of nonsense. We know that people do not come back from the dead. It doesn't happen. And that's what you're thinking. I want you to know that whatever else you might be, you're not a Christian. Because one of the essential beliefs and confessions of a Christian is that he is risen indeed. We find this throughout the scriptures in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, the Apostle Paul talks about this as one of the irreducible truths of the gospel. They rose from the dead on the third day. And in Romans chapter 10, verse 9, we read that a Christian is a person who believes that Jesus is Lord and that God raised him from the dead. You see, a person's rejection of the resurrection of Christ is not some trivial detail. It is evidence that you are still blind and lost in your sins. All true believers confess that Jesus Christ rose from the dead. Thirdly, I want you to note that the resurrection of Christ is a message that we should remember. Look with me at verse 6. We read, the angel says, he is not here but is risen. Remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee, saying, The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again. Now look at verse 8. And they remembered his words. So we find this word remembered in verse 6 and in verse 8. The angel reminds them of what Jesus had said to his followers. And of course, he had predicted. His resurrection. Now, the passage that they're quoting here is in Luke chapter 9 and verse 22. You don't need to turn there. I'll turn there for you. But in Luke chapter 9 and verse 22 it says, the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected of the elders and the chief priests and the scribes and be slain and be raised the third day. We find this a very similar wording found in Luke chapter 18, verses 32 and 33. And as I mentioned earlier, if you were to go through the four gospel counts, And you were to say, I'm going to count up every time that the Lord specifically said to his disciples that he was going to rise from the dead, either directly or indirectly, through some illusion, you would find that at least Ten times he said this. He was on record as doing so. He said it after his transfiguration in Matthew 17 and verse 9. Tell the vision to no man until the Son of Man be risen again from the dead. In John chapter 2, very early in his ministry, he says, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. My point is that Jesus was on record as predicting his conquest of death. The entire ministry of our Lord, in a sense, was depending on his resurrection. His credibility was at stake. He just demonstrated through his resurrection from the dead that he was who he claimed to be, the Son of God. We see here a wonderful truth for us to consider. These women were so perplexed and confused. because they did not interpret the events of that morning through the lens of God's word. If they had only stopped and remembered, wait a minute, didn't Jesus tell us that on the third day he would rise from the dead? Then it would all have fit together. Their hearts would have been comforted. They would have been filled with joy. They would not have to have gone through all this grief and sorrow and confusion. How much perplexity and anxiety and difficulty do we suffer from? Because we fail to let the Word of God interpret the events of our lives. We become so convinced that this is going to be the end for me. And we extrapolate different facts and things that happen in our life. And we're always having a crisis that seems that this is going to be the end of the world. And somehow it doesn't end. And God shows himself faithful and he brings us through and he provides for our needs. And he's so gracious and good to us. It's so important for us to remember the word of God and remember what God has said to us. We must always remember that the gospel changes everything. The resurrection of Jesus Christ defines who we are. According to the New Testament writers, in Romans chapter 6 and verse 4, it says, as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we should walk in newness of life. In Colossians chapter 3 and verse 1, we have this wonderful verse that I think is so significant for us to consider. It says, if you then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above. We should not be so enamored with the things of this world because we have our home in heaven with our risen Lords. This is a message that we must remember as we walk through this world. This is why we gather here today. This is why we gather here every Sunday. Because every Sunday, every Lord's Day is a remembrance of the resurrection of Christ. This is why we worship on the first day of the week because the gospel changes everything. And fourthly, I want you to consider that the resurrection of Christ is a message that we should share with others. Look with me at verse 9, speaking of these women, it says, and they returned from the sepulchre and told all these things unto the eleven and to all the rest. This is very much like the role that the shepherds played at the birth of our Lord. Do you remember? We have a wonderful warm and fuzzy feeling about the shepherds, you know, at Christmas time. But the fact is that shepherds were kind of despised. They were kind of considered kind of shifty characters. They weren't able to give testimony in a court of law because they had a reputation for lying. But the Lord used the shepherds. and in this providence sent them out as his first evangelist to tell other people, Christ is born. And here the Lord uses a group of women who were first at the tomb. and last at the cross. And they came. And of course you know that in the first century, as it was throughout most of history, women were not thought of very highly. They were not viewed as equal with men in many respects, and yet God chose them to be the first evangelist of the resurrection. Augustine said that they were the first preachers in a sense. An amazing thing to consider And of course, it would soon be that Jerusalem would be abuzz with the good news of the resurrection. The fact is that the gospel is not complete without the resurrection of Jesus Christ. In 1 Corinthians chapter 15, Paul says, Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. He was buried, and he rose again the third day according to the Scriptures. The resurrection is the culmination of the message of redemption. This is the good news that we share. This is the gospel. This is what the church has been testifying to. And preaching and proclaiming for nearly 2,000 years. And this is the message that we have for you today We are not looking for a new message. We are not looking for new truth. We are told to proclaim these fundamental truths of the gospel. And so today on this resurrection morning, this is the message that the angels gave to the women, and this is the message That the church, that believers, and that gospel preachers proclaim to people throughout the world, that Jesus Christ is alive. My question for you this morning is this. Have you received this message by faith? As Jesus Christ your Lord and Savior, do you have a personal relationship with the risen Lord? Now the gospel means good news, but before we can really receive the good news We have to receive the bad news. And the bad news is that we are all sinners. The Bible says, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Every single one of us is a sinner. Everyone you've ever met, you've ever known is a sinner. Your parents are sinners? Your children are sinners. Your brothers and sisters are sinners. Your coworkers, you know that, are sinners We're all sinners. We all have the same problem. It manifests itself in different ways and in different degrees, but it is a plague upon humanity. And this is something that we find very prominent in the scriptures. Sin is a violation of God's law. And we can violate his law in many different ways in our actions, in our words, in our thoughts, in the intents of our hearts. The Bible further teaches the consequence of this fact is death. It says the wages of sin is death. The Bible speaks of physical death, of course. and of spiritual death. But the good news of the gospel is this, the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord Jesus Christ, his death and resurrection are the only thing that can keep us from facing the ultimate death of hell. Jesus is the Savior who died for sinners and the sovereign who rose from the dead. The question is, have you trusted in Christ as your Savior? Are you depending on Him for your salvation? The Bible says in Romans 10, 9, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, that is Jesus to be Lord. And believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Now perhaps you would say, well, I'm trying to live a good life. This is the error that so many people fall into. They think, you know, I probably need to come to church more often. This is what people tell me all the time. I do need to try better. I need to be a better person and everything. And they think that by cleaning up their act and giving a little more effort, they will impress God and they can be saved. This is the way people naturally think, but it's absolutely false. Because if you could earn your own way, pay your own way, as it were. then all that we've been talking about was unnecessary. Jesus didn't need to come to earth. He didn't need to die. He didn't need to rise from the dead because you can do it yourself. But Jesus was sent to earth, and he did live here for some 33 years, and he did die on an old rugged cross, and he did rise on the third day because you can't save yourself. And neither can I. Salvation is based not on the good deeds that you have done, but on what Christ has done for you. God is a holy God and he demands nothing less than perfection. And the only perfect human being who has ever lived is the Lord Jesus Christ. It is only through his sinless life, his substitutionary death, and his glorious resurrection that you can be saved. In Romans chapter 4 and verse 25, Paul writes of Christ that he was delivered for our offenses. He was raised again for our justification. Justification is one of the most precious gospel truths, one of the most precious words in the Bible. It speaks of the court of law. It means that we have been declared not guilty, but righteous in Christ. That is the declaration of the judge of all the earth for all who are found in Christ. And that is the basis of our assurance. Sometimes people will say to me, How can you have any assurance? No one can say that they know they're going to heaven someday. No one can have that kind of assurance. You just do the best you can and hopefully it'll all work out. You see, the fact that people think they can earn their way to heaven also always leads to uncertainty about whether or not they've done enough. But the reason why a born-again believer can have assurance of their salvation is because of the doctrine of justification. that Jesus Christ paid for our sins on the cross. They were imputed to him, and we have been declared righteous in Christ. This is why for believers the resurrection is a joyous celebration. Because we are remembering its reminder to us of our Savior who has conquered death. It's reminder to us of our standing in Christ before a holy God. It's reminder to us. That we have been justified and that we will someday be glorified. The message of the resurrection is a message that brings hope and comfort, is a message that brings peace and joy. But these wonderful promises are only for those who will repent and believe the gospel. And that is what I urge you to do today. Don't walk away from here today saying, you know, that was interesting, but I'm not really into all of that stuff. Carefully consider. These are the most important truths in the world. This is a matter of your eternal destiny. It is something that you need to contemplate much more than your work future or your retirement or even what's going on in your family. This is the most important thing in the world. What will you do with the Savior? Will you believe in Him and receive Him as your Lord? Or will you reject Him and walk away? Our prayer. is that you would trust in him. And we would invite you to do so on this resurrection morning. What a delight it would be. If on this morning that celebrates new life, you came to new life in Jesus Christ. That would make our joy complete. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for our risen Savior. We pray that you would use the truths of the gospel to draw sinners to the Savior this morning. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen