So it's fourth week. We've got tonight and one more to go in our study of Jude. But since we've had a little bit of a break and we have some people joining us for the first time I want to just start from the beginning quickly. We'll go through just a refresher for us. But there's some things obviously I won't be able to go into, probably like, ooh, what's that? And I'm going to have to move past it But I encourage you to look at the videos of the live stream if you're interested in that. So we'll do a little bit of recap and then we'll get into our study. So if you haven't already opened your book uh your Bible to the book of Jude, please do that. So the book of Jude is a short book, only 25 verses. And it's Jude's uh message to the early church. Jude wrote this early, I think in the 60s, um, in terms of after Christ was crucified and rose and ascended. And so it's a letter to the early church dealing with some false teachers, some apostates. So I'm just going to work through these kind of quickly as we get here. You can follow along and we'll end up in uh verse 14 here this this evening. We know Judah is our author, and he's writing this to the believers, the believers who he says are called, beloved, and kept. for Jesus Christ. This is his description of the faithful believers. It talks about who we are then called, understanding election in that, beloved by God the Father and kept by the power of Christ. in the faith. And so we'll be touching on this again in the weeks to come, actually in the next week when we uh revisit this as Jude talks about it directly to the believers. But he addresses this letter to his beloved, again, those loved in Christ, the beloved. And he says, hey, even though it's very eager to write you a letter, About our common salvation, kind of an encouragement letter, he found it necessary to appeal to you to contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the faith. So Jude had full intention, maybe already started thinking about this letter, but he, due to some recent events, some information he acquired, he decided to change that and address this concern. Now he's going to explain why it was necessary in the next verse, but it's important we understand our theme of this book is right here in verse 3, to contend for the faith that was once delivered for the saints. And so I want to just reinforce this as we go forward, because we're going to move quickly through these first couple verses. What Jude's talking about here is contending. fighting, striving to hold the faith amidst what he's going to be talking about. He's encouraging the believers to stay steadfast. in this faith. And he clarifies this with a statement that will make more sense as we go forward. But he says, the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints. He wanted them to fight for the faith that they knew right now. It is a call to orthodoxy, to orthopraxy, the right belief, and the right living in light of the gospel fully delivered to them. This is set up in contrast to what we're going to see shortly is the apostates trying to insert new teachings, new ideas into the gospel they had already heard. And Judas saying, no, stay steadfast to the faith that's been once delivered to the saints. So he found it necessary because certain people had crept in unnoticed. So who are these certain people? Well, there are people who were long ago designated for this condemnation, an ungodly people, who pervert the grace of our God and the sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord. Jesus Christ. It's a pretty you know hard introduction for these certain people. He's going to refer to them as these, these those, these certain people, in contrast to the beloved. as he goes forward. But what's important to understand is they've crept into the church. They've crept in in a way unnoticed. And again, remember we're talking about the very early church, the sixties, probably the eighties, you know, just a couple decades after Christ ascended and the church is trying to figure things out. And there's these teachers posing to be Christians, yet they're living in a way that is not the way that was delivered to the saints. They're ungodly. They're perverting the grace of our God and sensuality and denying the only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ. So he wants to remind them, though they've once fully noticed, now he's saying here in a sense that, hey, it's not not that they forgot, but again, stirring them up to something they fully knew, this gospel that was fully delivered And he gives a couple examples. The note of these examples, whether it's the people saved out of Egypt who were destroyed after they didn't believe, or the angels who didn't keep their proper dwelling, or those who were kept in chains. Or Sodom and Gomorrah, they all were sinful. They all failed in unbelief, whether it was from unbelief, wrong actions And finally, complete anarchy like Sodom and Gomorrah. They were all railing against God and his plan. There's a lot more to that, obviously, but that's in the previous teaching, but I'm going to move kind of quickly. He says, just like those three examples, these people, again, these people also are doing these things. Except they're doing something a bit different. They're relying on dreams, not in a sense the gospel. They're bringing in something new. But because of this, they're defiling the flesh, rejecting authority, which in a sense is rejecting the Lord. and blaspheming God and the glorious ones, the angels. And he gives this neat little intro here to the Archangel Michael, which we're not going to spend a lot of time in here, but the note here basically is this blasphemy and this speaking above the Lord, which they were guilty of. But these people blaspheme. They speak angrily against the Lord, his ways, his purposes. And he says, they blaspheme all that they do not understand, which is the things of God, and so they're in a sense judged by this. But they're doubly judged because they are destroyed by all that they, like unreasoning animals, understand instinctively. As they follow the flesh, as they uh indulge in all of this sin, they're destroyed by it, both by their blasphemy and by their actions. He continues, he gives three more examples. Woe to them, for they walked in the way of Cain, abandoned themselves for the sake of Balaam's error, and perished in Korah's rebellion. Three Old Testament examples again of different ways people have apostasized or worked away from the Lord. He talks about Cain and Cain's big sin for Cain was really his rejection of authority and his blaspheme. Part of what also makes Cain unique, which we're going to see tonight, is Cain rejected the idea of judgment. He rejected the idea that God was going to truly judge the people. They're walking in that way. They've gone to Balaam's error, which was greed for gain. We're going to see that again tonight as well. And Korah's rebellion, this rebellion of heresy and denying what the Lord has set up in his church and his people. And he gives this beautiful poetic example of their sin in their hidden reefs, their love feasts, these shepherds feeding themselves, waterless clouds. There's lots of good stuff here. I encourage you to go through the live stream. I don't go too far into it. But it brings us up to this condemnation that they have here. Where they're cast into gloom of utter darkness. So at this point, Jude is kind of getting to the end of this section in the book where he's just laying out the the judgment and the description of these false teachers, these apostates. And he's going to wrap it up tonight with one more Old Testament example. So our last three lessons we looked at Old Testament examples and how he's comparing them. And tonight we have one more. Old Testament example. But he's been laying out the character of these men, making it very clear that as he's encouraging the believers to contend for the faith What he wants them to do is be able to identify what these apostates are doing in a sense and for them to stand against the influence they 're having. Again, Balaam and his error was to not just to sin himself, but to try to bring those with uh the Israelites into sin as well, which these men are doing. So I want them to hold fast to the faith. Contend for that faith you know you knew it. Don't be persuaded by these new teachings, by these new things, because they're doing a lot of things that they say are of God but are not. So, that's where we are, and we're gonna pick up now at verse fourteen. But Verse 14 presents a bit of a challenge, and this has been a fun book to go into. There's many rabbit holes or rabbit trails we can go down in the book of Jude. And tonight we have to address one before we get into the verse, and that is the use of the book of Enoch. So some of you are probably seeing that, you're reading down, we've dealt with um the assumption of Moses earlier. a story that's not a biblical story. And so I feel like just to uh cover this well, I want to just touch briefly on how we handle The Bible and the scriptures when it talks about or cites a book of the Bible or sorry cites a book that's not the Bible. What are we supposed to do when Jude quotes Enoch, the book of Enoch? It's a good question. How does it take that? How is it to wrestle with that? Well, the idea of canonicity is a huge topic, and I really we can't that's it's probably three or four sermons in one just to get through that idea But I want to address it a little bit. This is his second use of apocryphal literature from this book Um, you know, the mention of fighting over Moses ' bones again was really an example, so it didn't weigh on us too hard. It's using an example of of you know how really uh Archangel Michael was yielding to the Lord's will. So it's more of an illustration. But tonight it's a little more direct. It's a little a little trickier for us to deal with. He's going to put a little bit more weight on this. So it's good that we would talk about apocryphal literature and what this looks like. So for myself, I really didn't deal at all or look into the Apocrypha at all. I don't know if you feel the same way, if you've if you've thought about this or maybe you haven't you realize I'm not going to deal with this I think that's fine. I didn't really look at Apocrypha or extant biblical readings until seminary. Like a good Christian, I just kept my head in the Bible and stayed there. It was a good good place to be. You know, it's hard enough to work through what the Lord has given us as the inspired word of God, let alone going off on these other tangents. We have plenty to do in the Christian life, read in the Bible, versus going outside of it. And I actually would encourage you the same way today. I don't encourage anyone to read it, unless you're in seminary for some reason, they'll make you read it. But there's so much to learn about the Bible and the life we're supposed to live in Christ and sanctification. These books have little, little value for you. So I'm not this isn't like a call to go read the apocrypha or anything. It's the opposite. We're going to talk about it tonight, but you can rest and stay in the biblical wisdom. with your life. So there are many good commentaries and other biblical scholarship. So really we don't really need this in our life, the Apocrypha. But this wasn't necessarily the case in the first century. In the first century, especially in the Jewish culture, these books were floating around They were people knew them kind of like good stories. And again, there were no Barnes and Nobles, so if you heard the story, someone was talking about it, you listened, you heard it. And so this stuff made its way around, uh especially in the first century and before. In the Jewish culture. It became kind of part of the intellectual fabric. Just how we have memes and stories and things like this in our own culture, these were part of that culture and part of that fabric. One thing we have to understand though is that these books, apocryphal books, are not part of the inspired Word of God. They're not part of what we call the canon. And so I think your notes have some of this. So when we talk about the canon, the New Testament canon. We're really talking about these books, these documents that are limited or confined to those that measure up to the standard of inspired authoritative scripture from God. You see, the way we got the canon is is amazing. There's plenty of documentaries and videos about this. It's really interesting to research. But By the time Jesus came around, the Old Testament canon was solidified. In 90 A. D. , the Jews had all of this figured out. They went through their own process, similar to the New Testament process in a way. They understood this canon. And Jesus recognized that canon. So when people ask me, like, well, how do we know about the canon? How should we think about the canon? I just say, well, think about Jesus. Because Jesus recognized the Old Testament, and then really this connection which we'll talk about from Jesus going forward is how we recognize the New Canon. So, in a sense, the New Testament and Old Testament really center on Christ in many ways. See, the church recognized that there were going to be documents. They understood the Old Testament, the scriptures, and so when the New Testament came around, the new covenant came around, they realized there were going to be documents that helped support this. It would bear the truth of God. There would be documents that talk about the new covenant in Christ, which started to emerge as early as the second century. And really, the way that the New Testament canon was identified uses these four basic points. They looked at apostolicity, if it was written by or in direct association with an apostle. If it was orthodox, if it was a writing conformed to the church's kind of rule of faith, if it was consistent in its rule of faith, if it was produced during the apostolic era, because we would need that the apostles to be part of that process. And if it was widely accepted in the churches. So again, this, in a sense, when you see this last one, you're probably tempted to think, well, I've heard like the church created the canon. It's not really true. We have early records as early as the first century that there was a canon forming, meaning that the churches were recognizing certain books, and it'd be like a church over here would recognize a few books and then over here they'd recognize books and they'd get together and say, hey, we recognize the same books They're seeing the Spirit of God working in the churches, identifying what is consistent and the Spirit-driven, and when they're coming together, realizing there's consistency in it And so by the time we get to the third and fourth century, most debates on the canon are settled, and we have the canon, the 27 books of the New Testament by that part. So that's how we kind of get to the canon. So what's left over, or they call these apocryphal books, these books outside the canon, when we say apocryphal, that's really just a Greek word for hide or to be hidden. The Apocrypha are not part of the New Testament. They're actually considered part of the Old Testament. They're written between the New Testament and Old Testament period. So that's typically why they're attached in that side of things. Some Bibles and traditions still include the Apocrypha. Some see them as part of their Bible. Some see them as just additional works confusingly held in the Bible, which I don't understand why they would do that. It's kind of um association there. But there's a few things we probably should know about the Apocrypha as we get into this topic with Enoch. Especially the book of Enoch, because Enoch did not write the book of Enoch. Because Enoch was way, way before the book of Enoch was written. Also, Jesus and the apostles did not quote them in the New Testament. That's another reason why we know they're apocryphal. That's not the case. Jesus quoted the Old Testament in identifying that. So again, if he's not quoting those books, looking back, they're not part of something true. They're not part of that original Hebrew text which I told you about, the Old Testament, that they recognize. There's not part of those. And many of them contain hysteric historical errors, probably hysterical errors too, but definitely historical errors. So again, there's validity issues there. Strangely enough, the Apocrypha weren't even really debated or considered part of the Bible until the Council of Trent in 1545 when the the Roman Catholics kind of in response to the Protestants, when the Protestants kicked them out of their Bible, they're like, no, we want them. And they put them in. And they affirmed the Apocrypha then. So it wasn't really a a big issue until then. But if Agrabah does have some value, and again the value is mostly academic. For example, we can learn about the formation of the Pharisees from one and two Maccabees. And so there's some interesting information to begin, but they're not scripture. They're not part of how we should think about the Bible. They're again they're good stories, some interesting things in there, but they're not scripture. They're written during that time period, potentially. So some interesting ideas about Jewish life, about some thoughts, maybe some errant, strange beliefs, but they're not scripture. So, what are we to make tonight as we get into this use of Enoch? How are we supposed to think about this use of Enoch in the book of Jude? Well, I want to give you three points to consider for this conversation before we get into it. Because if we don't talk about it first, when we get to it, you'll be thinking, what is this Enoch book? Why is he talking about this? We're going to get it on the table now. First, Jude never explicitly endorses the book of Enoch. Okay, there's a difference between a quote from Enoch and the Book of Enoch. The assumption of Moses as well. He never endorses this as canon, as part of the Bible. His use of this book was actually one of the major reasons Jude was kind of slow to be confirmed in the actual New Testament canon. Because other books don't do this. We realize this. This is something kind of unique to Jude. Yet Peter in 2 Peter makes a slight allusion to the illusion or to the book of Enoch as well. Again, it's a very popular piece of literature. They would have thought about it. It's just kind of something that's in the culture. Again, illustrations. As a preacher, as a teacher, you like to use illustrations and ideas to communicate things. It would have been used, but Jude never endorses the Apocrypha book of 1 Enoch. He just quotes them. But to that point, Jude must have had the conviction that what he was quoting of Enoch was fact. The Holy Spirit would not have allowed this book, Jew, to be recognized in the canon if there was a blatant falsehood in the book. This is why so many others are not part of the canon. So we have to recognize this account that he gives as some kind of historical fact. That Enoch that Jude is talking about. Now, this does not make the entire book of Enoch true or part of the canon. Many books outside the canon get things right about Jesus. They say things that are true, but they're not part of the canon. Jude has chosen to give us kind of a slice of this uh idea of Enoch, but it's really just one piece not endorsing the whole book. And just remember, he's quoting Enoch, not quoting the book of Enoch, because the Book of Enoch actually has a different , actually says something slightly different. So his quote of Enoch is not like a one-to-one quote, it's something different, but it's very similar. We also know that Paul cited philosophers and poets of his days, Acts and 1 Corinthians, yet we still consider his work to be part of the canon. We might even consider Fox 's Book of Martyrs as true accounts of God's people, but again, it's not the Bible, it's not Scripture. So in a sense we have to realize the exclusivity of God's word in the canon as being his inerrant word of God. Yet the inclusivity that other works might speak into that world, that time, and that event that happened during Jesus' life. as having some value. But thirdly, which is helpful for this case, is that the entire account that he talks about from the book of Enoch or this quote of Enoch can be confirmed with other canonical references. In a sense, he's not really going off the deep end here theologically. Everything he says in the verse we're going to look at can be confirmed in 2 Peter, can be confirmed in some other Old Testament works. In a sense, what he says is not surprising to us. It's not like he introduces a whole new doctrine in this quote. The initial reference to Enoch might have been disconcerting, but the theology, in a sense, is sound of what he's saying. And actually I did uh uh some research on this and kind of made a whole table actually of all the references it went through. You'll probably hear some as we go through it. But this is, of course, not the case with all apocryphal literature. There's a departure from orthodoxy at some point in these books, which is why they're not in the canon. So as we get to this point, I know this is probably something you weren't expecting to do tonight. You're like, I'm gonna go to church, I'm gonna pray, I'm gonna study, and I'm gonna learn about the Apocrypha. It's not really probably on your list. But just to give you assurance as we think about the canon, the canon, again, the canon is not a list of authorized books. I'm sorry, it's not an authorized list of books, but the canon is a list of authorized books, meaning that they're recognized as being authoritative. It wasn't the church that decided what those books were. They're being recognized throughout the scripture through that time. Like the verse in John 17, 17, where it says, sanctify them in your truth, because your word is truth. It's a great topic to think about, but I want to move move on as we get into this. So now we're going to talk about this prophecy of Enoch. It's quite a buildup for our time for Enoch. I'm not sure which okay, we're good. Okay, so we're gonna talk about G back in the Jew again to this this quote now. In terms of Jude. So this quote that Enoch that Jude is about the quote of Enoch, they think gets close resemblance to 1 Enoch 1. 9. It's a quote concerning this judgment of the ungodly. So as you read this, as I read through it, think about other places you've heard this or some texts that have the similar ideas. But there's two realities that are going to be shared. Kind of the manner of Christ's return and the purpose of his return when he comes. So let's let's dig in She says, it was also about these, again these meaning the those people, right? The apostasy, that Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied. saying, Behold, the Lord comes with ten thousand of his holy ones So again, these are the people that Jude is talking about, these men, the one he's been talking about, through verse over verse of their apostasy, their evil deeds, their lust of the flesh, the ones that have been blaspheming. It's these who's continuing on. This is going to be his kind of last stand on his condemnation of them in this section. But he talks about Enoch. We've had a good bit of intro to Enoch, but what we know about Enoch comes from Genesis 5, 21-24, when it says, Enoch had lived sixty-five years, he fathered Methuselah. Enoch walked with God and he fathered Methuselah three hundred years and had other sons and daughters. Thus all the days of Enoch were three hundred and sixty-five years. Enoch walked with God, and he was not. For God took him. Now the way they calculate the seventh generation, if you look at your genealogies, it seems like he's kind of sixth, but that's just how they calculated the inclusive way of counting. in the Hebrew. But he was like Elijah, was taken up by God to be with him. He did not die. Hebrews Oh, 11-5 confirms this as well. So we have this unique position of Enoch. Enoch was kind of talked about, venerated among the Jews as having some special spiritual And the same because again he walked with God. He was an early early man of God. But he said that he prophesied. Now what's interesting about this is this would be the earliest prophecy in Scripture. Enoch preceded Moses, preceded Abraham. So this would be the earliest prophecy we have in the Bible. It's interesting to think about that. It's probably a good Bible trivia thing. What's the earliest prophecy in the Bible? This is it from Enoch. He said, Behold, the Lord comes with ten thousand of his holy ones, and he's going to continue. But as he prophesied He said that the Lord comes, and this is kind of an interesting kind of verbal tense there, with 10,000 of his holy ones. Well again, we've seen this a couple times in the book where he uses this kind of perfect future idea that he comes because he's definitely going to come. It's an assurance of him coming. And he comes with ten thousands. Now this is how the ESV likes to render this. You may have seen the word myriads before. It's the same idea, but really this idea of an incalculable amount of holy ones. Who are of course the angels, the attending angels of the Lord. So he said, these are going to come and they're going to do a few things. When they come, they are going to execute judgment on all. Executing judgment, this is the sovereign purpose of the Lord in his return. Psalm 96, 13 says, For he comes to judge the earth, and he will judge the world in righteousness. Or Acts 17, 31, He has fixed the day on which He will judge the world in righteousness. Or Revelation 20, the dead were judged by what was written in the books. The Lord's return begins the culmination of his sovereign plan for the final stages of the plan of redemption in which all are judged. The faithful are found in Christ and sent to eternal peace, and the unfaithful sent to the lake of fire. This judgment will of course be on all. The indication is consistent with Scripture that all will be judged. And this truth is, of course, essential to our understanding of the Lord and His will. But as he comes to execute judgment on all, he also comes to convict. Not only will the Lord come to judge, but that judgment will be righteous. It will be righteous because he will rightly expose the wickedness of the ungodly. So they will know of their sin and their right judgment. It will not be a sentence where the guilty says, I'm innocent. No, they will know. They will know their guilt and their shame, and they will carry it with them into eternity. But Jude makes this case here in the end. He's going to use this phrase, ungodly , four times. It's kind of, he likes to repeat this phrase, and if remember we saw this a little bit, if we go back, I swoop back, but remember in verse 4 when he talks about these people, he called them the ungodly ones. Now he's kind of tapping that off here with this flourish of using the same word over and over again. But he's using this word to connect these people to the character of the judgment that awaits them. There's a connection to this how he views these people. Of all the ungodliness, sorry, to convict all the ungodly of their deeds of ungodliness that they've committed in such an ungodly way and of all the harsh things that ungodly sinners have spoken against him. We saw this term used back in verse 4 as he gives this overview. There's almost a sense that this elaboration is his point of verse 4. Again, as he talked about that condemnation that happened so long ago, if you remember that back, I'll just go back quickly because it's You have it in front of you, but I don't have it in front of me. When he says, who were long ago destined for this condemnation, what did we just read? Enoch. Talking about this condemnation, this quote, ungodly people. And so this quote of Enoch is how he's bringing this all together. They're ungodly people doing things in an ungodly way. This is a way of Jews emphasizing their character as he kind of wraps this up. And he said the harsh things, these are not things that are necessarily hard to understand. They're just cruel, evil, rough, ungodly, sinful things against the Lord. They're not tiptoeing around doctrine. They're just being openly, brazingly against the Lord in what they say. And they're against him. The way this works out in the Greek, the ungodly sinner's part, is at the end of the sentence, so it just skin is crescendoes as he uses this kind of poetic flourish here. So as he uses this quote of Enoch, again just kind of driving the question, what is Jude trying to get at with this? Well, I believe what he wants us to take from this is he wants us to be stirred up. Stirred up to a reminder that there is a judgment coming. upon all those who speak and act outside the Word of God. This judgment is not a new concept, but one that's existed from long ago, and the Lord is faithful to execute it. See, this is the faith that was once delivered to the saints. From what we know about these people, they were probably denying this judgment of the Lord. Why he's circling back on this and putting it in front of them. Remember, he talked about Cain. What was Cain's sin? He denied that there'd be a judgment. So he's reminding them not just to beat them on the head with this idea of judgment. Remember, no, this judgment is true. This is coming. This is part of the reality of God and what we're doing. Don't forget this faith that was delivered to you. Even if someone tells you there is no judgment, there is no such thing as sin, everyone gets saved, everyone goes to heaven. These are all things that he's saying no, contend for this faith that there is a judgment They're denying the Lord. They're denying the second coming, the judgment, and these men are pursuing everything they want to do in the flesh because of this. But he wants to encourage the beloved. Beloved, they should not be swayed into these teachings, but hold fast. to what has already been delivered to them. This is the word of God. This is the truth that we must hold fast into. Do not depart for the ungodly ways of these men and be tempted, but fight, contend, for they know what they've been passed down, and they are to hold it. There is one measure that all men will face, and it's the scales of justice of God, which no man will stand in the balance outside of Christ. We are to contend for this. And Jude is reminding us that this is an essential component. Do not believe the idea that there is not a judgment. There is not guilt for sin. But of course, this is how the world loves to respond. Denying the judgment of the Lord, doing whatever pleases them with no regard to the Lord's ways And here again he's drawing them back to this truth, back to this reality. Back to the faith, life, death, and burial and resurrection, and return of Christ, the faith that was once delivered to the Satan. This is his emphasis. And now he goes to this last verse in verse 16 He says, these are grumblers, malcontents, following their own sinful desires, their loud-mouthed boasters, showing favoritism to gain advantage. So this verse, verse 16, isn't necessarily the follow-up to the verse we just looked. If you look at your book of Jude, you might see some things. This may be the kind of can the kind of finale Starting back in verse 8, this is actually Jude's last kind of statement about these apostates. From here on he's going to switch gears and talk to the beloved. He's going to give them some more specific instructions. So in a way this kind of acts like a summary , as a summary statement for what he's going through, but it connects to various pieces of the scripture that he's already gone through. But what does he say about them? He says they're grumblers, malcontents, following their own sinful desires. We know grumblers. The Bible uses also this phrase murmuring to murmur. The sound almost describes the action. It's like an onomonopoeia, right? Murmur, murmur, murmur, murmur. It said, under the breath, smoldering discontentment. We're reminded those Israelites back in verse 5 murmured against and grumbled against God. Now Jude does not identify kind of what they're murmuring against. At this point, we can rightly assume that they're murmuring against God, God and his purposes. Because anything that doesn't fit their fleshly desires, they're going to murmur against But he also calls them malcontents. The idea of a malcontent is someone who finds fault in something. Finds fault. This further characterizes these men as so abundantly sinful that anything that stands in their way of their sin and their desire is going to be chided, scoffed, rebuked. And malcontented against just to be scoffed. These men were fault-finders. They were fault-finding against God's perfect will and law. They're like the example again of the Sodomites of Gomorrah. They're in a constant state of eternal, internal, and external rebellion against the Lord, openly rejecting and finding fault with the Lord. He says they're also following their sinful desires. This is not a new idea. He's been talking about this for a while. with these apostates, but they're walking in a way of saying they're intentionally going after this. They're just heading right after it. They didn't stumble in sin. No, they're going right for it. Straight at it. It also says that they're loud-mouth boasters. I like this translation. It's a really vivid way of thinking about what they're doing. They are really stepping up here, and the idea is that they're in contrast to grumbling in the sense to themselves, they're boasting out loud about their apostasy. They're they're jumping out, they're saying things are loud, arrogant, meant to be heard about the Lord. They're not hiding this. They're not secretly in the back talking about secret doctrine. They are boasting about their sin. It's pure arrogance the way that they're being they're handling this. Now commentators are are split on kind of what they're boasting about. Are they boasting about themselves? That wouldn't be surprising to us if we think about what they've been talking about. It could be a boastful, kind of self-serving, self-gratifying, attention-seeking kind of boasting, claiming greatness for themselves. But in the same way as they blaspheme, this could also be speaking outrageous things of God. It could be just boasting of just outrageous, haughty things about God. Based on the verses that come previous, I kind of think they're speaking these things about God. They're boasting about their own arrogance over this. But Jude's choice really here is to address the character, not the content. He's not so much focus on it about what they are in character. And lastly, he wraps up with saying, showing favoritism to gain advantage. Little is known again about this favoritism. Again, he kind of withholds the content and really talks about the character of these men. And speculation again abounds. But based on the characters, men, it'd be a safe assumption that following the lead of James, the book of James written very s similar time to this. That they were showing favor to the rich for their gain. Again, this idea of this gain for advantage Romans 2. 11 says, for God shows no partiality, or even James says, my brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith of the Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. This favoritism or partiality is this the same idea here. And they demonstrated this for their own gain. This is not the spirit of Christ. This is not the spirit of the believer. Everything they were doing was for their gain, whether it was the gain of their flesh, the gain of their lives, the gain of wealth, the gain of pleasure, notoriety, indulgence, lusting after the flesh in the world. And yes, they were doing all of this while they were in the church. They did not seek Christ to gain eternal life or salvation from sin, but yet more from this life. The very life that Christ told us to forsake for his kingdom. So Jude is finishing up. He's kind of hitting this crescendo with this ungodliness and talking about this last. But he wants us to be abundantly clear that the outcome of this life is both dangerous in this life and in eternity. We can be sure that those who do these things will face judgment. Though they might seemingly have some prosperity or they are filling their own desires now, but in fact They're living it up in sensuality if their outcome is certain in eternity. So the summary conclusion with these judgments and their character clearly distinguished these men, these men, from the true flock of God, from the true faith once delivered to the saints. It's a pretty heavy lift. So as he lays this out And again, I was listening to a pastor talk about when he preached through the book of Jude uh today. And he said, yeah, it got kind of really hard by like the fifth sermon, because he's about where we were today. after hearing over and over again about the the sin of these men and what what they had to deal with and where they were going, the next section in verse 17 turns to the beloved in a little bit of a lift. But we shouldn't take this lightly. There's a real truth here. We've talked about judgment, we've talked about apostasy. This is for us to remember this faith once truly given. So many teachers today. uh false teachers want to destroy these truths. Again, it's not so much that Jews trying to emphasize this judgment on bad people. But this is the exact doctrine that they want to remove, which allows them to take the liberties they do in this life. So, what should we take from this? Well, I think what we take from this is looking at this last description in verse 16. We're reminded in Luke where it says, For the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. That is true of these men, but it should also be a careful warning for us. There is one muscle that can tear apart the entire body of Christ, and it is the tongue. Even more so, we should be diligent to watch over our hearts for even the beginning of unbelief. So quickly we can stray from the promises of God and merge into the realm of acting in unbelief and not really be aware of it. These act as a clear signpost for the apostate, yet they're also a gentle warning for us. We talked about the murmuring. This, the beginning of the fault finders. When we take a wrong judgment of the Lord against his providence, and we start complaining to ourselves. That internal murmuring. Oh, I didn't think it'd be like this. This is this is the murmuring that we're open to. It's open sin against the Lord and his providence. We really are doing a self-talk. We're reinforcing something of how things bad are or how bad people are, but it's an unholy confirmation bias in our minds. Over and over again, we may murmur, murmur about these things, yet do nothing in feeding our sinful thoughts. It's like a feedback loop of fault finding and sin against the Lord. Psalm 106 said, They murmured in their tents and they did not obey the voice of the Lord. We must be on guard for murmuring to ourselves, watching our own thoughts, asking ourselves, what am I really complaining against here. Be careful with our murmuring. He also talks about grumbling. This is kind of the same thing except we're not keeping it to ourselves, we're complaining to others. This open sin is really against the Lord and his providence again, and it can be about people, it can be about events of this life. It can be about people in events in this life. But what we are saying is, Lord, I don't like what you're putting me through. Or, Lord, these people are too hard to deal with. But the Lord is using all things for our good, and these situations and people are exactly the tool he needed in your life to grow you. When we grumble, many times we grumble against the Lord. Exodus 16, your grumbling is not against us, but against the Lord. Or Paul straight out just tells us in Philippians 2, do all things without grumbling or disputing. There's not like a caveat verse before that. He just means all things. Some translations say complaining or arguing. Same thing. In James 5 says, do not grumble against one another, brothers, so you may not be judged. Behold, the judge is standing at the door. Grumbling might make it sound like, yeah, like I don't grumble, but it's the same thing as complaining. We complain. Are you a complainer? It's hard not to be sometimes. The world is full of complainers. You can't go anywhere without hearing someone complain about something. I think many of you probably complained about something today before you came in here. What would it mean for us to live out that Philippians 2. 14 to not complain or argue about anything? It's quite a challenge How do we watch our own hearts from complaining or grumbling? It's a challenge for us to think about. Also, boasting. Boasting that you're better than you or some kind of element of self-pride. Yes, we can boast in the Lord, but anything else takes that glory from the Lord and puts it on us. We should give credit where credit is due. Boasting in the one of the sins and boasting actually is one of those things where it can quickly show where our heart is when we boast about something that is truly of the Lord and keep the credit to ourselves. And lastly, this favoritism or partiality. This is the sin of having a bias or being unjustly favorable to others This is not the character of our Lord. He loves all and cares for all. And this is not some kind of call to some like radical socialism that everyone should be equal. That's not the case. But it's simply understanding that in our heart that we are to love all and to hold everyone in the same understanding in Christ, importantly, also in no way that provides any advantage to us. How easy it is for to have partiality when there is an opportunity for advantage Deuteronomy 10, 17 says, For the Lord our God is the God of gods, the Lord of lords, the great, mighty, and awesome, the awesome God, who is not partial and takes no bribe. Romans 2. 11 says, For God shows no partiality. 1 Timothy 5, in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, and of the elect angels, I charge you to keep those rules without prejudging. Doing nothing from partiality. How differently do we act to one another based on what advantage that person can provide for us? I think there's a is an interesting story I've heard about the scientist Albert Einstein. Now when I said that name, many of you probably have a picture pop into your mind of what this man looked like. But once he arrived at a dinner, obviously a dinner that was in his honor, and he came in kind of modest clothing and he showed up And one of the houseworkers woman mistook him for a servant and asked him to grab a plate and take it to the kitchen. And she just looked at him in that sense. And when he did it, he was fine with it. He went there, came back. When she found out later who he was, she was shocked. It's a funny little story, but again, how quickly we judge and how much we think about who people are when we look at them and judge how we're going to act to them. And the danger, of course, is partiality. Do we look at the poor the same way we look at the rich? That was James' admonition to the believers our bosses versus the man people we look over as managers, how are we to look at these people without partiality, the love of Christ? This is a challenge for us. It's something we should think about and pray about and strengthen ourselves in the faith. The Word of God gives no room for this kind of self-seeking perspective. The Word of God is clear, honest, and unbiased, and we should work in our hearts to be the same way. Those are four good, hearty challenges. I know that I'm challenged by them and think about them. And wonder how the Spirit of Lord can help us all to guard our tongues in these ways. What a good people of God we would be if our tongues could be yoked to these things. But James, Jude, as he pushes this to us, he's reminding us in a sense, let's contend for these things. If we're going to fight in our faith, yes, we can fight for doctrines, but what about the fight of our tongue and our lives? Let us fight in our hearts with the Spirit and the Word to battle over these worldly kind of behaviors and attitudes. Let's not entertain the little thought of murmuring or boasting or entertain the thought that a little complaining will be okay. These are the ways of the apostate, those of the world. We're called to be the church, to be holy, set apart, powered by the Spirit. And to make that aroma of Christ known in the world. May God give us the grace to do this. Let me close this in prayer. Father, your word is rich and full and mighty and powerful, Father. We ask for your grace to help us To walk in these truths, Lord, as you used this book to show us the way of the apostate. Father, let us check our own hearts to be guided. to know what it is to walk in Christ, to hold fast to the faith that was once delivered to us through your scriptures, through your word, that we would walk faithfully. May we be found faithful in the day, Lord, that we would abide in your spirit and do these things as Christ empowers us. And we ask all of this in your Son's name. Amen.