Acts chapter 16. Instructions can be very helpful when you're unsure about how to do something. I was recently trying to figure out how to get a couch into my house that was larger than the opening of my front door So I did what every young person would do. I looked on my phone and found a video made by movers that showed you different tricks of the trade and how to maneuver it and get it into your house and it worked perfectly. Some of you have remodeled your homes or fixed your cars because you were able to look at someone showing you how it is done. A model or example is very helpful. This evening I want us to consider the record of a woman's conversion That is a model or example for us, and it's very instructive. This woman's name is Lydia. Her conversion is recorded in Acts chapter 16. Acts chapter 16 records two remarkable conversions. One is very dramatic and involves the Philippian jailer. He was the man who was about to take his own life. Because he assumed that all of his prisoners had escaped This desperate man fell down before Paul and Silas and uttered those famous words, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved. This is indeed a very dramatic story of salvation where a man came to a crisis point in his life. and turned to Christ. But the other account in Acts chapter 16 is very different. This is not A rugged Roman soldier, but a refined businesswoman. And her conversion was not dramatic at all. In fact, the Bible doesn't even explicitly record her. faith or repentance. And perhaps because her conversion is more ordinary, it is even more instructive and helpful for us. Tonight we're going to witness several individuals follow the Lord in believers ' baptism. Their baptism is symbolic of their conversion. Baptism is a testimony of faith, a profession of faith to both the world and the church. It's letting everyone know that you are a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. But baptism means nothing if there has been no true conversion. So what does it mean to be converted? Or to be saved. Tonight I want to briefly show you from the conversion testimony of Lydia. Her conversion provides an instructive example of what genuine salvation looks like. I would like to make seven brief observations concerning genuine salvation. Number one Genuine salvation often comes because Christian people share the gospel by the leading of the Holy Spirit. Now look with me at the paragraph that precedes her conversion. This is Acts chapter 16 and verse 6. And they went through the region of Phrygia and Galatia, having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia. And when they had come up to Mysia, they attempted to go into Bithynia, but the spirit of Jesus did not allow them. So passing by Mysia, they went down to Troas, and a vision appeared to Paul in the night. A man of Macedonia was standing there, urging him and saying, Come over to Macedonia and help us. And when Paul had seen the vision, immediately says, we sought to go into Macedonia, concluding that God had called us to preach the gospel It seems here that Paul wants to go to Asia. That was his intent. It's likely that he wanted to evangelize the city of Ephesus. But the Holy Spirit restrains him from doing this at this time. Now we know that in Acts chapter 19, Paul will go to Ephesus. But for now the Lord says no. Next, Paul thinks of going to the north, to Bithynia. But once more the Lord will not allow it. And finally, Paul receives a vision in the night in which a man of Macedonia says, Come over and help us. And so Paul and his team travel to the region of Macedonia and enter the city of Philippi. This marks an historic occasion. Because for the first time, the gospel has come to Europe. It was in Europe that the gospel would take hold. and change the whole course of Western civilization. Here in Philippi A church would be started in a most remarkable way. And the very first European convert that we have any record of was this woman, Lydia. What I want you to see is that this one was converted because Paul was obedient to the leading of the Lord in his life. I don't think that the Lord commonly leads people today by dreams and visions because we have the Word of God. This is where we should look to for direction and advice. However, the Lord still providentially leads us to share the gospel with others and prompts us and directs us I've experienced that in my own life, and I've talked to numerous people over the years that have given similar testimony to me. And often what you find is that the Lord has been preparing, he's been at work in that person's heart. And they have been looking for someone to share the good news of the gospel with them. And that certainly seems to be the case with this woman, Lydia. She was seeking the Lord. She was searching for answers. And the Lord sends Paul and his missionary team to give her the gospel. The second point I want to bring out is that genuine salvation comes only to those who hear and understand the gospel. Look with me please at verse 11. So setting sail from Troas, we made a direct voyage to Samaathrace, and the following day to Neapolis, and from there to Philippi. which is a leading city in the district of Macedonia and a Roman colony. We remained in this city some days And on the Sabbath day we went outside the gate to the riverside, where we supposed there was a place of prayer, and we sat down and spoke to the woman, the wit women who had come together. If you read this account carefully, you'll notice that the pronoun we is used, which is an indication that the author of the book of Acts, Luke. was there for this experience. This is written from the perspective of an eyewitness. So Paul and his team enter Philippi They find lodgings, they make contacts. The city of Philippi, they discover, was filled with idolatry. Usually Paul went to centers where there was a large Jewish population because there he could reason with them from the Old Testament scriptures that Jesus was indeed the promised Messiah. But it seems that this city of Philippi had a very, very small Jewish population because there was no synagogue. Instead, there was a group of women who met on the Sabbath day down by the river. Paul probably asked around. And said, is there a Jewish community here? Is there a place where Jewish people gather for worship on the Sabbath day? And he has told about these women who gather outside the city gates, about a mile away. down by the river, they meet there for prayer, and so that is where Paul goes. There's some evidence that the reason why there was a small Jewish population is because there was a lot of antisemitism in this city. So you had a lot of idolatry And you had anti-Semitism. This did not seem to be a great location for planting a church. But this is what Paul does. Paul comes to this meeting. Undoubtedly there was some discussion, and they learn that this man is a rabbi. And not just any rabbi. He's an extraordinary rabbi who was brought up at the feet of Gamalia. And so they instantly ask him if he would speak. And perhaps for the first time this gathering of women hear the gospel. Perhaps for the very first time, this region of the world hears the gospel proclaimed. Now, Paul comes here to preach the gospel. Why is Paul hazarding his life and the life of his team to go to inhospitable places with the gospel? The answer is because faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. This is why the church can never cease to send missionaries to difficult places. We must never ever allow the age-old question of what about those who have never heard the gospel? to have the answer that by default they go to heaven. If that were true The greatest missionary strategy we could develop would be don't tell anyone about the gospel because they'll be good as long as they don't know. But that's not what the scripture teaches. They will not believe unless they hear the gospel. And unless they hear the gospel, they will perish eternally. This is why the true Church of Jesus Christ is always missional. It's always sending people out to the far corners of the earth. Number three. Genuine salvation comes through the gracious work of God in an individual. Look with me now, please, at verse 14, where we're introduced to this individual. It says, one who heard us was a woman named Lydia from the city of Thyatira, a seller of purple goods. who was a worshiper of God, the Lord opened her heart to pay attention to what was said by Paul This is the key verse in this conversion story. This woman, Lydia, was a businesswoman. This old purple cloth that was a popular item with the wealthy. This was a luxury item She was from the city of Thyatira, which was famous for its purple dye that came from shellfish in the area. She's described here as a worshiper of God, which might make you wonder why she needs to be evangelized at all. Well, this expression is a technical term that literally means God fearer. And it refers to a Gentile who had come to gather with the Jews to worship Yahweh, but had not fully converted to Judaism. This would seem to indicate that she was seeking the Lord. She had come to believe that the God of the Hebrews was the one true God. And she wanted to learn more about him. But she wasn't really ready to convert to the Jewish way of life. And then we read the key phrase and her conversion story The Lord opened her heart to pay attention to what was said by Paul. This is Luke's incredible description of what takes place in conversion And I want you to know that this is not just true of this woman's salvation. This is not an odd way that people come to Christ. This is true of every believer. If you are a Christian, it is because the Lord has opened your heart to understand the gospel. 1 Corinthians 2. 14 says, the natural or the lost person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him. And he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. You often see a new convert when they understand the gospel and they believe the gospel. They want to go and they want to share it with all their family and friends and that is appropriate and right. And so often they are profoundly disappointed. When they share it with their friends and they just say, that's nonsense. I don't believe that stuff. And they don't understand why why they would not believe this? This is the greatest news in the world. It's because they're lost and they're blind. And it seems like nonsense to them. I want you to notice the evidence the Lord was working graciously in her heart. Verse 14 says she paid attention to what Paul was saying. She listened to his every word. She was following him carefully. As if her life depended on it. Preachers Can see how people are listening. That may be a surprise to those of you who occasionally take naps in church. We know, we know I remember years ago, this man is no longer here. They've moved away. But there was a man who came here with his wife. And he was a self-professed professed atheist. And he came here and he would sit down and he would smirk And he would laugh and he would mock me while I preached the gospel. And this happened week after week after week And then one Sunday there was a different expression on his face. He was listening very carefully to what I had to say, and he seemed concerned. And to come the next Sunday, he listened even more carefully. And I went and talked to him about it, and he told me that he had come to faith in Jesus Christ. that he'd come to see that the gospel was true and that the things that he once ridiculed and laughed at were in fact real And he was baptized in this church and is a member of a gospel preaching church today This is what happened that day in Philippi with Lydia, and it happens every Lord's day around the world and various congregations. Because the Lord opened Lydia's heart, she understood the gospel message, and the clear implication is that she believed that message. She trusted in Christ as her Savior. The fourth point is this. Genuine salvation comes through the preaching and teaching of the word. I want you to notice that her regeneration took place through the ministry of the Word. God does not save people apart. From the truth of the gospel. James chapter 1 and verse 18 says, Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. 1 Peter 1. 23 says, Since you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God. But let me ask you, what do you think that Paul preached that day on the banks of that river? Well, our text doesn't say. But from the other records that we have in the book of Acts, undoubtedly he preached the same message that he always preached in the synagogues. And that is, he went to the Old Testament scriptures and demonstrated and reasoned with them that Jesus of Nazareth was indeed the promised Messiah, the risen Lord. And that's what he did this day. And God opened Lydia's heart so that she would receive the seed of the gospel. This is why we preach Christ at Calvary Baptist Church every Lord's Day. This is why we call on people to believe. This is why we root our comments not in current events. Not in social ethics, but in the inspired and inerrant word of God 's Because faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. People are only saved When the gospel that's embedded in the Word of God is proclaimed and understood and received by faith. Number five, genuine salvation should be followed by baptism. Look with me at verse 15. And after she was baptized, and her household as well, she urged us, saying, If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come to my house and stay. And she prevailed upon us. After Lydia was believed, she was baptized, probably in this very river where they met. In the book of Acts, we find a very common pattern This pattern is people believe and then they're baptized. In Acts chapter 8 and verse 12 we read, but when they believed Philip, as he preached the good news about the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women. A little bit later in the same chapter it says, and Philip opened his mouth, and beginning with the scripture, he told him the good news about Jesus. And as they were going along the road, They came to some water, and the eunuch said, See, here is water. What prevents me from being baptized? And he commanded the chariot to stop, and they both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him. We see the same pattern again in chapter 16. We'll see it at the end of this chapter concerning the Philippian jailer and verse 31. It says And they said, believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved, you and your household. And they spoke the word of the Lord to him and all who were in his house And he took them the same hour of the night and washed their wounds, and he was baptized at once, he and all his family. And in chapter 18 and verse 8 We read Christmas, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord together with his entire household, and many of the Corinthians hearing Paul believed and were baptized. There are others passages that I could turn to, but I think you see this pattern. People believe the gospel, and then they are baptized. This explains why we do not baptize infants at Calvary Baptist Church. You probably know this, but most churches Most churches that you would attend and go to baptize infants But the fact is, there's not one example of an infant baptism in Scripture. There's not one instruction to do that. And we know that that was not the practice of the early church. Baptism is symbolic of what has spiritually occurred. An infant is unable to believe. It's unable to repent. It's unable to exercise his or her will and trust in Christ. And so to baptize an infant is not really biblical or spiritually helpful. And although there are many well-meaning Christian brothers and sisters, I believe, who have been baptized in this manner, the fact is it is a dangerous doctrine. There have been so many people over the years that I've spoken to and given the gospel to who would say, Oh, I know I'm going to heaven because I was baptized as an infant And they believe that that is enough to make them a Christian and prepared to spend eternity with the Lord. But that is not at all what the scripture teaches. But there's another application I want us to see from this pattern, and that is that every New Testament believer should be baptized. There's a growing trend Of people who claim to be disciples of Christ, to be true believers, but have never been baptized. I have talked to many over the years. And they seem to view baptism as a meaningless ritual And because the Bible does not teach that it's necessary for salvation, therefore it's not necessary at all. But that is not what the Bible teaches. The Bible teaches that it is incumbent upon every true child of God to follow the Lord. In baptism. This is something that Christ commands. This is part of what it means to be a disciple of Jesus Christ in the Great Commission in Matthew chapter 28. The command is to make disciples, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. So to refuse to be baptized is to refuse to follow the first instructions for a follower of Jesus Christ and to call into question if indeed you are a disciple of Jesus Christ. And that brings me to my next point. Genuine salvation often leads to the conversions of others in the family. In verse 15, we read of Lydia's household being baptized. And we find that in several other New Testament passages as well. Some have taken these passages as evidence for infant baptism. Because they would argue that certainly in these households there would be some children and infants. But that is an argument from silence. The Bible does not ever mention infants or small children in these households. Most scholars think that what is mentioned in most cases when households are mentioned is the household servants. This would certainly seem to be the case with Lydia. She was a wealthy woman, a successful business lady, and she had many servants in her household, and undoubtedly they came with her down to these prayer meetings. Because she wanted them to hear the truth that she was hearing. And they heard the gospel that day from Paul. And they came to believe just as Lydia, and so they were baptized as well. This is often the way things occur. I've mentioned this recently in some sermons from the Gospel of John, but often there is a spiritual chain reaction. Where one person in the family is converted and they share the gospel with their spouse or with their children, and then they are converted, and it just moves out from there. Many of you Have come to Christ because of the witness and testimony or efforts of a family member, probably a mother or father, or maybe a brother or sister, or an uncle. And that is indeed the case with those who are being baptized this evening. It is those family relations, those family witnesses and influences that have been a key part in bringing them to Christ. And then finally I want you to see that genuine salvation number seven produces lasting fruit It says at the end of verse 15, she urged us, saying, If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come to my house and stay. And she prevailed upon us. Right after she has been saved, she offers Paul's team hospitality. When she says, if you have judged me faithful, she is saying, if you believe that I am Truly a child of God, then please do the honor of staying at my house. And I love this last phrase, and she prevailed upon us. You know what that's like, right? No, no, no, no, we can't stay. No, no, no, no, you need to come. Oh, I we can't come for a meal. And she just kept insisting and prodding and inviting until, all right. Okay. We'll come This kindness of hers, this hospitality, was not her seeking to earn her salvation or make a payment for her sinful past. No, it was a demonstration that she had been changed from the inside out and perhaps that she wanted further instruction in the Christian life. And she knew that if Paul and his team was there living in her home, she would ask them question after question and receive more and more biblical instruction to live the Christian life. She had a hunger and thirst for the Word of God. It's assumed by most Bible students that this Her home became the place where the church at Philippi met for worship. And many believe that there's evidence of her generosity that is found in that epistle that is written to this church, the book of Philippians. The book of Philippians is essentially a thank you letter for their faithfulness And financially supporting Paul and his team. Paul says in Philippians 4, 15, that no church entered into partnership with me in giving and receiving except you only. Let me ask you this question. Why was the church at Philippi exceptional in this matter of giving? Can I give you a clue? It's because of this generous businesswoman. She never forgot the man who brought her the gospel and who stayed in her house with his team and all the benefit that she received from that. And so as Paul went forth She was promoting and prompting and encouraging the church leaders. We need to give to Paul in his ministry. We need to support him. We need to stand with him. Because God had changed her heart. And what was once something that she lived for, the accumulation of wealth and status now became something that she wanted to give away. For the advancement of the gospel. Genuine conversion produces lasting fruit. The question that I want to ask you tonight as we conclude is this, have you been genuinely converted Has there been a time when God has opened your heart so that you understood the gospel? And you responded in faith and repentance. Is there evidence in your life that there has been a change? That you are a disciple of Jesus Christ. That you follow Him not perfectly, but there is evidence. That your heart has been changed. Do you have a testimony tonight These individuals are giving a symbolic testimony that there has been a change in their life. That they have passed from death unto life, from darkness to the light. Do you have a testimony? We have had individuals come to faith in Christ at baptismal services before Because they came to understand that unlike the individuals being baptized, they did not have a testimony. There was not a turning point in their life. They were not followers of Jesus Christ. If you're here tonight and you have never been born again I would urge you and plead with you to seek the Savior tonight. I would be delighted, our other pastors would be delighted to speak to you and to answer your questions And to help you to understand what it means to be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ and to know what it is to have new life in him. May God help you to follow him this evening. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it's always instructive for us. We thank you that the gospel that worked long ago in that city of Philippi still works today. It still brings men and women to trust in Christ. And I pray, Lord, that You would work in the hearts and lives of those who might be here who are yet lost in their sins, that they would be saved today. And Father, for those who are about to be baptized, I pray that this would be a meaningful event for them, a time of renewal and dedication, a time when they set their hearts on following you all of their days. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, amen