Turn with me your Bibles, please , to John chapter twelve. John chapter twelve I 'm going to ask you a question this morning as we begin. What historic event have you lived through that changed the world forever? For some of you, there might be multiple events, such as the ending of World War II. that greatest war to date in the history of our world that lasted for nearly six years Some of you perhaps remember when that war came to a conclusion. Many of you were live for the assassination of John F. Kennedy, which took place on November 22nd, 1963. In fact, we have a couple in our church who I will not name who was in Dallas, Texas on that day. And many of us remember exactly where we were on September the 11th, 2001. When our nation experienced the terrorist attacks that forever changed our perceptions of safety. Sometimes people ask me, where were you, Pastor? And I was like, I was preparing my sermon, what I always do on Tuesdays. And almost all of us remember the COVID pandemic that shut down our nation and virtually the world in March of 2020. Six years ago this week. Every one of these events was monumental, but none of them compares to the death and resurrection of Christ. Which has forever changed the world. This is a theme that Jesus is mentioning in John chapter 12. Let me remind you this chapter begins with the triumphal entry of Jesus on Palm Sunday. The events that we're looking at today very likely took place that next day on Monday. And what we see in our Lord's words is that his mind is set on the cross. A crucifixion that's just a few days away. Last week we mentioned two fundamental changes that occurred. The death of Christ would create a new people of God. In the past, God's work of redemption was almost exclusively among the Jewish people, but the death of Christ opened the way for the gospel to go to both Jews and Gentiles. Jesus would truly be the Savior of the world. And then we also notice the death of Christ would create a new pattern for living. Verse 24, Jesus says, truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit, this very simple principle was true in his own life. Through his death, he would bring many sons to glory. And when we as believers die to self, we discipline ourselves and we live lives of obedience, our lives become spiritually fruitful. And that's why Jesus applies this principle in verses 25 and 26 to believers. But now we come to 27 and following. And we're going to look at two more ways that the death of Christ changes everything One of them is personal and the other is global. And what I want us to do as believers here, if you know the Lord Jesus Christ, is to rejoice. In our Savior and in this death that has changed everything. So, first of all, at the cross, Jesus would glorify his Father through his heroic obedience. Look at what Jesus says in verse 27. Now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? But for this purpose I have come to this hour. For the first time In our study of the life of Christ, we come to this expression, now is my soul troubled. There's only one other time that Jesus speaks of his soul. And that is in the Garden of Gethsemane, which would be a few days later. This probably took place on Monday. That would take place on Thursday evening. And Jesus there would say, my soul is very sorrowful even unto death. This word troubled was originally used to describe a restless and agitated sea Certainly you've been to the ocean before, or perhaps you've been aboard a boat or ship and you have seen The waves just agitated, never at rest, always moving. This is a very apt picture. For the hearts of human beings, when we are distraught, we are agitated, we are troubled, we are And this term was used for the horror of facing something that's simply unthinkable. And what's fascinating about this is that this is the very word that Jesus would use A few days later, in the upper room with his disciples, in that famous verse when he says, Let not your hearts be troubled. You believe in God. Believe also in me. But here he says that his heart was troubled. Now what exactly caused his heart to be troubled? Well, our text answers that with this expression. This hour. Notice how he mentions this twice in verse 27. He says, Shall I say, Father, save me from this hour? But for this purpose I have come to this hour. If you were here last week, you recall that I mentioned that this is a refrain that we find in the Gospel of John. There are some seven times where he refers to his hour. The first three we read that Jesus' hour has not yet come. But then for the first time in chapter 12 and verse 23 , We read that Jesus says, the hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. And he will continue to use this expression for the next few days. His hour has come. What does he mean by his hour? Look with me at chapter 13 and verse 1, perhaps one page over in your Bible. Jesus is in the upper room with his disciples, and he says, now before the feast of Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour had come, to depart out of this world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. The hour is used to express this time of his death and resurrection and his departure from this earth. It signifies the end of his ministry, and especially here it refers to his approaching death. that is just a few days away. Now I want you to think for a little bit. So often in spiritual things And in theological matters, we answer every problem with some cliche that we've heard before. But sometimes they can be helpful, but sometimes they're just plain wrong. And so I want us to think, put our thinking caps on. What do you think Jesus was troubled about? Was Jesus troubled about his approaching death? I suspect that if I were to give a quiz and have you write your answer on a paper, that many of you would say no. And I think you would say no because you would say he's the son of God. God can't be afraid. God's not concerned. He's a son of God, so of course he wasn't really fearful or troubled in any respect. I've said before in years gone by that when Jesus cried out In that fourth saying from the cross, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? That Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane and at the cross was not giving any reference to his death Because if that were the case, then he was less than many martyrs who have been burned at the stake or have been killed in gruesome ways, and yet they had a supernatural peace about them. But I'm not sure at this point in my life that that is a correct way of understanding it. It is true that God has given dying grace to some of his people in extraordinary ways, but he didn't give it to them generally days before they died. He gave it to them when they died. And I believe that Jesus indeed went to the cross with great bravery and composure. But let me say some things about the death of Christ that would be different from any death that any other human being has ever experienced. Number one, Jesus knew everything about his approaching death. He knew exactly when it would take place. and exactly how it would transpire. It was all prophesied in Scripture. He knew that he would die by means of crucifixion. He knew that they would pierce his hands and his feet. He knew that he would be dehydrated. He knew all of these things. But there was something else, and that is that Jesus in his death would also be bearing the sin The crushing weight of sin, as we sang about the day of the world. And I think Jesus is already beginning to anticipate that incredible crushing load of guilt and shame. You see, Jesus never in his life experienced a sense of guilt or shame. We know it all too well. But Jesus never sinned. He said he always does those things that please his Father. And we must not think that when Jesus was bearing the sin, when as we sang, he became sin for us, that it was just like you know, an easy thing, like you like you're carrying a burden, but it doesn't affect you at all. No. This this shame and this guilt, although it was not anything that he had earned, it was something that he experienced in some way. And as he's thinking about this and anticipating this, this is a crushing reality to him. And then, of course, there's the aspect that he knew that he would be abandoned by his father in the darkness of Calvary. This is why he would cry out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? So he had All the details of his brutal death that he knew were just a matter of days away, he had the shame and the guilt of the world that he knew was about to come down upon his shoulders. And then there was the abandonment and the darkness by his father. He would die alone. These make his death different from the death that anyone else has ever faced. But he went to the cross. I think sometimes we think that heroes brave individuals, you know, are cut from different cloth than all of us. They they they don't they don't have any sense of fear. They don't have any sense of anticipating something that's going to really change their life forever. That that they they they can go into the battle or they can go into a burning building and it doesn't faze them at all because that's just the kind of person they are. That is simply untrue. No, it does change their lives. If you don't believe me, think of all the people, all the warriors, all of our first responders who have PTSD No, they go in, they do those things despite the fear. That's the bravery. Here Jesus goes to the cross. As the bravest man who has ever lived. He is obedient to the will of his father. He is obedient unto death. He was willing to endure the most painful, degrading, and horrific death that any human being has ever faced. And this is why he says in our text, he's kind of thinking out loud, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? Should that be his desperate cry, his plea, his prayer? And he responds, no, but for this purpose, I have come to this hour. Jesus knows his mission. He knows that he was born to die. He knows that he has been sent. It says in this Gospel of John again and again that he was. sent by the Father. This was where it was all leading. This is what all the prophets predicted. This must occur and he will be obedience. And so he prays, Father, glorify your name This is a wonderful prayer. What's implied in this prayer is, Father, glorify your name through me, through my obedience, through my death on the cross. This is a great prayer for us as his followers to emulate. You ever face a great traumatic event in your life? If you live long enough, you will. Well, your whole world's turned upside down. How should you respond to that? I'll say more about this at the end of a message, but for now let me just say this. This is a wonderful prayer. Father, glorify your name. through me in this trial. Let my thoughts not be about my pain and my suffering, but about the glory that I can bring to your name through my obedience. This is a counterintuitive way of thinking. When we face a trial, we want to say, poor me! Everyone around me. Look at what I'm going through. It's so horrible. Would you pity me? Would you pray for me? My life is horrible, and it's not wrong for you to have people pray for you. Do not misunderstand I have in my office a little tract written by John Piper entitled Don't Waste Your Cancer And he wrote this when he was going through cancer treatment. And it has a provocative title, doesn't it? Sounds heartless. Don't waste your cancer. And he goes on to say that you waste your cancer. When you respond simply by feeling sorry for yourself and crying out to God in anger and asking him why he has brought this into your life. He says, no, God has brought this into your life so that you can glorify him and you can be a witness for him and you can show to your family members and to your friends and to those who are unsaved that he is the greatest treasure in the world, that he's even greater than your health. That's counterintuitive, isn't it? But this is what Jesus And I want you to know that Jesus' prayer was answered almost immediately here in verse 28. Then a voice came from heaven, I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. This is one of three occasions in the life of our Lord when there was an audible voice from heaven First of all, at our Lord's baptism, at the beginning of his ministry, we read, the Father says, This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased. And then at his transfiguration, we read the Father said, This is my son, my chosen one. Listen to him. And now at the end of his ministry, the Father speaks again from heaven and says, I have glorified it and I will glorify it again. What does he mean, I have glorified it? He's not referring to one event in the life of Christ, but he is saying That the entirety of Jesus' life brought glory to his father. And the Father's acknowledging that Jesus would say in John 17 verse 4, I glorified you on earth having accomplished the work that you gave me to do. And then the Father says, and I will glorify it yet again. This is a reference to his coming death and resurrection. Both in our Lord's death and resurrection, he would bring glory to the Father. And now look with me, please, at verse 29. The crowd that stood there and heard it said that it had thundered, others said an angel has spoken to him. You'll see that this was no dream or vision because others heard this voice as well. Some thought it was thunder. This makes sense because in the Old Testament the voice of God is often compared to thunder. If you doubt me, read Psalm 29 someday. It's all about the voice of God. While others thought it was the voice of an angel, the Jews put great stock in angels, and they believed that they often would give messages from God, which is true. And so they thought that this was the voice of an angel. But it seems that they did not understand the words themselves that were uttered, the meaning of the message. This is very similar to what we find in the conversion of the Apostle Paul. That's recorded in Acts chapter 9, 22 and 26. compare those accounts, you will see that the people here heard a voice, they heard a noise, but they didn't understand what was being said. That seems to be the same phenomenon here. But look at Jesus' response in verse 30. Jesus answered, this voice has come for your sakes. Not mine. So the obvious question, if you're thinking along with me, is how could Jesus say that the message was for the people when they didn't understand what was set? Right? That's a good question. Let me try to answer that in two ways. Number one, even though they didn't understand exactly what was said, they did hear a voice from heaven. And they should have understood that this was a supernatural confirmation concerning Christ. Immediately after he prays this prayer, this voice from heaven comes. And secondly, I would say that this is a message that we have recorded for all the readers of this gospel. For nearly 2,000 years, people have read this account and they can see exactly what the Father said. And it's yet one more witness to the identity of the Lord Jesus Christ. So at the cross, Jesus would glorify the Father through the Son's heroic obedience. And secondly, At the cross, Jesus would forever change the world through his death. Look with me now, please, at verse 31. Now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out. You can't help but notice that there are two nows in this verse. And they both are reference to the cross. Something was going to change at the cross. In fact, Three things are mentioned here in verses 31 and 32 that will forever change at the cross. The first one is this, at the cross, the world will be judged. Now what does that mean? Well, the world here is a reference to human society that is in rebellion against God. This is one of John's favorite words. And throughout this gospel, we read of unbelieving people passing judgment on Jesus. The discussions in this gospel that are recorded are all about the identity of Christ. Who is this man, Jesus? And the consensus of the world, the consensus of unbelievers is that he's not who he claims to be. He's not truly the Messiah, the Son of God. So the world passed judgment on Jesus, but at the cross, God is passing judgment on them. You see, the crucified Savior is the supreme revelation of God to the world. And so when the world rejects the ultimate revelation of God, in his son's sacrificial death on the cross, they are condemning themselves because there is no other message and there is no other way to God. If you say the gospel doesn't attract me, the gospel doesn't make sense to me, I think it's nonsense. I'm going to reject that gospel. Then my friend, you are condemned because there is no other good news. This is why we read in John chapter 3 and verse 18, whoever believes in him is not condemned. But whoever does not believe in him is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. To respond in unbelief is to condemn yourself Here we see in the cross the depravity of humanity. The only sinless person who ever lived is executed. And it wasn't some great accident or something done against the will of the people. Remember the crowd yelled, crucify him, crucify him. We hear of soldiers mocking him We hear of Gentiles mocking him. We hear of Jews mocking him. There were, as it were, representatives from all of humanity that were mocking him. And say, yes, he deserves to die. And all of this is a picture of the guilt and the depravity of humanity. But there's another effect of Jesus' death on the world, and that is now will the ruler of this world be cast out. So first we must establish who is the ruler of this world, and the answer is Satan. This title is used again in this gospel in John 14 in verse 30 and in chapter 16 in verse 11. Similar titles are used by the Apostle Paul in the book of Ephesians, and also in 2 Corinthians 4 and verse 4, we have this expression, the God of this world, a small g, God of this world is a reference to Satan. He is also here called the ruler of this world. By the way, this does not indicate that Satan ever has or ever will or ever did have sovereignty over the world. But he is a ruler over the world system that rejects and responds in unbelief. He is the one who blinds the eyes lest people see. Now there is, again, a great irony here. You ever thought about this? Satan was very much involved in the crucifixion of Jesus. We're going to read later in this gospel in just another chapter that Satan entered into the heart of Judas Iscariot. He possessed him to betray his master. And we read that when Jesus was arrested, I believe it's in the Gospel of Luke, Jesus says to those who come to arrest him, This is your hour, and the hour, this is your time and the hour of darkness. The time when The followers of Satan and the demons are very active. Satan believed That by sending Jesus on the cross, he would prevail. He would be victorious. The Messiah, the Son of God, would be dead. But ironically, in all of his plans to crucify the Son of God, it resulted in his defeat. The entirety of Scripture is a great narrative of this great struggle between the seed of the woman, the Messiah, and the serpents. We first read of this in Genesis 3. 15 And at the cross, the devil would bruise the heel of the seed of the woman. But the seed of the woman would crush the serpent's head. A fatal blow. We find this confirmed in Scripture. In Colossians chapter 2 and verse 15, it says that at the cross Jesus disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame by triumphing over them. And the ruler is a reference to Satan, and the authorities are a reference to high, powerful demons. Hebrews chapter 2 and verse 14 says that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death That is the devil. And in Revelation chapter 12 and verse 11, we read of the martyrs that they have conquered him that is Satan by the blood of the Lamb. At the cross, the devil was defeated. You may say, but Pastor, I have to sh I hate to share this with you, but it looks like he is alive and well. So let me explain. Let me use an illustration here. On June the 6, 1944, the Allied forces landed on the beaches of Normandy. And it was a successful invasion. Up unto that point, Germany and her allies controlled almost all of Europe. But when they successfully invaded that country and continued to push them back town by town, village by village, going through and liberating country after country. Every military leader in the world understood it was only a matter of time before the war was over. Because when they made that successful invasion , There was no path forward to victory for the Germans. But it would take another year. Germany would fight for almost another year before they would surrender. They were a defeated foe, but they were still fighting. Satan is a defeated foe. He knows he's going to lose, but he's still fighting out of hatred and bitterness. We read about this wonderful truth in Luther's famous hymn, A Mighty Fortress is Our God. He has this verse that says, The prince of darkness grim, we tremble not for him. His rage we can endure, for lo, his doom is sure. My friends, when you look at the world and you see cataclysmic changes and you see the darkness that comes over society and things that were once not even spoken about, now celebrated, and you're tempted to think, I think that Satan and the forces of darkness are going to be victorious. You need to remember what the Bible teaches. He was defeated at the cross, and his doom is sure. But there is a third great effect on the world at the cross. And that's what we read in verse 32 Jesus says, and when I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. Through his death on the cross, Jesus would save people from all over the world. John likes to use words that have dual meanings. For instance, the word born again. That Greek term can just as equally be translated born from above. It's likely that John used this term because it has a dual meaning, both of which are true. The same with this term exalted. He probably borrows this from Isaiah 52, verse 13, where it speaks of the suffering servant that he would be lifted up and high and be exalted. And there's this great paradox that when Christ was lifted up on the cross, though it was intended to humiliate and shame him, it actually exalted him. and made him beautiful in the eyes of all who believe. John uses this term earlier in this gospel in John chapter 3, verses 14 and 15. It says, and as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. And in John chapter 8 and verse 28, it says, So Jesus said to them, When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am He. At the cross, Jesus' glory would be revealed. And now we read in verse 32 that when Jesus is lifted up on the cross, he will draw all people to him. And in verse 33, John's going to clarify to the reader that he's talking about the kind of death that is crucifixion, because he says, in verse 33, he said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. Jesus would die on an old rugged cross. Now what is meant here by drawing all people? Does this mean that every human being without exception is drawn to the Savior? It cannot mean that, because in reference here it is to a crucified Lord, and not every human being, unfortunately, who's lived on the earth, has heard that message. So that can't mean every human being without exception will be drawn. And I would remind you of a verse that we encountered that uses the same verb. In John chapter 6 and verse 44, Jesus says, no one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. and I will raise him up on the last day. In other words, the use of this verb is always used of what is successful in the drawing. It's not just that a person is attracted. They will come. They are drawn by the grace of God. They will come to believe. Jesus here is not teaching universalism. He's not teaching that every human being who's ever lived will be saved That's been a dream that many people have had and many false teachers have propagated. We all win in the end, they would say. But Jesus has just said that in his death the world would be condemned. He's not using double speak here. What he means in this context, where the Greeks have come, the Gentiles that signaled a new beginning, remember, we covered that ground That both Jews and Gentiles, all kinds of people, will be drawn and will make up the people of God. The gospel is for all people, for rich and poor, educated and uneducated men and women, young and old, religious and irreligious, Jew and Gentile. That is why we are to go into all the world. and preach the gospel because the gospel is for all kinds of people. Jesus is indeed the Savior of the world. So my question to you this morning is this: Is he your savior? John Wesley, you may know, the founder of Methodism, before he was converted went to what is today the state of Georgia as a missionary, primarily to the Native Americans there And he didn't do such a great job as a missionary. He had many problems and issues, internal struggles, and he was coming back to England some three years later. Feeling somewhat as a failure. And there was a great storm, and he had no peace in his heart that he was ready to meet God. And there was a man aboard that ship who was a believer, and he said to Wesley, are you ready to meet God? And he says, Well, I believe that he is the Savior of the world. And he said to him, Yes, but is he your Savior? And John Wesley couldn't answer that question. But a few months later he would be his Savior because he would come to trust in the gospel. So how could you know if Jesus is your Savior? Well, this is the gospel of belief. Remember this word faith is used or believe is used like 98 times in this book. And what this book teaches is that only those who believe that Jesus is the Son of God, who died on the cross for their sins and rose again the third day will be saved. We are saved by trusting in Christ alone. But those who reject a crucified Savior will will perish eternally. That's why in John 3. 36 we read, whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. Whoever does not obey the Son does not see life. But the wrath of God remains on him. Why does the God the wrath of God remain on that person who responds in unbelief? Because God sent just one Savior. And if you reject that Savior, there is no other hope. So is Jesus your Savior? Not some theoretical truth, but do you personally know him as your Savior I'm going to conclude with a few applications. First of all, I want us to see that Jesus provides a perfect example of how we should face a great crisis. In this passage, we read of Jesus about to face the most extreme suffering that any human being has ever experienced. How did Jesus deal with this crisis? Let me mention two things. Number one, he remembered the promises of God. He remembered that he was sent on a mission of redemption. And he didn't turn away from that. He remembered all of the prophecies and he trusted in the Lord. When we are going through a crisis that turns our world completely upside down and our whole world is spinning, what must we do? We must cling hold of the promises of God. Of what he has said to his people. That is our anchor point. That's how we survive. And there's one more thing. And then we must pray. Jesus here praise, Father, glorify your name. This is how we must pray. We must yield our will to God and say, Lord, I don't know what you're doing. This may be the end of my life, but I want you to glorify your name through me. By clinging to the promises and by going to God in prayer, the people of God can follow in the steps of our Savior. And we can survive and even thrive in any great crisis. The second application I want to make is this. Jesus sympathizes with when his people When they are troubled by great burdens. There's anybody here that has a great crushing burden on your heart this morning? I know there are because some of you have told me. And I always know that as a pastor, when people tell me of their burdens, it's kind of like the tip of an iceberg. The people tell me are like that part that's above the ocean, but there's more below it that I don't see or know about. That for whatever reason they haven't felt comfortable sharing with me, but they have a heavy burden in their life right now that just is crushing to them. I want you to know that Jesus sympathizes with your burden. You know, we have trouble identifying with Christ. When he walks in the water or raises the dead or ascends into heaven, we've never done any of those things. But when we see his agony in the garden and we see his troubled soul here several days earlier, We are like, in some sense, I know I know what that's like. And more importantly, he knows what we feel. This is what we read in Hebrews 4. 15 that we have a great high priest who is able to sympathize with our weaknesses and temptations. If you ever feel like you're facing a situation, you know what God wants you to do, but you feel like you cannot possibly do that because it would be the undoing of you. Jesus can sympathize with you. And therefore you must come to the throne of grace to find grace to help in time of need. There's one more thing that I want to mention here. Well, two more things. So often people who are unbelievers will say, you know, if I had more revelation, something spectacular take place in my life, and I want you to know I would believe. I want you to think about these people here that day. Many of them saw Jesus raise Lazarus from the dead after four days. Some of them saw other miracles as well, and now they actually hear an audible voice from heaven. Maybe they couldn't make out what was said, but they knew it was a voice. And yet they still responded in unbelief. Many preachers over the centuries have seen here a powerful illustration of the blindness or more specifically the deafness of hardened sinners to the gospel. You ever had this experience as a believer? You take someone to hear the gospel, maybe to an evangelistic rally or something, and they hear the gospel powerfully proclaimed, and you think to yourself, Certainly they're going to be saved today, but they are not moved at all. They didn't hear it at all. They're like those people. I don't know what that was And perhaps there are people here today, as I have preached the gospel and I've tried to exalt our Savior who died for sinners, you really didn't hear much at all. Because your heart is hardened and your ears are dull of hearing, and you don't really want to know the truth. My friend, if you reject him, there's no one to blame but yourself. But then I want to conclude on something positive. The gospel of a crucified and risen Lord we find here will draw people to the Savior. There is no story like the gospel in all the worlds. And it has always been like a magnet. That has drawn people to the Savior. Can I be a little politically incorrect here for a moment? Thank you. I'm going to anyway. Muhammad has no equivalent of a cross. He didn't die for his people. He didn't give his life for his people There's nothing beautiful of sacrifice, exemplifying the love of God and the teachings of Islam. Buddha did not provide a beautiful example of obedience to the Heavenly Father. By dying to self and dying in place of sinners. No other religion in the world, my point is, no other religion in the world, no other faith system. Has anything approaching like the glory of the gospel? Where Jesus, the Son of God, died on a cross in obedience to his Father so that we might be saved. On the cross, we see the love of God beautifully distraight, displayed, lifted up for all the world to see. This is why we read in this gospel, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whoever believes in him will not perish but have everlasting life. Only in Christ do we see a man worth following. And wherever the gospel has gone, whatever culture, whatever language group, whatever remote island or continent, whenever the gospel of a crucified Savior has been preached, it has drawn people to it. I've seen this myself when I was a boy and my father was a missionary and we would go back into remote villages. where they had hardly ever seen anybody from the outside. And my dad, through an interpreter, would preach the gospel, and when they heard about The Son of God coming to earth and dying, it would touch them. It was something unique And marvelous to them, and they would come to believe. And that was not unique to that situation. This has happened wherever missionaries have gone. Because the cross transcends all languages and cultures. And this is the message we proclaim. Spurgeon had on his pulpit, we preach Christ crucified And that's what we preach here as well. Because that's the message that God has ordained to draw sinners to the Savior, whereby they might be redeemed. And if you're here this morning, and you don't trust in the Lord, you're not a believer, my question to you is this. What more does God have to say to you? What better message could he possibly have for you? There is no better message in the world Jesus is worthy of your trust and your commitment. Let's close in prayer. Father. Thank you for giving us a great Savior. Thank you that He was willing to go to the cross, be obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. He was willing to die there for people like us. And we thank you, Father, that through his death and resurrection our sins can be forgiven. And we can know you and trust you and walk with you. I pray that you would use these words, Father, to encourage and strengthen your people and to draw sinners to the Savior. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.