Pive your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to Psalm 103? If you were not with us last Lord's Day, we started a series. In this wonderful praise psalm. Martin Luther records that once he had a dream that he was being attacked by Satan And the devil enrolled a long scroll containing an extensive list of the sins that he had committed. Luther in his dream replied, Is that all? And the devil brought out a second scroll. And he said the same thing again. And with that the devil brought out a third scroll. Luther exclaimed triumphantly in his dream, Right on each of them, the blood of Jesus Christ, God's Son, cleanses us from all sin. I wonder if you think your forgiveness is an amazing thing. What if you ever praise God that He has forgiven you of your sins? Has your heart ever been overwhelmed with joy because Though you have done wicked things and said different things, wicked things, yet they have been washed away by the blood of Jesus Christ. In Psalm 103, we have David stirring up his heart to sincerely praise the Lord. Look with me at these opening verses. He says, Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me. Bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. David is seeking to stir himself up, to enliven his hearts, to get his heart to the place where it needs to be. And I think every one of us here, if you're honest, you would have to say that you have experienced the situation where you have gathered to worship the Lord, but your heart just wasn't really in it. And so we see here David is as it were talking to himself and exhorting himself. The psalm has been called David's Hallelujah Chorus. Another preacher has called this poem the Mount Everest of the Praise Psalms. There's not a single petition here. It is all praise to God. This psalm also has a companion psalm, the very next psalm, Psalm 104, if you look at the first verse, you'll see it says, Bless the Lord, all my soul. And then he starts, O Lord my God, thou art very great. Thou art clothed with honor and majesty. So this is like a companion psalm. It begins the same way with David stirring up his heart to worship God. These two psalms are like twin peaks of praise. They are a wonderful place to turn when your heart is cold and listless in spiritual matters to come and to meditate. Now, I want us to turn to the next series of verses that begins in verse 3. Notice what we have in verses 3 through 5. It says, who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases, who redeemeth thy life from destruction, who crowneth thee with loving kindness. And tender mercies who satisfieth thy mouth with good things so that the youth is renewed like the eagles David kindles his heart to worship the Lord by remembering five benefits or five blessings that God has given to him. This has been called a divine benefits package. And each of these five items begins with the word who. It is as if David is truly counting his blessings and he's naming them one by one. Now it's interesting to note where David begins. What is the first thing he has on his list, who forgiveth all thine iniquities? I wonder what comes to your mind when you think of counting your blessings. I suspect that for many of us it might be your family. Or it might be the fact that you have been blessed with good health, or that you have a good job, or that you have a wonderful spouse Or that you were born in the land of the free and the home of the brave. These are all wonderful blessings that we have. But may I suggest to you that they all pale in comparison. With this item that David puts first on his list, that God has forgiven all of his iniquities. This is the greatest reason. That we should worship and praise the Lord. This is where our praise must begin. You have undoubtedly heard people say that if you have your health, you have everything. But that's not true. There are a lot of healthy people that are miserable people. There are a lot of healthy people. who will go to hell someday. A more biblical expression would be, if you have God's forgiveness, you have everything. I wonder if you feel that way. I wonder if you are overwhelmed with the forgiveness that you have in Christ. Or does that not excite you at all? I'm going to speak to you this morning on this truth that Christians should continually praise God for their forgiveness. But why is it that we should praise God for our forgiveness? I want to mention three things this morning that I want us to look at that come out of this brief phrase, who forgiveth all thine iniquities. We should praise God for our forgiveness because God forgives believing sinners graciously. He forgives us graciously. Now the word translated forgiveth here is never used of people forgiving one another. It is a word that is used always of God forgiving sinners. And when I say that God forgives sinners graciously, I'm referring to the fact that there is nothing that we can do to earn our forgiveness. It is not like we have a great debt to pay, and over a period of time, through discipline and hard work, we pay it off. No, there is no way that we can pay off this debt. This, by the way, is one reason why we don't praise God for our forgiveness the way we should. It's because we have minimized our sin. Our sin doesn't seem like such a big deal, so our forgiveness doesn't seem like such a big deal. Augustine The great theologian of the early church said, God's benefits will not be before our eyes unless our sins also be before our eyes. Until you grasp how wicked your sin is, you will never recognize how wonderful your forgiveness is. The fact is that your sin is a big deal. Your sin is what estranged you from God. Your sin is what sent Jesus to the cross. The fact is we are all like the servant in our Lord's parable who owed the equivalent of a billion dollars. To his king. There is no way we could ever begin to earn our forgiveness. The hymn writer put it this way, could my tears forever flow, could my zeal no languor, no? All for sin could not atone. Thou must save and thou alone. If you were to weep and mourn over your sin for the next thirty years and you were to work every day to please the Lord, And all that you could do in serving others and helping others and advancing as cause, you could never begin to chip away at the sin debt that you possess. This truth is consistently taught in Scripture that God has graciously forgiven our sins. In Colossians chapter 2. Verses 13 and 14, it says this, and you being dead and your sins and the uncircumcision of your flesh hath he quickened together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses. Blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us, which was contrary to us, took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross. Now sometimes people get this matter of forgiveness confused in their minds. Sometimes lost people think that what they need to do is clean up their act. reform their ways, get get uh to a situation where they're respectable, and then God will forgive them But the fact of the matter is, your attempts to be righteousness through your own efforts, God says, are like filthy rags in his sight. They do not impress him. They do not advance your cause. They don't help you. In fact They often stem from our pride. I can do this, Lord. I can clean up my life. And that is repulsive in his sight. So you're very intense. To make things right have actually made matters worse. You must come as a hopeless sinner and say, nothing in my hand I bring, simply to thy cross I cling. Sometimes people think that their repentance is the basis of their forgiveness in a way that they can earn their salvation. Maybe you think that if you feel really bad about your sin and you promise God that you would stop, that God would be pleased and would save you. Some of you are familiar with a classic devotional book, Is Utmost for My Highest. It was written by Oswald Chambers. Listen to what he says in that book. He says, We trample the blood of the Son of God. If we think we are forgiven because we are sorry for our sins, the only explanation for the forgiveness of God is the death of Jesus Christ. Ephesians 1 and verse 7 puts it this way, in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins according to the riches of his grace. You had nothing to contribute to your forgiveness. It was only through the grace of God. And when we consider this fact that we had this incredible debt, this mountain of debt that we could never begin to repay, and yet God forgave that debt. Because Christ died for us. When we consider that truth, when we really understand the enormity of our debts. And the hopelessness of our situation. When we truly grasp that truth, then the greatness of our forgiveness will rejoice our hearts. There's another reason that we should praise God for our forgiveness, and that is because God forgives believing sinners completely. You know what the most beautiful word in our text is this morning? I think it's that little word all, who forgiveth all thine iniquities. He didn't just forgive us of some things. He didn't just forgive us of the small sins or the sins that we did in ignorance. Or the sins that we did because we're weak and vulnerable to temptation. No, it says that He has forgiven us for all our iniquities. This is a wonderful declaration. When God saved you. He saved you from all of your sin. He forgave you for your big sins as well as your little sins. He forgave you for your sins of omission. That is the sins that you didn't do that you were or the things that you didn't do that you were supposed to do and the sins of commission. He forgave you for the sins of your heart as well as for the sins of your conduct. And if you ever thought about this, he forgave you for all of your sins, past, present, and future. You may object to that last one. Future sins? Certainly, God has not forgiven my future sins because that would give me a license to sin. Let me remind you of very significant facts. When Jesus died on the cross for sinners, all of your sins were future. All of your sins were future. The Bible teaches that God knows everything. He knows the beginning from the end. And when Jesus died on the cross, he knew every sin that you would ever commit. When you got saved, sometimes people think in their minds, now I'm never going to sin again. Now my life is going to be great, and I'm going to do everything I can to please God. And you should have a desire in your heart to to please the Lord. But you know what? When you got saved, the Lord well knew that you would fail him. He well knew everything that you would do in the future, and yet he still forgave all your iniquities. He knew every single transgression that you have committed from the day you were saved until right now, and every sin that you'll commit tomorrow and in all the days that you will live on this earth. And yet he still forgave you. And let me just say that if you have truly experienced the forgiveness that is found in Christ, You will not view it as a license to sin. You will be overwhelmed, and your heart will be filled with praise. This truth is amplified elsewhere in Scripture. Colossians 2. 13, having forgiven all your trespasses. 1 John 1. 7, the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. Let me quote another hymn to you, written by Philip Bliss. My sin, oh the bliss of this glorious thought. O the blessed of this glorious thought, my sin not in part, but the whole, is nailed to the cross, and I bear it no more. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, O my soul. By the way, it was written by Horatio Spafford Not the Lopliss. But he says there, my sin not in part, but the whole. You see, if you just had a partial forgiveness You don't have much at all. We have a complete forgiveness in Christ for all the sins That we have committed. Christians often struggle to accept the fact that they are forgiven. There are many Christians that are paralyzed with a sense of guilt. For things that they have done in the past, for things that were so horrible they can't imagine that they did those things, and they're in essence traumatized by them. And they can't really grasp that God has really forgiven them of that sin And this is why the Bible is filled with so many beautiful pictures of our forgiveness later in the Psalm. In verse 12, we'll encounter this verse, as far as the east is from the west. so far hath he removed our transgressions from us. Those are two different directions. It says in Isaiah 1. 18, though your sins be as scarlet They shall be white as snow, though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. You may say some of the things that I have done have left a really dark stain on my life. Well, you know what? The blood of Christ cleanses you from all of that. It says in Isaiah 38 verse 17, for thou hast cast all my sins behind thy back. He says in Isaiah 43, verse 25, I, even I, am he that blotteth out thy transgressions for my own sake and will not remember thy sins. Jeremiah 31, verse 34, for I will forgive their iniquity and I will remember their sin no more. Micah chapter 7 and verse 19, he will subdue our iniquities and will cast all their sins into the depths of the sea. And the verse I read to you earlier, having forgiven all your trespasses, blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us, nailing it to his cross. God says wonderful things, wonderful promises like this again and again and again and again. And he uses all of this beautiful imagery so that we will grasp The wonder of our forgiveness. And we will praise God for it. There's another reason. That we often do not praise God as we should. One reason is we have trouble believing that God has really completely forgiven us. But there's another reason, and that is that sometimes Christians live with sin in their lives. I'm not talking about sin in your life that you hate and that you see and you repent of and you turn from, but But somehow it's your besetting sin and you you struggle and you fall and your heart is grieved over that and you come weeping to the Lord, asking him to forgive you. I'm not talking about that. I'm not talking that you fail. I'm talking about Christians who have just given up in a certain area of their life And they continue in sin in that, and it doesn't even bother them anymore. They know it's wrong. Well, they just decide this is what I'm going to do. This is the way I'm going to live. And they live with sin in their lives. The fact of the matter is that even as believers, sin can rob us of joy and silence are praise to God. Now, I mentioned to you last Sunday that this psalm was written by David. And I suspect that when David wrote these words and he put this first on his list, who forgiveth all thine iniquities? He wasn't thinking so much about his salvation. He was thinking about sins that he'd committed after he was a believer that God had forgiven. And if you know the life of David well, you know this man had a horrible fall in his life. David committed adultery. with a woman named Bathsheba, and he had her husband Uriah murdered. And David lived with that guilt for about a year. And there are reflections, autobiographical reflections of this time in the Psalms, in Psalm 38. I believe that this psalm was written, so do most scholars, during this time period in their life. Listen to what he says, O Lord. Rebuke me not in thy wrath, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure, for thine arrows stick fast in me, thy hand presseth me Sore, there is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger, neither is there any rest in my bones because of my sin. For mine iniquities are gone over my head. As a heavy burden, they are too heavy for me. My wounds stink and are corrupt because of my foolishness. I am troubled. I am bowed down greatly. I go mourning all the day long, for my loins are filled with a loathsome disease, and there is no soundness in my flesh. I am feeble and sore broken, I have roared by reason of the disquietness of my heart. That's a man in misery. That's a man whose heart is troubled by a conscience that has been violated by a soul that knows it's not right with God's This is why David was able to say sometime later, in Psalm 32, another of the penitential psalms, he begins this way, blessed. Is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered? Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile. You can just hear the relief in those words when David finally got right with God and he confessed his sin when Nathan the prophet came and David said, I've sinned against the Lord And he poured out his heart of confession in Psalm 51. You can read it sometime if you would like to hear what a broken heart sounds like. And David was able to write later, oh, blessed is the man who has been forgiven. Sense of relief. The sense of a great burden tumbling off of his shoulders. Let me ask you this morning, do you know the blessings of being right with God? Do you know what it is to know that there's nothing between you and the Lord's? You don't have a closet, as it were, in the house of your life where you've put all of these things that you refuse to let the Lord deal with. That you put off limits to him, but that you have, as it were, you have an open heart, a transparent heart, a free heart before him, a heart of praise. You see, you can't really praise the Lord when you're living with a sense of guilt. When you know that you're not right with God This really does affect the way you praise the Lord. I mentioned Psalm 51 just a moment ago. Let me read to you a couple verses That are very insightful. At the end of Psalm 51, verses 14-15, he says, Deliver me from blood guiltiness, O God. He's talking there about that guilt of murder. O thou God of my salvation, and my tongue shall sing aloud of thy righteousness. O Lord, open my lips and my mouth shall show forth thy praise. He's saying the sense of guilt is what is hindering me. From praising you, Lord, with a sincere heart. You see, we can't really Throw our whole hearts into worshiping God when we're not yielded to Him, when we're holding on to something, when we've got guilt in our life, when we have a troubled conscience in our life. Consider this promise. 1 John 1. 9. If we confess our sins , he's faithful and just To forgive us of our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Let me clarify something. This verse is not saying that every time we sin. As a believer, and we confess our sin to God that we're saved again. We don't go through life getting saved again, saved again, saved again, saved again, saved again. The Bible teaches that we are born again. You were only born once. The Bible teaches we are justified. We have been declared not guilty, but righteous. The judge doesn't come keep uh holding court again and making more declarations. It's a final verdict. But when we do sin as believers, it does hinder our fellowship with the Lord. It does block that sense of communion and of worship and of praise. And so what we need to do as believers is we need to confess our sins. That is, we agree with God about it. That's the idea of the word. And if we do that, we have this promise that He will be faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And again, we have that word all there. It's not like, well, he'll forgive us for the small things, but the really, really serious sins? No, he's not going to forgive you for that. No All unrighteousness. So we can have that blessed fellowship. That wonderful assurance that comes from being right with God. We should praise God as believers for our forgiveness because He's forgiven us graciously. He's forgiven us completely. And would you notice with me finally, God forgives believing sinners personally? Did you catch that in that little phrase? It says in verse 3, who forgiveth all thine iniquities. Now we don't use the word thine anymore. It just means your David here is again talking to himself, so this is not plural, this is singular. He's forgiven, we might say, all my iniquities. David would write in the shepherd 's psalm, the Lord is my shepherd. All throughout the Psalms you will find David speaking of his personal relationship with the Lord. My point here is that you will never know the joy of your salvation until you know this wonderful promise of forgiveness personally. You can't just know it academically or generally. It's got to be something that you know personally that you could say God has forgiven all my iniquities I wonder if you can say that with confidence. Can you with confidence and conviction in your heart say, God has forgiven all my iniquities. If you can't If you don't know that, then you can't with assurance know that you're going to heaven because the sin is the issue. Do you know that all your iniquities have been forgiven? Now, if you have paid very careful attention , And maybe some of you have taken notes. You know that every one of my outline points, I've put a word in there to qualify what I'm saying. And that is the word believing. God forgives, I said, believing sinners graciously. God forgives believing sinners completely. God forgives believing sinners personally. I put that in there, even though it's really not in our text as such, because that is a very important thing for you to understand. The Bible teaches that not everyone has their sins forgiven. Did you know that? If you were not paying attention carefully, you might be sitting here and drifting in and out and you say to yourself, that's good news, you know? God forgives sinners. I like that. I know I've done some things I'm not proud of, some things I shouldn't do, and God forgives me for that. That's great. That's wonderful That's not the message of the gospel. God doesn't forgive everyone. God forgives those Who believe. What does that mean? Let me show you how you could know that your sins are forgiven. And what we're going to do is we're just going to look at some New Testament passages. that use this concept or this term forgiveness and see what the Word of God says about it briefly. Turn with me to Acts chapter 10 In fact, all of the references we're going to turn to here are in the book of Acts, the sermons preached by the apostles in the book of Acts. Acts chapter 10. Verse forty-three. We're catching it right in the middle. of this discourse. But Acts 10. 43 says, to him, give all the prophets witness referring to Christ, that through his name whosoever believeth in him shall receive Remission of sins, and that word means forgiveness. Remission or forgiveness of sins. Who is the person that is forgiven? The person who believes, who trusts in Christ. What does that mean? That means that a sinner must place their entire reliance and dependence on the fact that Jesus Christ is who he claimed to be, the Son of God. That he died on the cross and paid the penalty for sinners, the penalty that we have so justly earned, that God's wrath was poured out on him because he died as our substitute, and that he rose again as the scriptures teach. That's what it means to believe, that we place our reliance in him, not that we say, I suppose there was a guy named Jesus who lived a long time ago, or simply we assent to a common Christian belief that has permeated our American culture, and we nod our head, yes. I've been taught from a kid that Jesus was a good guy and that he died on the cross. It's more than that. It means that that is what you're trusting in. You might say, put it this way, you're putting all your eggs in that basket. That if he is not who he claimed to be, then you're sunk. Because you're depending on him and him alone. You're trusting. You're relying on him. Turn with me to Acts 13. Paul preaching here Acts 13 verse 38. Be it known unto you therefore, men and brethren, that through this man that's referring to Christ, is preached unto you the forgiveness of sins. Alright? So how does someone get that? Look at the next verse. And by him all that believe are justified. from all things which could not be justified by the law of Moses. All that believe, all that put their trust in Christ, they are justified. They are declared righteous. The judge of all the earth passes this sentence. And he can be just and the justifier. Because the just one died and paid the price for our sin. Now turn with me to Acts chapter 26. In verse 18, this is Paul giving his testimony of his conversion. Acts 26 and verse 18, speaking about the purpose for which God has sent him in the ministry, to open their eyes, and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto God, that they might receive forgiveness of sins. There's that phrase again, an inheritance among them which are sanctified By faith that is in me, that is in Christ. You see, all of these sermons in Acts speak that of the fact that forgiveness comes. By placing our faith or our trust in Jesus Christ. That's how we can know that our sins are forgiven So let me ask you, have you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ? Has there been a time when you recognized that you were a sinner? That you were under the wrath of God and it disturbed you. But you saw that there was hope in Christ, that Jesus Christ is who he claimed to be. He's not just a great teacher, but he's the Savior of the world. He's the Son of God. He's God in flesh who came to earth to live a perfect life and to die a substitutionary sacrifice for sinners. And you put your trust in him. And if you do that, if you put your trust in Christ, then you can have forgiveness of sins. But that's not something that your parents can do for you. It's not something your spouse can do for you. It's not something your pastor can do for you. It doesn't just happen because you're with a gathering of the people of God. It must be something that you do. It must be something individual. It must be something that you understand yourself. And it's through the work of God in our hearts that we come to see these things. Probably everyone here has heard of the name of John Wesley. He's credited with being the founder of the Methodist Church, and there's a lot of Methodists here in Carroll County. John Wesley, as you may know, was brought up In the Church of England, his father was a pastor. He had a godly mother, large family. And there was no question about what the young men in that family would be when they grew up. Of course, they would be ministers as you might say was the family trait. Wesley was a bright young man. He went to Oxford and he was very zealous. He started a little group called the Holy Club. And they would meet and pray, read scriptures, recite theological truths. They would go out to the prisons, the poor houses, and preach the gospel Wesley was very earnest and seeking to be successful in his calling. He felt that God wanted him to be a missionary, so he went to the colony of Georgia. And there he wished to reach the American Indians with the gospel. But he didn't have a very effective ministry there, to say the least. And as he was coming back to England, he spoke to a Moravian minister named Peter Bowler. And this man said to him, Wesley, do you know that Christ died for your sins. And John Wesley responded, I know that Christ died for the sins of the world. And Bowler said, yes, but you know that Christ died for your sins. And Wesley turned and walked away because he knew he had no answer. But soon after that encounter, on May 24th, 1738 , he went to hear a street preacher A street in London called Aldersgate Street. This man was not a great preacher. He was simply reading out of a book. The testimony of the conversion of Martin Luther, the man I told you about at the beginning of the sermon. And later that day, Wesley would write this in his journal. About a quarter before nine While he was describing the change which God works in the heart through faith in Christ, I felt my heart strangely warmed. I felt I did trust in Christ, in Christ alone. for my salvation. And an assurance was given me that he had taken away my sin, even mine, and saved me from a law of sin and death. You see, all the theology that Wesley had learned suddenly became personal. He recognized that when the Bible speaks of sins, it was talking of his sin. His iniquity. And he was gloriously converted. And his life was never the same. I was talking last night to Wanda and others, and she was telling me again of her husband's conversion, which I've heard him tell many times. He thought he was already a Christian. He was a member in good standing of a church. He was very active. In fact, he was preparing for the ministry taking classes at a Bible college. But one day he realized on his way to college that he was lost in his sense. That he was trying to earn God's favor, that he had been trying by cleaning up his life and avoiding certain habits and instilling new habits, that he was trying to earn his way to heaven, and he recognized as he was working on a memory verse for a class that salvation was by grace through faith. And he was saved in 1970. He was a religious man. He was a respected Christian in his community. But he was lost. But that day it became personal. That day he understood the truth of the gospel in a new way. You know, folks, I'm not trying to scare anyone here. But whenever someone dies like this, it always should be a reminder to us that we don't know when our day of death will come. Just last week, Charlie was with us. Just last week he sat over here and I talked to him after the service and he was beaming with joy. He was so happy that he was here. I didn't think for a moment that next Sunday he'd be with the Lord. We don't know. We assume That we've got all the time in the world. We assume that we'll be here next Sunday and the Sunday after that and the Sunday after that, but we don't know. We have no assurance. That is why it is so important that we have this matter settled. That we know that our sins have been forgiven. That it's not some general theological proposition, but it's a wonderful truth that we cling to. And that we praise God for because we know that we're right with God, not because of what we have done. But because Jesus Christ died in our place. I believe there are people here this morning who do not know That their sins have been forgiven. I believe there are people here this morning under the sound of my voice who have not really put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. They're still confused about some things. They still think that by coming to church, by cleaning up their act, that they're going to be accepted by God That is not right. That is not what the scripture teaches. Our forgiveness is found in Christ alone. And all that we can do is trust and rest in Christ with a desperate dependence. Nothing in my hand I bring. Simply to thy cross I cling. That's all we can do. Let's pray. Father, you know the hearts of these people before us. You know those who have the assurance of salvation, who are resting in Christ. You know those father who have been passed from death unto life, from darkness to light. You know those who have been born again. And Father, you know those who are here, who have never known in the depths of their soul. That their sins have been forgiven. They've never made it personal. They've never thought about their own sin, their own wicked deeds putting Christ on the cross They've never reckoned in their mind that his death was the payment for that sin. They've never put their trust in Christ alone. They've always thought in their mind that somehow they can contribute to it or pay for it, or that their sin is really no big deal I pray, Lord, that you would use the words spoken here this morning to arrest the attention of someone And to set them on the path where they will seek the Lord, where they will trust in Him, where they will flee from their own righteousness. And cling only to the righteousness of Christ. Oh Father, help us not to play games. Help us not to put off these things. Help us not, Father. to dismiss the conviction of the Spirit, but help us to yield, Father. Help us, Father, to seek you For indeed you have been seeking us to pray, Lord, that there might be someone today who would put their faith and trust in Christ alone. And that they would know the joy of forgiveness. And they would truly be able to praise God. That you are the one who has forgiven all their iniquities. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.