Los Alamos, New Mexico, a young scientist was carrying out an experiment in preparation for an atomic test to be conducted later in the South Pacific. He had successfully performed such an experiment several times before in an effort to determine the amount of uranium necessary For a chain reaction, scientists call it critical mass. He would push two hemispheres of uranium together And then just as the masks became critical, he would push them apart with his screwdriver, thus instantly stopping the chain reaction. But that day, as the material became critical, his screwdriver slipped, and the hemispheres of uranium became too close together And started a chain of reaction. The room was filled with a dazzling bluish haze. Young Lewis Slaughts, instead of leaving the room and thereby possibly saving himself, tore the two hemisphones apart with his hand and stopped the chain reaction. He said to those standing by, the seven other scientists who were in the room, he said, you guys will come through all rights. But I haven't the faintest chance of survival. And he was right. Nine days later he died in agony. This morning, as we continue our study of 1 Peter, we come to the heart of the gospel. Christ dying. as a substitute for sinners. There are some great gospel texts in the book of 1 Peter. There are three that stand out like great peaks in this book. One we've encountered in chapter one and verses eighteen and nineteen where he says, for as much as you know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ. as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. And a little later we will come to chapter 3 and verse 18 that says, For Christ also hath suffered for sins. the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit. But perhaps the most complete statement of the gospel in the writings of Peter is found in the final two verses of chapter 2, our text this morning, which reads. who his own self bare our sins in his own body on the tree, that we being dead to sin, should live unto righteousness, by whose stripes ye were healed. For ye were as sheep going astray, but now are returned unto the shepherd and bishop of your souls. Here we find the good news of the gospel. Let me remind you the context in which this wonderful passage is found. Peter has just explained that our Lord's response to unjust suffering is an example for us to follow. This is what he says in the passage that we read together a moment ago. In verse 21, he says, For even hereunto were you called because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that ye should follow his steps, who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not. but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. Jesus is indeed a wonderful model for us when we suffer unjustly. But Peter is quick to add that Jesus is more than just a model. He is a mediator. And so Peter goes on to explain that Jesus suffered and died that we might be saved. Now, over a century ago, liberal theologians sought to redefine the atonement. They said that to believe that God requires a blood sacrifice for the redemption of humanity was barbaric and primitive. It's too grotesque for the modern mind. And so they proposed that it was much better to understand the atonement of Christ as simply the supreme example of love. And as we consider his example of love, we will be changed ourselves, they would say. It will teach us to love our neighbor as ourselves and thus create a better society and a better culture. But the Bible reveals from cover to cover that a monumental transaction occurred at the cross The atonement was made. The countless symbols of the Old Testament point to the cross, and the epistles look back and reflect on the cross. To reduce the death of Christ to a wonderful example is to miss the clear design of Scripture and the very heart of the gospel. So let me ask you this morning, do you really know the gospel? Do you understand the meaning of the cross? Are you trusting in the death of Christ and his resurrection as the basis of your hope of eternal life? I think the vast majority of Americans know bits and pieces of the gospel. You know, most Americans claim to be Christians. Most of them will become offended if you suggest that they're not truly a Christian. And if you ask most Christians, do you believe that Jesus died on the cross? They will say yes. They know bits and pieces of the gospel, but I fear that most have not received the gospel for themselves. They have never been born again. This morning, I'm going to preach a simple gospel message because that's what comes next in our texts I hope that doesn't discourage you at all. You might be here and you might say, but I I know the gospel so well. I've heard it a million times. I know everything about it. But that should not be the response of God's people. There's a sense in which we should never get enough of the gospel. We need to hear the gospel on a regular basis. It reminds us of who we are. It reminds us that we have been bought with a price reminds us of where we've come from. It reminds us that we need to share this good news with others. The gospel is especially what lost people need to hear. It's the only message that can save your soul. It is the only way that you can know God. It is the good news that brings salvation. So I want to preach to you this morning from these two verses. on the meaning of Christ's redemptive suffering. Why did Christ die? There are several biblical answers to this The first one I want us to consider is found in verse 24. And it is that Jesus died as a substitute For sinners, theologians call this the vicarious atonement. Look with me at the first phrase in verse 24. who his own self bear our sins in his own body on the tree. Now in the Greek text, the order of the words is a little bit different than in our English Bibles. And what comes first is the word sins. The reason why Jesus died for us is because we are all sinners. And the reason why we are all sinners is because we inherited a sinful nature from Adam, our forefather. Adam was the very first human being. Adam and Eve fell in the garden, and that sinful nature has been passed on from one generation to the next. Every parent, regardless of what they say about the preciousness of their child, knows that their children are sinners. They pick up all kinds of bad habits that you never teach them. You don't teach them to be selfish, but they're selfish. You have to teach them to do things that are unnatural, like share their toys with others And not throw a tantrum when they don't get their way. You have to work hard to teach them proper manners and to be mindful of others and not to take from others Because those things come naturally because they are fallen, and they got that from you. We are all sinners by nature, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Notice in verse 24 that the word sin is plural to denote the abundance of sins and the various types of sins that we have committed. It is not that this is a minor difficulty or small blemish in our character. No, it permeates all of us, every part of us. And it reveals itself and manifests itself in many different ways in our lives. Well, what exactly is sin? This term has almost disappeared from our modern vocabulary, but it is found throughout the pages of Scripture. There are many different synonyms for sin because There are many different types of sin, and it's such a pervasive problem. Perhaps the best definition of sin is found in 1 John 3. 4 where it says that sin is the transgression of the law. The law is like boundaries that God has established in the world. These boundaries reflect his person, his morality, his holiness. And we step over those boundaries. We say, I'm going to do what I want to do. We seek to become our own sovereigns, our own gods, and make up our own rules and live life on our own terms. But God's law is not a list of arbitrary rules, but a reflection of his holy nature, and therefore all sin is a personal affront to God and is worthy of his judgment. And because our sin is against an infinite being, it is worthy of an infinite penalty. The Bible says the wages of sin is death. And of course, the Bible speaks of various kinds of death. There is an ultimate death. That is an eternal death in a place called hell or the lake of fire. Now the hurdle that keeps most people from ever really considering the gospel is this. They don't really believe that they are sinners. Oh, most people are quick to admit that they're not perfect, that they have flaws, that they have vices, that they have indiscretions. But they don't think it's a very serious problem. They certainly don't think it's worthy of God's judgments. Most people tend to think that they are a little bit better than most. They're a little more honest. A little more responsible. We know this because of surveys that are taken, and most people say that they're above average when it comes to morality and many other things for that matter. But they are only kidding themselves. The fact is that sin is the biggest problem that we have Because your sin will separate you forever from God's. And until you understand the seriousness of your sin, the gospel will never appear necessary to you. Just like water will never be that enticing to a person unless they are really thirsty. But when a person is dying of thirst, They will give everything for a glass of water. And so it is the gospel becomes precious to us only as we see ourselves as we truly are. Permeated with sin and under the just judgment of God. Notice that verse 24 says that Jesus bare our sin. This again goes back to Isaiah chapter 53, that great chapter in the Old Testament. If you can find this easily, I would invite you to turn back with me to Isaiah 53. I want to read one of these three verse stanzas, perhaps the most famous in this wonderful chapter, Isaiah chapter 53 and verse 4. Says, surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. The stanza, in case you missed it, emphasizes that when Jesus died on the cross, he died as a substitute in place of sinners like you and me. This is what the Old Testament sacrificial system was intended to teach. When an Old Testament Jew sinned against God in a deliberate way, he would bring. A lamb to the priest, and he would place his hands on the head of that lamb And he would confess his sin. This was a picture of imputation. The sins were symbolically being transferred from the person who sinned to the sacrificial animal. And then that animal was killed and its blood was shed and it was burned on the altar. Just imagine the impact that that might have on you as you witness this animal being slaughtered and killed because of something that you did. Perhaps for some people that wouldn't touch them, but perhaps for others that would be uh a horrific scene to see that this innocent little animal is dying because of my sin But just imagine the impact it would have on you to know that the only sinless, innocent human being who ever lived Who loved you with a perfect love died in your place. Notice how Peter emphasizes the personal nature of this transaction. And verse 24, it says, who his own self bear our sins in his own body. Peter is putting this in such a way that the reader will see that this was a personal transaction, that Jesus Christ personally took our sin upon him, the guilt that we have earned with our transgressions That Jesus' death on the cross is not some theological proposition. It's not abstract truth. No, it involved the brutal murder of a real person who died in behalf of sinners like us. It is interesting to note that Peter refers to the cross as a tree. I say it's interesting because Peter apparently was fond of this imagery. In his sermons in Acts chapter 5 and Acts chapter 10, he uses the same term to speak of Christ dying on a tree and Theologians and commentators wonder why he did that, and the best answer seems to be because he's tying it to an Old Testament text. And I'm going to read for you Deuteronomy chapter 21. Listen if you would please to these words. Deuteronomy chapter 21. Begin reading at verse 22. It says, And if a man have committed a sin worthy of death, and he be to be put to death, And thou hang him on a tree. His body shall not remain all night upon the tree. But thou shalt in any wise bury him that day. For he that is hanged is accursed of God. And this is picked up in the New Testament by the Apostle Paul and in Galatians chapter 3. In verse 13, he makes reference to the scripture, and he says, Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. For it is written, cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree. This is a wonderful truth for us to consider When Jesus died on the cross, many things occurred. Jesus, first of all, bore the curse for us, the curse that we deserve. The curse of those who deserve to die for their sins. Jesus bore that curse. He died in our place. He absorbed the wrath of God. We call this propitiation. God was justly offended and angered at our sin. But Jesus Christ absorbed that. He drank every drop of that cup. And Jesus endured the separation from God in the three hours of darkness. People talk about the torments of hell and indeed they are real. The torment of the fire and the darkness. Of the worm that dieth not, but the greatest torment of hell is that we are eternally separated from God. We are absolutely abandoned. And Jesus suffered that abandonment at the cross. This is why he cried, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? It is only through the death of Christ that sinful people like us can be justified by the judge of all the earth. And because a just person, the only just person, died in our place God, the judge of all the earth, can retain his integrity, his standing of holiness and justice, and yet declare sinful people like us to be not guilty, but righteous in Christ. Because we have not only been absolved of our guilt, but we have been imputed. We have been credited with his perfect righteousness. That is the glory of the gospel. The just dying for the unjust, as Peter will later say. This is the great exchange, as we sang together this morning. We give Christ our sinful robes, our guilt, and he gives us back his perfect righteousness that covers us. It allows us to stand boldly in the presence of a holy God. For this wonderful blessing is only for those who repent and believe the gospel. I want you to know that this is not some religious advice that I'm giving to you. This is not some path to a higher realization of life. What I'm giving to you is the only good news that can save your soul. Every time I must confess to you, every time I preach the gospel, My conscience always smites me that I have not been earnest enough, that I have not been serious enough. That I have not compelled you with more violence, as it were, to believe the gospel. Because it is truly a matter of life and death. But you know what? I can't go out there and grab you by lapel and shake you and force you to believe. First of all, because I cannot know accurately and without a shadow of doubt, who are the Lord's people and who are not. And secondly, because I can't really force anyone to be saved. That is the work of the Spirit of God. I can only give the good news. I can only tell you and explain to you what the Bible says about this. as clearly and as accurately and as passionately as I can. Christ has done this wonderful work of atonement. But it will only be effective in your life. It will only make a difference in your life if you come to repent of your sin and believe the gospel. Second point I want to bring out of our text is Jesus died so that we would live for him. Look what we have in the second half of verse 24. that we being dead to sins should live unto righteousness by whose stripes ye were healed. Did you know that if you are a child of God, you are dead to sin. Your relationship to sin has changed from what it once was. You may say, well, it doesn't seem like that. Perhaps you don't even believe that. I think that's true of many Christians, but I want you to know this is what the Bible expressly teaches. I'm not teaching sinless perfection here. I'm not saying that we don't struggle with temptation But something has changed in the transaction that took place at Calvary that has definite effects in our struggle with sin today. Turn with me, if you would, please, to Romans chapter 6. This is the Bible's key text on this amazing truth. Romans chapter 6. Paul has just said at the end of chapter 5 that where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. And now He's going to confront the erroneous conclusion that maybe then we should just keep living in sin so that God's grace is magnified. And he says in chapter 6, What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. Literally, may it never be How shall we that are dead to sin live any longer therein? Know ye not that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death? Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death, that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall also in the likeness of his resurrection, knowing this that our old man is crucified with him. or has been crucified with them, that the body of sin might be destroyed or rendered ineffective, that henceforth we should not serve sin. For he that is dead is freed from sin. But if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we also shall live with him, knowing that Christ being raised from the dead. Dieth no more, death hath no more dominion over him, for in that he died, he died unto sin once, but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Now there is a great deal of profound theology there that is worthy of many sermons. I can't begin to take the time to unravel that for you this morning, but I do want you to catch this point. This passage is telling us that in some spiritual sense, when Jesus died on the cross, we died with him, and therefore we died to sin. Our relationship to sin as slaves has been broken. And therefore, since our conversion, we are no longer slaves to sin. This is something that we must receive by faith. Sometimes when people get saved, they feel that they're never going to sin again. And they are sadly disappointed when they realize That they still struggle and they still fall. But that relationship has been broken from what it was before. But that doesn't mean that everything's automatic in our Christian life, because look at the next verse, verse 12. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body that you should obey its lust thereof. We have to know these things, verse 6, and we have to reckon on them being true, according to verse 11. Part of our problem, part of the reason why we don't progress in our Christian walk and our sanctification is to be honest, we don't really believe this. We think we still are slaves to sin. You know, in 1863, Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation. That slaves were free. And in many places and many plantations, that declaration was read. That they were no longer slaves. But that they were free. But that doesn't mean that their lifestyle was changed overnight. Some of those slaves had lived for many, many years as slaves, and they didn't know how to live like a free man. There were some slaves who didn't believe it. Thought it was all ploy that when they left the plantation they were going to be slaughtered, and so they stayed and worked. They didn't believe it was true And some of them did leave, but they still lived like they were slaves because they couldn't really accept the fact and fully embrace Their freedoms. Indeed, there were many hurdles still in culture that they lived in But how many Christians are like those slaves where they hear the declaration, you are no longer slaves to sin, but they don't believe it And they stay, as it were, still living with the mindset of a slave. Friends, we have been changed. We have to receive this by faith. We must act upon this new reality. There's so much more that I would like to say, but we must move on. What we see here is that every day we must choose to yield ourselves to God. Look at verse 13 of this chapter. Neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin. but yield yourselves unto God as those that are alive from the dead and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. We are to live in the reality of our standing. And the more we believe that and accept that by faith, the more we will experience and enjoy that freedom that we have in Christ. Now turn back with me, please, to First Peter chapter two. We still have Some wonderful things to consider in this text. He says that we being dead to sin should live under righteousness. This is a purpose statement. This is the reason that Jesus died on the cross. Often we reduced the reason for Christ's death is simply so that we wouldn't go to hell, but we would go to heaven. But he didn't just die to save us from the penalty of our sin, but also from the power of our sin. He died that we would live a new life in Christ. This is the consistent teaching of Scripture. At the birth of Jesus we read that he would save his people from their sins. He came not only to provide forgiveness for our sins, but freedom from the bondage of sin. This is what we find in admonition after exhortation and verse after verse after verse in the New Testament. And we need to remember this: that God has called us at the cross to a new way of life. Now then we read in the last phrase in verse 24, by whose stripes ye are healed, and this is quoted, of course, directly from Isaiah 53, 4. What a beautiful picture of the benefits that we enjoy through our Lord's suffering. Through the wounds of our Savior, we are made whole. Many Bible scholars think that Peter is borrowing this language from Isaiah 53 to make a point to his immediate audience and context. Remember , He is right now addressing slaves who are being told to stay in their calling and to serve God there. And we read That they indeed might be buffeted for following Christ. That means they might be whipped. This was the most common punishment given to slaves. Lashes across their back. Imagine how difficult that would be. You're doing a good job, you're fulfilling your responsibilities, but because now you have claimed Christ as your master and your lord, you are unjustly being targeted, and your master is so angry at you. He sees you as such a threat because of the way this new faith has changed your life that he beat you with a whip. How difficult would that be to endure? And so using the same kind of imagery borrowed from Isaiah 53 Peter says, remember, your Savior, your Lord, he also was whipped. And it's through his wealth, through those wounds, those deep gashes in his back that you have been saved. You have been redeemed. What a wonderful gospel we have here. And we are reminded again that God gives us a complete salvation. He didn't just want to give us, as sometimes it's parodied and understood, a fire escape. A ticket to heaven. And we can continue to live our lives as we lived them before, having our hearts controlled. And set on the idols of the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes and the pride of life, that we continue to live in the same course and the same path, but now we don't have to worry about what's at the end because we're going to go to heaven someday. That is not the gospel. That is not what the Bible teaches. So let me ask you this morning, does your life give evidence? That you have truly been changed, that you're no longer a slave to sin, but a follower of Jesus Christ. And then we come to our third point in verse 25. Jesus died that we might be his people. For ye were as sheep going astray, but now are returned unto the shepherd and bishop of your souls. Peter is now going to explain the results of Christ's death and the lives of his people. He reminds them that once we were all like wondering Sheep, this comes from the most famous verse in Isaiah 53. I know many of you have memorized it. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. This verse is fascinating in that it begins and ends with the same word, all. The first step to finding Christ is to realize that you are lost We have here a very accurate picture of humanity. Lost humanity is like wandering sheep without any direction in life. They want to live life on their own terms in their own way. It says we have turned everyone to his own way. We have different ways, different sins that dominate our lives. Some people are refined sinners. Some people are really sloppy sinners. Some people have sins that dominate their hearts but are not very visible to the external world. Other people, their sins are very physical in nature and are observable to everyone. Some people sin in certain ways that you look at them and you say, I can't believe someone would stoop to that level. Because that's not a temptation to you at all. You've never wanted to alter your mind with a drug. You've never wanted to kill somebody. Those things are abhorrent to you. They've never been a temptation to you. But there are other things that are temptation to you that you struggle with. We have turned everyone to his own way. We have designed our ways, as it were, of sinning. But they all make us guilty in the eyes of a holy God. We are all like lost sheep in desperate need of a shepherd. This is why Jesus said in Matthew 9, 36, when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them, because they fainted abroad as sheep, having no shepherd. Do you ever look at the world? Do you ever look at lost people in the world in your neighborhood or at work? They are like lost sheep. They have no direction. They have no one to care for their souls. They are left to themselves. And they are left desolate. Those who have come to trust in Christ as their Savior Have found a good shepherd. Notice what it says, but are now returned unto the shepherd and bishop of your souls. Notice the term shepherd speaks of a personal relationship. We don't, most of us here probably don't have much first-hand acquaintance. with a shepherd, but the original audience that Peter spoke to, they all would have known shepherds or someday had served as a shepherd when they were boys. Everybody knew that occupation. And we know from history and from scripture that shepherds had a personal relationship with the sheep, as it were. They knew the voice of their master, their shepherd, the sheep do. And we know that shepherds would count off their sheep and their flock, and they knew them by name. They knew their proclivities and their problems and their weaknesses and their illnesses. They knew the sheep. They knew the flock. That was part of being shepherd. This speaks of a personal relationship. Christianity is not about a new system of morality. It's not about an ethic. Yes, it involves that, of course. The greatest system of ethics the world has ever known. But it begins, it's rooted in a personal relationship with Jesus Christ, who is both our Savior and our shepherds. Let me comment for a moment on this term bishop. When we hear the term bishop today, we think of a church official wearing a large pointy hat. The Greek word simply means an overseer or guardian, someone who takes care of the flock This term is used here with Shepherd to emphasize the care and protection that Christ provides for his people. Now I must comment on this term returned because it could very easily give you the false impression that these Christians were once part of the flock of God, but then they wandered away and now they've come back. Of course, there are some people who believe that an individual can lose their salvation and then be saved again and then lose their salvation and be saved again. I don't think the Bible teaches that at all, and it's certainly not teaching that here. This word translated return has the idea of to turn or to be converted as it's often translated. This term is used to describe the moment of salvation when there is repentance, when a person turns from their sin in abhorrence and they turn to God, where they're walking in one direction. But then they are rested. There is a change of mind. They see the things differently and they turn around and go in a different direction as a result of that change of mind. This is a picture of salvation. You see, salvation is not a minor adjustment It is not another attempt at reformation. It is not the proverbial turning over of a new leaf. It is a radical change wrought by the Spirit of God that changes the very direction and course of a person's life. And you notice that this takes place at a definite point in time. Now not every believer can pinpoint exactly when this occurred. Not every believer has a Damascus Road experience like the Apostle Paul. But every Christian, if they truly are a child of God, has had a moment and time when they were born again. And every Christian will claim not only that they have turned from their sin, but notice they have turned to Christ as their shepherd, as their guardian. It's not enough to be disgusted with your sin and with the consequences of your sin. You must turn to the Savior. You must claim Christ as your Lord, as your Savior, as your shepherd. How could a person know How could they have any idea if Jesus Christ is truly their shepherd? Turn with me, if you would, as we conclude this morning, to John chapter 10. John chapter 10, this great chapter, Jesus. Provides himself as the good shepherd. Look with me at verse seven of John chapter ten. And said Jesus unto them again, Verily, verily I say unto you, I am the door of the sheep. All that ever came before me are thieves and robbers. But the sheep did not hear them. I am the door, by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved and shall go in and out and find pasture. The Lord here is referring to A little stone enclosure that shepherds would have for their sheep. And after all the sheep were in at night, they would lie down and sleep. In front of that opening, they would effectively be the door of the sheep. So that no predator could come in, they would have to come through them. And no sheep could wander out because they would have to walk over. The shepherd. Notice that he is an exclusive way. He is the only way. He is the only door that God has provided. And verse 11, he goes on to say, I'm the good shepherd. The good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. He says this again in verse 14, I am the good shepherd and know my sheep and am known of mine. It's a wonderful thing to know the Lord, but it's even a more marvelous thing to know that he knows us. And that's what we find in this wonderful verse. Now look at the historic context in which this teaching is given. In verse 22 , It says, and it was at Jerusalem, the feast of the dedication, and it was winter. And Jesus walked in the temple in Solomon's porch. Then came the Jews round about him and said unto him, How long dost thou make us doubt? If thou be the Christ, tell us plainly. Jesus answered them, I told you and you believe not, for the works that I do in my Father's name, they bear witness of me But ye believe not, because ye're not of my sheep, as I said unto you. So who are the followers of Jesus Christ? Those who have come to believe and be convinced in the depths of their being that He truly is the Son of God, the Messiah, the Savior of the world. And notice what he goes on to say in verse 27, my sheep hear my voice. And I know them, and they follow me. This speaks of a personal relationship, not some religious dogma. Not some life principles, not some system of morality, but a personal relationship with the shepherd of our souls, one who has died in our place. And those who know his voice notice will follow him. Yes, sheep are naturally prone to wonder. But they are here characterized as being obedient and loyal to their master and to those who hear his voice, And follow him. We have these wonderful promises. And I give unto them eternal life. And they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My father which gave them me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. Can you claim these promises? Because you have heard the voice of the shepherd, and you have come to follow him Have you come to the place where you acknowledge that He is your only hope of salvation? He is the Savior who died in your place, that took upon Him your sins All the sins that you've ever committed and will ever commit, he paid the penalty for them. He is a shepherd well worth following. And he will guide you safely home. Have you come to acknowledge that you are a sinner? Isaiah 53, 6, all we like sheep have gone astray, We have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. Many years ago I heard a story. I'm hoping I have all the details right, because it's been many, many years. About an evangelist who was at a town conduct conducting meetings and it was time for him to leave and he packed everything up and He was either boarding a wagon or a train, and he was already out of town, and a man who'd come from some distance came and was running alongside, and he said, Sir, I came to the meetings. I need to be saved. And the preacher said, I must hasten to the next town. But I would invite you, if you have a Bible, to turn to Isaiah 53, 6. Go through the two alls, he said, and you will find Christ. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. Have you found Christ? Is He your Savior and Shepherd This is the gospel. Christ dying in place of sinners and sinners Through the Spirit's work, coming to trust in Him and follow Him and walking in the paths of righteousness. This is the gospel. That the Bible provides for us in the gospel that we must respond to. I trust that you will today. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you We thank you for the beauty of the gospel. We thank you for the way that it answers all of our needs. the way it speaks to our hearts. We thank you for providing a wonderful Savior. Father, I pray that you would use the words that have been spoken this morning for eternal relevance in our lives. I pray that there would be some here today who came into this building lost in their sins, trusting in their own righteousness, thinking that they were Above average and okay and acceptable in your sight, but now they have come to see that this is false, this is not true. I pray that they would be drawn to the Savior. That they would repent of their sins and trust in Him alone. I pray that this would be their day of salvation, Father. We ask, Father, that you would work in our midst, that we might praise and glorify you, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.