Encourage you to turn in your Bibles, please, to Abaku chapter 3. Abak at chapter 3, we are going to conclude our study of this little minor prophet this morning. One of the greatest devotional writers in the history of the church was a 17th-century Scottish pastor by the name of Samuel Rutherford. He's famous for his collection of letters that he wrote to the people in his congregation while he was imprisoned for his stand for truth. I came across a quote of his this week that I think perfectly captures the struggle that we find in the book of Habakkuk. He says, duties are ours, events are God's. When our faith goes to meddle with events, And to hold account upon God's providence and begins to say, how wilt thou do this or that? We lose ground. We have nothing to do there. It is our part to let the Almighty exercise his own office and steer his own helm. There is nothing left for us but to see how we may be approved of him. And how we roll the weight of our weak souls upon him who is God omnipotent. Several months ago, I chose to preach on this book of Habakkuk, perhaps for obvious reasons. It records a man's struggle to trust in God in changing times. And we certainly have been living in changing times. Habakkuk life reflected cataclysmic change, not just in his personal life, but in his nation and in the world. By the time he died, the world was a different place than when he was born. And everything that was familiar and things that you could trust in and things that you could count on, everything seemed to be different. And so I thought that our study of this book was appropriate for the times in which we live Let me remind you of what's going on in this book. It's a dialogue between this man and his prayers and God's response to his prayers. It starts out with Habakkuk complaining that the people of Judah are sinning without experiencing any consequences. They were violent, oppressive, immoral, idolatrous. He preached against it, but they went on very defiantly And he became discouraged and angry and frustrated with God. And so he pours out his cause to God and God responds by saying, where everything's about to change, I'm going to send the Babylonians to come, and they are going to bring my just judgment upon my people. They will level the city of Jerusalem. They will burn crops, destroy fields, and they will take many people captive back to Babylon. But that was not comforting to Habakkuk. That's not the answer he was looking for. And it didn't seem just because how could God use a wicked, idolatrous people who were even further From God's standard of truth than were the people of Judah. And so the Lord assures the troubled prophet that he would judge the Babylonians as well. No one was getting away with anything. And then in chapter 2, we come to that very significant phrase in the book, the just shall live by his faith. Here the Lord gets the heart of his problem and ours. Most of our problems that we encounter are because of our struggle to trust God. The reason why so many people have questions for God or are bitter with God or frustrated with God or have effectively quit on God is because they do not trust God. And the reason why we all struggle to some degree to trust God is because we don't know Him well enough. If we really knew him well, we would be able to trust him. And so the Lord gives Habakkuk a theophany, a powerful revelation. of God's glorious deliverance of his people from their foes. This is what we considered last week in verses 3 through 15 of chapter 3. This revelation was both wonderful and terrifying at the same time. And what we come to this morning in verses 16 and following is Abakuch 's response to that incredible revelation. In case you didn't know it, this book has one of the most satisfying endings of any book in Scripture. And perhaps we might even say a surprise ending. Because this complaining prophet, this perplexed prophet, moves from his problems To praise. He moves from worry to worship, from anxiety to adoration This pattern is not unique to Habakkuk. You will find that many of our psalms have the same sort of structure where the psalmist begins by complaining and lamenting and crying out to God and asking him questions and calling on him to deliver them. But by the end of the book They are praising God. They are lifting up their heart of praise. How do you explain this change? Well, it's really quite simple. It all begins with prayer, with a child of God pouring out their heart to the Lord, and as they began to think of the Lord and consider his promises. They take their focus off of their situation, and they rest it in the hands of a sovereign God. They come to trust in Him, their faith is renewed, and they begin to rejoice in the Lord. This is the path that believers must take when they find themselves doubting and despairing of their circumstances in life. Now, unless my congregation this morning is not truly human, there are many people like that today. That are doubting and despairing. Pastor Nick mentioned in his prayer about people coming with burdens on their hearts. With things that they fear, with struggles that seem insurmountable, with problems that are constantly mulling over in their minds. How are we to work through that? How are we to deal with the real serious difficulties of our lives? Like A marriage that never seems to improve, or a child who has gone astray, or health problems that are just getting worse and more serious, or financial difficulties, and there's no end in sights. How do we rise above our circumstances and our problems? I said this book has a beautiful ending. It ends on a triumphant note. Like a symphony that ends with a bang, with a very loud, dramatic, stirring ending. That's the way this book of Habakkuk ends. And I hope that we can see in this book today the way that we can have a triumphant faith in troubling times of how we can respond to a catastrophe in our life I want to bring several points out of this closing paragraph for our consideration this morning. First of all, If we are to respond in faith to a catastrophe, we should respond in awe at the judgment of God. The catastrophe that was happening that's recorded in this book was the judgment of God. First it would come upon Judah, and then later it would come upon Babylon. Look with me at Habakkuk's response to this judgment, verse 16. When I heard my belly trembled. My lips quivered at the voice, rottenness entered into my bones, and I trembled in myself, that I might rest in the day of trouble. When he cometh up unto the people, he will invade them with his troops. The weight of the revelation that Habakkuk received in verses three through fifteen literally staggered the prophets. You might notice how the idea of shaking or trembling dominates this verse. talks of his belly trembling, his lips quivering. He says, I trembled in myself. That is at the very core of his being, he was shaking. The same word for trembling is found two times previously in this chapter, and in verse two of chapter three where it says in wrath remember mercy the word wrath there really means in times of trembling And in verse 7, Habakkuk reveals that the residents of the desert would tremble when God's judgment would come. Have you ever been so frightened or so fearful that you begin to shake uncontrollably? We sometimes speak of a person quaking in their boots. That was Habakkuk's experience. Now what does our text say specifically made him shake? The answer, look at verse 16, is he says, My lips quivered at the voice That is at the revelation of God. Perhaps the Lord in this theophany audibly spoke to Habakkuk. We read that sometimes in Scripture. Whenever I think of the voice of God, I think of Psalm 29. I want to read some verses there for you. Psalm 29. personifies the powerful voice of God to a thunderstorm that went sweeping through the Judean wilderness. Listen to these words. The voice of the Lord is upon the waters. The God of glory thundereth. The Lord is upon many waters. The voice of the Lord is powerful. The voice of the Lord is full of majesty. The voice of the Lord breaketh the cedars. Yea, the Lord breaketh the cedars of Lebanon. He maketh them also to skip like a calf. Lebanon and Syrian are like a young unicorn. The voice of the Lord divideth the flames of fire. The voice of the Lord shaketh the wilderness. The Lord shaketh the wilderness of Kadesh. The voice of the Lord maketh the hinds the calf, and discovereth the forest, and in his temple doth everyone speak of his glory. The voice of God, if we were to hear it today audibly, would not give us a warm, fuzzy feeling inside. It would terrify us. Because our God is omnipotent. He is a great God. You see, God's revelation of his glory calls forth both awe and and adoration. Habakkuk's first response to this theophany was terror, but he didn't stay there. The fact is that when we get a glimpse of God's greatness and glory, and we read about this in Scripture, people always fall at his feet. That happened to Isaiah when he saw the Lord high and lifted up. He said, Woe is me, for I am undone, I am a man of unclean lips. When Ezekiel saw the glory of God, he fell on his face to the ground. And when John was exiled on the Isle of Patmos , and he saw the risen Lord in all of his glory, he fell at his feet as one dead. This is the consistent response. Of human beings to the glory of God. God is not to be taken lightly. His judgment is no laughing matter. It is a real thing God is a being that we must fear. And when we witness his judgment in the world, though it may not come upon us, when we see that God is getting the attention of the world as he has been in recent months. It should be a little unsettling. It should disturb us. Because our God is a powerful God. Yes, he's a God of love, but he's also a God of justice who will bring about. His judgment. Now look with me at the last part of verse 16. He says that I might rest. In the day of trouble. The word rest here has the idea of quietly waiting. Habakkuk recognizes that the judgment of Judah would come through Babylon, that it was part of God's plan, and it was just a matter of time. So he is no longer complaining or questioning God. He's no longer begging God to change his designs and to adopt his own plan. No, his heart has become yielded to the Lord. And this is part of what we must do when we face a crisis and painful circumstances. We must never feel that we can dictate what God must do. Reminds me of what the psalmist says in Psalm 131. Lord, my heart is not haughty, nor my eyes lofty, neither do I exercise myself in great matters. or in things too high for me, surely I have behaved and quieted myself as a child that is weaned of his mother, my soul is even as a weaned child One of the marks of spiritual maturity, of growth and grace in a believer is when they are able to quiet their heart before God. When they are able to bring to mind the promises of God and settle themselves down after the initial shock of a crisis has taken place. This is part of what it means to walk by faith. Now, secondly, in our passage, I want you to see that we should respond with humble acceptance of future difficulties. Look with me, please, at verse 17. Although the fig tree shall not blossom, Neither shall fruit be in the vines. The labor of the olive shall fail, and the field shall yield no meat. The flock shall be cut off from the fold, and there shall be no herd in the stalls. Now, verses 17 and 18 clearly go together to form a powerful contrast. But for a moment, I would like us to consider the scenario of disaster. that is contemplated in this initial verse. This verse consists of six conditional clauses But we should not think that these were like remote possibilities or an irrational fear on Habakkuk's part. With the coming invasion by Babylon, these scenarios were not possibilities, but probabilities. There seems to be an ascending order of severity in this in these six items. The loss of a fig tree was the least valuable. It was considered more of a delicacy. While the loss of one's herds would represent a serious financial loss from which someone might never recover. So Habakkuk here describes the worst possible scenario for someone who was living in an agrarian society. The fig tree, the grapevine, the olive tree were the three most famous produce products of Israel. That's what they were noted for. These products were used by the people and they were sold. So imagine what would happen if all three of these primary crops were destroyed either through warfare or by weather patterns or locusts or some blights, it would mean economic disaster. But then look at the other half of this verse. Imagine if the goats and the sheep and the cattle all died. That would also bring about economic disaster, but now we have both sides of the foodstuffs of the people removed The result would be obvious. There would be mass starvation and societal disintegration. You and I have absolutely no fear of starving to death. But sociologists and historians tell us that throughout the history of the world, the greatest fear that people had was starvation. It was always a possibility. A change in weather patterns might mean that everyone in the community would die. We don't think that way. That never enters our minds. We got just a tiny, tiny little taste of this Several months ago, when you went to your grocery stores and some of the staple things that you've always bought were not there. Now you didn't starve to death. You maybe ordered online or you drove to another store. But it gave us a little unsettling feeling. The things that we're so confident of that we trust in that we think will always be there, that something could happen that all of a sudden they're not there anymore. That is something that was very common in the ancient world and still in many places today When a famine or pestilence or a scorched earth policy and some armed conflict occurred. It's not that just a few hundred people would starve to death or a few thousand in the history of the world there have been times when millions of people starved to death. And it was a horrible way to die. So the prophet here is not giving way to irrational fear. He is thinking Rationally, based on the facts that God has revealed, this really could happen. There really would be people who would starve to death in the environs of Jerusalem We know that the Babylonians, when they would come and destroy a people, they would also destroy the crops and burn the fields and kill the herds. To demoralize the people so they would never rise up again against mighty Babylon. So, how do we cope with a really bad diagnosis? or when what is laid out for us as a likely scenario of what will happen in the future is very dark. How do we process that? How do we deal with that? One of the things that we must do is come to accept it. That this may very well be God 's will. One of the things that we often do as we contemplate the future is we play the what-if game. Do you know the what-if game? You ever played that game before? Something happens. Something bad, and you start to think, what if I lose my job because of that? What if I lose my house because I lose my job? What if I lose my wife because I lose my house and I lose my job? What if I lose my life and everything? Your mind can spiral to a very dark place and out of control very quickly. There's so many people that I've spoken to over the years that are just paralyzed with fears about the future. with anxiety that seems absolutely overwhelming and sometimes it's very irrational, very unlikely to happen. And sometimes those things they fear might happen and will happen. So what do we do as Christians? One of the things, and it's not unique to me, But one of the strategies that I give people is to turn their what-ifs into so what's. So what if you lose your job? The answer is that God is going to provide for you. So what if you lose your home? You have a mansion waiting for you in heaven. So what if you lose your health insurance? You're going to live somewhere forever. So what if you die if you know the Lord, you're only going home You see, there really is no situation or circumstance that should paralyze a Christian with crippling fear and despair. Because if we truly believe the promises of God that he has given to his people, the best is still yet to come. Now I want to be honest with you. I think we may have difficult days ahead of us. Everyone was hoping and predicting. That with the coming of the summer, COVID-19 would just disappear and go away with the heats. Well, guess what? It didn't happen. And I think it might be here for a while longer. It might get worse. Many experts are saying that. I think there will be continued political and social unrest in the days ahead. So how do we respond to that prospect? We're not paralyzed with fear or despair. Because our true treasure cannot be taken from us. Our relationship with God will endure whatever scenario we face. Christ will still build his church. And God is more than enough to satisfy his people. We must humbly accept the journey the Lord has ordained for us, trusting that he will do what is best for us. And now we come to my third point in verse 18. We should respond with a determination to rejoice in God Despite our difficulties. This is the high water mark of the book of Habakkuk. But in order to get the full effect, I have to back up one verse to verse 17 in my reading. Although the fig tree shall not blossom, neither shall fruit be in the vines, the labor of the olives shall fail, and the field shall yield no meat. The flock shall be cut off from the fold, and there shall be no herd in the stalls, yet I will rejoice in the Lord, I will joy in the God of my salvation. This is one of the great affirmations of faith in the Bible. It reminds me of Job's great declaration and his suffering: Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him. I want you to notice that there are two I will statements in verse 18. I will rejoice in the Lord, I will joy in the God of my salvation. That is not pride and arrogancy. That is a determined individual who is instructing their heart about what they're going to do even when disaster comes. Abakag is saying, even if this nightmare scenario occurs, I am going to rejoice in my God. Even if all of our crops, herds, and flocks are destroyed, even if a powerful enemy comes and levels our capital city to the ground, Even if thousands are slaughtered, and many thousands more are taken captives against their will, I will not abandon my faith in God. In fact, I will rejoice in him That is what Habakkuk is saying. How would this translate for us today? It would be like a Christian saying even if I lose my job, even if I lose my house, even if the stock market crashes and I lose all my retirement, I am still going to rejoice in God. I love the first word in verse 18. Yet I think there's some resolute, stubborn faith. in that little word. Habakkuk is determined that despite his circumstances, he will rejoice in God. Now, there are many people who have convinced themselves that the only way they can ever be happy and at peace in life is if their circumstances change. This is the way we tend to think. It's not true. You can find joy, the joy of the Lord, with the circumstances that you have this morning. You might have come in here this morning and thinking, if only this were true in my life, then I would be happy If only my marriage was better, if only I had a spouse, or if only I had children, or if only I had a better job, or if only I had better health and I wasn't in chronic pain. If only God would answer that thing that I prayed about a thousand times, then I could be happy and at peace. That is not true That is a false way of thinking. I want you to notice here that Habakkuk has changed. He's come to the place where he is rejoicing, but none of his circumstances have changed The people of Judah are still wicked and godless Destruction is still on the eve. It's just a matter of time before Babylon would sweep in and smash the city of Jerusalem. And Abakuch's career as a prophet is about to come to a conclusion. Things have not changed. He has not got the answers he was looking for. But something has changed. And that was his heart. His heart has changed. He's surrendered to God. And he's determined that no matter what occurs, he is going to rejoice. We see here in Habakkuk a great example, I think, of talking to yourself, of speaking the truth to your own fallen hearts. This may seem strange and unusual. I'm not saying something that's crazy. Every one of us, every day, has a dialogue going on in your head. Did you know that? There's not a human being in the world that doesn't have that. Scientists tell us that's part of what it means to be a human being. You've got a running commentary in your brain. It's true. And so often we have well-worn patterns in our brains, and so often they are negative patterns Patterns that focus and meditate and reflect on our problems and our painful circumstances in the past and our bleaks uh prospects in the future and these things go through our mind and they repeat and they recycle through our brain all day long. And the information we're giving our soul to meditate on is so often a lie. It's not based on the promises of God. So what do we do in that circumstance? We have to assert our will and say, I'm not going to think that way. I'm going to think according to God's truth. And sometimes you have to take yourself in hand. And have a little talk with yourself. I'm going to stop feeling sorry for myself and going around all day saying my life is over and it's not nearly as good as everyone else. I'm going to stop thinking that way. It's not true. It's not pleasing to God to think that way. I want to stop wallowing in my failures of the past and think that they define me. I want to stop stop allowing my mind to go back to those things again and again. They're demoralizing. They're not helpful. I'm going to stop listening to the lies of Satan that paralyze me with fear and despair. We see this phenomenon all throughout Scripture. If you ever read Psalm 42 and chapter 43, the psalmist has this refrain in those two Psalms. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted in me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance. Psalm 103 and 104 begin with this refrain, Bless the Lord, all my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. Why is the psalmist talking to himself there? You know what I think? I don't think he felt much like blessing the Lord. And he is saying, so you need to get the blessing of the Lord's. This is not a case of being artificial or fake it till you make it or the power of positive thinking But the reality is that sometimes you have to prime your spiritual pump. And you have to say, I am going to rejoice in the Lord. I'm going to sing his praises this Sunday morning in church, even though my heart is dry and cold and empty and hurting. I'm going to do it. Not because I'm being insincere, because this is what I want to do. I want to praise them. And if I so often when we do this and we take that step of faith, then our hearts become engaged and we truly are praising God from our souls. The Bible puts a great premium on joy. Did you know that? There's no other world religion that does that. God does not want his people to be miserable, to be despondent. It's a horrible testimony. Who would want to be a Christian for someone who is a picture of misery? Who would want to follow that path? No one. God is not glorified in that. God is most glorified when his people are most satisfied in him. But what a powerful testimony it is when a Christian is going through the fire of afflictions and difficulty and loss and they still maintain their joy and their peace. The world looks at that and they say, something unusual is taking place here. And God is glorified. A backup here you'll see is no longer finding his joy In his circumstances. He says, I will rejoice what? In the Lord. I will joy what? In the God of my salvation. When we turn our focus away from ourselves and our problems and put it on God, it changes our whole perspective. But there's another reason that Habakkuk is able to sing in the fire. Look with me at verse 19. This brings me to my fourth point, and that is that we should respond with confidence, knowing that our future is bright. The Lord God is my strength. Look at that declaration in that first phrase. This is a very significant statement. This is Habakkuk 's creed, the foundation of his faith. It's something that you find elsewhere in Scripture We have an interesting combination of the names of God here. Notice you have in verse 19, you have Lord and Capital, L-O-R-D. That's the covenant name for God, Yahweh, or sometimes it's uh tra translated Jehovah. And then we have God right after it. That's the word Adonai, which means like Lord or Master. And the combination of these names is only found in the book of Psalms, except in this one place right here. And it expresses the majesty, the power, and the faithfulness of God. It's about as a strong declaration about the identity God as you can find in a title or name. This is where this trembling prophet found the strength to go on. This has always been the believer's rock in times of trouble. We read in Exodus 15 and verse 2, the Lord is my strength and song. He has become my salvation. David declares in Psalm twenty-eight and verse seven, The Lord is my strength and my shield, my heart trusteth in him, and I am helped, therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth, and with my song will I praise him. You see, when you make God your strength, the foundation of your life, you are enabled by his grace to even sing in the fires of affliction. Notice we have in verse 19 two parallel phrases. He will make My feet like hindsfeet, and he will make me to walk upon mine hindplaces. What is this expressing? The prophet is anticipating about what God will do in his life. The Hindsteat here is talking about what we would call a mountain goat. Have you ever seen videos of mountain goats doing incredible things, going up sheer cliff walls? And somehow they're able to maintain their balance and do that. They're so sure-footed. This is an analogy The opposite of being sure footed is a person who what? Who stumbles and falls all the time. And in our lives, we so often stumble and fall, and there's like disaster on every side of us, like a great cliff. And so Habakkuk the prophet here is anticipating that out of this God will work in his soul and will bring stability into his life. But not just stability, but vitality, and he will make me to walk upon mine high places. This is literally Habakkuk. Determining in his heart that by the grace of God he is going to rise above his circumstances. He is going to rejoice in his God. I think that ultimately Habakkuk has in mind not what would occur in this life But in the life to come. Abak was an aged man. He probably didn't have many years left. The Babylonians were coming to destroy the land. What future did he have on this earth Not much, but that was not the end of the story. Far too often as Christians, we live our lives as if death is the end. But it is not. If you are a child of God, the best is yet to come The fact of the matter is, if you know the Lord, you will rise eventually above your circumstances. You will dwell on the mountaintops, and all your cares and sorrows will cease, and you will be forever with the Lord. This is how we can triumph over our adversities. By taking God's truth, saturating our souls in it, and then by his grace clinging to the promises of God, and by Determination, rejoicing in God so that he is glorified. But how can a person do that The answer is only when you know God in a personal way. Notice he says, the Lord God is my strength. It calls him the God of my salvation. The only way you can trust in God to this degree is if you have a personal relationship with him. And the only way that you can know God is through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the Son of God who came to earth and died for sinners like you and me. He died in our place, absorbing the wrath of God. And he rose from the dead that we might live. Have you repented of your sins and trusted in Christ? This is the only way you can live this way. This is the only way you can rise above your circumstances. This is the only way that you can sing in the fire from your hearts. So I would call on you to seek from the Lord while he may be found. Repent and believe the gospel. But the primary application of this passage is for believing people. So I want to say something here. I've encountered so many Christians over the years. that do not work through their problems like Habakkuk did in this book. They live perpetually in chapter one Complaining, frustrated, angry, disappointed with God. Because God won't do what they want Him to do, what they think is best And after a while, they just kind of walk away from God and they live in despair and disillusionments. And the rest of their life they'll they'll be thinking, you know, my life was going good until and so now I have the right to be miserable the rest of my days. No, my friends, that is not God's plan for you. He wants you to work through your issues just like this man of God did. And he wants you not just to survive, not just to endure. but to thrive and rejoice even though your circumstances are difficult. And by his grace, you can do that Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. Thank you that it's always relevant. It always has what we need to hear. And it is truth, your truth, that we can cling to, that we can build our lives on, that we can adjust our thinking for, that we can rest in. In the day of trouble, I pray, Father, that you would use this passage to strengthen, encourage, and give hope to those who feel hopeless And Father, to provide the offer of salvation to those who are yet lost in their sins. We pray that you would work in hearts this morning, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen