It's great to be here this evening. We're so thankful for the opportunity to be able to uh participate in this baptismal service. If you're here In celebration of those who are being baptized, I want to thank you for being with us at Calvary Baptist Church. But would you at this time turn your Bibles to Acts chapter 16? Acts chapter 16. And we'll be looking at verses 25 and following. Before I Sankey. became a well-known name. If you don't know who Ira Sankey is, Ira Sankey was the famous song leader that participated in D. L. Moody's revival campaigns and became very well known as the the the one who would compose and and lead many songs before D. L. Moody would preach and even after. But before he was well known in this category of life, he was a soldier in the American Civil War. And one night he was on guard duty as a soldier. And Probably not the best tactic for a guard. He lifted his eyes towards heaven and began to sing. And began praising the Lord while he was alone. Or at least he thought he was alone. Years later, after the war had ended, Iris Sankey was now well known. He was traveling on a ship across the Atlantic Ocean. And since he was now a famous singer connected with D. Al Moody, a crowd of people gathered around and asked him if he would sing a song. And so he chose that same song he sang as a soldier that night. And he lifted his eyes to heaven and sang that beautiful hymn. After this song, a man from the crowd asked him if he was a soldier during the Civil War. He said, Yes, I was. And he said, Had he ever performed night duty with a certain infantry unit? And he said, Yes, I had. And he said, Were you there on this date? And he said, yes, I was. And he said, did you ever break into song? I said, yes, I did. He said, Well, I was on the opposite side of the war, and I was hiding in a bush near your camp, and with my rifle aimed at your head, I was about to shoot you. When I saw you look towards heaven. And begin singing. And I thought, well, I like music. And this guy's got a nice voice. So I'll sit here and let him sing the song and then I'll shoot him. He's not going anywhere. But then I realized what you were singing. It was the same hymn my mother used to sing when I was a child. And it's the same hymn you sang tonight on the ship. He said, I tried, but that night during the Civil War, I was powerless to shoot you. Irasanke was able to point that man to Christ. And through the course of his life and ministry, point many others to Christ as well. But this all stemmed from the fact that Sankey praised the Lord at all times. In this passage of Scripture, we have an example of Paul and Silas praising the Lord in what might be considered the most unusual of circumstances. In verse 25 of Acts chapter 16. The Bible says, about midnight, Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them. This text reveals the power of God really to transform praise Into salvation. The power of God to transform praise into salvation. And one of the things we see in this passage of Scripture is that God delights to enable Christians to praise the Lord in the midst of pain. Now, I didn't clarify this, but if you know your Bibles well, you know the circumstances that surround Paul and Silas praying and singing hymns to God. There that night atround midnight. They weren't singing it to prisoners who were in prison and they were outside of prison. They were singing it to prisoners who were also in prison along with them. And this all began because of Satan's opposition of the gospel, especially as the gospel was moving from Asia into Europe. In chapter 16, verses 6 and following, we have the amazing account of what is known as the Macedonian call. Paul and his missionary team of Silas and Timothy and Luke were in Troas looking, trying to discern where the Lord would have them go in their missionary journey, and everywhere they seemed to go, the Lord closed the door on them. And one evening, while Paul was sleeping, he received a vision, and a man dressed in Macedonian garments came to him and said, Come over to Macedonia and help us. And in response to that vision, Paul, Timothy, Silas, Luke, and the missionary team went to the Roman province of Macedonia, which is in modern-day Greece. And the first city that they came to and spent any considerable time to was the leading city of Philippi, which we get the book of the Philippians, as Paul wrote to the Philippians that were had come to know Christ in Philippi. In verse 15, we read the story of how one woman came to know Christ. Actually, beginning on verse 13, it says, And on the Sabbath day we went outside the gate to the riverside, where we supposed there was a place of prayer. And we sat down and spoke to the women who had come together. One who heard us was a woman named Lydia from the city of Thyatira, a seller of purple goods, who was a worshipper of God. The Lord opened her heart to pay attention to what was said by Paul. And so here we have Paul and his missionary team finding out there's no synagogue there. And so they go to the riverside where God fearers would be known to gather and worship on the Sabbath day. And they find a group of women there and they preach the gospel to them. They share the message of salvation in Jesus Christ. And the Lord opens the heart of Lydia. And in verse 15 it says, And after she was baptized, and her household as well, she urged us, saying, If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord. Come to my house and stay. And she prevailed upon us. And so the entire missionary team stayed in her house and continued their ministry there in Philippi. After many days there in Philippi, Paul had a run in with a demon-possessed slave girl This demon-possessed girl was able to tell fortunes and was used as a soothsayer. She made significant amount of financial gain for her master And every day as they would interact, as they would pass on the street, this little girl would cry out, These men are servants of the Most High God, and proclaim to you the way of salvation. No, no, what she said is true. Very much like when Jesus was on earth ministering and demon-possessed people would proclaim that you are the Son of God and he would tell them, be quiet. The message was true, but the messenger clouded the message. And Paul, the Bible says, after many days of this happening, became irritated in his spirit. And he rebuked the demon in the name of Jesus Christ, and the demon came out of her. And we might say, Wonderful! Praise the Lord, and truly praise the Lord for what happened there. But the owners of this slave girl knew this meant significant financial loss. She would no longer be able to be a soothsayer, a fortune teller, read palms, and do all of that work. And so they were angry. You see again here in a thing like this that the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil. There's no concern for this girl, for her own spiritual condition, for her own well-being. They were only thinking about the money that they could make off this girl. And they were incensed by the loss of business, so they brought Paul and Silas before the authorities, and they stoked a very ancient anti -Semitism. And they say here in verses uh twenty-two, actually we'll we'll start a little bit before that, in verse 19, but when her owners saw that their hope of gain was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace before the rulers. And when they had brought them to the magistrates, they said, These men are Jews, and they are disturbing our city. They advocate customs that are not lawful for us as Romans to accept or practice. The crowd joined in attacking them, and the magistrates tore the garments off them and gave orders to beat them with rods. And when they had inflicted many blows upon them, they threw them into prison, ordering the jailer to keep them safely. Having received this order, he put them into the inner prison, and fastened their feet in stocks. Because of their hatred for Paul and what had happened as a result of their ministry to this demon-possessed girl. They were beaten not only by the crowds, they were beaten then with rods and beaten with many blows, they were stripped naked and brutally treated. And then thrown into prison. And it's in the context of this beating and this mistreatment and this public humiliation we see Paul and Silas bloodied and battered from this Roman beating. Following this public humil humiliation, their legs are locked in stocks. And midnight rolls around. And they are found in verse 25, awake, praying and singing praise to the Lord. They were probably awake at midnight because after a beating like that, they couldn't get comfortable. And again, with their feet in stocks, the Roman way was often to spread their feet very wide so they could not be comfortable. And they could not find a place where they could lay in any comfort. And so they're awake. And instead of cursing Or complaining, or crying out in anger and fear, they were praying and singing hymns of praise to God. The fact is, any man can sing in the daytime. But the child of God can sing at midnight in a time like this. G. Campbell Morgan said: any man can sing when the prison doors are open and he is set free. But the Christian can sing in prison. Now, z you might say, well, I could have sung in a similar situation. But remember, they don't know the end of the story. They don't know what the day is going to transpire. They didn't know that by the end of the night the jailer would be a brother and they would have food in their bellies because as they sat there at midnight, they were still hungry. And the following day they'd be released. Remember, they weren't singing songs of deliverance, having been delivered. They were singing songs of praise regardless of having been delivered or not. This is praise that pours from the hearts of contentment and confidence in God. How is this possible? What enabled Paul and Silas to respond this way? Now, Paul wrote the book of 1 Thessalonians, and he wrote that shortly after this event took place. And he says in verse chapter 5, verse 16: Rejoice always. Pray without ceasing. Give thanks in all circumstances, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. Now again, if you read those verses just out of context, you're thinking, well, this guy probably had an easy life. But again, he wrote that. Months after, just a few months after the beating that took place in Philippi. And he could say, rejoice always, give thanks in all circumstances. Pray without ceasing. This is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. How is it possible to be like Paul and Silas? How is it possible to give thanks in all circumstances? Well, I think there's, first of all, a big difference between giving thanks for all circumstances and giving thanks in all circumstances. Paul didn't say, thank you for letting me be humiliated publicly and being beaten with many rods and thrown into prison and thrown in stocks. To give thanks in your circumstances, to give thanks to the God who is greater than your circumstances He is the God that sovereignly uses all circumstances for good in the believer's life and for his glory. And so they could he could say, give thanks in all circumstances because this God is going to use for good. I am confident in God's good plan. What enabled Paul and Silas to sing and pray at midnight while chained in the prison was a strong confidence. And the sovereignty of God. Again, Paul would later write the book of Romans and say, and we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. So as Paul and Silas are in tremendous pain with open sores in a dark prison with their feet in stocks, with an empty belly. They're confident that God is sovereignly using even this. He is still on the throne. And it was God who had called them to endure this beating. And that in God's sovereign control, they were chained in prison according to God's sovereign plan. And he had a good purpose for them in that prison. Therefore they could pray. And they could praise God, even though they did not understand. We know about Adonairam Judson, the famous Baptist missionary who went to Burma. And his time there in Burma was very challenging, especially when Burma was at war with Britain and they mistook him for a British spy because He was white and he spoke English, so therefore you must be a British spy, even though the British would say we actually don't speak English, but uh they th they thought he was. And they threw him in prison and they tortured him. And there was at one point in time he was his feet were hung over a bamboo pole that was elevated, and 32 pounds were tied to his ankles so that he could never be comfortable. And at that time there was a fellow prisoner there that mockingly said to him, Dr. Judson, what about the prospect of the conversion of the he's in now? And he could have very easily said, I don't know. I give up. But he said, the prospects are just as bright as the promises of God. And he continued to trust the Lord in a dank Burmese prison. And the amazing thing is that today in Burma there are roughly three million Christians. The majority of whom would claim to be Baptist and trace their heritage back to Adam Aram Judson because of his confidence, his unwavering confidence that God was still on the throne even when he was in a prison. And he could continue to trust God and praise God and glorify God there. Judson knew that God was still on his throne Paul and Silas knew that God was on his throne. In 2 Corinthians 4, Paul had this focus of faith In his trials, he said, so we do not lose heart, though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day For this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison As we look not to the things that are seen, but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal. Paul and Silas in that prison, beaten and bloodied, had their eyes on things that were unseen. The question is for you and I, do we have the focus of faith? Do we look at life with this reality that God is on his throne? And the things that really matter are the things that are not seen, not the things that are seen. Are you looking at the eternal reward that is infinitely greater than the trial that you have been called to endure. Do you believe that God is sovereignly working all things together for good to them that love Him? What enabled Paul and Silas to pray and to praise God was their confidence in God in the midst of that. Andrew Murray said, there are four anchors that you need to remember in suffering. He said, first of all, you need to remember, I am here by God's appointment. So if you're in the midst of suffering today, remember, I am here by God's appointment. This suffering that God has allowed into your life is God's appointment for you. He brought me here. Then he says, secondly, you must remember, I am here in his keeping. For God will grant me grace and love to live as his child. As long as I am here, I am here. As his appointment, and in his keeping. And thirdly, I am here under his training, for he has many lessons he intends for me to learn. So it's not just for the good of others, but I am here to be trained. That's why James says that we are to count all joy when we fall into various trials, knowing that the trying of our faith works patience But let patience have its perfect work, that we may be perfect and mature, lacking nothing. So God has me here by appointment. I am here under his keeping. I am here for his training, and I am here for his time. This trial will last as long as God has ordained it to last, and he will bring me out of the suffering when he is ready. When we have those anchors in our lives, we're able to sing and to pray like Paul and Silas did in the midst of this prison. But not only does God delight to enable praise in the midst of pain, God delights to turn praise and pain into a platform. into a platform for the gospel. Look at verse 25 with me in chapter 16. So about midnight, Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them. And the prisoners were listening to them. I bet they were listening to them. I bet they had never heard anything like what Paul and Silas were doing there. First of all, it was probably the most unusual sound those walls had ever heard. They'd heard crying, they'd heard groaning, they'd certainly heard screaming and cursing, they've doubtlessly heard threats. But they'd never before heard praise and prayer. At midnight, everyone else was silent. But these two missionaries were taking the opportunity to proclaim the gospel in that darkness. When the jailer finally did come in, we'll read about that in verse 27. We are told that he was wakened from his sleep. But based on the questions he asked, it seemed obvious that even for a time the jailer was listening to what these two prisoners were doing, because he wouldn't have known the question to ask unless he had also been listening to them. This was the pattern for Paul's ministry. Think about the book of Philippians. Letter written to these believers where Paul is now at the founding of this little church. In Philippi. And it's a letter that is filled with the theme of joy, rejoicing , giving thanks. And it's written by Paul in prison to these believers. And he's attached to a Roman soldier, and for years he has not been free. Yet he's filled with praise and thanksgiving. And God used him in that prison to advance the God. That's why you could say in the first chapter of Philippians, I want you to know, brothers, that what has happened to me has really served to advance the gospel. So that it has become known throughout the whole imperial guard and to all the rest that my imprisonment is for Christ. So Paul can say, I am rejoicing in my imprisonment. Why? Because it's pleasant? No, because it's advanced the gospel. And the entire Imperial Guard has learned of Christ through my imprisonment. And so I can rejoice. And he calls them to rejoice. So this was not a one-night unique event for the Apostle Paul. This was the characteristic of his life. But there is something remarkably powerful about praise in the midst of pain. I think those Roman soldiers who were tied to Paul. We're shocked at the joyfulness of this prisoner. Doubtlessly, these other prisoners who are here in the Philippian jail are amazed to hear the type of words that are coming from this. These missionaries. Christian, are you going through a trial right now? Maybe you're here this evening, you're saying, I am facing one of the more severe trials of my life. Well, can I encourage you that God wants to use your pain as a platform for the gospel, as an opportunity to advance the gospel of Jesus Christ? Not only is he refining you, not only is he strengthening your faith, not only is he teaching you through this time, but he delights to use your pain as a platform for the gospel. Anybody can praise God when things are good. But when things are down and your heart is broken, and you don't know which way you're going to go, and you praise God That is a beautiful platform. I was speaking with Tom and Peg Miller this past week about their opportunities that they've had to praise God while going through cancer treatment together. And one event in particular when with another Christian woman who Peg was going through treatments with, they would encourage each other in the Lord. And they said there were other people around, and so they would they would praise the Lord together a little louder. So that they could hear the confidence that they had in Christ and be encouraged and drawn into Christ through that When you praise God and you have joy in the midst of pain, it is a beautiful and powerful testimony God did something amazing in this event. In verse 26, we have God authenticating the message and the messengers. And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken, and immediately all the doors were opened, and everyone's bonds were unfastened. That is an amazing event. Not only were the doors flung open, but their chains were somehow loosened. This was not just a normal earthquake. This was a miracle of God. So in answer to prayer, God sends an earthquake to deliver his servants, but not only just to deliver them, but also to authenticate their message Remember, this was the beginning of the gospel going into Europe. The gospel had just begun to be preached in the continent of Europe for the very first time. And God is seeking to protect his servants, but also to authenticate the message. These are my servants who are proclaiming the message of eternal life. When the prisoner, the jailer saw that the doors were opened, he assumed naturally that the prisoners were gone. If there's a way to get out, the prisoners are gone. And so he comes to the door and he assumes the worst. He knows that Roman law demands that whatever punishment that what the prisoner was supposed to have, if he escapes under your watch, you are to receive that same punishment. And doubtlessly He would be killed. And so he takes his sword and he begins to prepare to drop himself on it. And Paul realizes what's going to take place. And instead of saying, Yeah, you deserve that. It's what you get. He calls out to him and he says, do no no harm to yourself, for we are all here. And that's an amazing thing too. We're not told why their other prisoners stayed. Whether Paul and Silas restrained them, we don't know. Whether they were still so stunned from the earthquake, we're just not told. But normally they would have fled, and for some reason they did not flee at this time. Whatever the case, the jailer was convinced that these two men were like two men he'd never met before. These were unique men, men from God. Not only did they behave like an unlike any other prisoner he'd ever seen, Not only did God send a mighty earthquake to deliver them, not only did they escape or they stay when they could have escaped, but also they cared for his life. Even though he had cruelly treated them earlier in the day. Remember, it says that when they were put in prison, he threw them into prison. And then he fastened their feet in stocks. The most important question that one can ask comes from his lips at this point in time. And God used their praise. To elicit this question. Sirs, what must I do to be saved? He took them out and he said, you two men are different than any other men I've ever known. You know something that I need to know. How did he know these men knew the way of salvation? Again, he was awakened from his sleep by the earthquake, but I think he was probably there and had heard them singing and praising the Lord. But it's also likely that he had heard about this demon-possessed girl that Paul had cast the demon out of. And remember, what did the girl say about them? These men are servants of the Most High God, who proclaim to you the way of salvation. And so he says, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? I mean, obviously Philippi was not a huge city. Things that happened there were being spoken of all around. And he said, these two men truly know the way of salvation. The question presupposes that this jailer understood that he was lost and he was condemned to hell. The fact is, this question must precede every genuine case of conversion. Maybe not those exact words, but this thought must precede every genuine conversion. Man must know he is lost before he can be saved. He must know he is doomed before he can be saved. It 's premature to tell a man how to be saved until he can first say from his heart, I deserve to go to hell. I am doomed. I am condemned. He must first come to that place where he says, I have no hope. Tell me how to be saved. If you're here tonight and you have never asked that question, then I can say with certainty that you are not saved and you are not on your way to heaven. Because this question is absolutely essential. You must first recognize that your sins are many. And your sins condemn you before a holy and just God. Your sins aren't a few. And if they were just a few, that would be enough. But your sins are many. The Bible says that all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. The Bible says the wages, the punishment, the payment for our sin is death. The Bible says that desire within us, when it's conceived, gives birth to sin, and sin, when it is finished, brings forth Until you understand the weight of this condemnation, until you come to feel that guilt upon you. You will never ask, what must I do to be saved? Like this Philippian jailer did. But God used their praise not only to lead to the greatest question that could ever be asked, but also to give the greatest answer that could ever be given. Paul and Silas were hungry, bloodied, tired, and bold When the jailer asked them, what must I do to be saved? They pointed him directly to Jesus Christ. They said, believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved. Believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved. Now we know as we continue to read this, this isn't all that they said to him. But this encapsulates the message that they spoke to him. When he took them to their to his home, he continued to preach the gospel to him and to the rest of his family. To believe in the Lord Jesus means first to believe that he is who he claimed to be, that he is the only begotten Son of God, that he is the Savior of the world. It is to believe that he lived a sinless life and he died as a sacrifice on the cross and that he rose again. Defeating the grave. To believe in the Lord Jesus and to believe that you need that sacrifice. And you depend on that sacrifice. It's interesting just how different their answer is from the answer that Jesus gave to a somewhat similar question when the rich young ruler in Luke 18 asked Jesus, Good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life? Jesus didn't say believe on the Lord Jesus and you will be saved. He took him to the law. What does the commandment say? He says, I've kept all these. He says, okay. One thing you still lack, sell all that you have, distribute to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven, and come follow me. And he's pinpointing his selfishness, his greed It's not by selling all you have and giving to the poor that one is saved. But until you realize that you are wretched and sinful and desperately needy, you cannot believe in the Lord Jesus and be saved. You must first recognize you need to be saved. Notice the question the other man asked was, what must I do to inherit eternal life? It's almost like I deserve this. But the Philippian jailer says, what must I do to be saved? I'm lost. I need to be found. I'm doomed. I need to be saved. To believe in Jesus means a whole lot more than just understanding some truths about Jesus. It means more than believing that some truths about Jesus are indeed true truths. It means to put your trust in or to depend on Jesus' sacrificial death on the cross for you. It means to believe that apart from Jesus you have no hope of salvation. And that night, Paul and Silas shared that message to him and to his family. We see that God delights to make praise a platform. When you're in pain, God can take your praise and magnify it. But notice as well that God delights to multiply praise by redeeming entire families. We already saw in the early part of Acts 16, where God graciously saved Lydia, and she was baptized And he saved her family, and they were baptized. In fact, it says her household, so it could be not just her family, but even those who lived in her house, her servants who lived with her. The message of salvation is for all who will believe. Notice what he says here in verse 31 of Acts 16. And they said, Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your household. Just for clarification, they weren't saying that if the jailer believed, then his family would automatically be saved. There's kind of like this, you know, you get saved and then your whole family automatically gets saved. That's not what they were saying. They were saying if you believe and if your family believes, you will all be saved. There is one way of salvation for all people, for men and for women, for old and for young, for rich. For poor, for Jew, for Gentile. If you believe and if your family believes, you will all be saved. Each sinner must trust Christ personally in order to be born again. There is no being saved by proxy. You may be here tonight and you think that you're okay because your mom or your dad are faithful Christians. But there are no such thing as grandparent children of God. There are only children of God. It's amazing as we continue to read this. Passage he says in verse 32, and they spoke the word of the Lord to him, and to all who were in his house. And he took them the same hour of the night and washed their wounds, and he was baptized at once, he and all his family. Then he brought them up into his house and set foot food before them. And he rejoiced along with his entire household that he had believed in God. And so we see this entire family hearing the gospel. This entire family receiving the gospel, believing the gospel, and rejoicing in the gospel. This entire family was radically transformed. What is so beautiful is that God used these battered and bruised missionaries to preach the message of salvation in Jesus Christ to a Roman jailer and his family. And that very night they all repented, and they all were transformed. We see in this four evidences or four Results of their salvation. True salvation always, true faith always results in a transformed life. And just in these few verses we see the beginning of that. They showed, first of all, compassion to Paul and Silas. It says that they took them and they washed the wounds of Paul and Silas. The jailer went from being an enemy and an antagonist. The one who threw them roughly into prison to one who washes their wounds with tenderness. It's an amazing transformation. But one of the evidences of true repentance and true faith is a loving desire to make wrongs right, to make restitution for sins Remember what happened when the crooked tax collector Zacchaeus came to know Christ as his Savior. What did Zacchaeus say in Luke 19? Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor, and if I have defrauded anyone of anything, I restore it fourfold. I'm going to make restitution for what I have done. I'm going to have a transformed life that takes care of my past sins. Secondly, here, they obeyed the Lord and were baptized. That's not to say that baptism saves a person, but a person who has truly put his faith in Jesus as his Lord will want to obey the command of his Lord to be baptized. And so tonight we have this privilege of baptizing four people. And again, we have the privilege of baptizing an entire family. What a delight we have this evening. And although it was still the middle of the night for them, it's still very likely that many were still up and about. Remember the earthquake had already happened, and when earthquakes happen throughout the world, people stay outside the rest of the night because they're afraid of aftershocks. And so we're not told exactly where they baptized uh these this family. Could have been in the Gangites River, which runs right on the edge of the town of of Philippi where Paul remember Paul and Silas met Lydia by the riverside Very easily they could have baptized him there. There's also some very large Roman cisterns that were are known to be in that area. But wherever it was That very night, they immediately went and they identified themselves with those who believe in Jesus Christ. They were baptized publicly as followers of Jesus Christ. And they were baptized in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. The act of baptism that we have the privilege of observing tonight and participating in. depicts that the one being baptized is identifying with the death and the burial and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Tonight as we celebrate the baptism of these four families, those who are being baptized, or these four individuals, those who are being baptized are publicly declaring That they are followers of Christ and that they have been united with Christ by faith, that his death is their death. And when they go under the water, they're saying, He died for me and I died with him. When they come back out of the water, they're saying, He rose for me, and I have risen with him, and I will rise again with him. It is a public Profession of their faith. This is the beautiful pattern that Christians have followed since the very founding of the church, even following in the footsteps of our Savior Jesus Christ. So they obeyed the Lord and were baptized. Thirdly, they fellowshipped and demonstrated hospitality to Paul and Silas. Paul and Silas were brought into their home and they prepared a meal for them. And they ate before they were enemies, before it was Jews and Romans. But now they're brothers and sisters in Christ And they fellowshiped at a meal together. The gospel unites and breaks down barriers. And lastly, they rejoiced together with great joy. Just a few hours earlier, the jailer had almost committed suicide. But now he was rejoicing with his entire family. Verse thirty-four says, Then he brought them up into his house and set food before them, and he rejoiced along with his entire household that he had believed in God. The word rejoicing here is the idea of almost jumping for joy. God has taken praise and he has multiplied it. And he's done it through a platform of pain. God delights to take our pain and use it as a platform for the gospel. So that praise will be multiplied when others are brought into a relationship with Christ. Remember the Ethiopian eunuch when he was baptized? In Acts 8. 39, it says he went on his way rejoicing. Rejoicing that he had been redeemed. The Bible repeatedly makes the connection between joy and salvation. And Jesus said to his disciples the night before he was crucified, These things have I spoken to you, that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full. God took pain and he multiplied it with praise and he brought joy This is the working of God. So just very quickly here, a couple points of application. First of all, worship is powerful, especially worship in the context of suffering. If you are suffering tonight, remember that God is sovereign. He is on the throne even in your suffering. He is the one who has called you into the suffering. He is the one who is keeping you in the suffering. He is the one who is teaching you in this suffering. And he is the one who will release you from this suffering in his time. But let your suffering become a platform of praise so that the gospel will be known far and wide. Secondly, salvation begins first by recognizing your need. You must first come with a humble, repentant heart that says, What must I do to be saved There is no other way. If you're here tonight and you do not know Christ as your Savior, I urge you to come to the Lord and say, I repent. And I put my trust not in myself, not in my good works, but in Jesus Christ and his death and resurrection for me. And lastly, true salvation always results in visible evidences, like we saw in this passage: faith, love, joy, and baptism And so as we celebrate the baptism of these four tonight, let us rejoice with them in what God has done in their lives. And let us encourage them and pray for them. That God would continue to reveal evidences of faith in their lives. Let's pray. Father, we praise you for this beautiful story Of two missionaries who praised you at midnight in the midst of much pain. Father, I pray that you would That you would help us when we face trials and suffering to continue to praise you Lord, I thank you for these four that are coming to proclaim their faith in Christ through the metaphor of baptism. Father, I pray that you would encourage them and strengthen them. I pray that they would be filled with joy at the privilege of obeying Christ their Savior in this way. Lord, I pray that you would guide them as they continue to walk in newness of life. And Lord, that you would be magnified in their lives and that they would continue to praise you and bring others into that same praise. And we thank you for this in Jesus' name. Amen.