Turn your Bibles, please, to John chapter 11. John chapter 11, Lord willing, we'll conclude this chapter this morning. You've probably heard this poem before. Very brief, let me read it for you. For want of a nail The shoe was lost. For want of a shoe, the horse was lost. For want of a horse, the rider was lost. For want of a rider, the battle was lost. For want of a battle, the kingdom was lost, and all for the want of a horseshoe nail. This poem was originally written by an Englishman named George Herbert and then adapted and expanded by Benjamin Franklin. It talks about the power of little incidents starting a chain reaction. that creates a monumental change like the loss of a kingdom. This morning we're going to talk about A chain reaction. However, it wasn't started by a small little thing like the loss of a nail, but by a resurrection from the dead. But it did lead to something that changed the world forever. This morning we're looking at this last section of John chapter 11. These events all occur right after Jesus raises Lazarus from the dead. This spectacular miracle, the last one that John records in the first half of his Gospels, sets the stage. for a chain reaction that would eventuate in the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. But this was not a tragedy but the outworking of the Father's sovereign plan. Now the key verse in this paragraph is verse 53. So from that day on, they made plans to put him to death. This paragraph is all about the plots. That was set on this day to murder Jesus Christ. John is preparing as readers for what is about to be recorded in this gospel This passage is a remarkable illustration of something that we read in Peter's sermon on the day of Pentecost. Acts chapter 2 and verse 23, where he says, This Jesus, delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God, you crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men. In that verse, we have both the sovereignty of God and the depravity of man. They are both there in the crucifixion narrative, and they're here in this passage as well. I'm going to preach to you this morning on how the Father providentially prepared the way for the redemptive death of his son. I have four points that I want to draw your attention to this morning. The first one is the Father providentially used the raising of Lazarus to prepare the way for the death of his son. In verses 38 through 44, which we studied last week, we have a record of the seventh sign, a spectacular miracle. The raising of Lazarus from the dead. Now, this miracle is spectacular for many reasons. Let me mention three of them. Number one Because Jesus is raising someone from the dead. That's a pretty spectacular miracle. Number two, Jesus raised a man from the dead. who had been dead for four days. His body was decomposing in the tomb. And yet Jesus brought him back to life. And number three, Jesus did it with just the words of his mouth that should make the reader remember the creation account when God spoke. And it came into existence. And what was the result of the shocking miracle? Look with me at verse 45. Many of the Jews, therefore, who had come with Mary and had seen what he did, believed in him. This miracle convinced many people that Jesus is who he claimed to be the Son of God and they put their trust in him. Now the word believe is the key word in the Gospel of John. If you've been with us in the study, you've heard me say that. It's used like 98 times. And here we find it again. When John speaks of believing in a saving sense, he is not talking about simply intellectual acceptance or assent to something. What saves a person is not some vague notion that I suppose there was a Jewish carpenter who lived many years ago who died on a Roman cross. Assenting to that historic fact does not save a person. There are many people who believe that to be so, who are yet lost in their sins. It does include that, but saving faith goes beyond that. to relying or depending or committing to the person and work of Christ. It's when a person realizes that nothing that they can do can save themselves, that they must trust in Christ alone. And this changes everything in a person's life. This is the good news of the gospel. It is good news for people who recognize that they are sinful and cannot save themselves, and therefore they trust in Christ and his work at the cross. Now, why has John chosen to record this miracle? He has chosen it so that people will believe, just like they did. When it happened historically, he wants people who read about this miracle to come to believe. He says this at the end of the Gospel of John in his concluding purpose statement. And he says, now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book, but these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you might have life. In His name. Life, spiritual life, eternal life comes from believing in Christ. Now there is something that's a little unusual that may have raised a question in your mind. Why does it say those who have come with Mary believed? This is a very specific description. Why does it say those who came with Mary and Martha? Well the answer is we don't know for sure. It could be that Mary was very sociable and had many friends, or it could be that Mary had been witnessing and telling her friends about Jesus, and now they are there, their hearts have been prepared, and so when this miracle occurs, they believe We can't know for certain, but I want you to notice that these individuals who believed are those who have who saw what he did. They were convinced by the miracle which was accomplished by the irrefutable power of God. Now perhaps you would say, as I have heard many people say over the years, when I've shared the gospel with them, well, you know, if I were alive in the time of Christ , And I saw miracles like this. I want you to know that I would believe. I really would. But unfortunately, I wasn't born in that time. And I'm not a naive kind of person, so I can't really believe Let me say a couple things. Let me remind you that Jesus says at the end of this gospel in reference to a man named Thomas, he says, Blessed are they that have seen not and yet believe. Have you ever thought about most of the information, most of the facts that you trust in? about how things work and so forth are not things that you have personally observed or tested yourself. You're taking someone's word for it. Someone who's an expert, someone who studied, maybe many people have studied this area, and they say this is the way it works, and you say, that's reasonable. That's what I believe. But you have not researched that, observed that, tested that yourself to come to these settled conclusions. My point is that most of what we believe, especially in reference back to the past, are not things that we have seen. But we're taking the word of those who have seen. The apostles were witnesses of these things. John Who compiled this gospel and wrote this gospel? He saw this miracle take place. And he's recorded it for us so that we may believe. And I also think of that passage in Luke in the story of the rich man, where the rich man who is in And Hades are in hell, and he wants to send forth Lazarus who is risen from the dead to come back and tell his brothers. And it said to him that if they will not believe what Moses and the prophets have said, neither will they believe though one rose from the dead. My point is your unbelief is not explained And excused by the fact that you were not there to see the miracle or to see Jesus in the flesh. No, there is enough evidence that God has recorded and revealed in His Word through the faithful witnesses that saw these things occur and have recorded them for us. under the superintendence of the Holy Spirit. The evidence is there. And you are blessed even though you have not seen these things, if indeed you believe. Now there's a word in our text in verse 45 that really sets everything off. And this chain reaction, and it's the word many, we read that many of the Jews, therefore It wasn't just a handful. It wasn't like two or three people believed. It was many of the people at the tomb that day believed. And this is going to alarm the religious officials. And this is going to help prepare the stage for the coming crucifixion of Christ. This leads to our next point. The father providentially used the wicked unbelief of the religious leaders to prepare the way for the death Look with me at verse 46. But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done Now, some Bible students think that some of those who believed also went to the Pharisees and told them about this miracle because they wanted them to believe as well. In other words, this was a positive thing. But I think that contrastive word but would indicate to us, no, that these are part of the people who witnessed this miracle, but they did not believe They had determined they would not believe, and now they're going to go and they're going to share this news with the Pharisees. And then notice what happens from their report, verse 47. So the chief priest and the Pharisees gathered the council together and said, What are we to do? For this man performs many signs Now the chief priest here is a reference to a group of people religiously known as the Sadducees. They were the elite of Jewish society. Most of them were from very, very wealthy families. And they were part of the priestly caste, you might say. They were high priest or relatives of high priests that had been in these offices for, in some cases, centuries. They were the elite of Jewish society. And they were theologically, we would say, liberal. They didn't believe in angels or the resurrection from the dead. Which is to say they didn't really believe in the supernatural. I always find it astounding that still to this day you can find very religious people who are in high offices in various churches and denominations who don't really believe anything. But they're in those positions of power. That was true of these men. And they were The more powerful wing of the Sanhedrin. It speaks here of the council. That's a reference to the governing body of Israel, a group of 70 men plus the high priest, which would make 71. The Roman government was actually in charge. of Israel at this time, but they allowed these men the sense of self-governing, but they still had boundaries that they could not go past. And the other half of this group of men were the conservatives. They were the Pharisees. They were men of the book. They were respected and loved by the common people. And so you had on this council a division. You had those who were more conservative and those who were more liberal, and the two groups hated each other. I know we can't imagine a situation like that, but that's the way it was And this spectacular miracle prompted them to call an emergency meeting. And there was one item on the agenda. What are we to do? This was a real crisis for them. A crisis that has been brewing now for over a year. Look with me at verse 48. They say this, if we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation. This meeting is prompted by fear. They're afraid that if they continue to allow Jesus to perform miracles, they say that everyone will believe in him Now this is an exaggeration. They know that not everyone's going to believe in him because they're not going to believe in him. But you know, when people are really excited and really fearful, they tend to exaggerate. They use a lot of always and nevers in their sentences. And that's what we see here. And they're like, we can't leave this problem unchecked because everyone's going to follow him. And what they assumed is that if everyone accepted Jesus as their Messiah or a large portion of the populace and would create unrest because in their mind a messiah would be a political messiah who was coming to overthrow the Roman oppression. And when the Romans saw this, they would clamp down, and there would be a lot of violence, and they would be dismissed from their offices because they didn't control the situation. Now, of course, their concept of what Jesus had come to do was completely false, but that's what they assumed. And so they're driven by fear. And they say the Romans will come and take away their place in their nation. The reference to the place is a reference to the temple where they held their meetings and where they were in charge. This was a temple that was built by Herod. It was the only impressive building in Israel. And it was spectacular. Even other nations around them admired this building. And this was their seat of power and influence over everyone. And they could not imagine that they would be kicked out of their sacred temple. This was their place, their real estates. And then they talk about the fact that this would lead to the Romans coming and taking their nation. The idea is that they would impose some type of martial law and that whatever freedoms they had would be gone. They couch their arguments here in terms of the greater good. Politicians are very good at doing that, especially when they're really looking out for their own interest And that's what they're doing here. They want to maintain the status quo because they have authority and power and influence, and they don't want to lose that. And I want you to notice the important thing here in this meeting. No one said, hey guys, maybe we should think about this a little bit. We've already said they already say here that he has performed many signs that is many miracles. It's not like he just performed a few miracles that no one saw and hard to verify. No, he was performing so many miracles. even spectacular miracles like this, and they're not saying, hey, listen, this is bogus. This never happened. This was all just a um uh a charade of some sort. This was not a real miracle. No, they can't deny it. They can't turn away from it. But the amazing thing is they don't say, maybe he is our Messiah. Do you ever think about that? Maybe the fact that he's performing all the miracles is a fulfillment of what the prophet Isaiah would happen when the Messiah would come. That's never even entertained in this meeting. Because the idea of following him was unthinkable to them. It would just be too costly. They would no longer be in charge. And so these men, when the Messiah came in their midst, they as the religious leaders and experts Some of these men undoubtedly had memorized the entire Old Testament. They knew it inside it out. They knew the rabbinic traditions and the interpretations of all these passages. within that body of 70 men, there was a great collective knowledge of the Old Testament. And when the fulfillment of the Old Testament, which every part of the Old Testament Points to Christ, when he came right into their midst, they rejected him. They turned away from him. Because, if I can put it this way, they were steadfast determined to maintain their little kingdom in Judea rather than entering the kingdom of God. And there's still so many people like these men today. They're not going to follow Christ because they have life lined up the way they want it. They have their own little kingdom. And they're not going to turn that loose. They're not going to repent of their sin, even though it will cost them an eternity. We see here in this passage that there's no one so blind as those who refuse to see. And yet the Father would use their wicked unbelief. to fulfill his ultimate purpose of having a redemptive sacrifice through his son. Thirdly, the father providentially used the cynical words of Caiaphas to prepare the way for the death of his son. We read here in verse 49, but one of them, that is one of the council, Caiaphas , who was high priest that year, said to them, You know nothing at all. We would put it this way today. You don't know what you're talking about. Caiaphas did not take the course, How to Win Friends and Influence People. All right? He was a blunt-spoken man. He was the high priest. He had the authority and the power, and he'd been in office a long time at this He was very well connected. His father-in-law was the previous high priest. He was the most powerful man in that room. And after hearing these men speaking frantically and fearfully, he says, you don't know what you're talking about. You guys don't know the first thing about how to run things. He was a man who ruled from the year 18 to 36 in the first century, the longest tenure of any high priest in that century. He was a man who was known not for being godly, certainly, but for being shrewd and political and cunning and powerful. Josephus, the first century historian, tells us that the meetings in the Sanhedrin were often contentious, almost violence. You had the conservatives and the liberals, and they were hurling insults at one another, and they could never seem to agree on anything. And so this comment by Caivas kind of fits that. This was a tense, emotion-filled meeting. Now look with me at verse 50. He says, you know nothing at all, nor do you understand that it is better for you that one man should die for the people, not that the whole nation should perish. To Caiaphas, the solution is obvious. It's better that one man should die. This man, Jesus. Then the whole nation should perish. A reference here to the Romans coming in and putting down any kind of rebellion or resistance which would involve a great deal of bloodshed. When the Romans came in and crushed rebellion, they were very brutal about it. They wanted to leave a reminder, don't cross us again. And that's what these men fear is going to happen. Now I want you to notice That in this deliberative body there is no discussion about what is just or right. There is no concern for the well-being of Jesus The Sanhedrin was to be rooted and grounded in the principles of the Old Testament, God's law. It was to be a righteous and just and truthful seeking of what is right. But that's not what we find in this discussion. What Caiaphas is proposing is pure political expediency. It is sheer pragmatism. These men want to hold on to power, and they're going to do whatever it takes to keep that power, even if it involved murdering an innocent man. Now what's most fascinating about the Gospel of John is every so often John, the writer of this book will add a note of explanation or commentary on what just occurred that is very insightful. Look with me at verse 51 John writes, he did not say this of his own accord, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation. When John says that Caiaphas didn't speak of his own accord, he's not suggesting that he was coerced into saying what he did, but simply that he unknowingly said more than he intended. You see, the language that Caiaphas uses here of Jesus' death was wording that was used in the Old Testament for sacrifices, especially the preposition for. Which means in place of or on behalf of. He's to die for or in place of or behalf of the people. And Caiaphas was probably thinking and using language from the Old Testament, the Day of Atonement, and the Scapegoat. Jesus can be our scapegoat. We see this sort of thing other times in Scripture. Do you remember in the Old Testament, the book of Numbers, we read of a man named Balaam who was a mercenary prophet? He was a prophet for hire. And he speaks the truth of God, even though he didn't want to, but he was a wicked man. There's a sense in which we see this even in pro in Pilate, in this trial of Jesus. He says more than he realizes. He says, behold the man. The idea of that language is, he's saying it Cynically and sarcastically, like this is the ideal man, but he was speaking the truth. And he says, I find no fault in this man again and again, and this man hath done nothing amiss. These are all testaments, unintended testaments to the sinlessness of Christ. Pilate was not a godly man. But his words in the providence of God had more meaning than he knew Now it was generally known in the Old Testament times that sometimes the high priest would speak as a prophet. We read in the Old Testament that the high priest had on his vestments. Something called a Uram and Athuman. These are mysterious. We have little references to them here and there in the Old Testament. But sometimes somehow they indicated how the people should move forward or whether they should stay. There were there was a sense uh there were two stones in his in his uh in his pockets, and somehow they would indicate, I don't know if one of them would glow or not, or something when they asked question of it, but they knew what God wanted them to do. And we read in 2 Samuel 1527 that Zadok the high priest was a seer, and that word means a prophet. And there's historic examples in the history of Israel. For instance, there was a time in the 300s when Alexander the Great was coming near to Jerusalem. And everyone was terrified, and they thought that he is going to destroy Jerusalem like he has every other country because Alexander the Great never lost a battle. And the high priest told them that he will pass us by, that God had given him this revelation, and that's indeed what he did. He did not ransack Jerusalem. My point is there was there was a tradition that the high priest often spoke prophecy. And this is what John is alluding to. That Caiaphas said much more than he realized. Because Jesus would indeed die for the nation, but not just for the Jewish people. Look at verse 52. And not for that nation only, but also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. We see this reference to the Gentiles several times in the Gospel of John. In John 10, 16 he says, I have other sheep that are not of this fold, I must bring them also, and there will be one flock and one shepherd. And now I want you to look with me at verse 53. So from that day on, they made plans to put him to death. This was the conclusion of the meeting. All right, it's set. We are going to put him to death. Now, what is confusing about this is that we've been reading about their plans to put him to death since chapter 5 and verse 18. So what's different here? Well, they have been looking for opportunities for over a year to put Jesus to death. But now The stage is set, the die is cast, and they are determined that this is going to occur as soon as possible. Now I want you to notice something that's interesting, a detail that you may not have picked up on. There's a refrain in this paragraph. We have in verse 49 it says that Caiaphas, who was high priest that year. And then in verse 51, he did not say this of his own accord. But being high priest that year, he prophesied. And now verse 53, and from that day on they made plans to put him to death. What does he mean by that year? John is looking back some 60 years to this event, writing as a very elderly man, and he says. The idea of that fateful year. That year that would change everything. That year when Jesus would be crucified. And he would rise from the dead, and he would ascend into heaven, and the day of Pentecost would take place. That was the year where everything changed. in the course of human history. And now he's indicating in verse 53 that everything on the stage was set from that day. That meeting in the Sanhedrin, that day, they said, all right, it's set. We are going to murder him. We are going to kill him no matter what. It's amazing how everything can change in a day in the course of a person's life And it was this such a day that John is referring to. This murderous plot was all part of God's great plan of redemption. And then finally, the Father providentially used the approaching Passover to prepare the way for the death of his son. Look at verse 54, we have Jesus' response to this. Jesus therefore no longer walked openly among the Jews, but went from there to the region near the wilderness to a town called Ephraim, and there he stayed with his disciples. How did Jesus respond? He went away to a place called Ephraim or Ephron, which is about 12 or 15 miles north of Jerusalem. Now 12 or 15 miles is not very far to us. I drove further than that this morning coming to church. But in the ancient world where people walk places, 12 or 15 miles was a long ways away. And so he was safe there. Jesus was not being a coward. He was doing the will of his father, and his will was that he would die on the Passover. not on any days before. And so he is spending some quiet time with his disciples before he boldly and courageously will enter into Jerusalem. on what we call Holy Week. Now look with me at verse 55. Now the Passover of the Jews was at hand, and many went up from the country to Jerusalem before the Passover to purify themselves. In Numbers 11, we read that Moses made provision for those who were ceremonially unclean to purify themselves before the Passover. And so People already a week or two before the Passover are coming into the city and they're going through these rituals to become ceremonially pure. So they can partake of the Passover. These are the people who are really, really serious and zealous for their faith. You know, there's people who like to show up early at church. I mean like an hour or two before it starts. And those people are generally pretty committed people. That was the case of these individuals here. And what John is illustrating now by these people who came early into Jerusalem was the topic of conversation. What was everyone talking about? Because this was a great social gathering. Verse 56, they were looking for Jesus and saying to one another as they stood in the temple, What do you think? That he will not come to the feast at all? The wording of their question is they didn't think that he would come. It's just too dangerous. There's no way Jesus is going to appear at this Passover. Yes. He comes to the other feast days, but but the tension is too high. And they knew the intention of the religious leaders. Look at verse 57. Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders. that if anyone knew where he was, he should let them know so they might arrest him. He was a wanted man. This is like an all-points bulletin. Everyone knows, and most people were saying, there's no way that Jesus is coming. It's too dangerous. He's not going to come But they did not realize that he was devoted to doing the will of his father. John here is alerting the reader that something monumental is about to occur at this Passover. Because at this Passover, Jesus would fulfill all of the previous Passovers. For about 1,500 years, the Jewish people had been celebrating the Passover as Moses had instituted. And all of those passed over, there was a lamb that was slain, and his blood was shed. And Jesus now at this coming Passover. is going to fulfill all of them. He is going to die as the Lamb of God for the sins of the world. And all of those ceremonies that they had faithfully performed for all of these years. all pointed to this Passover and Jesus' death in place of sinful people. So let me ask you this morning, have you trusted in him as your Savior? Let me mention just a few points as we conclude of application. Number one, when Christ is revealed, people will always be divided. I don't have the time to go through the four times in this gospel where John mentions that when Christ is revealed, people are divided. Some believe, some do not believe. Ultimately, this is the only two options. You can't be like Switzerland and say, I want to be neutral. To be neutral is to fail to believe. It's one or the other. When Christ is revealed, when Christ is preached, people are always divided. Number two, those who reject Christ don't do so for lack of evidence. These religious leaders had a wealth of evidence that pointed to the unmistakable fact that Jesus was the promised Messiah. And yet they would not believe. Because Jesus was not the kind of Messiah they were looking for. They were looking for a political Messiah who would ally and work with them in overthrowing Rome. But Jesus did not come as that kind of Messiah. And following Jesus was just too costly in their estimation. Thirdly, we should find comfort in the fact that God providentially is in control of every detail of our lives. His control is never on pause or overthrown. I want you to notice that Jesus died in the way the Father wanted him to die, high and lifted up, at the time he wanted him to die at the Passover. And in a symbolic way that pointed to that sacrifice that they had been celebrating for all of these years. This points to the fact that God is sovereign over all the details of our life, not only the life of Christ, but our lives as well. This is an important thing for believing people to realize. That God the Father, who has begun a good work in us, will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. In every one of our lives There's going to be unexpected twists and turns and problems and difficulties that we never anticipated But God knew, and God has placed them in our lives for our good. And so when crisis comes into your life, do not look at the secondary causes. of why did that person do this? Or why did God allow this? But see ultimately the purpose and the hand of God in this. And the final thing I want to mention this morning is that we should recognize that Jesus died as a substitute for sinners. This is not some old out-of-date theory. It is the gospel. Caiaphas unintentionally professes the truth, and this truth is at the very core of the gospel of salvation. Jesus is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. He is the good shepherd who lays down his life for the sheep. Isaiah 53 says he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Peter says he himself bore our sins in his body on the tree. He says that Christ suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God. Paul says that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. This is not some superficial aspect of Christianity, that the wrath of God was appeased, was satisfied at the cross through the death of Christ. It may be disturbing, it may be graphic, but it's at the very heart of the gospel, and we dare not deny it. Because it's God's only plan of redemption. So what is your hope of salvation? When you stand before God someday, what will you say in your defense? Can you say, my hope is in the Lord who gave himself for me and paid the price for all my sin? at Calvary. This is the only gospel that will save. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it is filled with treasure, that strengthens our faith, and reminds us of who we are and of the great Savior that we are trusting in. I pray that you would help us. To rest in your sovereign care, and that we would never abandon the glorious gospel that you have revealed in your word And Father, for those who are here this morning who have yet to trust in Christ, I pray that today, this day, would change everything, that it would be a monumental day when they move from darkness to light. And that their eyes would be open, Father. We pray that you would do this for your glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.