If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Luke chapter 15? Luke 15, so good to have you here this morning. About 20 years ago, the World's Fair of Money was held in Baltimore And the major attraction at the convention that year was the display of the four most valuable nickels in the world. These nickels all had the date of 1913 on them, but they were not buffalo nickels, and buffalo nickels began being minted in 1913. It seems a worker at the MENT in 1912 set the date wrong on the die, and five were made before the mistake was discovered. For over a century, private collectors knew about four of the nickels, but the location of the fifth remained a mystery. It seems that a man kept this valuable coin hidden for many years, fearful that it might be taken from him. He died in an automobile accident in 1962. And his relatives found this nickel in a special box that was hidden in his car. They took the coin to a local dealer who looked at it quickly and said it was an obvious fake And so they put the box in a closet and forgot about it for four decades. But when they heard about the world's fare on money, They decided to bring the nickel to the world's leading appraisers, who gathered and examined the coin for several hours. The next morning at the convention, they announced that the long-lost 1913 nickel had been found and that it was worth well over $1 million. Everyone likes the story of something that was lost and then found. We can all identify with the sorrow of losing something that was precious to us and the joy of recovering a treasure we thought was lost forever. This morning we're looking in Luke 15 at a chapter that is known by some as the lost and found of the New Testament. We're looking at the middle of a trilogy of parables. And we're looking at the least known of these three. The first one is the parable of the lost sheep, and the last is the famous parable of the prodigal son. And right in the middle is a very short parable known as the parable of the lost coin. It's the least known for at least two reasons. Number one, it seems redundant to most readers. It's so like the parable of the lost sheep that it seems redundant to many. Indeed, it is similar. It's been described as a twin parable. And you'll notice that the Lord introduces this parable with one word in verse 8. He says, either. That's it. And of course, that connects it to what has just come before. But when the Lord repeats himself , It's because he is emphasizing a vital truth that we are prone to forget. There have been many fine books that have been, excuse me, written on the parables. One was written by a great Baptist preacher named Benjamin Keach. She died in 1704. And he preached 140 some messages on the parables. I will not be going that long in my series. And on this particular parable and the fact that the parable lost coin is so similar and uh is repeating the same truth, he said That this parable was like the Lord taking up a hammer and hitting the nail with another mighty blow, lest this truth escape our notice. This is why God repeats himself in his word, because he's hammering that truth into our heads so we don't forget it. Another reason that this parable is less popular is frankly because we find the loss of a fuzzy sheep much more touching than the loss of a coin. One is an animate object, it's alive, and the other is not. Now some preachers in the past have seen These three parables, a picture of the work of the Trinity in our salvation. In the first parable we read of The search of the shepherd, and of course, that is identified in Scripture as the Good Shepherd, our Savior And in the last parable in this chapter, the parable of the prodigal son, we see a wonderful picture of a loving father. and his delight at the return of his lost son, obviously reflecting our Heavenly Father. And so many preachers assume that the searching woman in this middle parable must reflect the work of the Holy Spirit in the salvation of sinners. That is possible, but it's certainly not something that you can establish from the text. Now, last week I mentioned that there are three threads of truth. that are woven into every one of these stories. I wonder if you remember what they are. They're not that hard to remember. First of all, there is the sense of sorrow over something that is lost that's found in all three of these parables. Then, of course, there is the joy in finding what was lost. And the third one is not as prominent, but it's very much there in all three of them, and that is repentance is mentioned. It's mentioned in the refrain after the parable of the shepherd finding the lost sheep and then of the lost coin, and it's pictured vividly in that prodigal son. going back to his father with a broken, contrite heart. In each of these stories, the item that was lost did not deserve to be found or recovered. Because God's rescue of the lost is always an act of grace. Now let me remind you that these three parables We're told to answer an objection that's mentioned in the first three verses of this chapter. Look with me there, please. Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him. And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners and eateth with them. And he spake this parable unto them So specifically, the purpose of this parable was directed towards the Pharisees They saw the crowds of sinners flocking to hear our Savior's words, and they asked him, why do you mingle with such people? That was unthinkable to them. Why do you eat with them and talk with them and show them respect and courtesy? Why do you waste your time with thieves and adulterers and tax collectors? Aren't you concerned with your reputation? Don't you realize the principle of guilt by association? Don't you realize that God hates these people and delights to judge them? These three parables are Jesus' response to those kinds of questions, those kinds of objections. And if I could summarize Jesus' message in these three parables to one statement, it would be this, the reason why Jesus would say I give these sinful people such attention is because my Father delights to graciously rescue lost, repentant sinners. Now last week I asked you a question. If you respond to notoriously wicked people more like the Pharisees Or more like Jesus. Unfortunately, the leaven of the Pharisees is always in danger of creeping into the church. Even good Christian people who have a desire that their growth not be stunted by the influence of the wicked world in which we live and a desire that their children and their families be protected, which are all noble desires. can easily come to the position that we just need to isolate ourselves away from the world and reject and ignore those who are perishing and lost. If we are not corrected by the teaching of Jesus, it is so easy for us to become proud, self-righteous, and isolated from sinners who need the gospel. It's so easy for us to develop a fortress mentality and never interact with the lost in our community. To an every one of our social engagements be with nothing but Christian people who think the way we do. and to sort of cocoon ourselves away from those who desperately need to hear the gospel. I want us to look this morning at the central parable and notice the right view of lost sinners. Christians should reflect Jesus' loving concern for lost parables. So let's begin by looking at this parable in verse 8. Jesus says, either what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, doth not light a candle and sweep the house, and seek diligently till she find it. The Lord was speaking to poor peasant people who lived hand to mouth that were surrounding him there. Their life was simple and heart. They were not the educated elite, but the common laborers. Notice that in the first parable he addresses the men, saying, What man of you? Many of the men, either as boys, were shepherds, Or their sons were shepherds, or they knew people certainly who were shepherds. It really connected with them. But now he addresses the women in his audience in verse 8. This may not be significant to you or to us today. We don't take any notice of this, but it was revolutionary in the time of Christ, and I'm sure his audience picked up on it. Wow, this is different. The Pharisees would have never addressed the women in public. The rabbis never made reference to the women in their addresses. The rabbis taught that women were inferior and that they were not equipped to understand theological matters, but the Lord knew otherwise. And he addresses them with a story that they could all relate to. He says, what woman having ten pieces of silver? The word pieces is the Greek word drachma. It is a reference to a coin. It is the equivalent of the Roman coin, the denarius. It was made of silver and was worth a working man's wage for a day. It was not a lot of money. But if you were living hand to mouth, it's hard to save even a day's wage. Most women were keepers of the domestic finances, and so the loss of one-tenth of the family savings was a great loss. Perhaps this woman feared telling her husband about it, and so she begins this intense search. Other commentators have suggested that perhaps she was a widow. And therefore income was even more difficult for her to earn. We see here a progressive building of the value of lost items in these three parables. It begins with one in a hundred, one sheep in a hundred. And then the next parables 1 and 10. And then the final parable, the prodigal son, is one of two sons. I think there's more going on here in this parable than just a loss of income. And so do most scholars. The likelihood is that what Jesus is referring to is a specific piece of jewelry known as a cemeti. It was a necklace of sorts, but it was worn over a woman's hair and forehead, kind of like a crown. It is still worn in some cultures in the Middle East today. It's likely that Jesus saw his mother Mary wearing this headdress on occasion. It consisted of ten silver coins. It was a priceless heirloom to these poor peasant women It was something that was passed down from mother to daughter often at her wedding. In fact, the law said that the husband had no right to to interfere with this. It was the only thing in the world that was truly her own. And it was the most precious possession that any peasant woman had This ten silver coins formed a set, and if one was missing, it was obvious to all there would be a noticeable gap. This priceless heirloom would be marred. There's even some indication that people looked upon the loss of a coin as a sign that a wife had been unfaithful to her husband. Now I'll give you this cultural background so that you realize how precious this coin was to this poor woman. To lose this heirloom was to lose her honor and status in society. And this explains why she looks so diligently to find this lost coin Four phases describe the intense search of this desperate woman. First of all, notice she lights a candle. The homes of peasants were one room homes. This is hard for us to think of today, but if You were to look down throughout the history of humanity, you would probably discover that most people in the history of the world have lived in a one-room home. Isn't that amazing to us? But it is the truth. We would think this home was very, very dark. These homes generally had no windows. Or if they had a window, it was very, very small. There was a low door that was kept open during the day that let in a little light But if you were to walk into that dwelling as a 21st century American, if we could go back in time, we would be overwhelmed with how small and how dark that dwelling was. And if something was lost in there in that darkness, you cannot possibly hope to find it. And so the first thing that she does is she lights a candle. And then secondly, she sweeps the house. This is a sensitive topic, but the reality is that what is considered clean differs in different cultures of the world. We in America tend to put a real premium on cleanliness. And you've all heard the expression, cleanliness is next to godliness, right? And I think if we could go back in time and go into that woman's house, our ladies here would think she was not a very good homekeeper because it was dirty. Their floors would have likely have been dirt floors packed hard from foot traffic. And believe it or not, animals were often brought in at night to sleep in that one-room house. And so what they would do is they would put straw down on the floor over top. of that packed down earth, and that was the floor. So she was literally looking for a needle in a haystack. So you can picture her trying to brush away the straw and this debris and the dust flying as she's looking for this one small silver coin. She turned her house upside down. Because a little temporary inconvenience was a small price to pay for finding this precious coin. We also read that she seeks diligently. This desperate woman left no stone unturned. This was no casual search. She gave her full attention to finding this coin. Everything else she had planned to do that day was put on hold because she must find this coin. I suspect that she went over her house more than once. You ever lost something and looked for it? Or maybe you know people that this happens to on a regular basis? You go and you look someplace, and then you look other places, and then what do you do? You go back to where you just looked. I looked through this drawer before, but I'm looking through it again. And lo and behold, it's not there just like it wasn't there before. I'm always amused by some people because they begin to looking at very illogical places. Maybe somehow it flew up there. I'll look over here Somehow it may have gotten up there. When people are desperately looking for something, they often backtrack and look over these things again and again. And then we read fourthly that she looked until she found it. This is parallel to what we find in the first parable. Would you look with me at the very last phrase in verse 4 of the good shepherd? It says he sought that lost sheep until he findets. And here we find at the end of verse 8, and seek diligently till she find it. She didn't stop looking after some time. No, she kept looking until she finally saw the gleam of that silver coin. shining out from the straw and the dust. Why did she search her home so persistently? This is speculation, but I suspect that she worked it out in her mind that the last time she saw that coin, it was in her home. That's what you do when you lose something, right? You go back and you think to yourself, when was the last time that I had my keys? When was the last time that I used my cell phone? Where it has to be where I last used it And you try to backtrack in your mind and think about those things. And that's what this woman did undoubtedly. And she realized, all right I haven't taken it out of this home. It's got to be in this home somewhere. I don't know where it is, but it's here somewhere. And because she knew it was there, she diligently sought for it. And she had confidence that she would find it if she persevered, because it had to be here. And this is very instructive for us. Her house was small, one room, and she was confident that it was just a matter of time before she found it. We don't know how long she searched, but we do know that she finally found it. And when she found it, she could hardly contain her joy for a moment. Look with me at verse 9. And when she had found it, she called her friends and her neighbors together, saying, Rejoice with me. For I have found the peace which I have lost. And both this parable and the one that precedes it At least half of the parable is taken up with the rejoicing that came about from finding that which was lost. I think it's easy for us to kind of overlook this part and not find it as interesting. But this is really what Jesus is emphasizing: the joy that came about. And the joy that was shared. I mentioned to you last week when we looked at the parable of the lost sheep, that when we really find something that thrills our souls, we cannot help but share it with others. When you have really, really good news, it demands to be shared. You want, you instinctively want others that have the same joy that you have, and you want to share it with them. Jesus is saying to these Pharisees, this is the way you should view the truth. It should be something that you want to share. And the salvation of the sinner is something that you should want to make known to others. Now in verse 9, the nouns friends and neighbors are both feminine and gender. She shared her news with all the women in the village, and this makes sense. They lived in a tight-knit community with the houses all bunched together. We as Americans tend to like We have different trends, but we tend to like big pieces of land and tall fences and some distance between us and our neighbors. At least that's the way it is in Carroll County. But it wasn't like that in the ancient world. In their world, you wanted to live close to people for security reasons. You wanted to have neighbors close by in case a group came through to pillage uh the people that you were ready and you could join forces and defend yourselves and And they did not have very much of an independent lifestyle. They have more of a community idea of living and of bartering and so forth. So you needed neighbors and friends to get through life. And so these these little homes, these little huts, we would say, were all bunched closely together. So she just had to step out of her door. And speak to all of her friends and neighbors, the ladies around them, because the men had already gone to work into the fields and so forth. So the village during the day was full of women and children. The implication is that this desperate woman had shared her plight earlier with the other ladies in the village. Perhaps they were even praying that she would find it. They saw the concern on her face when she told them it was missing, and they also saw the relief in her beaming countenance when she told them that she had found it. You see, good news demands to be shared. And then the Lord concludes with nearly identical words. With the first parable. And this verse serves as kind of a refrain. Look with me at verse 10. Likewise, I say unto you. There is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth. In verse 7 we read, I say unto you likewise, joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth more than over ninety-nine just persons which need no repentance. There is some difference there, obviously, but the message is still the same. There are two things that stand out about these two refraints. One is The joy was over just one sinner that repented. Wasn't talking about a great revival where hundreds and hundreds of people were saved. Yes, that would be cause for rejoicing. But his emphasis is on just the one. And the same is here. Now let me ask you in verse 10. Who is the one who is rejoicing? It says in verse 7, joy in heaven. That's very nebulous. In verse 10, it says, joy in the presence of the angels. We often talk about the angels rejoicing at the salvation of the sinner. That is true But what this verse is saying is that the joy that the angels experience is simply a reflection of the joy of God over a sinner that repents. That's the picture here. The delight that God experiences when a sinner is saved. That this woman finding this lost coin or the shepherd finding this lost sheep, those are pale illustrations of the delight and the joy that God has when a sinner comes to repentance and believes the gospel. This is an amazing thing. This is something that we need to get a hold of. So Jesus' answer to the Pharisees' criticism in this parable is this. If the finding of a lost coin is worthy of celebration, how much more the rescue of a lost soul. So what does this ancient and culturally remote story mean to us living in the 21st century? I just want to make two brief applications. Number one, we should recognize that every human soul is priceless. I touched on this last week, but I want to go a little deeper into it today. I don't want to get philosophical, but I do want to get anchored in biblical doctrine. So what is it that makes human life valuable That is a very important question to answer. It determines the way a culture or society will treat individuals. Let's talk for a moment about how the world values people. How does the world conclude whether or not a person is important, prominence, worthy of protection? And privilege. Well, one thing would be: if we're honest, people are valued for the way they look. This is becoming increasingly true in our culture. We live in a celebrity culture. Every time you turn on your news feed, there are stories there about celebrities, about the beautiful people. And the people that we see on our televisions and in movies are all people that are good-looking people. And the result is that we have all kinds of problems with people feeling that they're inadequate and ugly and They don't look good and somehow they're defective because what they constantly have put before him is this is what makes a person valuable and important, simply the way they look. Even many lost people realize that's a very superficial way of looking at people. And in generations past, there was a great emphasis placed on character, even among lost, unregenerate people, that you measure a person not by how they look. But by their character. Is this person responsible? Are they obedient? Are they faithful? Are they trustworthy? These are the things that are important. These are the virtues we must instill in our children. But everything in our popular culture today is undermining those traditional and biblical values. Secondly, people are valued for their talents. God gifts are good things. And the reality is that some people have more talent than others. But God's not impressed with a person's athletic, musical, or intellectual ability. They are gifts given from Him, and they are very Faint reflections of our God who has all ability in his person Thirdly, people in the world are valued for their money or for their ability to make money. People with money have always gotten privileged treatment in the world. It's always been that way, and it's still that way today. But Jesus said, a man's life does not consist of the abundance of things which he possesseth. Unfortunately, even Christians are often impressed by a person's wealth or by a person's looks, but this is not the measure of a person. Fourthly, people are often valued for their ability to contribute to society. This is a very utilitarian approach. What happens when a culture only values people by them pulling their own weight and contributing to society? Well, a culture that embraces that doctrine will look around and say, well, there's some people in our society who really don't contribute anything. They only use up resources. Maybe those who are disabled or those who are elderly and infirmed who can't work. who can't care for themselves anymore? Or about little infants that maybe have no potential because of disabilities and other limitations that they might have been born with to really become productive citizens. What is such a society that makes this utilitarian approach of productivity the measure of things? Well those individuals are to be discarded. They're worthless. They're not helping. They're a burden to c society and culture. We don't look at things that way, fortunately, for the most part, because of our Judeo-Christian heritage. But in many places of the world, they do look at things that way. Christians have always been absolutely opposed to abortion and euthanasia. You can look back through the history of the church. Their position has been clear and constant on this. And it's because a human being's value is not determined by what they can do. It's because of who they are, that they have been made in the image of God. Just as a coin has the stamp of some famous person upon it, so every human being has been stamped with the image of God's. Theologians for centuries have been writing large books about what that means. And it means quite a bit. I'm just going to mention three things because the point of my sermon is not the image of God. It means, first of all, that every human being has the capacity to have a relationship with God that animals and plants do not possess. In our days of radical environmentalism, we have been taught that animals and plants and man are all pretty much On the same level, we're just different species, but the God's Word says something very different. We have an ability to have a relationship with God. that no other creature in the universe has that capacity to do so. Secondly, it means that all human beings have a sense of right and wrong and are accountable to God for their actions. We've all been made with a conscience. We all have a sense, an inherent sense of morality. that some things are right and some things are wrong, not simply because our culture or society tells us so, but because something deep inside of us tells us this is right or wrong. Thirdly, it also means that every human being has a soul that will live somewhere forever. Man has to be taught that there's nothing beyond the grave. He has to be educated in this realm because man instinctively knows that there is something beyond the grave. This is why every culture in the world has a story, a knowledge of life after death. Because man instinctively knows deep in the recesses of his being because he's been stamped with the image of God and God is an eternal being. that there must be something beyond the grave, that he's not just here for a few years and then gone as if he never was here. This is why Jesus said, for what shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Yes, the image of God has been distorted and degraded by the fall, but even the lowest sinner has a soul of inestimable worth. Our lost family members, neighbors, co-workers are people that have been stamped with the image of God and who desperately need to be saved. The second point of application I'm going to make is this. We should all intentionally seek lost sinners like our Savior. I mentioned to you last week that Jesus was active in seeking sinners, whereas the Pharisees took a passive approach. Let them come to us. And sometimes Christians have done this. I remember reading years ago about the difference between the different generations of missionaries. Missionaries would go to a foreign culture where there was no remnants of Christianity and they would preach and they would disciple and they would evangelize and they would die there. But sometimes by the third generation they said the missionaries that were there who'd grown up there would simply ring the church bell on Sunday morning and hope the people would come. Jesus says we should seek lost sinners. We must be like the woman in this parable who was focused on finding that lost coin. She lit a candle and swept the house and diligently searched every square inch of her abode, and she didn't give up until she found it. So how diligently are we seeking lost souls? I'm going to ask you some questions. Just questions That might be convicting to you. This is a warning. Let me ask you, did you share the gospel with anybody? In 2019, this last year, we're just a little bit into a new year. So anybody you shared the gospel with in 2019. Did you invite anyone to church? Did you give anyone a gospel tract to read? Did you share your testimony of how you came to faith in Christ with anyone last year? Did you intentionally cultivate a relationship with a lost person so that you would have a good opportunity to share the gospel with them? I don't want to leave it there. I know that many of you are thinking in your minds right now, and you're thinking, no. But I did not ask these questions or preach this message just to make you feel bad and say, yeah, I guess I failed again. No, we're just into a new year. I want you to think about the lost people that you know And if you were to say to me, well, to be honest with you, Pastor, I don't know any lost people. That's a problem right there. You have isolated yourselves too far away from this lost and dying world. I want to encourage you and challenge you to intentionally think about someone that you come across Someone who perhaps would listen to you that you can, maybe a coworker, maybe a neighbor, maybe a distant relative, but somebody that you can cultivate a relationship with. You can go out of your way to spend time with them and to be around them and to engage them and then seek to share your faith with them. Not like you just walk up to them and blast them with the gospel, but someone who has a relationship with you and cares for you and will listen to you. If every believer here were to do that with just one person in 2020, it would make a tremendous difference. It would do a work in your own hearts. It would do a work in their life, and there would be people who by the grace of God would come to Christ. The Bible has called us to be light wherever we are. Jesus said Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven In Philippians chapter 2, Paul writes, that you may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation among whom you shine as lights. in the world. You see, there's two aspects to this. There is our verbal testimony where we speak for Christ, but then there is our The witness of our lives, where in our workplace, in our homes, in our neighborhoods, we are living as those who have been called out of darkness into his light We all instinctively know they will not do for us to witness to people who can say, hey, wait about, what about you? What about this that you do? What about this that you say? That's one reason why many Christians are mute. And say nothing for Christ because they know they've blown it many times in the past. So let me ask you, will you let your light shine this coming year? And seek out and pray that God would work in the heart of one individual that you would like to see come to Christ in this coming year. In 2003, there was a news story which was very touching. The story concerned a poor girl that was found in Afghanistan by our troops in 2001. She was about ten years old, and she had been horribly burned in a house fire, and the fire had grossly deformed her body. Her jawbone had been melted into her chest. Her eyes and mouth could not be closed. Her one arm was fused to her body. The doctors in Afghanistan simply told the parents to pray for her to die. But her father could not bear to see his daughter in such agony, and so he took her in his arms to the American military officials and pleaded with them to take her and help her. This was beyond what they were ordered to do. They were there to take care of wounded soldiers. But they couldn't turn away this distorted little girl. She was eventually flown to California And over two years she had many, many surgeries. And her plastic surgeon ended up adopting her and taking her to live in his own home. Because his heart had become so touched by her agony that he wanted her for his own daughter. See, when we really get involved in the lives of people and we see the agony and the misery and the burden of their sin and we work with them. And we pray for them and we love them, then God will truly work through us to bring the good news of the gospel to them. May God help us to be faithful and diligently seeking the lost as Christ was in seeking us. Father, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you that it's convicting and challenging and comforting all at the same time. We pray that you would help us to be faithful. And to recognize that you use weak, flawed people like us to bring the good news of the gospel. To people who are fallen and in the bondage of iniquity. Help us, Father, to be faithful ambassadors of the gospel. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.