Have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to the book of Hebrews? Hebrews chapter two In 1969, the Gulf Coast braced itself for the blow of a great hurricane, Hurricane Camille. Weather forecasters accurately predicted that this would be one of the strongest hurricanes ever to hit the United States, and it still holds some records today. But a group of people in Mississippi decided to have a hurricane party Their apartment complex was only 250 feet from the ocean. The local police chief stopped by at their party and earnestly entreated them to evacuate. But they laughed at him. They said the only way they would leave is if he arrested them and he could not practically do that. And so he left. And at 1015 that night, the wind speed reached 205 miles per hour. On that beach, and the surge wave came and washed away that apartment complex, and all twenty adults who remained at that hurricane party perished. Even though they were repeatedly warned. This morning, as we come to our study of the book of Hebrews, we come to the first Of five warning passages in this book. If you were with us for the first Sunday when we started the series, I told you that this book was famous for its warning passages. Well, this is the first one. This happens to be the shortest and the mildest of the five. They will grow longer and more severe as we make our way through the book. Look with me at verse 1. He says, therefore we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard Lest at any time we should let them slip. The unknown pastor who wrote the book of Hebrews begins by calling on his readers to give earnest heed to what they have heard. And then he gives some reasons why they should, which is found in the structure of an admonition, a warning. He does so because there were some apparently in this early first century Jewish church. Who were considering abandoning the gospel and going back to Judaism because suffering was on its way. There had been persecution at the founding of this church, but then it seems like there had been some stability and things were more calm, but now probably with the advent of a new emperor by the name of Nero, the persecution was being ratcheted up again, and there were people who were wondering if it was really worth it. Because it could cost them ultimately their life. And so they were making these considerations. And so the author writes this book to warn them not to go back because Christ is so much better. Notice that the first word in this new chapter is the word therefore The author is indicating that what he's about to say is based on what he has been saying. You may recall if you've been with us that he has just given Seven different scriptural quotations from the Old Testament that demonstrate that Jesus is certainly better than any angel. And now he is going to pause in his exposition, and he's going to turn to exhortation If you'll notice in verse 5 of this chapter, he's going to go back to angels. He's not finished with that topic. He's going to look at some more Old Testament passages. He's going to make some more arguments why Christ is better than angels. But like a good preacher, he's pausing in his exposition, and he's going to plead with them from his hearts. He's going to apply what he's already said. This is what good preachers have always done. They pepper their sermons with heartfelt application. Essentially, the author is saying since Jesus is superior to angels, and he is the divine Son of God , who made the universe and rules over all, the Son who has made atonement for your sins, why would you ever consider for a moment to go back to your old ways, to go back to the law, to go back to Judaism And so he calls on them here to give the more earnest heed to the things that we have heard. Now, what is striking about this exhortation Is that the preacher includes himself in it? He doesn't say, hey, you better be careful, you people. Notice he says we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard. You see, he doesn't consider himself to be removed from this application. He has to guard his own heart. He has to make sure himself that he's not drifting away. Now, what is the message that this people have heard? Well, it's the gospel. But what exactly is he calling on them to do with this gospel? To give earnest heed. Some versions render this phrase to pay closer attention. The clear implication is that they have not been giving the gospel the due consideration that they should And then he says, lest at any time we should let them slip. Now the Greek word that is translated let slip is found only here in the Bible. So it's a rare and specific word. It was used in the ancient world to describe a ring slipping off a finger without it being noticed. Sometimes when our wives are washing dishes they will take the ring off before they do because they know that it could be that that soapy water will make that ring just slip right off and it could be lost forever in that drain. And that's one of the pictures here. Another picture is that of the it's slipping your memory. Have you ever had met someone and their name is on the tip of your tongue and you know these people like really well, and yet you can't remember their names. Many of you are nodding your heads, and you tend to be close to my age. The young people are looking like, I wonder what that's like. That's one idea of this term. But most Bible scholars see a nautical background to this term. You see, it was often used in the ancient world to describe a ship that had drifted from its moorings. It came into harbor, anchor would set down, And perhaps the crew left, or perhaps some slept on board, but in the morning when they woke up, they were way out to sea, because in the night it had slowly drifted away with the wind. So it describes a gradual, often imperceptible change that in times becomes dangerous and often deadly. Now, what is this analogy referring to? Well, there are like two parts of this. It could be referring to someone who becomes spiritually backslidden. It is possible, unfortunately, that instead of progressing in our Christian walk over the years, like God has called us to That instead of progressing, we regress. We go backwards. We become less close with the Lord We don't walk with him as we ought. We don't go to church as we should. We don't pray as we ought. We don't Spend time in the Word as we should. And perhaps it happens gradually and slowly, and we become very lethargic in our Christian walk. I used to think when I was a young man, you know, when you're a young person, you don't realize the kind of attitudes and energy that you have that is distinctive of being young. You just think it's just always going to be that way. I'm always going to think this way. I'm always going to feel this way. I'm always going to have the energy and the capability that I have now. But you learn later, no, it doesn't work that way. And one of the things that I used to always believe is that as you grow older, you become more spiritually mature. You become more enthusiastic about the gospel. You just keep growing and growing and growing and growing. And if only I could be like these spiritual mentors that I have. And there are, thank the Lord, people who do grow and they become so spiritually wise and mature. But there are also, unfortunately, a lot of people who really become lethargic and cynical, and they become a shell of the Christian that they once were. But this drifting away can also, and I think that's the way the author is using it primarily here, be a reference to apostasy. Apostasy is when a person who once professed to be a follower of Christ in time renounces their faith and falls away. Often to onlookers this appears to happen suddenly. But in actuality, that person has been drifting away for years and years. It might be hidden. But that has been taking place. Now let me remind you, as I've said several other times in this series That I'm not suggesting that a truly born-again believer will lose their salvation. However, it's very possible for a person who seems to be a Christian To abandon their faith and go back to their old lifestyle. And since preachers cannot see people's hearts, this first-century pastor warns his readers, who probably included both genuine believers and false believers to give earnest attention to the gospel because the gospel is our only hope. Now I want you to notice that verse 1 contains the admonition, the warning. Don't let this slip. Give earnest heed to the gospel. And then verses 2, 3, and 4 are providing two reasons why Christians should carefully focus on the gospel. So I want to preach to this morning on this truth that Christians must give earnest attention to the gospel lest we drift away. And the first reason that is given is because God will certainly condemn us if we drift away from the gospel. The author of Hebrews is now going to explain why we must give earnest attention to the gospel. He begins in verse 2 with the word for. This is a word of explanation. And what we find here is an argument from lesser to greater. If this is true, then certainly this must be true. This was probably the most common form of argumentation among the rabbis of this time. And so the readers would have been very familiar with this logical structure. Verse 2 contains the lesser end of that proposition. And the first part of verse 3 provides the greater. Now, what is this word spoken by angels? You might scratch your head if you've read that sometime. I don't recall the angels speaking the word Well, the author here is probably alluding to a passage in Deuteronomy 33 and verse 2, which speaks of the Lord coming to Mount Sinai with 10,000 of his saints. And it says, and from his right hand went a fiery law. Now when we hear the word saints We think of believers, we think of human beings, but the term literally means holy ones. And in light of other scriptures, that is undoubtedly a reference to angels. In Acts chapter 7 and verse 53, we read of the children of Israel receiving the law by the disposition of angels. And in Galatians 3. 19, we read that the law was ordained by Angels. And what is in reference here is the giving of the Mosaic Law Angels had a significant part in that. If you have been following me in recent weeks, you know that this is why he is saying that Christ is so much better than angels because the angels are inextricably connected with the Mosaic law. And so in essence he's saying Christ is so much better than than what you were taught and the Mosaic law and the Judaism that you came from. Now notice how this law is described. He doesn't say that it was defective or something. He said that it was steadfast. That is, it's reliable and trustworthy. And then he says, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense of reward. In other words, he's saying the law of God was not a set of suggestions that people could violate without consequence. No, God has always taken sin very seriously. Now let me give you some examples of the punishment that God prescribed for the violations of his law. Did you know That in the Old Testament, the law required the death penalty for at least 22 different sins. I'm not going to read all 22, but let me give you just a sampling of it. Murder was the or excuse me, um execution was the penalty for murder. Kidnapping, adultery, homosexuality, incest, striking parents, human sacrifice, false prophets, profaning the Sabbath sacrificing to a false god, occultic practices, persistent rebellion against God-ordained authority, rape, cursing parents, and the list goes on and on Capital punishment was the just penalty. Let me remind you of a few historic events that we read of in the Old Testament. In Leviticus chapter 10, we read that God killed Nadab and Abihu because they offered strange fire before the Lords. We're not absolutely sure what exactly that means. Scholars have different suggestions, but we know that it displeased the Lord and they were executed. In Numbers 21, we read of the Lord sending fiery serpents because the people complained during the wilderness wandering. And in Joshua chapter 7, we read of Achan and his family being executed because he stole an expensive garment and a wedge of gold in battle, contrary to the command of God. In Numbers fifteen, we read of a man gathering sticks on the Sabbath day. And Moses goes before the Lord because the Bible didn't specify exactly how you could violate the Sabbath day. And the Lord said, this man should be killed for his crime. In 2 Samuel chapter 6, we read of them moving the ark back after it had been Taken by the Philistines, and there was a man there by the name of Uzzah who put up his hand to steady the Ark of the Covenant because it went through like a threshing floor and there was like a rut there and the The cart tipped a little bit, so he put his hand up and he was struck dead instantly. And David was not pleased with that Now, how do you feel about God's judgment? Perhaps you think it's harsh, unfair, or even barbaric. Well, here in Hebrews chapter 2 and verse 2, we read that God's punishment is always just. Those people got, according to the Word of God, exactly what they deserved. Now the argument that the author of Hebrews is making is this. If God judged people for disobeying his word in the Old Testament, How much more will he judge those who reject his final word, the Son of God, today? Now I suspect that as I was reading off these various crimes that required capital punishment and some of the examples of people that were struck dead. Dead by the Lord, perhaps you were thinking to yourself, I'm so glad that I live in the day of grace when God is not so strict and legalistic. But I want you to know that God has not changed. And his feelings about sin have not changed God is still holy and just, and he will not overlook our sin. It is true that we are no longer under a theocracy. But God's opinion about sin has not changed. Now look with me, please, at the first part of verse 3 of chapter 2. The author is going to employ a rhetorical question. He says, How shall we escape if we neglect so great? Salvation. So what is the intended answer to this question? The answer, of course, is that we're not going to escape If God brought about just judgment in the Old Testament, he will certainly bring about just judgment in the New Testament. Now the comparison here may have escaped you a little bit, so let me try to explain this. He's probably referring to the physical judgment of death. That was the penalty so often in the Old Testament. And it seems like God doesn't take sin as seriously in the New Testament because we don't live on a theocracy. But let me remind you that we still have examples of God striking people down in the church age. We still have examples of like Ananias and Sapphira who lied about the money they gave to the church and they were struck dead. But the difference here is the comparison is probably between the physical death that we have recorded in the Old Testament and the spiritual death that is revealed more fully in the New Testament. This doesn't mean, by the way, that people in the Old Testament didn't experience spiritual death. Of course they did. But the emphasis here is on what is emphasized in both of those testaments. Now I want you to understand the comparison here. He's saying if no one escaped the judgment of God For violating his law given by angels. How will anyone evade the judgment of God if they reject his gospel that was declared by his beloved Son? The idea is that these early believers were more culpable if they drifted away from the gospel than these Old Testament saints because they heard God's final word in his Son. You see, with more revelation comes more responsibility. Do you realize that? The fact that you're here this morning And you're hearing the gospel, and you have access to the Word of God, means that you are more responsible to believe it and obey it than someone who lives in some part of the world where they've never heard the gospel and they've never owned a Bible and they've never heard a sermon once in their life. That doesn't mean, by the way, that they go to heaven. I'm not saying that. But I am saying that with greater revelation, with greater blessings in the gospel, comes more responsibility. Now let's consider a few key words in verse 3. We have this word neglect. It says How shall we escape if we neglect? This term is used five times in the New Testament. Perhaps the most enlightening is found in Matthew 22, 5, where it's used in the context of a parable, and it's translated there to make light of. The context is of a parable of a king who sent out invitations to his son's wedding feast. This was a great honor to receive such an invitation because this would have been the social event of the year. But some people made light of it. They just dismissed it and gave it no real consideration. They didn't go because they didn't want to honor the king. This was not a problem of their carelessness, like they lost the invitation or they forgot to respond in a given amount of time. No, it was a matter of contempt. They didn't like the king. They didn't want to honor his son, so they weren't going to go to the wedding feast. You see, if a person continues to neglect the gospel, they will in time come to reject the gospel. And notice what they will miss if they reject the gospel. It's called so great salvation. Why does he call it a great salvation? Well, we could come up with probably a hundred reasons here if I were to go around the room. And they'd probably all be correct. But I want you to see two reasons in context here The first one is because the gospel of Jesus Christ is God 's final word to mankind. Remember, that's how this book begins. Look with me to Hebrews chapter 1 and verse 1. God who at sundry times and in diverse manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son And we have something similar to this towards the end of the book. Turn with me, if you would, please, to Hebrews chapter 12. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 25. This verse is perhaps the most similar to the text we're looking at this morning. Hebrews 12, 25 says, See that ye refuse not him that speaketh. For if they escape not who refused him that spoke on earth, much more shall not we escape if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven. In other words, the people in the Old Testament times who rejected Moses ' warnings and the warnings of the other prophets. And they experience judgment. How much more will we experience judgment when we reject the gospel of Jesus Christ, this Son who reigns in heaven? So the gospel is Christ's final word to mankind. That's why it's a great salvation. And secondly, because the atoning work of Christ is the only way that sinful people like us can be saved and escape the just condemnation of God. Remember what he says towards the end of verse 3 in chapter 1. It talks about that when he By himself purged our sins. He sat down on the right hand of the majesty on high. And I made mention when we went through that verse that that speaks of a once-for all sacrifice for sin. You see, there is no other escape. It's like a man who's in A burning building, an apartment building. He's up on the seventh floor, but outside his window there's a fire escape. But it looks untrustworthy to his perspective, and so he doesn't doesn't want to take it, and he perishes in that fire. That's the only route of escape he had. He should have taken it. Jesus Christ is the only way of escape that God has provided for us. And He is more than trustworthy. But there's a second reason that we should earnestly give attention to the gospel. And that is because the gospel that God has given to us is certainly true. Now if you'll notice after that first thr phrase in verse 3, we have an argument that continues down into verse 4. And it may seem um a little disjointed and confusing as to what he is saying in the remainder of verse 3 and into verse 4. And what he is doing here is he is convincing them that this message of the gospel is true. You see, one reason why people do not take the warnings of God very seriously is because they become, they remain unconvinced that it is true There could be people like that this morning. You're here, you're listening to the preaching of the word. You've heard me preach the gospel. You've heard others' people here preach the gospel. But you're not concerned because you don't really think it's true. This is why you can witness to someone, an unsaved relative or a co-worker or friend, and you can pour out your heart to them. And they look at you and they're like, thank you for sharing that. I know that's important to you, but it's just not for me. You know why it's why they feel it's not for them? Because they don't believe it's true. If they believed it was true that they were on the path to eternal destruction, they would have a different response. But they simply don't believe it's true. So the author here is going to, in the second part, really serves as an apologetic function. Sometimes people think that the Bible is just filled with irrational assertions That Christianity calls on its followers to suspend all rational judgment and just take a baseless leap of faith. But nothing could be further from the truth. Scripture consistently employs sound logic and points the reader to convincing evidence and credible testimony. I've said to you before, and it's true, Christianity is a thinking man's religion. That's exactly what the author of Hebrews is doing here. He provides three lines of evidence. that points to the veracity of the gospel. Let me remind you that the people who first heard the words of this book We're facing the very real possibility of death. And since they were risking their lives for Christ, the author of Hebrews reminds them of the truthfulness of the gospel. Because you wouldn't want to risk your life for something that might be true or could be true. The only way you're going to risk your life for the gospel is if you truly believe that it is true. It's absolutely right, and therefore I have no other option but to obey. Now look at the second half of verse 3. Notice He says, which at the first, speaking of that great salvation, the message of salvation, which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord. Now, the Lord in this verse is referring to the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ came to earth as God's final word to mankind. We've already established that from the very beginning of this book. John tells us that Jesus came as the Word. He says, in the beginning was the Word, and the majestic beginning of that fourth gospel echoes the beginning of the creation of the world. And then he goes on to say, to identify the word, he says, and the word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. John bare witness of him and cried, saying, This was he of whom I spake. He that cometh after me is preferred before me, for he was before me. And of his fullness have we all received, and grace for grace For the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ. And then he says, No man hath seen God at any time, the only begotten Son which is in the bosom of the Father. He hath declared him. And that is some of the most important verses in your New Testament. And it lays down the proposition that the only way you can know God. is through his son who has declared him, who has fully explained who he is. And so the writer of Hebrews says that the gospel message of salvation was brought by the Lord Jesus Christ. What message did Jesus bring? Well, the earliest message we have of his preaching comes from Mark chapter 1 and verse 15, where he said, Repent and believe the gospel. And his message was not just about believing some truth, but it was an invitation to come to him, because you all know this familiar verse Where Jesus said, Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am weak and gentle and lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest for your souls For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. Let me just say once again that that is Either the most arrogant statement ever said or the one speaking it was God, because he said, Come unto me, everyone in the world who is weary and heavy laden, I will give you rest. Who could make such an offer but God in flesh? And I want you to know that that invitation to eternal rest is still extended today And the message that Jesus brought came with great authority. The first recorded sermon by Jesus is known as the Sermon on the Mount, and at the conclusion of that message It says that the people were astonished, for he taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes. And at the conclusion of Matthew's gospel We read that Jesus said to his disciples, All power, all authority is given unto me in heaven and in earth. The pastor who wrote this book of Hebrews is reminding his beleaguered readers that the one who brought the message of salvation that they have come to trust in was in fact the Son of God who spoke the word of God in truthfulness and authority. And he is the one who created the universe and sustains the universe. He is the one that cleansed them from their sins by his substitutionary death on the cross He is the unchanging God whom angels worship, who will reign forever and ever. And his message is this: He is worthy of your trust. He is worthy of your life. But then there's a second step that the author uses to confirm the truth, and that is that the gospel was confirmed by the apostles. Notice what it says, and was confirmed unto us by them that heard him. The people the author is referring to in this phrase are the apostles. The original disciples lived and traveled with Jesus for at least three years. They heard his sermons. They saw his miracles. They had undoubtedly hundreds and hundreds of discussions. That are not preserved for us in Scripture. What an incredible privilege they had to not only hear this man, but to live with this man. Now, I want you to notice that the writer of this book claims that just like the readers of the epistle, he never saw or heard the Lord. He says that this message of salvation was confirmed unto us, including himself. That is why I can't see how Paul could have written the book of Hebrews because Paul was click quick to claim that he was truly an apostle because he saw the risen Lord on the road to Damascus. Damascus. The apostles not only saw and heard the Lord, but they recorded their experiences in the gospels. and epistles. Now I realize that not all of our New Testament books were written by apostles, but most of them were. And those books that were not written by the apostles were written by those who were directly instructed by an apostle. Now you may have never thought very much about the apostles before. But the fact is that you and I would have never heard the life-giving message of the gospel apart from the ministry of the apostles. In John chapter 17 and verse 20, in that great high priestly prayer, Jesus says, Neither pray I for these alone, nor But for them also which shall believe on me through their word. And that's a reference to the apostles, through the apostles' word. Well, who are the people that have believed on Christ through the word of the apostles? That would be all of us. Because we have never seen the Lord physically. We did not live in the early first century when he ministered on earth. But we have heard the message of salvation through this book that was written and preserved By the Apostles. That is why Paul could say in Ephesians 2. 20 that the church is built upon the foundation of the apostles, Christ being the chief cornerstone. Because all Christian doctrine, including the gospel of salvation, was preserved, preached, and explained by the apostles. And the men who did this saw and heard the Lord, and they could testify, this is who he is, this is what he said, and this is what his word means for us. And they had such confidence in this message that they were willing to die for it. You know, there are a lot of false teachers who do certain things, but often they are effective at getting their followers to die for what they believe, but they're not going to die for what they believe in. They often run and hide to defend themselves. But these Apostles. All of them died in fulfilling the Great Commission except for the Apostle John, who also faced his fair share of suffering. Because they knew the message that they heard was true, and therefore they were willing to die for it. Now some skeptic might ask, well, how do we know that what they taught and preached, that their testimony is true? That brings us to the third level here. Verse 4. God also bearing them witness both with signs and wonders and with diverse miracles and gifts of the Holy Spirit according to his own will. Now, the Greek word that's translated bearing witness is found only here in the New Testament. It's a technical term for evidence given in a court of law How did God authenticate the message of the apostles? It says here with signs and wonders and various types of miracles. This is precisely what we find recorded in the New Testament. In Acts chapter 2 and verse 43, it says that many wonders and signs were done by the apostles. In Acts chapter 5 and verse 12, we have the summary statement. And by the hands of the apostles were many signs and wonders wrought among the people. And Paul wrote to the church in Corinth, and he says of his ministry to them, Truly the signs of an apostle were wrought among you in all patience and signs and wonders and mighty deeds. These miraculous gifts of the Spirit were not given primarily to relieve the suffering of the people who were healed and the other miracles that were performed. They were given to authenticate God 's messengers who brought the message of salvation. This is what we see all throughout the scriptures. Moses was able to perform miracles because it authenticated that God had sent him to deliver his people. And in the early church, the apostles performed miracles because it authenticated that their message was true and it came from God. Now I believe that the Lord still answers the prayers of his people in miraculous ways, but I do not believe that these foundational gifts that were given to the apostles continue today. Remember, they were called the signs of an apostle. And so if they continue today, then it would mean that the apostles are still among us and they're not. Even though I pass churches all the time that have the name Apostle on their sign, Apostle so-and-so preaches here. I don't believe it for seconds. The Bible speaks of the foundation of the apostles. With the death of the apostles and the completion of the Bible, the need for this divine authentication ceased. However, the reason the author of Hebrews mentions this fact as evidence is because undoubtedly these early Jewish believers had witnessed the miraculous deeds of the apostles. And so this argument would resonate with them. And so his message to them is this you dare not drift away from the gospel. Because it is certainly the truth given by God. It was a truth that was brought by the Son of God Himself that was then passed on by the apostles and was authenticated by the miracles that they perform. This is the only way of salvation So let me conclude now with just a few points of application. The first one is this. We should give careful attention always to the gospel Notice what he says in verse 1. We ought to give them more earnest heed to the things which we have heard, lest at any time we let them slip. We must never grow tired of hearing the gospel preached. The gospel is profoundly deep. It has so many facets to it. You could explore it throughout your whole life and never plumb its depths. And we must always hear it because it has those vital truths that remind us of who we are. Remind us of what Christ has done for us. And we are so apt to forget those things. That's one reason why we celebrate the Lord's table on a regular basis. Because we do it in remembrance of me, Jesus said. Why? Because we so quickly forget him, and we so quickly forget the gospel that he has brought. Now I fear that many Christians think they don't need to hear the gospel anymore because they know it backwards and forwards. They want to hear other things. They often want to hear things that seem very practical to them. They want to always turn the Bible into a self-help book that gives them an edge over their unsaved neighbor in living life So that they can have a more productive, more peaceful, more tranquil, more healthy life on this earth Do not misunderstand me. The truths given in this book will greatly improve your life because they work and because it's truth But that's not why it was given. God's way is always best, but God's way does not always mean that it's easy and comfortable. And so we never get beyond the gospel. We must continually be reminded of what Christ has done for us. And we must never get bored with these essential truths. And I think when he talks about giving the more earnest heed, it reminds us that we need to beware of getting in the habit of letting our minds wander when the word of God is preached and taught. It is so easy to do that, isn't it? Don't look at me like, oh, that never happens to me, Pastor. I'm always paying right attention to everything. I don't believe it for a second. I know that when I'm sometimes listening to other people preach, it's easy for my mind to start thinking about something else or something I have to do this week or how I'm going to resolve this conflict. No, no, no, no, I gotta listen to the word. It's so easy to let your thoughts drift away and to develop a habit where you come in here, you sit down, and you walk out, and you really haven't interacted with God's truth. You really haven't worshiped. The great God whom we have come here and gathered to worship, because your mind has been a hundred miles away. We must listen for our life. Because this is the life-giving message of God, and we desperately need to hear it and be reminded of it and have our souls refreshed with it. The second point of application I want to make is this. We should recognize that people usually drift away gradually from the gospel. You see, people don't wake up some morning and say, you know, I think I'm going to apostasize today. I think I'm going to get up and Put on social media and tell all my friends, I don't believe the gospel anymore. I'm not a Christian. I always thought it was a bunch of nonsense and I'm just coming out now and letting everyone know. No, it doesn't happen like that. It occurs gradually and incrementally over weeks and months and usually years. So let me ask you this question. What are the signs that a person is drifting spiritually? that they're being moved out to sea as it were at night without even realizing it. Well, we could probably come up with many, many, many suggestions. I want to mention just three that are found in the book of Hebrews that we will come to in weeks ahead. Would you turn with me ahead to chapter 3? This is the beginning of another warning passage that we're going to be getting into. Look with me at chapter 3 and verse 12, please. Chapter 3 and verse 12. The writer says, Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief. In departing from the living God. But exhort one another daily while it is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness Of sin. Our human hearts grow cold and hard so quickly It's such a sad thing. God has blessed us in so many ways. He's revealed himself to us. He's done so much for us. And yet we so quickly respond in ingratitude and unbelief. And in a short time our hearts can become hardened to the truth so that spiritual truth that once used to really move our hearts. And preaching that used to break us of our stubborn will just seems ridiculous to us because our hearts have grown hard. And so he warns them here to take heed, brother. And notice he talks about being hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. You see, when people drift away from the Lord, they drift to something else. They've erected some other idol in their hearts. And it talks here of the deceitfulness of sin. That is that sin deceives people. They think, this will bring me happiness. This will make me fulfilled. This will give me what I've been looking for. This is surely the answer. This is what I need. And it's all a deception. It's all a lie. But yet they will leave Christ and his glorious gospel and go off and follow this idol. Turn ahead with me. Maybe you don't even have to turn to chapter 5. Look with me at Hebrews chapter 5. Verses eleven and twelve. The writer here says, Of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing that ye are dull of hearing. For in the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again, which be the first principles of the oracles of God, and are become such as have need of milk and not of strong meats. The idea here is of people who have become apathetic to the gospel. They get tired of hearing the preaching of the word. They get tired of being reminded of what God has said. They're dull of hearing And they're not growing. They're not maturing. When it says here of teachers, you may say, well, how does that square with the fact that God has given some people the gift of teaching? Well, the fact is reduced to its lowest level, every Christian should become a teacher in some way. And what I mean by that is it might mean teaching your family It might mean mentoring another disciple, but everyone should grow to the extent that they can mentor and disciple and help their brother and sister in Christ. But the idea here is that they have not grown. Their growth has been stunted, and so they really have no desire and no ability to really minister to others. And to lift them up and to teach them the word of God. They're like a baby that needs milk because they haven't matured, they haven't grown. So beware of becoming apathetic to the gospel. And then turn with me now to one last passage in Hebrews. that shows us the evidence of drifting and it's Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 25. says not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is But exhorting one another and so much the more as you see the day approaching. Now you might dismiss me bringing this point up and say, well of course he's going to say that he's a pastor. Pastors always want people to come Come to church. And let me just say there's nothing magical about walking into this building. that earns you credit with God. I don't want you to think that for a moment. And I realize there can be various reasons why people can't be at church and we have to be careful that we don't sit in judgment on anyone. If you're here, if you're here three times a week, Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night, and also come to Sunday school, that's great. But beware of becoming a little Pharisee and saying, I'm so much better than those other people who don't come all the time There can be good reasons that people can't come. I know sometimes elderly people don't come to the evening services, especially when there's a time change because they can't really drive at night. They're not comfortable doing that And of course, there can be all kinds of reasons related to health, as we well know from the COVID experience that we have gone through. The point is not so much be here every time the door is open as to do you want to come and gather with the people of God? You see, that's the real problem. I used to always scratch my head because I discovered like every other pastor does, why is it so hard to get some people to come to church? And then one day it dawned on me the reason why they have so many excuses and why bad things keep preventing them from coming to church is because they don't want to come to church. We tend to do what we want to do. And what we don't want to do, we find excuses not to do. And so the bigger issue is not, are you coming to church? You know, come here even if you have a horrible attitude because you're supposed to be here. No, no, no, no. The question is, why would you not want to be with the people of God and hear the preaching of the word? That speaks of a heart issue that's far more serious. And so you know, and there's almost always a correlation. When people stop coming to church and they used to be regular, they used to be enthusiastic listeners, they used to be there listening, taking notes, and they would ask questions and they're really enthusiastic and all of a sudden they just kind of drift off the map and you hardly ever see them. There's a correlation usually between that and their walk with the Lord. Because when you are healthy spiritually, you have an appetite and a desire to worship with the people of God. And there is something about the gathering of the people of God for the preaching of the word that cannot be replicated in a small group Bible study or in a live stream service or anything else. It is so good and so necessary and vital for the people of God to gather together. And let me show you what comes out of here. Look at verse 25. It's not so much emphasizing the preaching, although that's certainly important, but exhorting one another. It's that accountability of our brothers and sisters saying, hey, how are you doing? It's good to see you back here. What's going on in your life? What's the Lord doing in your life? We all need that And so this is one of those signs that we're drifting away. And then my final point of application this morning is this. Those who reject the Son will be condemned by the Son. In both the Old and New Testaments, the ultimate judgment for sin was not physical death. But eternal death. The major consequence of abandoning Christ is being abandoned by God forever in the lake of fire. The Bible calls this the second death. Revelation 20 and verse 14. Hell is a very unpopular topic of discussion even in evangelical churches. It's the most disturbing thought ever revealed by God. The idea that a person will suffer forever is indeed a troubling reality. But it is a reality that is clearly taught in the pages of Scripture. It was Jesus who warned most often about hell because he possessed the heart of his father. Many people today think that any mention of hell or punishment for sin is manipulation. But is it wrong to warn people of the judgment to come? You cannot walk away from Christ and his gospels without suffering the severe consequences that are promised in the Word of God. Listen to what Jesus said at the Sermon on the Mount. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. But he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. Many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name have done many wonderful works. And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. And if it's true that he never knew them, then it's also true that they never knew him. So let me ask you this morning, do you truly know the Lord? Are you trusting in the Son? Is He the anchor of your soul If he is truly the anchor of your soul, you will never ultimately drift away because that anchor will not fail you. It is sure and steadfast. May God help us to heed these warnings and guard our hearts lest we ever drift away. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you that it has all that we need, including the warnings and admonitions. That may trouble us. Help us, Father, to respond in faith to what we've heard today. We pray that your children would not be caused to doubt their salvation. But we pray that those who are lost would indeed question the validity of their professed relationship with you. And Father, that they would come to know the gospel in all of its fullness, O Lord. And for those who might be here this morning who have never professed to be a believer, Who have never trusted in Christ, but by the Spirit of God had been moved to believe that these things are so, I pray that today they would trust and come unto you. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.