Your Bibles, please, you can turn to Galatians chapter 5. Ernest Gordon wrote a book a number of years ago entitled Miracle in the River Kwai, which was later made into a movie. There's a section in that book that didn't make it into the movie. It's about a group of Scottish POWs who are forced to work On a jungle railroad, through their harsh conditions and harsh treatment, they had become very barbaric in their behavior. But that all changed in one afternoon. As they would move from one location to another, they would always do inventory. The Japanese guards were very careful to make sure that nothing was missing, but on this day a shovel was missing. And the officer in charge became enraged. He demanded that the missing shovel be produced, or else. But when no one would fess up to stealing the shovel, he became more threatening. He pulled out his gun and said that he was going to kill them all on the spots unless someone came forward. And it was obvious that he was serious. One man stepped forward, the officer put away his gun and beat him to death with a shovel. When it was over, the survivors picked up his body, carried it with them to the next checkpoint, and when they made it there, they did another inventory, and as there they discovered that Everything was accounted for. They had simply miscounted the number of shovels. There was never a missing shovel. The word spread like wildfire through the camp that an innocent man was willing to step forward and give his life so that the others would not be killed. It had a profound effect both on the Japanese captors and those who were held against their will. When the Alwise liberated the camp These Scottish men lined up in front of their guards, even though they were practically skeletons. They said, no more hatred, no more killings. What we need now is forgiveness. The fact is that sacrificial love has a transforming power. This morning, as we continue our study of the fruit of the Spirit, we come to The first one on this list, verse 22, but the fruit of the Spirit is love. Now I wonder if you think it's just a coincidence that love is the first item that is mentioned on this list. Of course, it's not a coincidence. This is the premier fruit of the Spirit. In fact, many Bible scholars think that all the other virtues that are mentioned here are actually just different manifestations of love. That in essence there is one fruit that is demonstrated in different ways. I've pointed out to you before that our text does not read the fruits of the Spirit, plural, but the fruit of the Spirits. In my research for uh this series of sermons, I have been able to purchase many fine books, and many of them I have on the front a picture with a bowl and a whole bunch of fruit in there. There will be an apple and an orange and a pear and a banana and they're all nicely arranged and it will say something about the fruit of the Spirit on the fronts. Now this is of course perfectly acceptable, but it really is not in complete accurate agreement with what our text is suggesting. These fruits are not individual items. In other words, I say this to make this point. You should not look at this list and say, you know, I'm kind of good on the love part. I'm good on the long-suffering part. I'm all right. I'm pretty self-controlled. But I'm not so good on the peace aspect of it or the gentleness. I need to work on those. That would be a misunderstanding of what is being said here. A better way of looking at this From an analogy point of perspective, it would be like the segments of an orange. Okay, there's more unity here than there is diversity. So the idea here is that the same branch that provides nutrients for that orange to grow so that all the segments are filled out is the same way that the Spirit of God empowers us so that when He is really at work in our life, it will not just be manifested in one area. But all of these various facets of spiritual growth will be developed in our lives through that vital union. It's sort of like the rising of the tide. What do they say about the rising of the tide? It lifts all boats. And the power of the Spirit of God that's at work in the heart of a believer who is yielded to that Spirit's control will produce all of these fruits. That's what we need to understand. It's a package deal. Now this morning I have one main question for you. And that is, are you producing this fruit of love in your life? Are you manifesting this fruit of the spirit of love? This is a very important question because this is the first one on the list. This is where it all begins Now you might ask yourself, well, is this talking about like my love for God or my love for others? My answer to that would be yes. The fact is, you cannot really manifest love for others unless you really love God and know that He loves you. 1 John 4. 20, a verse. That we will look at later says, if a man say, I love God and hateth his brother, he is a liar. For he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? Having said that, I do think that the focus here, if you view it in context, is on our love for others. Especially other believers. Let me show you why I think that. Look with me before this at verse 13 in chapter 5 He says, For brethren ye have been called unto liberty, only use not your liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but By love, there's our word, serve one another. For all the laws fulfilled in one word, even in this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye be not consumed one of another. The problem there at these churches in Galatia was There was not the love of Christ manifested to one another within the assembly that there should have been. And so this is what is in focus here, I believe. So let me ask you, would anyone here in this assembly describe you as a loving person? And I don't mean by that that you're gregarious. Or that you're the kind of person who just hugs everyone and gives them a big kiss on the cheek. That is more of a personality trait. We're not talking about personality here. We're talking about something that the Spirit of God develops in our lives. Would your family members, co-workers, neighbors, those who know you best, would they describe you as a loving person? This is not an irrelevant question Because the Bible clearly states that Christians should be the most loving people in the world. This is true for several reasons. The first thing I want you to understand is that we should be the most loving people in the world because it's actually true love, the kind of love that's in view in this passage is actually very rare in the world. Now you might object to that statement because love is a very popular concept. We have it in our songs, we have it in our literature, we have it in media every day. We have it in films. We hear our politicians talking about it. And so it's obviously not a concept that seems to be foreign to us. It's everywhere. It's ubiquitous. But of course, what we mean by that is different than what is delineated in this passage. We often think today of love as an overpowering emotion and euphoria that sweeps away everything in his path, that romantic attraction that a man has for a woman and a woman has for a man. There's a Greek word for that. It's the Greek word eros. But it's not the word that's used in our text here this morning. Another word that people think of, another concept of love, is the love that a parent has for a child. What a wonderful bond that is. The Bible describes this with the expression, natural affection. It is natural for a mother to love her child. It is natural for a father to have affection and fondness for his children. That's the way it should be. You shouldn't have to have someone take you to a class and say, now, you need to love your child. You should really learn to love your child. It's natural. Now you may not know exactly how to express it or how to manifest it in the way you should, but it is natural in our hearts. That's another aspect of love, but that's not what's being referred to here. Then there is the love that comes in our lives when we have a close friendship with someone. Where they're just a real bond where we can unburden our souls to them. We can talk to them about really is going on in our lives. We don't have to mince our words. We don't have to be careful about what they think of us because they know us and they love us and they accept us the way we are. Best friends. There's a word for that as well. It's the word philosoph and it's a wonderful biblical concept that's found often in Scripture. We get words like Philadelphia and philanthropy from this root. But that's not what the Lord is speaking of here. If you know your Bible well, you know that the love that's in view here is the word agape. The love that was demonstrated at the cross. This love is supernatural That's why I say the love that's in view here is rare in the world. This kind of love you don't see every day. This is not what takes place at your workplace. This is not what takes place in the home. This is a very rare and supernatural manifestation of this love. This is exactly what Jesus has called us to to demonstrate. Turn with me back to Matthew chapter 5, please. I'm going to show you a little portion of the greatest sermon ever preached, known as the Sermon on the Mount. Look with me at Matthew chapter 5, verse 43. And here again we find this term agape used in this passage. Jesus says, verse 43, ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. But I say unto you, love your enemies. Bless them that curse you. Do good to them that hate you. Pray for them that despitefully use you and persecute you That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven, for he maketh his son to rise on the evil and the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same? And if ye salute your brethren only when what do ye more than others? Do not even the publicans so? Be ye therefore perfect even as your father, which is in heaven, is perfect. The rabbis in Jesus' day taught That Jewish people were obligated to love their neighbor. And what they meant by that was their Jewish neighbors. They were obligated to love other Jews. But your enemies, which would be a reference to Gentiles, you didn't have to love them. In fact, you were free to hate them. Because they were pagans. They were outside the covenant of God. They were involved in idolatrous practices. You didn't have to love them. So when Jesus stood up that day On that ridge overlooking the Sea of Galilee, and he said that they were to love their enemies, that would have been shocking to them. That would have been like nothing they'd ever heard before. It would have been like the opposite of what they had heard in the synagogue, of what their parents had taught them. It seemed odd, dangerous, and unnatural. But this is exactly what the Lord has called his followers to do. What does it mean to love your neighbor? What does this look like? It means that when they curse you, verse 44, you bless them. It means that you do good to them actively. showing good favor to them even though they hate you. It means you pray for them even when they persecute you and make your life difficult. Now see, that's the natural. That is beyond the pale of all those other types of love that I talked about. This is not the way we as human beings naturally respond. How do you respond to someone at work who always gives you a hard time? who has nothing nice to say to you, who curses you, who always is trying to point out the flaws in your work and just make life really, really difficult. How do you respond? If you're a natural human being, you want to respond in kind. And maybe a little bit more. Because they just make your life miserable. Jesus says, no. You need to love them. You might ask, well, why should I treat people that way? Verse 45. that ye may be the children of your father which is in heaven doesn't mean that you become that by being kind, but you demonstrate that you are a child of God By the way you respond to them. And why how does that work? Well, how does God treat wicked people Does he show love to them? Does the sun shine on them? Is there like a border between you and your neighbor? You know, on a sunny day you get all the sunshine and then over their house there's this huge cloud. And they're over there and it's dark and gloomy and you're saying, hey, it's great over here. Hey, man, you should become a Christian. Doesn't work that way. His son comes down on the good and the wicked, on the just and the unjust. His rain falls. We had a lot of rain this week. It came to your neighbor, it came to your friends, it came to your enemies, it came to everyone. Okay? So when we demonstrate love to our enemies, we respond to them like God responds to them. And where everybody knows that children resemble their parents. He says in verse 46, if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same? Publicans were the tax collectors, the traitors who compromised with the Roman authorities to cheat people out of their hard-earned money. The idea is that if you are kind and loving to those who are kind and loving to you, you know what? You're just like lost people. In fact, you're just like really bad lost people. You know, even gangsters are kind and loving to those who are kind and loving to them. Terrorists. have people that they demonstrate love to as well. So if you say, well, you know, I'm loving to people who are loving to me, well, you're just like terrorists and gangsters. See, God's asking us to go beyond what is natural, beyond how we normally react and respond to other people. He says, if you salute your brethren only , we'll do you more than others. If you say acknowledgement to people and greet them and accept them , If they accept you, then you're just like lost people. God has called us to something much greater. He wants us to be like our Heavenly Father And that leads me to another reason why Christians should be the most loving people in the world, and that is because it is an essential response of the believer. Do you realize the incredible emphasis that the Bible places on love? I cannot begin to speak to you today about how emphatic the Scripture is with this, how all through Scripture this is underlined and highlighted and bolded. And just emphasize again and again, love is the key to fulfilling your obligations to God and man. How did Jesus Christ condense and summarize the two tables of the law? Number one, first table of the law could be reduced to this. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. And then the second table of the law reduced to this, and love your neighbor as yourself. This is why Augustine could say, love God and do what you like. Because if you truly love God You're going to obey him and you're going to love others. Love is the distinguishing family trait Of the believer. Do you remember what Jesus said the night before he was crucified in the upper room to his disciples? By this, shall all men know that you are my disciples if you have love one for another. It's interesting. Would that be what you think would be the distinguishing trait? Maybe you would think it would be the the way they dress or their holy living or their speech or the fact that they go to church every Sunday. We can think of a whole bunch of things, and I'm not against any of those. But he says, what would really set you apart from everyone else is the people who say, ah, I know that person's a Christian, it would be the love that they demonstrate to others. So it's the distinguishing family trait of the believer. Love is the one continuing debt that we owe to one another. It says in Romans 13, 8, owe no man anything but to love one another. And love is listed elsewhere as the greatest Christian virtue. It says, and now abideth faith, hope, love, these three. But the greatest of these is love. Colossians 3. 14 says, above all these things put on love, which is the bond of perfectness. Love is more important than any spiritual gift or costly sacrifice. Everybody probably knows that the The great love chapter in the Bible is 1 Corinthians chapter 13, and it begins with this incredible introduction, though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels and have not love, I am become as a sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains and have not love, I am nothing. And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned and have not love, it profits me nothing. These are astounding statements. You might be an incredibly gifted person that you could perform miracles, but if you don't have love, you're nothing, he says. You might be an incredibly uh sacrificial person that you would give up so much that you would sell everything that you have, but if that is not really motivated by love, it counts for nothing The Bible puts an incredible emphasis on love. Love is the most frequent command given to Christians. in regards to others. How should you deal with other people? You know what the Bible says in the New Testament at least 11 times? Love one another. Says it again and again and again. Love one another. Love one another. Love one another. Love one another. We have church tradition that tells us when the aged Apostle John was in his 90s and he could hardly walk or talk anymore, they would prop him up at the church at Ephesus. And he had just this one little thing that he would say at the end of his days. He would say, My little children, love one another. That was the end of his sermon. And did you know that love is a demonstration of our salvation? Let me have you turn with me now to the book of 1 John, which is towards the very back of your Bible. Turn with me to 1 John chapter 3, if you would, please. I want you to notice what it says here. 1 John chapter 3. We're just going to make our way through a few verses here in two chapters in 1 John. 1 John 3, verse 10. It says in this, the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil. Whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his Brother, skip down with me to verse 14. We know that we have passed from death unto life because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death. Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him Verse 16, hereby perceive we the love of God because he laid down his life for us, and we all to lay down our lives for the brethren. Whosoever hath this world's good. and seeeth his brother have need, and shows up his vows of compassion from him. How dwelleth the love of God in him? Look with me at the next chapter, chapter four, verses seven and eight. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and every one that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. Look with me in verse 20 now of chapter 4. If a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar. For he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? And this commandment have we from him, that he who loveth who God loves, his brother also. So you see that John says the same thing again and again and again and again. True believers True Christians who have the Spirit of God dwelling within them love their brother and sister. It's not an option. It's what we must do. It's an essential of the Christian life. This is why this is a fruit of the Spirit. It is not possible for a person to be controlled by the Spirit of God. And not love their brother and sister. You might say, but I'm a rather private person. I love my wife. I love my kids. I have a few close friends. But I'm not the kind of person who's just gushy and and sentimental and emotional. I just I don't go outside of those boundaries. I'm a private little person That's true of lost people as well. God 's called us to something much more. No one is going to be astounded if you love your children No one's going to be astounded if you love your spouse. No one's going to be amazed that you like to spend time with your best friend. That's true of wicked people. That's true of criminals. God 's called us to something that is supernatural. God's called us to love the unloving. God's called us to love people outside of our comfort zone. God's called us to love people who are different than us. Christians should be the most loving people in the world. Because love is rare in the world. It's the most prominent characteristic, Christ says, of our Christianity. And thirdly, because loving one another is a reflection of God 's love for us. Now, earlier together this morning, we read 1 John chapter 4 and verse 8. Where it says, For God is love. And then verse 11, Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. So we have this pattern set for us. We are to love others the way God has loved us. So, how has God loved us? Let me suggest several ways. Number one We should love others initially. And what I mean by that is we started off. We are proactive, not reactive. We don't just reciprocate. We don't just say, we know if that person loves me, I'll love them back. But I'm not going to make the first move. 1 John chapter 4 and verse 19 says what? We love him because he first loved us. Did you know that? When you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, it's only because God had already been working in your hearts. You might think in your heart, you know, I love God and now he loves me. No. He loved you. And the result was that you loved him. He started it all. He made the first move. And this is how we need to love one another. We should not be waiting until someone demonstrates love to us. We need to start the whole thing by reaching out beyond our little private world, our little private space. And interact and connect with other people. One of the things that's most amazing to me, and I think it's a view to some degree that a pastor has that most people are not privy to. And that is that most people that I talk to have absolutely no idea how many needs and how many problems people struggle with. Because we tend to keep these things private. And so they'll come to me, and all the time people are saying, you know, you uh this this is a very unusual circumstance I'm going to talk to you about. This is a great bird, and you've probably never heard this before, and they share it with me. And sometimes they'll say, well, you know, I just heard somebody share the same thing with me last week. But see, they don't know that because those people keep those things private, obviously. It's a private matter. But what you're aware of is that there's so many people that have so many pressing needs, great burdens that just are agonizing to them, that they're dealing with, things that they are just barely keeping their head above water. And there's not a handful of people like that here this morning. There's a whole bunch of people like that. And so what happens when a person is like that, when they're really hurting and really broken and really bruised and desperately looking for answers and comfort and support, you know what you tend to do? You come into a service, you come into a place, and you desperately want people to minister to you. But you don't feel like ministering to other people because I'm the one that needs to be ministered to. And and so you know you hear things like this, you know, I I no one no one came and talked to me today. I came to church and I sat in the pew there, but the person next to me they didn't really talk to me and person behind me didn't really strike up a conversation. I really needed some human interaction. I really wanted to talk to someone but there was there was no one there for that. You know why? Because the person sitting next to you was thinking the same thing We become so focused on our own needs that we say, I wish someone would reach out to me If we are going to love others like Christ, we have to be the one who starts the ball rolling. You would say, I don't even know that person over there. That's fine Then get acquainted with them. Talk to them. Share something with them. Express your concern. Ask them, is there anything I can pray for you about? I don't really know you, but I've got prayer requests. I'm sure you probably do too. Is there something I can pray for you about? I bet they'll share something with you. They might share a whole lot with you. You have to get things rolling. You have to get things started. I've had people before have gone to the hospital and Please don't read into this, you know, that we don't have people who visit, we do, but you know, they don't count the pastors' visits or whatever. But I'll go and visit someone in the hospital and they might have been there for four or five days and Sometimes people will say they usually don't say things like this, but sometimes they'll say, you know, Pastor, no one's called me from the church. No one's stopped by to express their concern for me. You know, I just I I don't know that I really feel that loved. Depending on the person, the circumstance, sometimes I'll be bold enough to ask this. Well, let me ask you. Did you ever visit anybody in the hospital from our church? Did you ever call anyone when you heard that they were in the hospital? And almost invariably I hear silence now. No, I didn't. You see, they want to be ministered to. But they don't want To start out ministering to others. This is what Christ has called us to do. If you just sit back and wait for people to minister to you, that's the way lost people think. That's the way people without the Spirit of God dwelling within them respond. God wants us to do something far beyond that, beyond what's natural, beyond our comfort zone. You need to be the initiator of Christ-like love. Another way that Christ has loved us, of course, and we can go on and on is patiently How patiently has God been with you? He's been patient with you? Has he put up with some of your nonsense? Have there been times in your life when you've gone off the rails and you've made horrible decisions, but he was still patient with you? If you have any relationship with God at all, I'm sure you'll be saying, oh yeah, he's been really patient with me. When we read the record in the Gospels of our Lord's dealing with the disciples, and we see the disciples make one blunder after another One response of unbelief after another. They keep failing one test after another, after another, after another. Sometimes people say, wow, these disciples. I mean, they are really dumb. They were really poor followers of Christ. Yeah, they were just like us. They were just like us But Christ was patient with them. Even in the upper room, the night before he was crucified, they were arguing about who was the greatest. All throughout the three years of his ministry with them, he had been teaching them and instilling in them these principles of humility, that God's way up is down, that if you want to be chief, you've got to become a servant. And he taught that to them again and again and again and again. And here, the end of his earthly ministry with them, they still haven't learned it. We're still arguing about who 's going to be the greatest and who's high up in the pecking order, who's going to have a prominent seat there at the table. I think I deserve it That's why the Lord girded himself with a towel and went and washed their feet. God is patient. We must be patient with others. The great love chapter, 1 Corinthians 13 says, love suffers long. One combinator defined it this way, the ability to suffer a long time under the mistreatment of others without growing resentful or bitter Do you have thin skin? Do you have a short fuse? Do you get easily annoyed with people? Get angry with people, blow up at people, write off people, just cut them off and say, I have nothing more to do with that person as long as I live. They hurt me, they offended me, they annoyed me, they were unthoughtful, I'm done with them. There's an awful lot of people I know that that's the way they deal with people. If they are hurt by someone, whether intentionally or unintentionally, they just cut them off. I'm just going to pretend they don't exist on the planets. That's not the way God's dealt with you. That's not the way you should ever do with your brother and sister in Christ. God doesn't give you that luxury. That's not Calvary love. Another way that God, of course, has loved us is that God has loved us sacrificially. For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son. Agape love is a giving love. It is giving at great cost. Jesus said, This is my commandment that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends, and that's exactly what Jesus did. In Ephesians 5, 25 it says, Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. He gave himself as a sacrificial lamb. for sinners. What does that look like? 1 John chapter 3, I read this earlier Verse 16. It's interesting how John 3. 16 and 1 John 3. 16 have so many parallels. Hereby perceive we the love of God because he laid down his life for us. We ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. But whosoever hath this world's good and seeth his brother have need, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him. That's an amazing statement. That's a bold statement that I would be a little hesitant to say unless it was in the Word of God. You see, biblical love is not so much about how we feel, but how that feeling expresses itself in tangible ways. See what we tend to think is we tend to put the emphasis on how we feel. And so we hear about someone who's about to be put out of their home or has a vehicle that's broken down or is having trouble putting food on the table and we say, man, that's just that's really sad, isn't it? Oh, that makes me so sad to think about that. I think I'll send them a card, express my sorrow, and let them know what I'm praying for them. I'm praying for them. Now don't get me wrong. It's wonderful to send cards to people. And we should pray for people. But you know what God wants us to do? He wants us to do something about it. And many people have the means to do something about it. You really could. You said, yeah, but you know , it would cost me something. Might have to give up a car, and that's a real hassle. Give up one of our cars It might get damaged. Might be involved in a fender-bender. It would limit us in form of our flexibility as a family what we could do because we had to give up a car. I mean, we could afford it, yes, but that would mean then that we wouldn't have money for our vacation Or we wouldn't be able to put his money into our retirement like we had planned for this month if we were to give them that money. The whole point, the whole idea of this concept of love is that you give sacrificially So if you give something to someone and it costs you absolutely nothing, then it's not a demonstration of this love. Because by definition, it's a sacrificial, a costly giving. You see, if you are going to love other people the way God's word requires you to do It means it's going to be costly to you. It's going to cost you some of your time. Did you know it costs time to minister to people? You see, we have this idea in our lives that we have absolutely no time to give. You know, I've got all this time. I got no time to give. I mean I work all day. I come home. I got things to do at home. I mean we're just always going and going and going. Have no time to give. There have never been a people in the history of the world that have more discretionary time than we do today in 21st century America. Don't tell anyone that you have no time. You have plenty of time, but you're filling it with so many things that are absolutely self-focused. It's about you and yours and no more. So many solid, wonderful Christian families. believe that the entire manifestation of love is to be just for their family. They don't really care about anything that help is happens out there. You know, if people would take care of their families, then everything would be good. That's not what Christ called his disciples to do. He called us to be active, to make hard choices. God wants you to make sacrifices to minister to others as a cost to your time. It'll cost you your energy. It'll cost you your money. Your life might get more complicated. But this is what is a demonstration of Christian love. We give up things to show the love of Christ to others And finally, I want to say that God has loved us graciously. What do I mean by that? I mean it's something that you didn't deserve. It says in Romans 5. 8, but God commendeth his love towards us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. So often people say, well, you know, I would treat that guy a lot better. I would acknowledge him If he deserved it. But let me tell you how he's dealt with me. Let me tell you what he did to me Well, you know what? The Lord has not dealt with you on the basis of what you deserve, and you should be very glad. Now this term gracious is a term used in Scripture and translated at times as forgiveness. One of the great problems that Christians struggle with, and I really didn't realize what a big problem it was until I became a pastor. is with this matter of forgiveness. Whenever I talk about forgiveness, there's always an uneasy quiet that comes over the congregation. You know why that is? Because there are so many people have individuals that they have said, I will never forgive this person. And they have great animosity and bitterness towards that individual. They have no contact with them at all possible. And often they are family members or people in the body of Christ. I always remember what Wesley said to a man. A man once came up to me, came up to him and said, Sir, I want you to know that I never forgive. I want to remember my enemies. And then Wesley said, I hope that you never sinned, because Jesus said that he who will not forgive will not be forgiven. It's a very serious thing to say that you will not forgive. You know, the church, the assembling of a body of believers should be the most loving gathering of people in the world. Right? The Bible says that Christians are known by their love for one another. The Bible says that we are to follow Christ's example, that we are to show love to one another. This should be the most accepting, the most loving. The most supportive gathering of people that you can imagine, that when you come here, you just feel the love. People just show you In so many ways that they care for you. That's the way it should be. So often It doesn't happen that way. And I'm not just talking about this assembly. I'm talking about every church that you've ever been to. We fall short. And one of the reasons why that is, is because there's so many people. That if the truth be known, have animus towards someone else in that congregation and they don't talk to them, they will avoid them. They might be civil and polite and nod their head, but that's about it. That's not pleasing to God. That's not what He's called us to do. Jesus said, love as I have loved you, and that means we must forgive. You say, but they've wronged me within you Have two options. You can either put it behind you. Bible says love covers a multitude of sin, or you must confront them lovingly and say, you know, I was really hurt. when you said this to me. I was really offended and and I've really struggled with what you said or about what you did. What happens when Christians don't forgive one another? Our hearts become filled with bitterness and resentment, and the body of Christ becomes fractured into little clicks into little divisions of people who We like and they like us. But that is not the love that Christ has called us to. If we are going to love as Christ has loved us, then we must forgive those who have wronged us. Many of you know the name of Amy Carmichael, a missionary, British missionary to India. But before she went to India, she went to Japan. And she worked for a brief time in a mission compound where there were several older women. And she became very dismayed at the attitude and the animosity and the gossip that these mature believing women have for one another. And one day she was walking on the beach with one of these veteran missionaries. And she expressed her disappointment. And the older lady said, well, you didn't really expect these missionaries to love one another, did you? And sometime later, Amy Carmichael would write a poem entitled, If I just want to read some brief selections from it. She says, if I do not give a friend the benefit of the doubt, but put the worst construction instead of the best of what is said or done. But then I know nothing of Calvary's love. If I take offense easily, if I am content to continue and cold unfriendliness, though friendship be possible, then I know nothing of Calvary's love. If I belittle those whom I am called to serve, talk of their weak points in contrast perhaps to what I think are my strong points, then I know nothing of Calvary's love. If I feel bitterly towards those who condemn me, as it seems to me unjustly, forgetting that if they knew me as I know myself, they would condemn me much more than I know nothing of Calvary's love. God has called us to manifest supernatural love through the controlling power of the Spirit of God in our lives. May God help us to do so. Let's close in prayer. We confess that all of us could be more loving. But Father, I think of those today who the Spirit of God has truly convicted, because they have manifested almost no concern or no real sacrifice of time or money or energy to anyone outside of their immediate circle of family and friends. And they have come to recognize that this fruit of the Spirit is at best shriveled And at worst, completely absent from their lives. And yet, Father, it's the first one that you mention. It's the starting point. Father, I pray that you would convict, that you would create a resolution in their heart to repent of this sin. And to turn to you. I pray, Lord, that you would make us a more loving assembly And that our focus would not be on who's ministering to me, but to whom can I minister. Help us, Father, to show the love of Christ to those who surround us. Help us to show to the world that what we have is special and supernatural. that it goes beyond the bounds of polite behavior and borders on what is considered almost extreme or fanatical. Help us, Father To love as you have loved us. To be patient with those who annoy us. To start out reaching to people who have not reached out to us. To be forgiving of those, Father, who have wronged us. Help us, Father, to love as you have loved us. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen