If you have your Bibles, would you join me please in John chapter 5? John chapter 5. I think most of you know that we're making our way through the Gospel of John. And today we come to a very significant portion of God's Word. The relationship between a father and son tends to be either very close or somewhat distant. I lost my father four years ago, and there's not a day that goes by that I don't think about him. We were very close. No human being has had a greater impact on me than he has. But today I want to consider a father and son that had a much closer relationship than I did with my father. I'm referring to the relationship between God the Father and God the Son. This relationship compels us to acknowledge and consider the doctrine of the Trinity. This, of course, is one of the most notoriously difficult theological concepts to grasp In fact, it is beyond our complete understanding. This should not trouble us or put us on the defensive. I've told people before that a God that I can completely understand is a God who's not really God. The Bible says that his ways are past finding out. And for those of you who are hunters here, the idea of that term past finding out is you can't track him. You can follow the tracks so far, but then they disappear, and it's beyond your ability logically to understand him fully. Having said that, the teaching of the doctrine of the Trinity is clearly biblical, and the church has acknowledged this from the very beginning. But of course, the term Trinity is not found in any portion of God's Word, as are many other theological terms that we use. It's based, this doctrine is based on the following theological propositions that are clearly revealed in Scripture. Number one, God the Father is God. There's a whole lot of scripture for that. I don't think I have to prove that. God the Son is God. I mentioned some of this a week ago There's a whole bunch of evidence in the Bible that you could spend many hours going through to substantiate this. God, the Holy Spirit is God. Next proposition. The three persons of the Godhead are distinct from one another. It's not like water exists as a vapor or as ice or as a liquid It's not like a man who wears many hats. Sometimes he's a father. Sometimes he has the role of a foreman at work. And sometimes he's a husband. You know, he's got all three roles. He just puts on different hats. That is not a good analogy of the Trinity, my friend. That is heretical. They are distinct from one another. Just think about this. Think of the baptism of Jesus. The Son is being baptized, the Father speaks from heaven, and the Holy Spirit descends in the form of a dove. There you have all three persons of the Godhead. But the other one, the other proposition is the Bible clearly teaches that there is one God. All of those things are without question. They're not something that Christians differ over. There's not a group of Christians who say, you know, I kind of think there's three gods. If they say that, then they're not Christians. They're a heretical group. So what is the doctrine of the Trinity? Simply it's this. There is one God who exists eternally in three persons. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. And the doctrine of the Trinity is not some esoteric teaching. It is essential because it gets to the very root of who God is, his identity. For a person to reject the Trinity is to reject the revelation of God and to demonstrate that they do not truly know God. The Gospel of John has been described as shallow enough for a child to wait in, but deep enough to drown an elephant. Well today we're going to the deep end of the pool. We come to an extended passage of Scripture known as the Divine Son Discourse. This covers Chapter 5, verses 19 through 47, the end of the chapter. And there are three sections In this discourse. Number one, verses 19 through 24, we read about the son 's relationship with the father. And then in verses 25 through 29, we read of Jesus as the judge of all humanity. And then in verses 30 through 47, we have a variety of witnesses that confirm Jesus' claims. Now, today we're going to consider the first of these sections that deals with the relationship between the Father and the Son, and specifically the unity of that relationship. This is one of the most important passages in the Bible on the relationship between the Father and the Son. Now let me remind you of the context in which this teaching is given. Jesus has just healed a man who is paralyzed at the pool of Bethesda. This healing took place on the Sabbath day. This prompted a controversy between Jesus and the religious leaders. They took issue with them. They said that this was violating the fourth commandment. And Jesus pushes back and shows to them that what he is doing and working on the Sabbath is just like his heavenly Father Because even the rabbis acknowledge that God the Father is not idle on the Sabbath day because he has to run the universe. He has no days off. He says, my father's working unto now, and I am working. This greatly angered the religious leaders. Verse 18. This was why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. In this divine son discourse, Jesus is going to respond to this accusation concerning his relationship with his father. He's going to demonstrate that indeed he is equal with God, but he is certainly not at odds with his Heavenly Father. Sometimes I have heard preachers, orthodox preachers, say things that have made me cringe. Because they give the impression that God the Father and God the Son like are not on the same page. Like God the Father wants to condemn us for our sins, but God the Son intercedes for us and pleads and calms them down. So that we don't experience. That is a false understanding. We must never think that within the Godhead there is disunity or conflict. Now I want to plead for your attention today. This is not an easy passage to grasp. And you may not find that it's immediately relevant for your life. It may be hard for you to receive this news, but the Bible was not written about you. It's a book about God and about his divine son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Now that truth has incredible ramifications for all of us But so much preaching today is man-centered and is catered to the consumer rather than to edify the people of God. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. This passage is profitable for us today. And in the province of God, you've hazarded yourself to come out here, and this is what God wants you to hear. this passage on the relationship between the Father and the Son. The first thing I want you to notice is a declaration of the unity of the Father and the Son in verses 19 and 20 Jesus said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise. For the Father loves the Son and shows him all that he himself is doing, and greater works than these will he show him so that you may marvel. Jesus begins this discourse with the words, truly, truly. This is a distinctive feature of John's writing. And he uses it to demonstrate that Jesus is about to say something truly significant and monumental. And this profound statement is this, the son can do nothing of his own accord. This is what is called a categorical statement. In fact, it employs a double negative in the Greek text. A literal rendering would be he cannot do nothing. But that's not good English. Because two negatives create a positive. But in Greek, two negatives emphasize the impossibility of the statement. The message here is that the Son can absolutely do nothing apart from the Father He never acts independently. He never rebels against his father. He never has a different idea They are always on the same page. This was true when he healed the man on the Sabbath day and in every other action that he performed. And what Jesus is saying to these religious leaders, it's not that I was violating the Ten Commandments or going against my Heavenly Father. I was doing exactly what he wanted me to do. Now this idea is further enforced in the next phrase, but only what he sees the Father doing. This does not mean that Jesus is like a little boy who imitates his father. We've all seen that before, right? Tries to walk like his father and do other things like his father and That's why fathers have to be careful when they have little impressionable children because they're watching you and they're imitating you No, the reason that Jesus does what his father does is because they have the same nature, character, and goals. This truth is especially brought out in the Gospel of John. Let me read some passages for you quickly. John 7, 16, Jesus says, my teaching is not mine. But his who sent me. John 8. 26, Jesus says, I declare to the world what I have heard from him. And then a few verses later he says, I speak what I have seen with my father. And in John 10, 30, he says this famous words, I and my father are one. Not that they are one person, but they are of one purpose. And in John 14 and verse 9, Jesus says, Whoever has seen me Has seen the Father. He's not saying that they are the same person because no one can see God physically. What he is saying is that if you really know the Son, then you truly know the Father. And then we come to the last phrase in verse 19. For whatever the Father does, the Son does likewise. This is the first of four statements that begin with the word four, F-O-R. I have them circled in my Bible to help me understand. Notice this. For whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise. Verse 20. For the Father loves the sh son and shows him all that himself is doing. Verse 21. For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whom he will. Verse 22, for the Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son. These are words of explanation or demonstration about what he has just said. Now I want to consider two important theological implications From the statements that we have just briefly covered. Number one, the Son is fully God's. He is not a lesser God. He is fully God. If the Son can do whatever the Heavenly Father does, then He is God. Because only one with the attributes of God can do those things. One great preacher of a few centuries ago makes this comment. Did the Father create the universe? So did the Son. Does the Father uphold the universe? So does the Son. Does the Father govern the universe? So does the Son. Is the Father the Savior of the world? So is the Son. The Son is fully God. Number two, the Son is equal with God, listen carefully, but functionally subordinate. Can I use a big word that I hope will be helpful? The sun is ontologically equal with the Father. The word anthas is a Greek word that means being. He's not an inferior being. He's part of the same being. His personhood is not less than that of God the Father. He possesses all the attributes of God. He is an eternal being who has always been. But he is functionally subordinate. Let me give you an illustration. Children are ontologically equal to their parents. You might question this sometimes, but they're not less human than you are. They are fully human. This is an important thing. And you know why they have great value even though they can't even live independent? It's because they're made in the image of God. That's what gives them their inherent value, not their function, not what they can do, not what they can produce. But who they are. This is why Christians have always believed that abortion is murder. Because that unborn child is still fully human. They are ontologically in their being equal with that of a full-grown adult. who's making a million dollars a year and is very famous because they're both made in the image of God. This is why murder, all forms of murder, and euthanasia are wrong So parents and children are equally valuable in the eyes of God But they're not functionally the same. It's a ridiculous scenario that unfortunately I see all too often when a five-year-old is calling the shots on the family. Because they don't have the understanding or the ability. They're functionally subordinates. Ontologically equal, functionally subordinates. The Father and the Son are both God, 100%. But their roles are not the same. They are not reciprocal. In other words, we read at these statements like the son can do nothing but what is in accord with his father. You can't reverse those statements. You can't say the Father is dependent on the Son. You can't say the son does or that the father does what the son does. No, no, no. The son does what the father does. I hope I haven't lost you. This is not heresy. This is Orthodox Christian teaching that maybe you've never thought about before. Equal, functionally subordinate. What is the basis of the relationship? Look at verse 20, please. The Father loves the Son. The verb here speaks of continual or habitual love. This is clearly revealed in Scripture. We read of the Father speaking from heaven, and he's expressing this truth. Remember. At his baptism, he says, This is my beloved son, and whom I am well pleased. And at Jesus' transfiguration, the Father says, This is my son, my chosen one. Listen to him. There's never been a closer relationship than the Father and the Son. And he has a love that will never end for his son. By the way, did you know that this is the basis for your security and assurance? With God of your salvation. You know why? You know why God the Father is never going to abandon you and give up on you and reject you? It's not because you're a really good person and he's been really impressed with your Christian track record so far. No, it's because you're in Christ. And he loves his son with an everlasting love, so he loves you with an everlasting love. Because you're with Christ. And then we read that he also is disclosed, it says in verse twenty, that he shows him. Things to a son. The idea is there's no secrets between them. You know, when people don't have a close relationship, they have all these secrets. All these things they don't share with each other. It's not the way it is with the Father and the Son. He lets the Son know what he's going to do. So in verses 19 and 20, we have this great declaration of the unity between the Father and the Son. Now look at the last phrase in verse 20. And greater works than these will he show him that you may marvel. Greater works than like the healing of this man. What are these greater works? That's what we find in verses 21 through 24. So now we're going to move from the declaration of this unity to demonstrations. of the unity of the Father and Son in verses 21 through 24. And we have four of these demonstrations. Number one, look with me at verse 21. It says, for as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whom he will. Just as the Father gives life, so the Son gives life. The Old Testament is clear that it is God who gives life. In Deuteronomy 32, 39. God says, I make alive. In 1 Samuel 2, 6 it says, the Lord kills and brings to life, raising the dead. The power of death and life is one of God's prerogatives. One can hardly read these words without thinking of Jesus raising Lazarus from the dead as we have recorded in John chapter 11. The gospels revealed that there were at least three individuals whom Christ raised from the dead. And not only that, but Jesus himself rose from the dead. He conquered death. This is why he's called the Prince of Life. But this passage is not just speaking of giving physical life, but also spiritual life. Consider those famous words in John chapter 11 where Jesus says, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Jesus is the giver of eternal life. And notice verse 21 says that Jesus gives life to whom he will. Again, this does not mean that he's acting independently of his father, but his father has delegated this authority, this sovereignty to him. But now I want to consider another demonstration of the unity between the Father and the Son. And that is found in verse 22. Just as the Father is a judge. So he has delegated all judgment to the Son. Notice we come to this next phrase with the word for. For the Father judges no one. But has given all judgment to the Son. The Old Testament reveals that judgment is again ultimately God's business. Genesis 18. 25 says, shall not the judge of all the earth do what is just? Judges 11, 27 says, the Lord is the judge. But here we read that the Father has delegated all judgment to the Son. Now, how can we swear this statement with John 3. 17 that says that God didn't send his son into the world to judge the world? Well that was speaking of Jesus' first advent. But in the second coming of Christ, Jesus is coming as a judge. Everyone here, everyone who has ever lived, will be judged by the Son of God. We're going to say more about this in the next sermon that really focuses in on this truth. But why has the Father delegated all judgment to his son. The answer is given in verse 23. That all may honor the Son just as they honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. That brings us to this third demonstration. Just as the Father is worthy of all honor, so the Son is worthy. of all honor. This Greek word honor is also often translated glory. These two terms are virtually used synonymously in Scripture. Let me ask you, when you're in a court of law, how are you supposed to address the judge? Your honor. There are profound implications that come out of verse 23. It means, among other things, that it is appropriate for us to worship and praise the Lord Jesus Christ. We make no excuse or no defense for the fact that we are a Christocentric church. We talk about Christ and his gospel. I never liked ever hear a sermon on any text anywhere in Scripture that does not mention the Lord Jesus Christ. Because all passages, all verses are connected and go to him, to this doctrine. This is Jesus' book. He is worthy of our praise. It's appropriate for us to have all of these hymns that we sing that give praise and honor and glory to the Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And did you know that in one sense, all of humanity will one day honor the Son? When they stand before him in judgment. Because Philippians 2, quoting from Isaiah, says that every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. to the glory of God the Father. This does not mean that all of humanity will be saved. But it means that all of humanity who will stand before him's ultimate judge will be so moved and terrified by his presence that they will bow the knee. I'm going to be politically incorrect here for a little while. This means that Muhammad is going to bow the knee to Jesus someday. This means that Buddha will bow the knee. This means that Joseph Smith will bow the knee. This means that every false teacher and every false religious person will someday bow the knee to his authority But what is truly astounding to me is the last phrase in verse 23. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. Do you recognize the ramifications of that statement that Jesus makes? This means that all who claim to know God but reject the full deity and humanity of Christ Do not really know God. That all who are entrenched in Judaism and reject Jesus as the Messiah No matter how devout and pious they may seem , do not really know God. That's the only implication you can take from that phrase. This means that all Muslims who believe that Jesus is just a prophet, that he did not die on the cross, that he certainly was not the Son of God, that all of them Who may pray five times a day and carefully observe the Islamic way of life, that all of them truly do not know God's They are strangers to him. This means that all Unitarians who believe that Jesus was just a great teacher or great man or great example Are not honoring God as they supposedly do in their worship. This means that all Jehovah's Witnesses who believe that Jesus is a created being, Who are modern-day Arians, they are lost and the enemies of God. This means that all Mormons who reject the full deity of Christ No matter how conservative and politically aligned they may be with us in some things, are truly ignorant of the one true God. This means that all nominal Christians who claim to believe in Jesus but live a wicked lifestyle that dishonors him and brings shame to his name need to be born again. I told you there were some profound implications from this statement. You say, Pastor, you just condemned like billions of people I'm simply bringing out the truth of Christ's statement. Either what he said is true And all of these things are true that I just mentioned, or what he said is false, and then there's no point in us even being here today. Number four, just as the Father is a savior, so the Son is the Savior of the world. This is the fourth demonstration of their unity. In the Old Testament, we read of Yahweh as Savior many times. He's often called a deliverer, the one who rescues his people. That's what savior means. Isaiah 43 and verse 3 says, For I am the Lord your God. I am Yahweh your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior. But in John 1. 29 we read of John the Baptist proclaiming, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Now look with me at verse 24. This is one of the most famous and insignificant verses in the Gospel of John. Jesus says, truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment but has passed from death to life. This is one of the most important gospel invitations we have in Scripture. By the way, it's a wonderful verse to memorize. Notice this open invitation. Whoever hears my word and believes He doesn't say this ethnicity can come, this status of people can come. No, whoever hears my word and believes Let me take a moment to say that the word hear and believe is not talking about two steps. Yes, you do have to hear the word before you can believe it. But the idea here is of parallelism, often in Scripture and often in our English language. We use the word here as a synonym for responding properly, obeying, believing. If a mom asks her son to clean up his room and an hour later he still hasn't done it, she may ask him, Did you hear me? She's not asking, did you receive that audiological input? that I sent to you. Did you hear that sound in your ears? No, she's saying, did you do what I asked you to do? John 10, 27, Jesus says, My sheep hear my voice, I know them, and they follow me. The evidence that you have heard the shepherd's voice is that you trust and obey. Notice that salvation is by faith alone. There's no mention here of earning God's favor by good works. And I want you to also see that salvation comes to those who believe that the Father has sent his son, his beloved son, as Savior. Notice what it says, whoever believes him who sent me has eternal life. To trust in Christ is to trust that the Father has sent him as a Savior. To not trust in Christ means you don't believe the Father. You're not really trusting Him. And I want you to notice that the gift of eternal life is given the moment a person believes. Yes, the fullness of our salvation will not be fully enjoyed until we are in glory. We find this in many passages of Scripture. I've talked to you many times about the three tensions of salvation. There's a sense in which we have been saved, there's a sense in which we are being saved, and there's a sense in which we will be saved. But the moment a person believes, they at that very moment receive the gift of eternal life. Notice how this gift is described negatively. He does not come into judgment or condemnation. The person who believes will never ever at some time in the future be condemned by God. On the day of judgment, the person who trust in Christ will be justified. Not they will justify. They will receive the sentence of no condemnation. You're justified the moment you believe. And then positively described this way, but it's passed from death to life. This is a profound thing. The moment you believe, you move from death to to life. You go from someone who is spiritually dead and unresponsive to someone who is spiritually alive. Now the obvious question that comes out of verse 24 is, have you trusted in Christ as your Savior? And have you passed from death to life? Have you been born again? This is no light-hearted matter. This is an issue of eternal consequence. Listen to me carefully Do you have a testimony of salvation? This passage, verse 24, would indicate. That everyone who has is born again has passed from death unto life in a moment of time. So how would you describe your conversion? Let me tell you some things that I hear all the time. Well, Pastor, I've kind of always been a Christian. Or I was baptized when I was a kid. Or I was confirmed when I was 12. Or I joined such and such a church when I was twenty-three. Or I changed religions when I got married. I want you to know that I don't like any of these common testimonies. I don't like one of them. No one has ever always been a Christian. You were born spiritually dead. Baptism does not save. And joining a church is not the same as being born again. What I long to hear people say from their heart is that they came to understand one day that they were sinners headed to hell. That they were in danger. That they stood condemned. They were convicted. that they were sinners by the word of God. And they became convinced that Jesus is the Son of God, the Savior of the world. That when Jesus died on the cross, he paid for all their sins, past, present, and future. And that he rose again the third day, testifying that his sacrifice for their sin had been accepted by the Father. And the things are different now. Things have changed. Their lifestyle, the entire trajectory of their life is going in a different direction. They used to be headed this way, but now they're headed this way. So, do you have a testimony of conversion? Not everyone can pinpoint the exact moment when they were born again. But everyone should know that they've passed from death into life. In third world countries, Pastor Aaron could give testimony to this. People don't keep track of their birthdays If you were to go to the country that I spent four years in as a boy and ask anybody there, how old are you? They would say like I'm like in my twenties Sounds Preposterous to us. You don't know how old you are? No, they don't know how old they are. They didn't keep track. They didn't write it down. It's not important in their culture. But they know they're alive. Because they're breathing and their heart's pumping and they're talking to you. So you don't have to have it written down. January the nineteenth, twenty twenty five, at about nine thirty-two, I was saved. Some people have that degree of certainty about the change, but many people do not But they can tell you I used to be like this, and then there was a time period in my life where I came under the influence of the gospel and everything changed and now I'm different. I'm a different person. Comes down to this, are you trusting in what you have done? Or what Christ has done for you. If you've never been born again, won't you trust Jesus today? Listen the promise embedded in verse 24 one more time. Whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal. Life. Let's close in prayer. Father, thank you for this time that we've been able to spend together. We thank you for your word. We thank you that it's filled with promises and invitations and warnings. Father, I pray that you would use all of these things that we've considered in this text today to comfort your people. And to draw sinners to the Savior. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.