Give your Bibles, please, would you join me in John chapter 5? John chapter 5 Dr. Emile Victor Rioux is considered to be one of the great classical scholars of the 20th century. It's most famous for starting the Penguin Classic series of books in 1946. He translated the Iliad and the Odyssey into modern English to great critical acclaim. And then he was asked by the publishers of that series to translate the four gospels into a fresh English translation. At the time, Dr. Ryu was 60 years old and a lifelong agnostic. However, he entered his work with diligence and earnestness And after a year of immersing himself in the text of the four gospels, he became a believer in Jesus Christ. And this is because the story of Jesus is compelling and there is power in the Word of God. This morning we are continuing our journey through the Gospel of John, and we come to the Divine Son discourse, which we have already started considering in previous sermons. This teaching was given to our Lord's antagonist, to Jewish religious leaders, who actually wanted to kill him because of his claims to deity. And so Jesus defends his claims by explaining his unity with the Father, his authority as the Son of God, and the witnesses that validated his claims. This final section of instruction concerning the witnesses covers verses 30 through 47. This morning we're just going to look at verses 30 through 40. I want you to notice that verse 30 is a transitional verse between the two units of thought. In verses 28 and 29 , If you were with us last week, we looked at the last judgment of the fact that Jesus Christ himself will be our judge. And so verse 30 picks up that theme. It says, I can do nothing on my own. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just because I seek not my own will, but the will of him who sent me. Verse 30 is very similar to the very first verse of this discourse, verse 19, where Jesus says, Truly, truly I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only as he sees the Father doing. Now, verse 31 begins referring to the witnesses that verify his identity. Look with me at verse 31. If I alone bear witness about myself, my testimony is not true. This strikes us as a strange verse, because Jesus does bear witness to his own identity on many occasions in the Gospels, and of course his testimony is true. The key to understanding this verse is the word alone and to understand that he is referring to the Old Testament principle that in a court of law every word would be established by two or three witnesses. In other words, one person could not condemn another on his word, and one person could not make a claim to their identity just based on his witness alone. So Jesus is saying, I am not the sole witness to my divine identity. There are others. And that brings us to verse 32. There is another who bears witness about me, and I know that the testimony that he bears about me is true. Now, the identity of this witness is not given in verse 32. But from the context of this paragraph, we can see that it's none other than God the Father. It is the Father who bears witness to his son. You'll see this again in verse 37. He says, and the Father who sent me has himself borne witness about Now, if you were to look at how preachers throughout the centuries have preached this passage, you would see that almost always they have preached it with the main points being the different witnesses. And that's sort of what I'm going to do, but with this caveat. All of the witnesses that come forth are ultimately witnesses that have been given by the Father. He is the ultimate witness to the identity of his beloved Son. So I want to begin this morning by looking at the first point, which begins in verse 33, and that is that the father testifies to his son through the witness. of John the Baptist. Look with me, please, at verse 33. It says, you sent to John, and he has borne witness to the truth. Now, I've mentioned to you before in our study of this Gospel that always in the Gospel of John, John the Baptist is referred to simply as John. But in the other gospels, he's always referred to as John the Baptist. This can be confusing because if you're not careful, you might assume that the reference to John is a reference to the author of this gospel, but it's not, because the author of this gospel never refers to himself by name. He calls himself sometimes the beloved disciple, but he never refers to himself as John. So anytime you're in the Gospel of John and you see a reference to John, it's John the Baptist that's being spoken of. And that's what we have here. Now, you may recall, if you've been with us for this whole series, that John the Baptist is the very first witness given in this book. Turn with me, please, to John chapter 1. That opening prologue, John chapter 1, verse 6, please. John 1, verse 6, it says, There was a man sent from God whose name was John. He came as a witness to bear witness about the light that all might believe through him. He was not the light, but came to bear witness about the lights. I want you to notice that John the Baptist was sent by God. As a witness to Christ. Yes, he he did bear witness to Christ, but it was a sense given by the Father. He didn't come with his own imaginative ideas. He came on a mission from God. You may recall it was John the Baptist who told that religious delegation that came to check him out. He said that he was simply a voice crying in the wilderness, preparing the way for the coming of the Messiah. And when John the Baptist saw Jesus, he says, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And you may recall that the Lord's very first disciples came from the disciples of John the Baptist. The ministry of John the Baptist could be beautifully summarized as it is in John chapter 3 and verse 30, where he says, He must increase, but I must decrease. Now turn back with me, please, to John chapter 5 and verse 34. Jesus says not that the testimony that I receive is from man. But I say these things so that you may be saved. Again, a verse that could be confusing What Jesus is saying here is that his identity is not based on the witness of a man, John the Baptist, because ultimately John the Baptist was sent by the Father. But because people would listen and hear the message of John the Baptist, it does bear witness to him And the whole point of John the Baptist's ministry was to point people to Jesus so that they might believe that he is their Messiah and they might be saved. Now, John the Baptist's ministry is summarized by our Lord in verse 35. It says he was a burning and shining lamp. And you were willing to rejoice for a while in his light John the Baptist was not the light. He was not the Messiah. But he was a lamp that preceded the light. And prepared the way for his coming. The Lord here is quoting undoubtedly from Psalm 132 and verse 17, which says, I have prepared a lamp for my anointed. The fact is that when John the Baptist came on the scene, he created a huge sensation. And rightly so, because he was the first real prophet in 400 years. Nearly everyone on occasion went out to hear him from Judea. There were the rich and the poor, the educated and the ignorant, men and women, religious and irreligious. Everyone was curious and wanted to hear this man of God. And so Jesus says that his ministry was like a meteor. It was bright, but brief. It says the people rejoiced in his light for a while. This is probably a reference to the fact that most people went out to hear him. They were curious and they were entertained, as it were, by this eccentric man. But after he started preaching repentance and calling them to account for their sin , They grew tired of that and the crowds left him. John the Baptist had a brief ministry. He had a humble ministry And he pointed men and women to Christ. And the Lord is speaking to his antagonist, who all recognized that he was indeed a prophet sent from God. But now we come to the second witness. The Father testifies to his son through the witness of Jesus' miracles. Look with me at verse 36. It says, but the testimony that I have is greater than that of John. For the works that the Father has given me to accomplish, the very works that I'm doing, bear witness about me that the Father Jesus is now turning to a witness that he says is more impressive than even John the Baptist. And that is his works. And what is being referenced here by his works is his miracles. John the Baptist was a great man of God, but we have no record of him performing any miracles. But Jesus performed many miracles And they were convincing as to his divine identity. Let me mention a few factors. That made his miracles difficult to reject. Number one, Jesus performed many miracles. If you were to take your four Gospels and you were to look at every miracle count and you were to throw out the duplicates, you, depending on how you count them, would come just a little bit shy of 40. But that is just a sample. You should not think for a moment that Jesus only performed like 40 miracles during his earthly ministry. Why do I say that? Because we have all these summary statements where it says that Jesus went into these villages and he healed all that were sick and all that were lame. And it appears that he spent his entire day there ministering and healing people. And there are several of these summary statements. And so I think it's safe to say that Jesus performed hundreds and perhaps thousands of miracles during his three years of ministry. Secondly, Jesus performed a wide variety of miracles. He healed the deaf and blind and lame and paralyzed. But he didn't just heal. He also turned the water into wine and he calmed a great storm on the Sea of Galilee. He demonstrated that he had authority over nature. And we have the story where he healed people from afar, like with a nobleman's son, and the hour that he told that father that he would be all right was the hour that he was healed. And Jesus also performed thirdly spectacular miracles. What could be more spectacular than feeding the 5,000, which we're going to come to in just a couple weeks. Well, perhaps even more spectacular would be raising the dead. And at least three times in the gospel record we read of Jesus raising the dead. In fact, This Gospel of John, as you probably know, is structured around seven miracles. The first half of the book, the first twelve chapters that covers his life. John has structured them around seven miracles that are intended to be like signs pointing to his identity. And the last and the most impressive of those miracles is what? The raising of Lazarus from the dead, a man who had been dead for four days, that's pretty impressive. That's hard to fake. But how did people respond, the unbelievers and the religious establishment when he raised Lazarus from the dead? Well, they they they wanted to kill Jesus. It did make them think, wait, maybe I'm wrong. No, they doubled down. They did not respond in faith. And then, perhaps most importantly, the miracles of Jesus were convincing as to his identity because They were prophesied in Scripture. He fulfilled Scripture, especially in Isaiah 35. It talks about his miraculous works that the Messiah would do. And there are other passages as well. The miracles of Jesus pointed to his divine identity. Now Jesus performed miracles for different reasons I think we often think that the most pressing thing, the thing that really touches our hearts, is he relieved misery and suffering and he was merciful to people. And that this is true. The Bible says he was moved with compassion. But that wasn't the primary reason he performed miracles. His miracles revealed who he was. so that people would believe. And his miracles had within them not just the fulfillment of prophecy But they were pictures of the great work of redemption that he was coming to do. Have you ever thought about this? Let's go a little deeper, okay? The most common miracle that he performed was the healing of the blind. That was a picture of people opening their eyes and seeing the gospel for what it was. And healing the deaf was a picture of them being able to really hear the gospel, which they were deaf to before. And those who were immobile and paralyzed, who were like captives in chains, their healing was like the freedom that the gospel gives us to get up and to serve the Lord. They were all like symbols and parables, all pointing to who he was And they were impressive to many people. At the beginning of this gospel in John chapter 2, we read of Jesus performing many miracles in Jerusalem, and it says that many believed. But then we had that amazing thing statement, but Jesus didn't believe in them, is literally what it says, and it's because they had a superficial faith, they weren't really, really following him. In John chapter 3, we have a man named Nicodemus who comes to Jesus by night and he says, We know that you, our teacher, come from God, for no one can do these signs or these miracles that you do unless God is with him. And in John chapter 7 and verse 31, we read, yet many of the people believed in him. They said, when the Christ or the Messiah appears, Will he do more signs than this man has done? And the expected answer is no. He won't do more signs. This man is clearly the Messiah. And in John chapter 10 and verse 25, we read, The works that I do in the Father's name bear witness about me. And I mentioned the raising of Lazarus in John chapter 11. We have this little meeting after this spectacular miracle. It says, so the chief priest And Pharisees gathered the council that is the Sanhedrin and said, What are we to do? For this man performs many signs. If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him. That was an overstatement because they clearly weren't going to believe in him and they underestimated the hardness of the human hearts. The first half of this gospel effectively ends summarizing our Lord's public ministry this way, John chapter 12 and verse 37. Though he had done so many signs or miracles before them, they still did not believe in him. I've heard many people say over the years that if they lived during the time of Christ and were able to personally witness the miracles that he performed, they would believe But that's not the case. The fact is they are ignorant of the hardness of their own heart. In Luke chapter 16 We read of the rich man and Lazarus, and the rich man is in torment and asks Abraham to send Lazarus back from the dead to warn his five brothers. And the Father replies, if they will not hear Moses and the prophet, neither will they be convinced if someone would rise from the dead. And so the problem is not that there are no witnesses to Christ. Jesus's miracles were even more convincing than the testimony of John the Baptist. These three witnesses that we're examining in this passage are progressive. That is, each one is greater than the one before. And now we come to this witness of the word of God. The word of God. And I want us to look now at verse 37. And the Father who sent me has himself borne witness about me. His voice you have never heard, and his form you have never seen. Once again, John refers to the Father testifying to his beloved son. What exactly is John referring to. I think he's probably referring to the three occasions when God the Father audibly spoke From heaven. Did you know that? There are three occasions. One was at his baptism. What does he say? This is my beloved son, with whom I am well pleased. That's quite a testimony. And then in his transfiguration up on the mountain, the Father says, this is my beloved Son with whom I am well pleased. Listen to him. And the third occasion, not as well known, takes place in this very gospel in John chapter 12. Would you turn with me, please, to John chapter 12 and verse 27? Jesus is soon to be crucified. Verse 27, Jesus says, Now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. But for this purpose I have come to this hour. Father, glorify your name. Then a voice came from heaven, I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. And the crowd that stood there and heard it said that it had thundered. Others said an angel has spoken to him. This is an interesting testimony to the identity of Christ But I want you to notice as we turn back to chapter 5 and verse 37, we have a very curious phrase at the end of this verse. Jesus says to these Jewish leaders, his voice you have never heard, his form you have never seen. How do we interpret that? I think Jesus is speaking in a way that's ironic Think about this for a second. Perhaps, just perhaps , speculating a little bit here, but it's it's well founded. These Jewish men and their conversations would say, wouldn't it be great? To have lived back in Old Testament times. They may have said like in Bible times, like we do today, you know? Because all these miracles were taking place. We read of God speaking from heaven. Remember at Mount Sinai, God spoke to Moses And again we read that it sounded like thunder. And the people said, the Lord, let Moses speak to us, but don't speak to us. It's too terrifying. And they think to themselves, wouldn't it be great to have actually heard his voice? And then we read in the Old Testament of Theophanes or Christophanes. That is a pre-incarnate manifestation of Christ where the Son of God comes down in a temporary form like a human being, like an angel of the Lord. We read of those guests that came to Abraham. We read of the angel of the Lord who wrestled with Jacob at night. We read of the angel of the Lord who came to Gideon and to others in the book of Judges. And perhaps they were saying, wouldn't it have been wonderful to have that experience? But the irony of it is they had an experience far greater than any of those men. Because they saw the incarnate Son of God in their midst. And he spoke the word of God, and he was physically, he was there in the form of God. What an amazing thing. They were some of the most blessed people who had ever lived They had this incredible privilege of living in this little country at the precise time that the Messiah, the Son of God, would come. What advantages! And yet they responded in unbelief. Let me pause for a moment and make some application here. You should never confuse your advantages spiritually. with the idea that you're okay and that you truly know God. How many times I've talked to people over the years and you start to witness to them and they say, oh no, you don't have to worry about me, Pastor. My my father was a preacher. Or my uncle was a deacon. Or I'm a member of this church over here. Or I can quote for you John 3. 16. They have had some privileges. They do know some things. But that does not equate to the fact that they truly have a saving knowledge of God. You should not think That because you come to this church where the Word of God is preached, and because you come here on a regular basis, And because you know some truths of Scripture and you can quote some Bible verses, you should not think that that is a guarantee that you're truly a child of God. Because these men saw the Son of God in the flesh. They had that incredible advantage, and yet they did not believe. So that raises the great question of why did they reject him? That brings us to verse 38. Listen to these words that must have been very cutting to them. And you do not have his word abiding in you, for you do not believe the one whom he has sent. Jesus says you don't have the Word of God abiding in you. Now this I'm sure angered them. It would sort of like be telling an accountant that he doesn't know how to act, or a carpenter that he doesn't know how to swing a hammer. Because these men were all about the Word of God. They were called men of the book. We are told several times in the Old Testament of the man who fears God hides God's word in his heart and meditates upon it and that it changes him. And Jesus says, the word of God has not changed you. It has not humbled you. It has not brought you to repentance. How can Jesus make such an accusation? Because of what he says, the last phrase in verse 38. This is the evidence. You do not believe the one whom he has sent. That is whom the Father has sent. You don't believe him. This is the evidence that you haven't grasped the meaning of the Word of God The clear implication is that they truly knew the Word of God in their hearts, they would receive Jesus as their Messiah. And then he follows that up with verse 39. He says, you search the scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life, and it is they that bear witness. about me. He's not calling on them or commanding them to search the scriptures as some versions have it. He's saying this is what you guys do, you search the scriptures. And this is absolutely true. We know historically that there were rabbis and scribes who memorized the entire Old Testament in Hebrew. They were very meticulous and respectful in the way they handled those scrolls. They were very careful in the way the scribes copied them. We know that the rabbis went through and they numbered every word. in the Old Testament. So they knew exactly how many words there were. But that wasn't enough. They went through and they numbered every letter. And then they had the number for of words and letters for every book of the Bible. And they would mark the central word and the central letter in every book and in the entire Old Testament. So that as they were copying It would be clear if they had somehow forgot to put a letter in or added a letter because it wouldn't line up with the other manuscripts And when they were copying, they weren't allowed to go off of any memory of how a word was spelled. They were prescribed to look at a letter and write the letter and then look back at the next letter and then write that letter. They couldn't go from memory. And every time they came to the sacred name Yahweh, they had to take a ritual bath to cleanse themselves before they would write it. They had profound respect for the Word of God. And indeed, they did diligently search the scriptures. And they did this, Jesus says, because you think that in them you have eternal life. The legendary Rabbi Hilael said, whoever has gained the words of the Torah has gained for himself life in the world to come. The idea is these men believed that by diligently studying the Word of God They had earned favor and merit with God, and therefore they would surely be saved. But there was one problem. They missed the main point of the Old Testament. You've heard the expression, they missed the forest for the trees. Notice what Jesus says there. Very important statement. He says, because they bear witness about me. By the way, I don't have time to develop this, but this should change the way we view the Old Testament and read the Old Testament. Jesus says to these men, these scholars, that the entire Old Testament testifies about me. The prophecies, the types , the symbols, the ceremonies, the parallels They all in different ways point to Christ. This is essentially what Jesus said. Remember the two on the road to Maes after his resurrection on that Sunday evening? Those two, they were hidden. They didn't know who this man was walking with them. And it says, beginning at Moses, he opened unto them all that the scriptures taught. Concerning himself. And the idea is that the entire Old Testament was filled with references to Christ So how did they miss their Messiah when they were the experts of the Old Testament? They knew the prophecies. And they lived at a time when these things were being fulfilled right before their eyes. That brings us to verse 40. Yet you refuse to come to me that you may have life. It was not because they were ignorant of the Old Testament prophecies, or because Jesus provided insufficient evidence. He provided abundant evidence, and there were many witnesses. The fact is, they didn't want to come to Christ and believe. But why? Because they had built their whole lives on a system of self-righteousness whereby they could earn God's favor and gain great status In the eyes of the people. And the idea of abandoning that way of life, that treasured position in their culture. and of confessing their sin and coming and following Jesus was simply something too costly for them. We read later in this gospel that for envy they delivered up Christ They were envious of all the people that were following him and not listening to them anymore. And so this is why they walked away To follow Christ would be humiliating and embarrassing. It would be like starting all over. And they would never deny themselves, take up the cross and follow a crucified Savior. And this is still a major reason why people who hear the gospel and know the gospel reject the gospel. In John chapter 3 and verse 20, we read these words, for everyone who does wicked things hates the light, and does not come to the light, lest his works should be Now I want to turn to some implications of this passage. Number one, people do not reject the gospel because of a lack of evidence. In the history of the church, there's always trends and truths that become emphasized in certain generations. And one of the things That's been true in this generation, and I don't I don't want you to misunderstand what I'm saying, but the study of apologetics When I was a young man, you rarely heard about it. Today it's everywhere. It's a huge thing. All kinds of books on apologetics. And the idea behind it is that so often the reason that people reject the gospel is because they don't realize that there are credible arguments to support the claims of Christ. And I believe that apologetics can be helpful in knocking out and destroying false trust that people have in their own way of thinking or in other areas that they're trusting in. But I do want you to understand this. No one has been argued into the kingdom. And that people reject the gospel not because They're super smart, and there's just not enough evidence. They reject the gospel according to this verse, verse 40, because they don't want to receive the gospel. Now that does not mean that people who ultimately get saved sometimes have to work through issues and they have to think about things and they do have objections. Sometimes the Spirit of God will need to use His word and other people and other resources to help them fuller understand. Do not misunderstand me. These things can be helpful. But people who walk away do so not because of a lack of evidence. I can still remember Years ago, before I came to this ministry, I was ministering in Frederick, Maryland, and there was a man who came to church several times who was a scientist at Fort Dietrich, and I went and visited him at his home. And we had a good conversation. And he kept telling me, you know, I'm a man of science. I demand facts. And what you say is interesting, but I just don't think there's enough evidence. For me to trust in Christ. It seems lunacy to make that leap And we talked for some time. And at first he was very cordial. He was very understanding. But as we went on, and I pressed him with the claims of Christ, it became clear that the reason why he didn't believe was not intellectual but moral. He did not want to repent of his sins and trust in Christ. Number two. We must beware of studying the scriptures in a purely intellectual way. You know, the Bible is the most fascinating book in the world. And one can give their lifetime to studying it. And there's so much there that you will never plumb the depths of it. And do not misunderstand me. We must give our minds. We are told in Scripture to love God with all of our minds. And I deplore Christianity that sells itself as an anti-intellectual. Park your brain at the door when you come in. We just want you to feel, don't think. No, God calls us to think. But we must beware of studying the Scripture and reading the Scripture in a purely intellectual way. to satisfy curiosities and and and perhaps because it's fascinating to us, if it doesn't strengthen our faith and change our hearts. The Bible is a very practical book. It was not given as a textbook for us to debate about. Or for us to blast other people with, it's there for us to be transformed and changed And this is a great danger for people who handle the Word of God all the time. This is especially true for preachers and pastors who become so familiar with the Word of God, who study the Word of God and prepare sermons every single week. It's very easy to go through the motions and not have it touch your heart or minister to you. You're just trying to get a sermon together. And there's a danger out there as well. If you come to church every Sunday and you hear the Word of God preached, it's very easy for you to become a spectator. And to only tune in to one or two places in the sermon that you find interesting or you have a question about. And the rest is just background noise. It's very easy to not allow the Word of God, though it is right there in our midst, to dwell in our hearts. And then finally, those who struggle with doubt and unbelief should search the scriptures because they point to Christ. Perhaps you're here this morning and you would confess that you're still an unbeliever. What should you do? You should continue to put yourself under the preaching of the word. You should continue to read the word. You should continue to study the word. Because faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of Christ. God uses this word. The Bible says in Romans 1. 16, For the gospel is the power of God unto salvation to everyone who believes. The gospel is not just a message, it's a message with an inherent power in it And sometimes the Lord takes his time in bringing people to himself. I remember years ago at the old building There was a man who started attending our church with his girlfriend, and he let me know up front that he was an atheist. And he would sit there with his arms folded and with a smirk on his face in the back. And sometimes he would laugh a little bit at things that I would say. And it went on like that for months. But over time, I could see that his expression was changing. His face went from contempt to concern to conviction. And eventually I had a conversation with him, and he prayed to receive Christ, and he was baptized. He's no longer in this area, but he's still walking with the Lord today. And that was due to the power of the word chipping away in his hard heart, week by week. Until finally he came to faith in Christ. And so I'd encourage you, if you're here and you would say you're a skeptic that you don't really believe, please keep coming. Please keep allowing the Word of God to penetrate your heart and to hear it because it's your only hope. Because God will use this word. To bring you to himself. And I think of verse 40 as we close. What a powerful thing Jesus said, yet you refuse to come to me that you may have life. Despite all the witnesses, despite all this evidence, you refuse to come to me. Maybe you're here this morning and you would have to say But the truth is that you just refuse to come in believe. Won't you trust in him today Jesus is the Son of God, the Savior of the world. Let's close in prayer. Father We thank you for giving us a great Savior. Thank you that He is worthy of our trust. We thank you, Father, that you have provided many witnesses to his identity. And we thank you that we have come by your grace to trust in him and him alone. And Father, we pray for those who might be still in our midst, who have yet to believe. I pray that today, even this day, would be their day of salvation when their eyes are opened and their ears. Hear the gospel in a new way. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.