This time, if you have your Bibles, you can turn to Isaiah 63. We're continuing along in our study. We're marching along very nicely. We're near the end. It's hard to believe how How many months, even plus a year and a half? I've been working on. We've been working on the book of Isaiah. We are 76 lessons. Into the book of Isaiah. I hope and pray that as a result that we have a better understanding of the gospel of Isaiah and the message that God has for us. In his word in the book of Isaiah, and the agelessness, the timelessness of the gospel. It is not a New Testament thing. It is a the eternal plan of God. We are continuing on with our memorization. We try to memorize Isaiah 52, 13, all the way through the end of Isaiah 53, putting this entire passage of scripture, the fourth servant song. to memory by heart. And so we are working on it. We're doing some review. Isaiah 52, 13 through 15 to the end of the chapter, and then Isaiah 53, 1 through 3. We started the review last week. And so would you join me in standing? We're going to just say these through two times. And uh, I'm sorry, one time. We'll say each one, we'll say 52, 13 through 15, then we'll say the reference, and then the verse for Isaiah 53, 1 through 3 Let's say this together. Isaiah 52, 13 through 15. Behold, my servant shall act wisely. He shall be high and lifted up and shall be exalted. as many were astonished at you, his appearance was so marred beyond human semblance, and his form beyond that of the children of mankind so shall he sprinkle many nations. Kings shall shut their mouths because of him. For that which has not been told them they see And that which they have not heard, they understand. Now, our next passage, Isaiah 53, 1 through 3. Who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a young plant. and like a root out of dry ground. He had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and as one from whom men hide their faces. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. Excellent. You may be seated. If you think that you can quote those Two passages, those six verses, why don't you see me afterwards and try to do that? We won't take up our time this evening to do that, but that's a great venture to try to get into to say these. consecutively and then we'll continue adding verses as we go along in our review process. We are in Isaiah 63. And it's just a joy to be here this evening. If you remember, the theme for the book of Isaiah is return and rest in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. We are seeing that he alone is salvation. He's also the judge, as we will see this evening He is our Redeemer, but if we fail to receive him as our Redeemer and as our Savior, he is also the judge who treads the wine crest of the wrath of God. We are in this second division of the book of Isaiah. We're focusing on redemption. And here we see the culmination of that redemption in what is known as eschatology, the study of last things. As we see that God is steadily working out his plan for the ages, for all creation, this understanding of what God is doing, what God is Is working through all the ages of human history allows us to have great comfort as we recognize that God is sovereignly in control of all these events and that His Son is not only the suffering servant, but he is the anointed warrior who will bring all of these things to culmination. Just by way of kind of review to get us set up to where we are, I'm going to read to you Isaiah 63, the first six verses, which is all we're going to cover this evening, and then we're going to go kind of review how we got to where we are Isaiah 63 verse 1 says, Who is this who comes from Edom in crimson garments from Basra? He who is splendid in his apparel, marching in the greatness of his strength. It is I, speaking in righteousness, mighty to save Why is your apparel red, and your garments like his who treads in the winepress? I have trodden the winepress alone, and from the peoples no one was with me I trod them in my anger and trampled them in my wrath. Their life blood spattered on my garments and stained all my apparel. For the day of vengeance was in my heart And my year of redemption had come. I looked, but there was no one to help me. I was appalled, but there was no one to uphold. So my own arm brought me salvation, and my wrath upheld me. I trampled down the peoples in my anger. I made them drunk in my wrath, and I poured out their lifeblood on the earth. Not exactly the most comforting truths that we're bringing here, but they are in another sense, because this is the destruction of the enemies of God. And the destruction of the enemies of God's people that is being described in these verses. As our Redeemer comes not only as our Redeemer, but also as our anointed warrior to judge The enemies of Christ and of his people. Just kind of to get a flow for the thought as we're coming into this passage. If you remember in Isaiah 62 , The first five verses of Isaiah 62, we have the Messiah interceding for Zion's sake. Messiah's ceaseless intervention. On behalf of Zion. And he says, For Zion's sake, I will not keep silent. And for Jerusalem's sake, I will not be quiet until her righteousness goes forth as brightness and her salvation as a burning torch. And we see that the Messiah is is passionate about the redemption that he is uh purchasing and accomplishing in the nation of Israel. Then in verses 6 through 9, we have the Messiah avoids watchmen To ceaselessly intercede on behalf of Zion. He says in verse six, On your walls, O Jerusalem, I have set watchmen all the day and all the night. They shall never be silent. You who put the Lord in remembrance, take no rest and give him no rest until he establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in the earth Then in the last half of that chapter, the last portion of that chapter, verses 10 and following, really kind of verses 9 and following, the Messiah orders confident preparations, which are proclamations of salvation. to be made to Zion. He says, Go through, go through the gates, prepare the way for the people. Build up, build up the highway, clear it of stones, lift up a signal over the peoples. Behold, the Lord has proclaimed to the end of the earth. Say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, your salvation comes. Behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him. And now as we come to chapter 63, the argument is continuing. And if you remember, notice this even as I was reading it, it may have been apparent to you the layout of this passage. It's really a question and answer. There are two questions and there are two answers given. The passage is written in this QA format. The first question starts out at the beginning of verse 1. Who? Who is this that comes from Edom? There is an approaching warrior, an approaching person, and We're not told exactly who asked the question. Possibly it's the prophet Isaiah. Perhaps it's one of these watchmen. I think that's probably the most likely. One of the watchmen that's on the walls, since he appears to be on the wall and he notices A person approaching. And so he asks, Who is this? Who is this one who approaches? And the answer is given in verse 2. Or I'm sorry, in the end of verse 1. He says that he is one speaking in righteousness and mighty to save. We begin to realize that this is the Messiah. This is our Savior Jesus Christ who comes. Speaking in righteousness and mighty to save. And he says, Why? That's the next question. Write in your Bible that encourages to underline or circle who and why so you can kind of see the flow the next time you come to Isaiah 63 A watchman says, Why are your clothes red? Why is your apparel red and your garments like his who treads in a wine press? And the answer is given, but they are red with the blood of his enemies, which he trod down like one treading on a winepress. At the end , the really the the answer is from verse 3 to verse 6, and really that would be the best place for a chapter division Really if I could have chosen if I was a chapter divider I would divide sixty-three verse six as actually part of sixty-two the flow of thought continues. And then in verse 7, really starting a new chapter, and 7 all the way to the end of chapter 64 is a prayer. By the remnant. It is a prayer of repentance and contrition. And you will look into that over the weeks ahead. But 63 7 all the way to the end of 64 is one long prayer. So that would make a great place for a chapter division. Again, the chapter divisions aren't inspired. They were added later for our benefit. And sometimes they nail it. And other times not so much. And this is one of those not so much as they didn't quite get it this time. But what does this passage refer to? Maybe as I was reading it the first time, you're you had a couple different thoughts running in your head. What is he Describing here. What is the event that is taking place? Early church fathers like Tertullian and Origen and Jerome, they read this and they accurately understood that it referred to Jesus. But they understood it as referring to his first coming. They said with the blood that was spattered on his garments was his own. And that the wine press that he trod was on Golgotha, on Calvary. And maybe as we were reading this Some of those thoughts came into your mind. Is this talking about Jesus on Calvary? Is this talking about another event? One reason they thought this was because of the fact that the warrior describes himself as being alone. He says it in two places. And this fits with the abandonment that Christ experienced on the cross for us. Not only was he abandoned by men, he was abandoned by his father. He was abandoned entirely. And it also parallels nicely with what we studied in Isaiah 59. Here's a little chart I put in your notes as well. Isaiah 59 , 16, and Isaiah 63. 5 are nearly identical. But they're from different perspectives. You notice it starts out in Isaiah 59, 16. He saw, and Isaiah 63. 5 says, I look. So we have a different perspective, one speaking about what happened, and the person saying, This is what I did, the first person singular, I look There was no man. And he says, There was no one to help. He wondered that there was no one to intercede. And then it says he was appalled that there was no one to appolt. And again, interestingly the word wonder, if you look at this when we studied Isaiah 59. The word wonder and the word appall in the Hebrew are identical. It's only the translators who try to bring out a different sense of the Hebrew word here, but they are the identical words They were appalled that there was no one to intercept. Then his own arm brought him salvation. He says, My own arm brought him salvation. His righteousness upheld him, my wrath upheld him. Well look at the significance there. But we do see the It's two different places where he says, There was no man, there was no one to help, and his own arm brought him salvation, and my own arm brought me salvation. There is this inference that he was alone. Not inference, it's clearly stated. The aloneness of the victory that he accomplished. The messages in both of those passages are very similar. The situation demanded a divine response, and there was no one else capable of bringing deliverance. We're going to look at why uh that that the aloneness is is mentioned so much here a little bit later on in our message tonight. But another reason why some of these early church fathers Saw this as referring to Christ's death on Calvary is because of the reference to my own arm bringing salvation. And they remember Isaiah 53. 1. We just quoted this. Who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? Speaking of the might and power of God. And how was the arm of the Lord revealed? In the substitutionary death of the Messiah. And so in the death of Christ on the cross, the power of God was made known. That's why we say why the Bible says that I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God to salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Gentile. So we understand how there is an aspect that indicates the arm of the Lord in the cross. However, even when we studied Isaiah 59, we noticed that it had an eschatological focus. It was pointing beyond the cross. Because of what the cross accomplished, it was pointing beyond the cross. And it's quoted in Romans 11, referring to the time when all of ethnic Israel will be saved, to an end-time event. When all of ethnic Israel, national Israel, will be saved. So Paul quotes Isaiah 59 in reference to that. But that this idea that the cross of Christ was the wine press that's described here was Rampant throughout the Middle Ages. In fact, here's a fresco on a church in Milan that's uh I think from the 1550s, and you see Christ holding the cross and it looks like a wine breast, and he's treading He's treading the grapes here, and the the people are are filling up their cups to drink, drinking his blood, referring to the Lord's Supper and finding salvation, the blood that was being poured out was his own in this fresco, and in many, many frescoes like it that were painted at that time. However, From the time of John Calvin to the present, the majority of commentators have understood this as referring not to Christ first coming But to Christ's second coming. And there are many reasons why that is the case. It it is not really debated so much anymore because the text is very clear. First, because The blood that is spattered on his garments, he tells where it came from. It's not his own, but is explicitly described as the blood of his enemies. that he trod under his feet. So it's not his own blood that is spattered on his garments, but the blood of his enemies. Secondly, the aloneness of the anointed warrior Refers to the fact that this victory over the enemies of Israel was not a victory that was accomplished through a intermediate source or instrumentality like another nation. It was not Assyria or Babylon or Rome that brings this judgment. He himself accomplished this victory and per and did this judgment. We're going to examine that a little bit further in this lesson. But thirdly, the victory of the anointed warrior, it includes the cross, because the redemption of the nation of Israel and the destruction of their enemies requires not just External enemies to be defeated, but also internal enemies to be defeated. Sin has to be defeated. And so the cross is part of the picture, but it is not the primary part of the picture Forth the imagery of Christ treading the winepress of his wrath is clearly described as still future in the New Testament. several places, but Revelation fourteen, nineteen, uh speaks of it. So the angel swung his sickle across the earth and gathered the grape harvest of the earth and threw it in the great wine press of the wrath of God. And the wine press was trodden outside the city. And blood flow from the wine press as high as a horse's bridle for 1600 stadia. Which I believe is something like 182 miles Pretty significant bloodshed. It's also interestingly, this is Revelation 14. 19. Also Revelation 19. 14 speaks of the wine press that Christ Trod in his judgment. And lastly, if you look at verse 4, it says, For the day of vengeance was in my heart. The Messiah says the day of vengeance was in my heart. Christ's first coming was not described as a day of vengeance. If you remember going back to Isaiah 61, look back in your Bible to Isaiah 61. Remember when we read the first two verses of Isaiah 61, which Jesus read in the synagogue in Nazareth. Remember when he read that where he stopped? He says, The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me. Because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to those who are bound. To proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. And he stops mid-sentence, mid-verse. He rolls up the scroll, he hands it back to the attendant and says, Today, this scripture was fulfilled in your hearing. Now he doesn't continue on to read the next sentence or next line and the day of vengeance of our God. Because in Christ's first coming, it was not the day of vengeance. It was through his death that he would bind up the brokenhearted, proclaim the liberty to the captives. The day of his vengeance was yet future. But here in Isaiah 63, verse 4, he says, The day of vengeance is in my heart. That is why The blood was spattered on his garments as he trampled the wine press of the wrath of God. As we look at this, it's important to realize that this is not unique to Isaiah. The message of God's coming judgment is as ancient as the book of Genesis. It is even as ancient as pre-flood. The Bible tells us in Genesis five about a man named Enoch We're not told much about him in Genesis. We are told that he walked with God and he was not. The Lord took him into heaven without dying. We are told he was the father of Bethuselah. Who is the longest-lived person recorded in the Bible? But in the book of Jude, we're told a little bit more about Enoch and Enoch. And it says, It was also about these that Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied, saying, Behold the Lord comes with ten thousand of his holy ones to execute judgment on all. and to convict all the ungodly of their deeds of ungodliness that they have committed in such an ungodly way, and of all the harsh things that ungodly sinners have spoken against him So we see even before the flood, a couple generations before the flood, over a thousand years before the flood, Enoch is preaching God's coming judgment on this world. God is coming. And he will bring judgment. And that's found as we continue marching through the scriptures, is found again and again in different places. In the book of Isaiah, we have seen it mentioned. Ezekiel 39 speaks of it. When God promises to execute judgment against the nations who will come up against Jerusalem, and He promises to make their bodies, the soldiers' bodies, food for the birds of the air. Then the Lord says, I will set my glory among the nations, and all the nations shall see my judgment that I have executed, and my hand that I laid on them. The house of Israel shall know that I am the Lord their God from that day forward. It's very interesting. We see this connection. God judges the nations. Israel repents. God judges the nations, Israel repents. We see this again and again in the pages of Scripture. He says, from that day forth, as God after God judges the nations, Israel will repent. We've looked at Zechariah 14 a few times in the study because it is so significant to what we are studying here. In Zechariah 14, it says, Behold, a day is coming for the Lord, when the spoil taken from you And the U is, as we continue reading, we'll find out the U is Jerusalem. When the spoil taken from you will be divided in your midst. I mean it's going to come back again. For I will gather all the nations against Jerusalem to battle And the city shall be taken, and the houses plundered, and the women raped. Half of the city shall go out into exile, but the rest of the people shall not be cut off from the city. Then the Lord will go out and fight against those nations. When he fights on a day of battle, on that day his feet shall stand on the Mount of Olives that lies before Jerusalem on the east. We see a great destruction that comes to Jerusalem, which is described in the book of Revelation as the last part of the seven years of tribulation. And we see here then the Lord coming to redeem his people by destroying their enemies. When it comes to New Testament, our Lord speaks of this in Matthew chapter twenty-four and twenty-five in Olivet Discourse Paul speaks of it in Second Thessalonians chapter one verses six through eight. Since indeed God considers it just to repay with affliction those who afflict you, and to grant relief to you who are afflicted as well as to us, When the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels and flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. So this is the testimony of the Apostle Paul. 1 Thessalonians. Every chapter of 1 Thessalonians actually ends with a reference to the coming of Christ. 2 Thessalonians continues this reality. And then in Revelation 19, verses 11 through 16 We find one riding on a white horse who is called faithful and true. The Bible says in righteousness he judges and makes war. And the Bible says in Revelation 19, he is clothed in a robe dipped in blood. And the name by which he is called is the Word of God. And the armies of heaven, arrayed in fine linen white and pure, were following him on a white on white horses. From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations. That he will rule them with a rod of iron. He will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty. On his robe and on his thigh, he has a name written: the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. And this is what history is working towards. When Christ comes to judge, or as Psalm 2 says, when the Lord's enemies are placed beneath his feet. And we see this is what all of history is working towards, and Isaiah 63 brings this about. But perhaps when we read passages like this in our Bible, Something within us recoils against such graphic expressions of judgment, maybe even almost feels wrong, talk about it. And I can understand that it's not pleasant, but it is good and it is right, and it is it is the way in which God brings justice and peace to this world. I'd like to read you a quote from Alex Motir, who is one of the premier commentators on the book of Isaiah. I've used his commentary numerous times in the study of this preparation of these lessons. And he describes this and he says something I think is very helpful for us. He says, we recoil from this expression of judgment, but sober reflection warns us that our reaction is not to be trusted. We know nothing of the emotions proper to absolute holiness, the just, merited, and inevitable final settlement between God and all that defiles and opposes. It is because we are not holy. It is because we are not just. It is because we are not like God that we recoil at this. Because God is absolutely holy and just, he must, in keeping with his character. So with that in mind, as we come to this chapter, In the remaining fifteen or so minutes, twenty minutes, let's look at these six verses together. Who is this who comes from Edom? There's a description of his appearance, this one who comes from Edom. He says, He comes in crimsoned garments from Basra, he who is splendid in his apparel, marching in the greatness of his strength The word that's translated crimsoned, if you have a new American standard, it'll say died. It's a word that can mean died. It's a word that can mean red. And so It can go either way. The idea is that there are dyed garments, probably dyed red, garments that are dyed red. It stood out as this one is approaching Jerusalem. This one comes in vivid Red-dyed garments. In the ancient world, dye was very expensive, and so most people just wore plain colored clothing. People wore browns and tans because to dye clothing was very expensive. But here we have one coming in vivid red that surely would stand out We aren't told yet, but later as we read this passage, we discover that his clothing isn't dyed with dye. It's dyed with the blood of his enemies That it is the blood of his enemies that makes his clothing red. He is also described as marching in the greatness of his strength. You see him walking with the confident swagger of a mighty, victorious warrior. As he approaches Jerusalem, there is no fear, there is no doubt. All that in his in his Gate says, I have been victorious. I am the victor. That's why I read that and I think of Psalm 24, verses 7 and following, which says, Lift up your heads, O gates, and be lifted up, O ancient doors, that the king of glory may come in. Who is this King of glory? The Lord, strong and mighty. The Lord, mighty in battle. Lift up your heads, O gates, and lift them up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in. Who is this king of glory? The Lord of hosts. He is the king of glory. When it says heads, he's not talking about heads. He's talking about gates being lifted up. Being lifted up to make way for the King of Glory to come in to the gates and the doors, because he is the victor. Next time you read Psalm 24, think of Isaiah 63 and the swagger of a mighty warrior who has been victorious over his enemies and is coming to bring peace. Where is he coming from? He's described as coming from Edom and Basra. Basra was the capital city of Edom. Edom is southeast of Jerusalem. If you look on the map here, this is the this is uh this is the Judah, Jerusalem, and you have Edom down here in the Negev region of Israel and onto the the side of Jordan. But Edom is another name for Esau. So the Edomites were the descendants of Esau. So you remember Abraham and Sarah, they had Isaac, Rebekah. They got buried. They had Jacob and Esau. They were twins. And so from Esau comes the Edomites. From Jacob comes the Israelites. We have this ancient enmity. If you remember. When Rebecca was pregnant with Jacob and Esau, she said, Lord, something's wrong. What's going on? He said, You have two nations in your womb. There's war, because there will be a perpetual warfare between these two. Remember, Esau was the elder? But his tricky younger brother stole the birthright and stole the blessing from him that was God's ordained blessing For Jacob. That enmity continued. It continued after they left Egypt. In Numbers chapter 20, when Israel was coming out of Egypt, Moses asked the king of Edom for permission to pass through this territory on their way into the promised land, and he said, We won't touch your Your vineyards, we won't touch your water, we're just going to march through on the highway. And they refused. And he asked again, they said, If you set foot in here, we will attack you. That enmity continued. David was able to subjugate the Edomites, but under Solomon they rebelled, and there was a continual rebellion. In fact, there's an entire book of the Bible. That's written about God's judgment on the Edomites. Anyone know what book that is? When I say an entire book, it's a one-chapter book Obadiah. Obadiah is written to describe God's anger with the Edomites because when they were attacked, possibly when Nebuchadnezzar attacked Jerusalem and just sacked Jerusalem. They joined in and they murdered their brothers. Jacob and Esau were brothers. They murdered their brothers and did not give them shelter, and God said that he will destroy them. Many Bible scholars, when they come to this, think that Edom is a representative of all the people who hate God and hate his people Israel. And I think that's probably likely based on our text here. If you look at verse six He's talking about Edom, but then he says, I trampled down the peoples in my anger. So at the very least, that it was peoples, it was nations. there in Edom that were destroyed. And if you go back, remember, we actually talked about Edom already in Isaiah. I'm sure you remember the chapter. Not sure you don't. Isaiah 34. Isaiah 34 in verses 1 through 7 there is a judgment that is proclaimed against Edom. Just we'll read verses 2 through 6. But you notice the connection between the nations and Edom. It says, For the Lord is enraged against all the nations and furious against all their hosts. He has devoted them, all the nations, to destruction. He has given them over for slaughter. Their slain shall be cast out, and the stench of their corpses shall rise. the mountains shall flow with their blood. And skipping just a verse or two, it says, For my sword has drunk its fill in the heavens. Behold, it descends for judgment upon Edom. upon the people I have devoted to destruction. For the Lord has a sacrifice in Basrah, a great slaughter in the land of Edom. And when we look at Isaiah thirty four, I mentioned that this is referring to An end-time judgment. End-time battle that God would accomplish against the nations In Edom. Possibly Edom being just a representative of all the nations, God's ancient hatred of the nations who oppose him, or possibly taking place in literally in Edom, where all the nations. Gather. It is significant, the word Edom. Do you remember what Esau means? Remember, red Esau means red, and Basra comes from a word that means wine vintage. And so it is significant that these two two words here, Edom and Basra, mean red and wine vintage. And the description is of one. Trampling in the wine vat, or in the grape vat, in judgment. We have then the answer of this mighty warrior. And he says, It is I Speaking in righteousness, mighty to save. And the way he begins here with, it is I. It's indicative of how God himself identifies himself In the book of Isaiah, in Isaiah 43, 25, there is a similar expression where God is speaking. But he says he's speaking in righteousness. The judgment that the Messiah proclaims, although as we look at it, it is extremely hard. It is one of absolute justice and righteousness. It is significant in Revelation 19, verse 11, when the Lord comes on a white horse. It says the one sitting on it is called faithful and true, and in righteousness he judges and makes war We may recoil at the thought of such bloodshed, but it is a righteous judgment of God Then it says, From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations, and he will rule with a rod of iron. He will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God, the Almighty. So we have here speaking in righteousness, his words, when he treads the winepress of the wrath of God, he does so Not by literally treading the wine press, but by just a mere speaking of their condemnation that God strikes them and they die. This is this is the same God who spoke the world into existence, and by one word of his mouth And destroy the enemies. All the enemies of God's people are destroyed by simply his speaking He spoke the world into existence and he will speak judgment on the nations who have gathered for war against Jerusalem. Jerusalem and have ravaged his people. We were reading in Zechariah 14. We read about how they murdered them and they raped the people. And God says, I will not allow that to go unpunished. I will destroy them. And he will do it righteously. He says he is mighty to save. He comes with blood, spattered garments to judge. But the ultimate goal of his Judgment is not cruelty, it's salvation. He comes mighty to save because as he judges the enemies of the people of God. He is saving the people of God. It's like when we pray, Lord, your kingdom come Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. When we pray that, we're saying, God, destroy all the enemies of the cross and bring in righteousness. You can't have God's kingdom without judgment on those who are opposed to God's kingdom. And so the one necessitates the other. We'll actually see the end of this section in verse 6. I'm sorry, in verse 4, that redemption is the goal for his judgment As we continue on here, it says, why is your apparel red? The imagery of a wine press is is rampant rampant is is Frequent, I should say, in the Old Testament. Lamentations 115 speaks of a wine press of the nation of Israel when they were slaughtered in the past as being a winepress. of judgment that came upon them. In Joel chapter three, speaking of the battle of Armageddon, says, Let the nations stir themselves up and come to the valley of Jehoshaphat, for there I will sit to judge all the surrounding nations. Put in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe. Go in, tread, for the wine press is full, the vats overflow. For their evil is great. Notice this here: the connection between evil being great and God's judgment being just. Because their evil is great, God's judgment is just. Think of a wine press. Here are people reenacting pressing wine, but just look at all the grapes here. This is just filled with grapes. And I know the the idea of Drinking that wine afterwards probably doesn't feel so inviting, but that is the standard way that that wine was produced in the ancient world. Today there's there's bats that are there or there's presses that that are done. And here's an ancient wine press. I believe this one might actually be from Nazareth, I'm not sure. And they would press, they would step on the the grapes here is then the water the the juice would trickle down into a vat down here. You can see that little um Kind of nook where the where the grape juice would travel down. But I guess they had plenty of yeast from the feet for fermentation that would not make that that uh the process would speed right along with with uh with that But that that is a standard practice in ancient times. In fact, the coins of Basra during the Roman era had the image of a wine press on them. When we have this anointed warrior, and he describes his lone victory. In verse 3, he says, I have trodden the winepress alone, and from the peoples no one was with me. Then in verse 5, I looked, but there was no one to help. I was appalled, but there was no one to uphold. So my own arm brought me salvation. It's interesting when we think of this, I I I start thinking about Revelation chapter five, and when John It says, and I saw a mighty angel approaching with a loud voice, who is worthy to open the scroll and break its seals? And the answer was, There was no one. There was no one that was able to break the seals of the scrolls of the scroll which initiated the final judgment on the world. And he wept. And then he's told, Weep no more. Behold the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, is conquered. So that he can open the scroll and its seven seals, and it's in those seven seals that the final judgment of the world is unleashed. culminating with Christ returning and bringing this vengeance upon the people. Chapter 6 describes it as the wrath of the Lamb of God, the wrath of the Lamb of God. The Lamb who brings salvation is also the one Who judges? That describes him as coming alone. But we know when Christ returns to judge, he comes with an army Scriptures tell us that he comes the holy angels and church saints and Old Testament believers and tribulation saints that were martyred for their faith. They will return with Christ in their glorified bodies, but he is alone the one who destroys the army, because he alone is the one who has destroyed sword coming out of his mouth. And as he looks at the world around him, there is no one else that is able to save, no one else that is able to help him, and he destroys alone. The significant truth is that the victory Christ brings in his second coming is only possible because of the victory he accomplished alone on the cross of Calvary by his death. It's interesting as well when you think of Daniel chapter 2, and the rock that was cut out without hands. It destroys the statue and the kingdoms of this world. We also see the anointed warrior's righteous wrath. The word anger and wrath is found multiple times in these few verses, three, four, five, and six. And there's also the first person singular. I actually circled them in my Bible, the I 's and the mys that and the meas that are found in this. The the the The Messiah describing the vengeance and the wrath and his anger that is poured out against the sinful people. Sometimes we think of God as being Passionless or almost devoid of emotions. We've already seen that that God says that He rejoices over believers with loud singing. And the corollary of that is also true: that he is wrathful and angry. at sinners who refuse to repent. He is filled with wrath against all that is opposed to or that harms his own. God is not some cool Impartial judge handing down verdicts on persons with whom he has no personal interest. God is a father whose children have been abused and mutilated and raped and murdered. He is a king whose subjects have revolted and tried to usurp the throne. He is the creator for whom the creation has rebelled against him. Remember, we looked at that chart, put in your notes, Isaiah 59, 16 and Isaiah 63:5, where the one says, His righteousness upheld him, and the other says, My wrath upheld me. His righteousness upheld him, my wrath upheld me. The significant point is that the anointed warrior's wrath is not only strong, but it's a wrath that is rooted in righteousness. When he judges , his judgments are just and true. But the beautiful part of this is that the anointed warrior His judgment is a redemptive purpose. The day of vengeance, as he describes in verse 4, he says, For the day of vengeance was in my heart. And my year of redemption had come. So the purpose of the judgment was to bring about the redemption. Apart from that judgment, there could never be the redemption. We pray for the peace of Jerusalem, but as we pray, we say, Lord, we know there can be no peace until the Prince of Peace comes and he rules with a rod of iron and he destroys the enemies of your people. So we pray for the Prince of Peace to God. But notice that it's a day of vengeance and a year of redemption. It's a day of redemption. The weight is very significant. A day of vengeance, but a year of redemption, because this judgment ushers in the millennial kingdom. There is a sense, a moment of his wrath that brings in the eternal favor of our God. It 's also important to remember that the same one who poured out the lifeblood of Earth's rebels is the same one Who pours out his soul to death for their sake, who poured out his own lifeblood for them. Their death is only the result of refusing To receive his death on their behalf. So here in closing, just quick application First of all, we need to stand in awe and tremble at the wrath of God against his enemies. The image of blood being spattered on this warrior is terrifying And when we consider that we all deserve to be included in the slaughter, it ought to heighten our worship of God. But we're also told that knowing therefore the terror of the Lord. We persuade men. We tell people the gospel because this is the end of all rebellion. So we tell them Christ Died for you. He died so that you don't have to be destroyed. He died so that you don't have to face his wrath. Knowing the terror of God, we persuade men to turn from the terror and receive forgiveness. That ought to challenge us to be bold with the gospel. It's when we water this down that we lose the zeal for proclaiming the gospel. Secondly, run to Christ now. Avail yourself of his death on your behalf His death purchased our salvation. So either receive his salvation that was purchased for you on Calvary. Or receive his wrath when he comes again as judge. There is no other option. You will either receive his redemption or receive his wrath. Christ was counted worthy to drink his father's wrath in our place. Therefore, he is worthy to tread his father's winepress. That's why he was worthy to open the scroll. Because he bore the wrath of the Father first, so that he could in righteousness bring judgment on this earth. Whenever a prophet foretells the future, it's not for entertainment or for curiosity's sake. Rather It is to awaken us to our responsibilities in the present. And we read passages like this. It is to awaken us to our responsibility, one, to repent, and two, to call people to repentance. And three, pray for Christ's return. To pray towards that end because he is coming and he's coming soon. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you are a God rich in mercy, but a God who is also just and will not at all acquit the wicked We thank you, Lord, that you are such a God. We thank you that you provided a Savior who bore the wrath that we deserved upon Himself. We thank you that he is mighty to save, and he comes in righteousness. And we pray, Lord, that he would come quickly But until then, Father, we pray that you would help us to be bold in our witness, that you would bring the lost to Christ, that they might not experience the just wrath that they deserve. We pray this in Jesus' name, Amen