Is emphasized. In Matthew 7. 29 we read that he spoke with authority. In Matthew 8, 26 and 27, we read that he demonstrated authority over the winds and waves. In Matthew 9, verses 5 and 6, we read that he had the authority to forgive sins. And in Matthew chapter 10, we read that he possessed authority over demons and diseases. But now Jesus Christ claims universal authority. This is the culmination of Matthew's portrayal of Jesus as King. This is another clear claim of Dida. This statement confirms that Jesus is indeed the Son of Man. who claims a universal kingdom that will last forever, as prophesied in Daniel chapter 7, verses 13 and 14. He is indeed the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And this proclamation of absolute authority is the basis of the commission that follows. It is appropriate that this gospel ends with a declaration of sovereign authority. This is what gives us the right to share the gospel throughout the world in a pluralistic age. Sharing the gospel has never been popular, but it's very unpopular today because inherent In sharing the gospel is the idea that what the news that I have, the theology that I have, the truth that I have, is better than what you currently possess, and it's something that you desperately need to hear. And people find that insulting. You're saying that what you believe is better than what I believe? Yes. That's inherent in the gospel. That's inherent in the good news. And our Master, our Lord, our King has sent us forth to take the good news to the ends of the earth. Our King Jesus has given us this right. And consequently, when a person receives Christ They testify to the church and the world that Christ is their sovereign. It is really a tangible demonstration of a person's submission to the Lordship of Christ. Over the years, I've encountered a number of people who, for various and sensory reasons, were a little reluctant to be baptized. They might say, I don't want to get baptized because honestly I'm afraid of water. Or I don't want to get baptized because I'm a very private person. I've had people request, well, is it possible that you could baptize me? I could come in here sometime during the weekday and just be the two of us and you could baptize me. I said it doesn't work that way. It doesn't work that way. I've had people say I don't want to get baptized because it's kind of embarrassing to have your hair all messed up. But Jesus has bid his followers to do this. Is that too much to ask? That we would follow his example, that we would symbolically declare the gospel in our baptism? You see, it really does serve as a good test of a person's obedience to the Lordship of Christ. Secondly, baptism is a demonstration of the universal power of the gospel. He says here in verse 19 that they are the go ye therefore and teach all nations. Literally, make disciples of all people groups. The New Testament was written In a culture of great ethnic divisions, the Jews regarded the Gentiles as dogs, while most Gentiles regarded the Jews as superstitious fools. But Christ's final instructions reveal that the gospel works for all kinds of people, Jews and Gentiles, and people in distant regions beyond. Baptism on the mission field has often had far more significance to the world, to the church, and even to individuals than it does here in the United States. Not that somehow it counts more in foreign countries. But I think all of us know what it is to have our hearts stirred when we see a missionary presentation and we see someone in some foreign land, perhaps some place where there's very little gospel light, and there they are on the banks of a river and someone there is following the Lord in believers' baptism. It is like tangible evidence to the power of the gospel to penetrate the darkness. And draw people to the Lord. It's a demonstration of the spread of Christ's sovereign kingdom. Has it ever occurred to you that when Christ spoke these words to his disciples The people who heard him could not have imagined that some 2,000 years later, Gentiles on a distant continent would follow the Lord in believers' baptism. You know, every culture in the world thinks of their nation, their culture as being the center. We think of that as Americans, but from the first century Jewish perspective, we are the uttermost parts of the earth. They could not have imagined that the gospel would go over to this distant land across the ocean to North America. But here it is today a fulfillment of Christ's words that the gospel would go forth to the ends of the earth. And here today we are testifying to the fact that the gospel still works and that disciples are still being made. Baptism, thirdly, is an essential part of identifying yourself as a disciple of Christ. Let me briefly explain the structure of this important passage. We often, I think, think inherently that the word go in verse 19 is a command. I've heard songs written that speak of this word as the command, but it's not a command. It has the idea of while you are going. While you are going, while you are spreading out to the ends of the earth, this is what you are to do. The Lord assumes that his people will follow his orders that they will take the gospel to the ends of the earth. The key verb in the Great Commission is translated here as teach. And it has the idea, as I mentioned earlier, of make disciples. This means more than just evangelism, as the passage shows. We don't just get people to say a prayer and then say, have a great life. No, we must teach them, we must instruct them, we must mentor them. We must help them to grow in the knowledge of the Lord. This is why Our church's mission statement is making Christ-like disciples by the Word of God for the glory of God. That is what God has called us to do. Well, how do we do that? There are two steps that are spelled out in this passage. They are baptizing and teaching. This is our Lord's answer. I think if I ask you how should we make disciples, and I didn't make reference to this passage at all I feel certain that you would include the teaching as an aspect of this, but I wonder how many of us would say, well, if we're going to make disciples, what we need to do is we need to baptize them to begin with. I think that most people would probably admit that part. But Jesus mentions this. Baptizing them. This is an essential part of making disciples. Now baptizing, as I mentioned earlier, does not save a person. Paul said in 1 Corinthians 1, 17, Christ sent me not to baptize but to preach the gospel. He's making a distinction there between baptism and the proclamation of the gospel. They are not one and the same. However, baptism is how Jesus describes the first real step of discipleship. In the early church, we know that a person was not considered a true convert or a follower of Christ until they were baptized. And this is why they were so insistent on this, because this is what Jesus said was essential in identifying yourself as a disciple of Christ. This is no trivial or casual decision. In many places and in many times in history , For a person to decide to be baptized was to invite persecution and opposition. Many years ago I heard a missionary who's now with the Lord, who was a missionary to a Muslim country many, many decades ago. And he gives testimony that the first ten converts that he baptized in a river and that Muslim country that all of them died of mysterious causes within one year after their baptisms. Just imagine you're there to witness a baptism. You're just kind of interested a little bit in Christianity and you see this guy baptized and a few months later he dies mysteriously a young man healthy. And then you go to another baptism and you witness this person and then shortly after they're baptized, they also die. But then the Lord comes and he does a work in your heart and you see that this is the truth and you repent and you confess Christ and you come to follow him in baptism. Just imagine what you are saying by that, knowing that the people who have gone before you have all died. It is quite a step of obedience. I would think that it would put Our excuses for not being baptized would make us very ashamed. The trivial reasons that we give for not following the Lord in believers' baptism. Baptism is symbolic. It speaks of an enduring relationship just like a wedding ring. Whenever I talk to people who I'm convinced truly know the Lord and want to follow Him in believers' baptism, I almost always use a wedding ring as an illustration. Putting on a wedding ring does not make a person magically married. You could take your wedding ring off and put it on your dresser and Your child might come and take that ring and put it on their finger. It doesn't mean that all of a sudden, oh no, now they're married. No. Just putting on a ring, nothing magical or mystical occurs. But wearing a ring, putting on a ring as you exchange bows, is symbolic of an enduring commitment of a covenant. I think if I were to say to my wife, you know, I'm really committed to you and I love our relationship. But I don't really want to wear a wedding ring because I don't necessarily want people to think that I'm committed to you. I think she'd have a problem with that. So you see, although baptism does not save, it would be false to think of it as just something that is optional for those who are followers. To refuse to be baptized is to refuse to be identified with Christ. And this is no small omission at all. And fourthly, I want to say this that baptism is the beginning of a lifetime of learning and following Christ. It says in verse 20, teaching them to observe all things, whatsoever I have commanded you. The Greek word, the Greek term disciple, which is in view here, has the idea of someone who is both a follower and a learner. In the ancient world, a rabbi's pupils would not just hear him lecture like we would a professor in a college. But they would live with him and follow him. The idea was they would learn as much from hearing what he said as watching what he did observing him in everyday life. And that was true, of course, of our Lord's disciples. They followed him around for some three years, night and day. And undoubtedly they learn so much from observing him. So a disciple of Jesus Christ is a follower and a learner. It says here that in making disciples we are to teach them to observe all things. Well, what is the first thing that we are to observe? It is Baptism. This is the first step of our obedience. And wherever the gospel goes, this must be taught to new converts. Some preachers have suggested that following Jesus is easy. It just involves a few basic instructions such as read your Bible, pray, witness, go to church, give a tithe. But Christianity cannot be reduced to a few simple instructions. To know Christ is our eternal quest. And no believer should stop learning from the Master. With each step of obedience comes another call from our Master to die to self and to live for Him. We never stop learning. You may have known the Lord, you might be here, and you may have known the Lord for 50 years. You know what? There's still more to learn. There's still other areas for you to follow the Master. But it all begins when we follow him and believers baptism. I want you to listen to the words of Spurgeon that he wrote Shortly after his baptism in the River Lark. He said, It is that his baptism, my first public declaration That a thing which looks to be unreasonable and seems to be unprofitable being commanded by God is law to me. If my master had told me to pick up six stones and lay them in a row, I would do it without demanding of him, what good will it do? The very simplicity and apparent uselessness of the ordinance should make the believer say, therefore I do it because it becomes the better test to me of my obedience to my master. When you tell your servant to do something and he cannot comprehend it, he turns round and says, please, sir, what for? You are quite clear that he hardly understands the relation between master and servant. So when God tells me to do a thing, if I say, what for? I cannot have taken the place which faith ought to occupy. which is that of simple obedience to whatever the Lord said. Baptism is commanded, and faith obeys because it is commanded, and thus takes her proper place. So I want to remind you tonight that those who are being baptized here this evening are not being saved. This is not some ritual that Christians observe that we believe that something magical takes place. This is a symbolic step of obedience. That pictures the beauty of the gospel. That a person has passed from death unto life. It divides their life, as it were, into two halves. You could think of them as like two volumes of a biography. There's the life before they knew Christ, before they were born again, before they had their eyes open, and then there is their new life now, when they have been saved, and now they walk in newness of life. This is what baptism pictures. And let me just say that if you're here tonight, and maybe you've come here out of family considerations or because you're a friend. And you're rarely in a church, and this all seems rather strange to you, I want you to know that the gospel is not something for a few odd religious people. It is for you, and it is what you need to hear. What we're doing here tonight is a picture of what has already transpired spiritually. and the hearts and souls of these individuals. It is a picture of the gospel. Going down to the water is a picture of their spiritual death, their death to the old life. It's a picture of where we are all born, where we are dead in trespasses and sin. And their coming up out of the water is a picture of them being born again. It's a picture of resurrection. It's a picture of new life, of all things being new. And that only occurs as one repents and believes the gospel. And I would encourage you, I have not preached truly a gospel message tonight. But I would encourage you that if the thought arises in your mind Is this for me? What would happen to me if I were to die? That's the question that rested the hearts of some of those who are being baptized here this evening. What would happen if I were to die today? Where would I go? Where would my soul rest in eternity? Am I prepared to meet my God, the God who has created me? What would he say to me? I know these are things that seem unreal to us. We live in a world that seeks to intentionally and perpetually distract us from such thoughts. as eternity and death and life beyond the grave. But death occurs to everyone. You know, the statistics of death are pretty impressive. One out of every one people die. We like to put it out of our minds, well, you know, that's something that happens to other people. No, someday it will happen to you. And the question is, are you prepared to meet your God? Have your sins been forgiven because You have come to put your faith and trust in one who died and paid the penalty for your sins. That is the question. And I hope that tonight, as you come, that you will consider the gospel as we baptize these who wish to follow the Lord in believers' baptism. Let's close in prayer. Father, we pray that you would take your word And the thoughts that I have given and helped them, Father, to arrest the attention of someone tonight. That they might further seek the Lord, that they might truly take time to reflect on their own standing before you. I pray, Lord , that you would draw sinners to the Savior. And they would find a growing alarm and restlessness And fear in their hearts that they are not ready to meet God, and that they would seek answers and they would come for help and they would search the scriptures Father, I pray that you would do a work tonight that we would rejoice in you and in the power of the gospel. And Father, for those who perhaps are truly your children, but have not yielded in this area, I pray that they would commit tonight that they will follow you. And this symbolic act of obedience. And Father, I pray that you would help us to continue to see disciples being made in this church, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Ay map