We are in 2 Thessalonians this evening. If you take your Bibles and turn to 2 Thessalonians, we're going to be looking at one of the latter parts of the first chapter. But it's great to have you here tonight. Just go over some our memory verses for this month out of 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, verses 11 and 12. Would you join me in standing? We'll say it through two times together. From 2 Thessalonians chapter 1. We'll say the verse reference and then the verse, and then we'll go back and repeat it again. 2 Thessalonians 1, 11 through 12. To this end we always pray for you that our God may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good and every work of faith by his power. so that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you and you in him according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. 2 Thessalonians 1, 11 through 12. To this end we pray we pray for you that our God may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good and every work of faith by his power. so that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you and you in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. I don't know if you ever thought about that phrase this phrase here that where it says, So that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you. We think of that idea that that as we obey the Lord and we walk in faithfulness, that Christ would be glorified in our faithfulness and us glorified in him. Do you ever think about receiving glory? The Bible speaks about believers receiving glory in the day of Christ, being glorified. So we talked about in Romans 8, but that reality is that we will be glorified in Christ on the day of his revelation. That's an awesome reality. It's a very encouraging thing. We think about, well, if I'm faithful, then Christ will be glorified, and yet also we are glorified. And what we shall be, we do not know, but it will appear in that day. So in going through just the basic layout of this little letter of Paul to the Thessalonians, Paul and Timothy and Silas. It's three chapters, three main crises that are being dealt with in each of the chapters. The first one is Giving some pastoral comfort in the face of prolonged persecution, intense, prolonged persecution that's happening to the Thessalonian believers. And then in chapter 2, there's been a forged letter, it appears, and some prophecies, false prophecies that are giving false teaching about the day of the Lord. And Paul sets out to address that and how they are to know what is true and what is false when they come when they come across teaching like that. And then the third chapter is there's been idleness. The crisis is that there are believers who are who are living in idleness. They're not hard at work, they're not diligent, they're not being faithful, they're mooching off the generosity of the congregation. And he is giving some practical commands in light of that, one of which is if any man doesn't work, neither should he eat. That is a command of the Apostle Paul in regards to that idleness. So we're in chapter 1, dealing with this time of great suffering. And Paul is encouraging the believers. He talks about in verse 3 that we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers. as is right because your faith is growing abundantly and the love of our God, the love of every one of you for one another is increasing. And he says, we boast about you guys. We speak about you in a positive light to the churches everywhere we go. And he talks about specifically Because they are steadfast and their faith is increasing, and in the midst of persecution and the afflictions that they are enduring. And in light of that, he says, this is evidence. steadfast endurance of persecution is evidence of the righteous judgment of God, that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of God. And so there is a reality that their face is made evident. We sang about that even tonight in the last song, about how through the trials our faith is made pure and it is it is revealed to be pure gold through the trials that we endure. And so there is the the trials reveal the faith of the Thessalonian believers, and it is evident that God has justly, has rightly declared them to be his children. and has justified them because he's justifying them by a faith that is evident through the trials. And then he says in verse 6, Since indeed God considers it just to repay with affliction those who afflict you, and to grant relief to you who are afflicted. as well as to us when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. They will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction, away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might, when he comes on that day to be glorified in his saints. and to be marveled at among all who have believed, because our testimony to you was believed. And then he jumps into our memory verse that we've been working on. Paul tells the Thessalonians here, who are suffering under the load of this persistent persecution, to take heart. Because Jesus is coming, and when he does, he will make all things right. The injustice that they are enduring will be reversed. And they will be vindicated, and they will be exalted. Their persecutors who currently enjoy the upper hand. will be judged and destroyed by Jesus Christ. So there's this description of this great role reversal There is a great vindication of the believers at the return of Christ and a great judgment of the unbelievers at the return of Christ. And he's saying, you ought to be encouraged because a great reversal is coming. Let me encourage you with this reality. So the the basic Focus of this passage is that Christians should find great comfort knowing that Christ will judge the wicked at his return. Those who are persecuting them, he will persecute. We find here that he describes the justice of God results in this great role reversal. It is the justice of God that demands. Judgment. We live we live in a very anti-judgmental age. In our generation, tolerance is the the buzzword that everyone wants to talk about. It's the great virtue. To say somebody is wrong and this is right, that is false and this is truth. That is not being tolerant at all. Tolerance is the great virtue. For many 21st century Christians, the idea that God is a judge And he is the judge of all the earth, and that he will judge and condemn. That idea seems really to be at odds with their understanding of who God is and what they think of as God, the idea that God is love. But it's important to remember that God is love, but it is a holy love. His love is a holy love that is at war with sin. It is at war with sin. God's judgment and love are not opposed to one another. They're not at odds with one another. There can exist no true love without judgment on sin. This is something that our generation struggles to understand. God is not passive in the face of sin. But he's actively opposed to evil. He hates sin. And God's wrath against sin arises out of his holy nature. Therefore, he must punish Because he is holy in his love. The judgment that this chapter speaks about is the just or righteous judgment of God. If you notice in verse 5, We talked about this a little bit last week where he says, this is evidence of the righteous judgment of God. And then in verse six, he uses the same word, but it's translated a little bit differently in our English. He says, since indeed God considers it. So the word righteous and the word just, they're the exact same Greek word. It's this idea of the justice of God in judgment. It is the righteousness of God revealed in judgment. And he considers it just to repay with affliction. Those who are afflicting them. And we see the idea of the justice of God. There is an inequity, there is a rightness in the judgment of God. When we think of a just judgment, we think of a punishment that fits the crime. And when we think of the judgment of God being just, it is a punishment that fits the crime. Those who afflicted, who are afflicting the believers, will be afflicted. And he gives that idea. God considers it just to afflict those who are afflicting. You, those who are afflicting the believers, will be afflicted. Remember when Jesus was separating the sheep from the goats? And he says, that which is done to the least of these, my brothers, has been done unto me. And so when you afflict, you persecute, you torture a believer, it's As if you're doing it to Christ. Remember when when Paul was on the road to Damascus and he sees the Lord Jesus and a great shining light comes to him and he says, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? Why do you persecute me? He's like, he didn't say, I'm not persecuting you, but he was persecuting the saints of God. And in that reality, he was persecuting Jesus Christ. And so Jesus says it is just to afflict those who are afflicting you, because in their afflicting of you, they are afflicting me. So there's this justice, this equity in that regard. The as we continue on, we'll see that and we read through this that there is an infinite punishment that corresponds with an infinite Offense. The offense is infinite because it is a sin against an infinite God. It is a denial of the infinite God, a rebellion against the infinite God. And therefore the punishment that is inflicted is an infinite punishment. He speaks about an eternal punishment. That we'll look at in verse 9. They will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction away from the presence of the Lord. But also, there's another element where it is, you see the justice of this punishment. It's They don't want to know God. He talks about that reality. They do not know God. They don't want to know God. There's a willful ignorance. There's a willful rejection of God. And he says, fine. You will be away from the presence of God, from the face of God. The justice is revealed in the punishment of being away from the very presence of God for all eternity. And they would not obey the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so they do not enjoy the glory of the gospel The forgiveness of the gospel. Because of their rebellion against the gospel, the consequence is the glory of the gospel is not theirs either. So you see the justice of God that is revealed in this passage of Scripture. The fact is, God has made all mankind with an innate sense and a desire for justice. We are all very well aware when something seems unjust that happens to us. That's why one of the first sentences that kids seem to learn is that's not fair. And they're very quick to point out when they feel like there's some injustice, the way mom and dad are treating one of the other siblings as opposed to to how they feel like they're being treated or or how m how the school teacher is treating them or their coach is treating them. That's not fair. There's this innate desire for justice. Many people have misunderstood God's mercy to mean that God will not judge. God is rich in mercy. But when he declared himself to Moses, we see this strong, glorious, merciful God. But also the reality of his judgment and justice. I'm not sure if I have oh I do have it here. Good. Exodus 34. He says, when God declared his glory to Moses, he said, The Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious. slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness, keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. And you're like, amen. Hallelujah. If it wasn't for that reality about God, none of us would have a prayer. None of us would have a hope. But that's not the end of the story. He says, but Who will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers and the children and the children's children of the third and fourth generations? God is going to judge those who refuse to repent. and turn to him. He is he delights in steadfast love. He says here, keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression. It's his delight to do that. The very fact that he starts off this declaration about himself With a declaration of his mercy and his grace and his forgiving nature tells you that's what he desires. But because his love is a holy love , He cannot ignore sin, and he must be a just judge. I was reading through in my devotions Numbers, just coming to all these passages where the children of Israel in the wilderness rebel. And God says to Moses and Aaron, step out of the way, I'm going to destroy them all. And Moses and Aaron plead with God. And he says, okay. But there must be a punishment, and there is a punishment that is meted out on a portion of them. And then they rebel again. And God says, step out of the way. And they plead with God, and God is merciful. Again, you see the graciousness of God, but there is also a punishment. He says, because of their grumbling and their faithlessness, they will not see the promised land. And that generation died in the wilderness. God is gracious and merciful. He delights in forgiveness. But he is also a just judge, and he must punish sin. The Bible speaks clearly and repeatedly about the judgment that Christ will execute when he comes again. I think this is something that many Christians today don't, especially in the contemporary church, don't think about. They think of Jesus Christ as meek and mild. And when he came the first time, he came in in an apparent weakness. He came to die. But when he comes the second time, he comes in strength, he comes in glory, he comes in power, and he comes as a judge to judge the earth. When we read passages of scripture that speak about it, it can be very hard for us to even understand. We come across things like the imprecatory psalms. If you ever read through Psalms and you read some of them, you're like How do I respond to this? How does this fit with my responsibility to pray for those? Who are my enemies and to love my enemies? How does this fit together? We think of this, we think of like, what do we think about the the persecutors of the Nigerian Christians? The ones who rape the believers because they will not recant their faith in Christ, and then they murder them because of their faith in Christ. Will there be no justice? Are we to love and pray for enemies? Yeah, we are to love and pray for enemies. We are to plead with God on their behalf. But there will be justice for those who refuse the gospel. Either justice is meted out on Jesus Christ. Because they've received the forgiveness that is found in Jesus Christ. Or justice will be meted out on them. But God will punish sin. And there is a sense in which for the believer that reality is a refreshment. It is a comfort. And there is a sense in which we actually rejoice in that that because God will be vindicated. God's justice will be revealed. God's glory will be magnified. God's people will be vindicated. We read passages like this. The righteous will rejoice when he sees the vengeance. Meaning the vengeance of Christ. He will bathe his feet in the blood of the wicked. Mankind will say, Surely there is a reward for the righteous. Surely there is a God who judges on the earth. Now that's not a warm and fuzzy passage. But this tells us that when Christ comes as judge, There is a rightness to rejoicing in the judgment that is executed on that day. And all who see it will say, Surely there is a reward for the righteous. Surely God will vindicate the righteous. And surely there is a God who judges on the earth. God is magnified. God's glory is made evident. His judgment is seen as right We saw this even when we went through Isaiah 63. If you remember that passage of scripture where it describes Jesus coming in that day at the end of the tribulation as he begins to set up the millennial kingdom. And he describes him as saying, Who is this who comes from Edom in crimsoned garments from Basra? He who is splendid in his apparel, marching in the greatness of his strength. And he says, It is I, speaking in righteousness, mighty to save. And then the question is asked, Why is your apparel red, and your garments like he who treads in the wine press? And then he answers, I have trodden the wine press alone, and from the peoples no one was with me. I trod them in my anger and trampled them in my wrath. Their lifeblood spattered on my garments and stained all my apparel, for the day of vengeance was in my heart, and the year of redemption had come. And he continues on to describe how he trampled them down in his righteous anger. Now we long for all the enemies of the cross to repent. And to be saved. But if they refuse, we know there's a day, a day when the judge of all the earth, who judges rightly, will come and he will execute just And there will be a great role reversal. Those who are afflicted will be glorified. And those who are afflicting will be afflicted. Those who have refused the gospel. Will be judged. Those who have willfully rejected the knowledge of God will be expelled from his presence. And it is a fearful reality. And this isn't just Old Testament language. This is New Testament language as well. Jesus speaks about it frequently, but also in Revelation 19, verse 11, we have, Then I saw heaven open, and behold a white horse The one sitting on it is called faithful and true, and in righteousness he judges and makes war. Speaking of Christ when he comes, no longer in weakness. But in power, in might. And this is designed here, as Paul is bringing this out in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, to be an encouragement. God will judge justly. He will right every wrong. The just judgment of God will be on display at the return of Christ God will justly repay with affliction those who have afflicted believers. And he says, God considers it just to do so. So the affliction that the Thessalonian believers are enduring, and believers really down through the ages, even to this very moment. are enduring will be justly punished by the just judge of all the earth. And this is something that has comforted believers. I remember when one of our, and I've mentioned this before, one of the men in our church was martyred because he had converted from Islam to Christianity and his family killed him. And his blood cries out for vengeance. And God will right that wrong. He will judge. And again I say it, either because they turn to Christ and that judgment is poured out on Christ in the cross. Or because they refuse, and that judgment is poured out on them. But he will vindicate. This is why Christians are commanded not to seek personal revenge. We are commanded as believers not to take revenge. When we seek revenge, one, we don't do it justly. We often do not execute our revenge with justice. But with pride and selfishness in giving a little bit more than maybe we got. Justice is to be left in his hands. Peter describes God as him who judges So we, he says, follow the example of Christ, who when he was reviled, did not revile again, but he committed himself into the hands of him who judges justly. That is our responsibility as believers. That's why Paul says in Romans chapter 12, oh there's there's a Spurgeon quote. I skipped that. Sorry. Romans chapter 12 Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay. says the Lord. And where did he get that from? Did he just make that up? No, that's Deuteronomy chapter 32, verse 35. So it's an Old Testament quote. God will Bring vengeance. So it's not our responsibility. We are commanded not to seek personal revenge That's why we talked about this when we went through 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, where he says, See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always seek to do good for one another and to everyone. And would you say, well, that's not fair? Does that mean he's just going to get away with it? No. No one gets away with it. God will meet out righteous judgment. We read in Proverbs 20, verse 22, do not say, I will repay evil. Wait for the Lord, and he will deliver you. Mike Stollard said, the Thessalonians could take solace in knowing that the Lord keeps perfect and infallible records. Aren't you glad for that? God keeps perfect and infallible records. Someday those records will be opened, and the unsaved dead, including the pagan persecutors of the Thessalonians, will be resurrected and judged. This is what the martyred saints under the altar in Revelation 6 were crying out for. Revelation chapter 6, the fifth seal. In the beginning of the tribulation, Jesus comes and he breaks the seals. He's been counted worthy. He's been found worthy. And he breaks the seals. One, two, three, four, and number five as a fifth seal. And it says, when you opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain for the word of God and for the witness they had borne. They cried out with a loud voice, O sovereign Lord, holy and true, how long before you will judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth Then they were each given a white robe and told to rest a little longer, until the number of their fellow servants and their brothers should be complete, who were to be killed as they themselves had been. And this fifth field judgment, the cry of vengeance from the martyred saints, is seen really as empowering the judgment that Christ is going to bring on the earth during the tribulation and at the end of the tribulation in particular. And they're told, rest a little while longer. But they weren't told judgment isn't coming. They're told judgment is coming. Rest a little while longer. God will grant relief to those who are afflicted. He describes that here. He says, since indeed God considers it just to repay with affliction those who afflict you, and to grant relief to you who are afflicted. As well as to us when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven. So we see the time frame of this relief is when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven. So this what's significant about this is that the relief that is being described. is a future relief. Apostle Paul said that God will grant relief to you who are afflicted as well as to us. The idea of the word release has the idea of re relief as a releasing of tension. It's like a bowstring. Have you ever put on a bowstring and you've you've you've Tightened the you know tauted the the bow and you then you put the string on, you try to take it off, you release that tension, and then the string is no longer taut. That's the idea here. That when we are under persecution, when we are facing persecution for the cause of Christ, it is as if we are under tension. But there is coming a time of rest. It can refer to physical rest. It can refer to emotional rest. It's found actually in 2 Corinthians chapter 2 in relation to mental or emotional rest. My spirit was not at rest, Paul said. Because I did not find my brother Titus there. So I took leave of them and went on to Macedonia. And so Paul says, I didn't have mental, spiritual, emotional rest because I couldn't find my brother Titus where I thought I would find him. But what's interesting here is the relief is not associated with their dying and being put in the presence of the Lord. You could think of Paul saying, don't worry, brother. You know, this is a short persecution and you'll be, you'll die, and then you'll go into the presence of the Lord and you'll find rest. But he doesn't he doesn't say that. He says that the relief, the rest, will come when Christ returns. The release of pressure will come when Christ returns. You're like, well, I thought there was rest and relief in heaven. Well, there is, to one sense. Remember under the altar, what did Jesus tell them? Rest a little while longer. There is a rest, there is a relief there. But are they at rest in the full sense? No. They're crying out, God, avenge our blood. Do justice. This wickedness must be judged The Thessalonian saints died centuries ago. They have been in heaven resting from persecution for nearly two millennia. But they still await the rest that is being described here when they are vindicated, when the role reversal fully takes place at the return of Christ. And I think that is a significant reality when we come to this passage of Scripture. So when we go back to Revelation chapter 6. It's this cry, how long before you will judge and avenge our blood? They're in heaven. They're in the presence of God. And yet they're still crying out, How long? How long before you avenge our blood? Because they are not yet vindicated. And they desire that vindication. The rest that's described here is more than just the absence of persecution. It involves ultimate vindication and role reversal. So when will this be meted out? Will it be meted out, he says, at the revelation of Jesus Christ? The word revelation has the idea of an uncovering or a removing of a veil. When we think of Christ when he came the first time, he came veiled in flesh, we sing. Veiled in flesh, the Godhead see. Hail the incarnate deity. When Christ came, he was veiled in flesh. His glory was not made manifest, except for a limited few people who saw his glory. But when he comes a second time, he will come in majesty and in power and in glory. This is what, remember when Peter, James, and John were taken on the mountain in Matthew 16? Oh, that's not Matthew 16. I'm sorry. Where's my passage here? Oh, I don't have it in my PowerPoint. Forgive me for this. In the transfiguration of Peter, James, and John. Christ was transfigured before them, and he said, Some of you will not taste death until you see the kingdom coming in power. And then immediately after that, he takes Peter, James, and John up onto the mountain, and he's transfigured before them. And the Bible describes him as clothes being radiant, being intensely white, as no one on earth could believe them. There's a glowing brightness that comes out of it. And Jesus is there, and he's communing with Moses, he's communing with Elijah there on the Mount of Transfiguration. And the Bible says that Peter's just so terrified by what he sees. That he can't shut up. Maybe you're that type of person. Some people, when they're so terrified, they they don't speak. He was terrified so much so that he couldn't stop talking. And he says, we should build three tabernacles here, one for you and one for Moses and one for Elijah. The Bible says he said that because he was terrified and didn't know what to say. I love that reality. That's just some of us. We just keep speaking when we should actually shut up. But it's because he had seen Christ in his transfigured glory. That he was terrified. And the Bible says that they fell down. Remember when John saw Jesus in Revelation 1 and his glory? And he fell down as one dead. before Christ. The same Christ that he ate together with and he walked through Judea with for three years, but now when he saw him no longer veiled in glory, but the veil had been taken away, and he saw the glory. He fell down as one dead. Because he had seen the very glory of Christ. Right now, we await that glory. When he comes, there will be a full revelation of it. And his awesome power and glory will be terrifying in that day. Then he describes this with three prepositional phrases that follow. He comes from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire. So the first one, from heaven. So right now Jesus is seated at the right hand of the throne of majesty on high. as Hebrews says, and it's there where Christ intercedes for us continually. And it's from there that he will return to judge the earth. Right before the transfiguration that we just spoke about, Jesus was teaching about his return as judge. And he says this. For the Son of Man is going to come with his angels in the glory of his Father, and when he will repay each person, and then he will repay each person according to what he has done. This is two verses before the transfiguration. And he says, I am going to come again, and when I do, I will repay each person according to what is done. So that means a repayment for good and a repayment for evil. And it's this return to earth that the angels spoke about. With his disciples when Jesus ascended into heaven in Acts chapter 1. You remember? Acts chapter 1 he says, and when he had said these things As they were looking on him, he was lifted up, and a cloud took him out of their sight. And while they were gazing into heaven as he went, behold, two men stood by them in white robes, and said, Men of Galilee. Why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus who was taken up from you into heaven will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven. So he's coming from heaven, meaning he's coming with the authority of heaven now, no longer to be born as a baby. But to come in might and in power. Zechariah 14 spoke about this reality when Christ will set his feet upon the Mount of Olives and He will split the Mount of Olives in two, because then armies of the world have surrounded Jerusalem. And he comes to judge those who have rebelled against him and against his people. And it brings an amazing devastation. Describes the valley being a very wide valley where the people then flee through that valley. And in Zechariah 14 he says, And this shall be the plague with which the Lord will strike all the peoples that wage war against Jerusalem. Their flesh will rot while they are standing on their feet, their eyes will rot in their sockets, and their tongues will rot in their mouths. And on that day a great panic from the Lord shall fall on them. so that each will seize the hand of the another, and the hand of the one will be raised against the hand of the other. It is this Coming from judgment to the Mount of Olives or coming from heaven to the Mount of Olives that is being described here. When Christ comes, He is revealed with glory on the Mount of Olives, coming in judgment. And this is the beginning of that role reversal. It describes him coming with his mighty angels. One thing that's significant in this passage is that the mighty angels are described as his mighty angels. They're his own possession. These angels are the possession of Jesus Christ. You see the deity of Christ being revealed in this in this statement that he possesses the mighty angels. And the might that these angels execute is his might, because they're executing his commands. The Bible says, out of Christ's mouth comes a sharp sword to strike down the nations, meaning that his very word is power. He is the God who spoke the worlds into existence, and when he speaks judgment, that power is revealed. We're told that when he comes, he will ride on a white horse with the armies of heaven following him on white horses, arrayed in fine linen, white and pure. If you study based on what's being said in Revelation 17, 14, that these armies of heaven probably includes the angels here being described, but also the saints. The saints return with Christ, arrayed in white linen. The church is coming back with their commander. Just imagine what a roll reverse it will be on that day when the Thessalonians Come riding in on those white robes, or right horses in white robes, with Christ the commander. No longer will they be the persecuted ones. They will be vindicated. They will be reigning with Christ. What an encouragement for the Thessalonians to remember that. One day there will be a great reversal. And Christ will bring it about. What a vindication for the faithful but persecuted saints of God. Describes them coming in flaming fire. The question comes when we read this, what does this mean? What does it mean to come in flaming fire? When you think about the appearances of God in the Old Testament, many times they're accompanied by fire. You can think about the burning bush in Exodus chapter 3. The angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. And we, as you continue to read, realize the angel of the Lord is God Himself. It's a Christophany or a theophany. In Exodus chapter 24, we read this. Now the appearance of the glory of the Lord is like a devouring fire on the top of the mountain in the sight of the people of Israel. Israel. As God came on the mountain, it was this consuming fire. In Isaiah chapter 30, We read, Behold, the name of the Lord comes from afar, burning with his anger, and in thick rising smoke. His lips are full of fury, and his tongue is like a devouring fire. You see this reality of Christ when he comes and he speaks judgment. And he comes in flaming fire. His words are the righteous judgment of God. Many times and in many places in the Old Testament and in the New Testament, God is referred to as a consuming fire. I think this is again an aspect of God that is so minimalized in modern Christianity that God is a consuming fire. But it is repeated again and again for us. God 's holiness is the reason for his being a consuming fire. His holiness burns up anything that is unholy. And Paul says that Christ comes in flaming fire. He's essentially equating Jesus with Yahweh, who in his presence comes in flaming fire, inflicting judgment and vengeance on the wicked. The fire refers to the judging activity of Christ as a second coming. We read about this already in Revelation 19 So when I saw the heaven open and behold a white horse, the one sitting on it is called faithful and true. And at righteousness he judges and makes war. His eyes are like a flaming fire. And on his head are many diadems, and he has a name written that no one knows but himself. The reality is that Christ, when he comes, will come with a holy consuming vengeance on all that is wicked What will this judgment entail? Well, we read about it as we continue into verses 8 and 9. First of all, who will be the recipients of Christ's vengeance? Paul had already said that those who afflict the Thessalonians will be afflicted But now he elaborates further, saying that Christ will inflict vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. The language here indicates that Paul is referring to two separate classes of people, those who do not know God and those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. I think the first category speaks broadly about people who do not know or do not have a relationship with God through Christ. And this is frequently how Paul describes heathen Gentiles. Who worship idols and refuse to come to Christ. They're willfully ignorant. You see it in Galatians chapter Oh, I don't have Galatians 4 in here. I apologize. He says, formerly when you did not know God, you were enslaved to those that by nature are no God. So he says, you did not know God. And you are worshiping things that are not God. In 1 Thessalonians 1 5, he says, not in the passion of lust like the Gentiles who do not know God. They do not have a relationship with God. Instead, they worship false idols. And in Romans chapter 1, we read this passage of Scripture the world, where he says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth For what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them, for his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived Ever since the creation of the world, in the things that have been made, so they are without excuse. For although they knew God, they did not honor Him as God or give thanks to Him But they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Paul says the fact is that all humanity knows the reality of God. All humanity knows of God's eternal power and his divine nature, and as a result, they are without excuse. They aren't ignorant of God. They're willfully ignorant. They choose not to have a relationship with God. They do not honor Him as God. nor give thanks to God, but instead worship and serve idols and serve their own passions. The second category here in 2 Thessalonians speaks to those who have direct knowledge of the gospel, and they have willfully rejected the gospel. Many times this type of language is described of the Jewish people who had the gospel presented to them by Christ, but they rejected Christ. And there's a sense and there's a greater guilt, there's a greater culpability for those who willfully reject compared to those who are willfully ignorant. Luke 12 speaks about this reality when he says, Oh my notes are all messed up. I am so sorry. Luke twelve he says, The master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him, and at an hour he does not know, and will cut him in pieces and put him with the unfaithful. And that servant who knew his master's will, but did not get ready, or act according to his will, will receive a severe beating. But the one who did not know and did what deserved a beating will receive a light beating. Everyone to whom much was given, of him much will be required, and from him to whom they entrusted much, they will demand the more. So for those who had the gospel proclaimed to them repeatedly and willfully reject the gospel, there is a greater culpability. For them and a greater condemnation. Pastor spoke about this reality on Sunday, saying that every time the gospel is proclaimed, we don't leave the same. Either we are softened to the preaching of the gospel or we are increasingly hardened to it. We do not leave the same. Every time we have heard the gospel preached, and to whom much is given, to whom the one who has received the gospel proclaimed on many occasions but has willfully rejected, there is a greater condemnation. And Paul describes it here that he will inflict vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. And then the punishment that is described here. They will receive eternal destruction. They have the infinite offense against an infinite God An infinitely good and holy God demands an infinite punishment, eternal destruction. Think of the rich man in the parable of the rich man in Lazarus. And he's crying out in torment. He says, for I am in anguish in this flame. So the destruction does not mean annihilation. He's not consumed in the flames. He's eternally tormented in the flames. And he desires just a drop of water to be given to him from Lazarus. But none is given. And a great gulf is fixed, which brings us to this reality that they are sentenced away from the presence of God. We rightly teach that God is omnipresent. And this is not denying this reality. The word presence here is literally the face. It's teaching that unbelievers will forever be excluded from the face of God, from that favorable presence of God. Now they will only know and experience the face of God that is angry. That is judgmental. The Bible teaches that every good gift and every perfect gift comes down from the Father of lights with whom there is no variation nor shadow due to change, every good thing you and I enjoy in this life, including life itself. is a gift from God. Salvation is the greatest of God's good gifts. But to those who reject the good gift of God, who reject the God who sent his son to die for them, They face an eternity away from the presence of God with none of those good gifts and only his wrath being poured out on them. It's a true statement. I've heard it said many times that the only hell a believer experiences is here on earth. And the only heaven an unbeliever experiences is here on earth. That's why we ought to be the most bold witnesses. Because we do know the terror of the Lord. We do know the judgment of God. And if we have compassion for the lost, we ought to proclaim a savior. A God who sent his son to die for sinful lost mankind. A God who forgives iniquities and transgressions, who does not delight. In punishment, but a God who is just, who must punish sin, either it is punished in the person of Jesus Christ. Or the sinner himself will bear that punishment. There is no other alternative. These passages can be very comforting for Christians, knowing that there will be a great role reversal, but they ought to be also a very fearful reality. This is a horrible sentence. In eternal destruction, away from the presence of God, in torment. To all who reject the gospel. We should want no one to experience that. No matter how great they may be your enemy, we should want no one to experience that. And we ought to pray for them. We ought to proclaim the gospel to them. And he says they will be sentenced away from the glory of his might. Not only is hell a place of torment, but it's also a place of darkness where all are judged eternally and cut off from the awesome display of God's glory and power. Remember Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. It is the glory of God that will thrill us through all eternity. We will marvel in his glory. But it's sin that separates mankind from the glory of God. It's sin that keeps a people under the wrath of God. And it's Christ alone who can save us from that sin and from that condemnation. Christians, we ought to be thankful that God is a just judge and He will vindicate. There will be a great role reversal. Wickedness will be judged. Every wrong will be righted. But we also ought to pray for the enemies of Christ that they be saved, like Paul was. Because this judgment is a horrifying judgment. That's why Paul said, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. This is a reality. This is part is part of what many people don't like to think about. It is a reality, but it ought to motivate us to proclaim the gospel. So that those that we love and even those we hate do not have to experience this judgment. May God help us to have a compassionate heart for those that are under the just judgment of God. And let us be thankful that God is a just judge and he rights every wrong. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. We confess that tonight these have been hard truths, but we thank you that you are a just judge. You do judge rightly. There is no injustice with you. Father, so often we do not understand your holiness and your glory. And we have fuzzy thoughts about your justice. Would you help us to think rightly about them? Father, we do pray and we long for that day when Christ will be glorified. And that every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that He is Lord. And it grieves us this day that there are many billions of people who refuse to acknowledge Christ as Lord He is worthy, Father. We long for that day. We pray that you would speed it to pass, but that you would be merciful to save, even in these last hours. Many who are lost and dead in their trespasses and sins. Would you give us a compassion for the lost that is burdened for them and reaching out to them with the good news of Jesus Christ? Christ. We pray this in the name of our glorious Savior. Amen