If you have your Bibles, you can be turning with me to John chapter 19. Probably many of you at some time this Christmas season. Watched or read Dickens' classic, A Christmas Carol. You may recall there is a scene in which a spirit takes Scrooge to see at the disposal of his bed curtains, sheets, and his best shirt. He had a cleaning woman who stole them while he was dead and still in his bed. And he has taken to see the bartering over these items with unscrupulous character. And Dickens writes, Scrooge listened to this dialogue in horror as they groped about his spoils. He viewed them with detestation and disgust. It is indeed a distressing thing to have strangers handle your personal belongings. I have often spoken to people who have had people break into their home and ransack everything looking for valuables, say that they never felt quite safe there again. And they felt as if they were violated. In some cases they threw out all of their clothing that these people turned upside down and went through in their closets because they could not bear the thought that some stranger had been through their personal effects. The scriptures record that as Christ was nailed to the cross, the Roman soldiers divided his belongings. This was one of a thousand atrocities that our Lord endured at his crucifixion. It may seem trivial to us. But it's interesting to note that it is found in all four of our Gospels. In Matthew 27, 35. Mark 15, 24, and Luke 23, 34, but the most complete account is here in John chapter 19, verses 23 and 24. It says, then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts to every soldier apart. And also his coat. Now the coat was without seam, woven from the top throughout. They said therefore among themselves, Let us not rend it, but cast lots for it. Whose it shall be that the scripture might be fulfilled, which saith, They parted my raiment among them, and for my vesture they did cast lots. These things therefore the soldiers did. In the infancy narrative, which should be familiar to us as well since we're coming off the Christmas season, we read in Luke's account of the newborn babe being wrapped in swaddling clothes. And here at his death, we read of his clothes being callously taken from him. What are we to learn about this incident recorded? In the scriptures. I think there are some profound truths that are symbolized. And uh made visual as it were for us. And I want to consider three truths that we can take from this passage tonight before we celebrate the Lord's table Would you notice with me first of all that we see here a revelation of the sinfulness of mankind? Perhaps no other place in the history of the world has there been such a realistic portrayal of the depravity of man as we see at the cross. In just 24 hours, we have read of the betrayal of our Lord by one of his own. We read of the hypocrisy of the religious leaders who illegally tried the Savior while they carefully sought to remain ceremonially clean for the Passover We have read of the brutality of the soldiers who plucked out his beard and beat a crown of thorns into his brow and slapped him and mocked him. And in the passion narratives, we see the cowardice of Pilate and the mockery of the masses as they pass by and cry, he saved others, himself he cannot save. And now here at the very foot of the cross we see the darkness of man's fallen condition. Notice the cruelty of humanity. These Roman soldiers were trained to be hardened soldiers. They were used to being cruel with prisoners and with captives of war. Perhaps this group of men were regularly given the detail of executing capital prisoners. And perhaps the first time they put a man to death in this cruel fashion, it was disturbing, hammering nails into human flesh. is something that most people would find repulsive and disturbing. But now it had just become another day's work. They have become so callous to human suffering that they can gamble over a dying man's clothing only feet away from him. As he suffered in agony. They could huddle just a few feet from his agonizing cries and yet be unmoved. The shrieking of the dying had become nothing more than background noise to them. Because they had been involved in this violent business for so long. I think we also see here the selfishness of humanity. It was not the suffering of the prisoners that captured the attention of these men. It was the few meager belongings that they left behind. We know from historical records. that Roman soldiers who had the ghastly duty of crucifixion were given the right to any personal effects. It was not a very enjoyable job, but they did have this one perk. You could have the clothing and whatever that criminal had on their person. Each soldier took a part, and we read that there were four soldiers. Now the idea of taking the clothing of a dead prisoner probably sounds very repulsive to us. Why would anybody want the clothing of someone who was condemned to die? We would certainly just discard that clothing without even thinking about it. But in this day, garments were some of the most valuable possessions that a person could have, because of course everything was handmade. That is why in Matthew chapter 9, when Jesus speaks, of us not laying up our treasures on heaven. He says, where moth or rust doth corrupt, because moths were notorious for, of course, eating holes into very expensive garments. And that was one of the treasures of people in the ancient world. In some cases the most valuable thing that people possessed. were their clothing, because in some cases hundreds of hours of skilled labor went into the production of one garment. So they were not about to discard our Lord's clothing. Now a Jewish man's attire usually consisted of five parts. There was first of all an outer robe or a cloak. Then there was a belt or a sash, we might say, that he would wear. And then there were sandals. And then there would be a headdress, perhaps a turban. And then there was an inner garment known as a tunic. It was like a long shirt, and it was the most valuable garment that a man possessed. So each one of these soldiers took one of these items, but there was the most valuable item left behind. The scripture records that this one was seamless. That was unusual. Most likely, some woman who had been saved by the ministry of our Lord who was skilled in the production of clothing made this for him as a gift of love. She gave clothing to the Savior, and this was a fine garment, and they weren't going to tear it into four parts. Instead, they were going to do what probably always did when they faced this conundrum. They were going to gamble over it. I have a book in my library entitled Gamblers at Golgotha. And the title captures the contrast of Jesus dying for sinners, while sinners only feed away were lightheartedly gambling for his clothing. We see in this activity the horrific materialism of mankind. To them, human life is cheap It has no intrinsic value except perhaps for their own. But possessions, these are important to them We also see the blindness of humanity in this account You don't have to turn here, but I'm going to read from Matthew's account because he adds something that's significant here. In Matthew 27, 35, he says, and they crucified him. and parted his garments, casting lots that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet. They parted my garments among them, and upon my vesture did they cast lots. And sitting down they watched him there. When they had finished disposing of his personal effects, they sat there just feet away, these four men, and watched the Savior die. You ever thought about that? These men witnessed the greatest drama in the history of the world. And yet they saw nothing. They had the clearest view of the greatest events since creation. And yet it was just another dying man, something they saw all the time Alexander McLaren, a 19th-century Baptist pastor in Manchester, England, has a sermon about this entitled The Blind Watchers. And he says this, for half a day they sat And it was but a dying Jew they saw, one of three, they had not the least notion that they had been looking at the most stupendous miracle and the whole world's history. They laid their heads down on their pillows that night and did not know what had passed before their eyes, unconscious that they had seen the pivot on which the whole history of humanity had turned. This is a dramatic illustration for us that sinners are blind They don't see the truth even though it might be right in front of them. This is why you can bring a visitor, a neighbor, a friend to church. and they can hear the gospel proclaimed, but they don't hear it. They don't really see it because they're blind. to the reality of the gospel until God opens their eyes. Secondly, I want you to notice that we have here a revelation of the sovereignty of God. John brings this out very emphatically in his account in John 19, 24. It says that the reason why they did what they did that was that the scripture might be fulfilled. This of course does not mean that they knew the scriptures and they were saying, all right, this is the part where we're supposed to know. Of course not. But it means unknowingly they were instruments in the hands of Almighty God And they were fulfilling what he said over a thousand years before in Psalm 22. I want to encourage you to turn with me back now to Psalm 22. I want you to see this with your own eyes. Psalm 22 is rightly known as the crucifixion psalm. It contains at least five prophecy. about our Lord's crucifixion. The psalm begins with these familiar words, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? This was a prophecy of our Lord's abandonment. Of course, this would be the fourth saying from the cross. We have a prophecy of the mocker 's derision. Look with me at verses 7 and 8. All they that see me laugh me to scorn, they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying he trusted in the Lord that he would deliver him. Let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in him. And again in verses 12 and 13. Many bulls have compassed me about, strong bulls of Baitian have beset me round. They gaped upon me with their mouths as a ravening and a roaring lion. There's a prophecy of our Lord's torture 's tortured body, verse 14. I am poured out like water And all my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It is melted in the midst of my bowels. And again in verse 17, I might tell all my bones, they look and stare upon me. Then there's a prophecy of his agonizing thirst in verse 15. My strength is dried up like a pot shirt, and my tongue cleaveth to my jaws, and thou hast brought me into the dust of death. But then most remarkably in verse 18 we have this. They parted my garments among them and cast lots upon my vesture. This is a case of pure prophecy. What do I mean by this? Well, in some of David's prophecy, there is a meaning in his words, in this writing that was true in his day but was actually a type, an antity of what would be fulfilled in future days in the life of Christ, for example. In several of David's Psalms, he speaks of betrayal. He speaks of a man named Ahithophel. one of his trusted advisors who betrayed him. He speaks about this man eating at his table who was his friend, his confidant. And now this man has betrayed him. And we know that those scriptures were ultimately not speaking of Ahitha, but speaking of Judas. Some refer to this as double fulfillments. But we don't have any records, certainly, of anyone ever gambling over the garments of David. It seems highly unlikely that that ever took place. That is why I say this is pure prophecy. only pointing to the day when those Roman soldiers would gamble over his garments. I want you to also notice the specificity of this prediction. It speaks here of garments plural. That is, it prophesies that these men would divide up several garments. But then it speaks of the vesture singular, that is that they would gamble for only one item. So this prophecy being fulfilled was dependent on the number of garments that our Lord possessed and the number of Roman soldiers that would be assigned to his execution. Think about this. If there were five Roman soldiers that were signed to his crucifixion, they would not have needed to gamble over that garment. Everyone would have taken one item. On the other hand, if three Roman soldiers were given this duty, they would have gambled over two of those items. And it would not have fulfilled this prophecy. But there were four Roman soldiers. And so each of them got one item, and then there was one item that was gambled over. This reveals to us something that we see again and again in Scripture and very clearly at the cross, and that is that the Lord was in control of his execution. He was King of Kings. He was in control of the price that Judas would pay for his betrayal. He determined that this great drama would take place on the Passover. He had Pilates This cowardly pagan ruler right over top of his crucifixion. This is Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. And he determined that Jesus would be crucified between two criminals fulfilling Isaiah 53. And he would use the greed of these cruel Roman soldiers to fulfill his divine purposes. Why did God control all of these events? So that readers like you and I in centuries to come would understand that indeed Jesus was the promised Messiah, the Lamb of God who would take away the sin of the world. In this event, we see the sinfulness of man and the sovereignty of God. And finally, there is a revelation of the suffering. I'm very reluctant to bring out this last point. But shame was certainly a significant part of our Lord's suffering. The disposal of our Lord's clothing indicates indirectly and discreetly that he was left naked on the cross. Artists, of course, have traditionally placed some clothing on our Lord, but it is very unlikely that he was provided any covering at all. We have historic records that tell us That the normal thing was to execute a person totally naked. I 've mentioned previously that The purpose of crucifixion was not so much to kill a person. There are many easy and efficient ways to kill an individual. It was to degrade and humiliate the victim. It was designed to psychologically break them down and bring them such shame and reproach that it would be deterrent so that no one would ever want to lift a hand or say a word against Rome. It was intended to be a profound deterrence. And so the Romans who borrowed this form of death from other pagans who had invented it centuries before perfected it and modified it. And tried to shame the person. That is why they compelled the condemned to carry their cross through the crowded streets. That is why a placard was carried in procession in front of the condemned so that everyone could see with their own eyes the crime that this person had committed. This is why the cross was placed outside the city gate on a major road where thousands of pilgrims would go in and out and could not help but see this person being crucified. This is why the cross was lifted high so that the shameful view would not be obstructed. And this is why our precious Lord was deprived of all clothing. This is an illusion. There's an illusion in Hebrews 6. 6. It speaks of his crucifixion being put to an open shame, and it's allusion to this aspect of his suffering. And as distasteful as this subject is, it provides a blessed truth. The shame that Christ endured that day was part of the suffering that he took for us. You see, Jesus didn't just bear our guilt, but he also bore our shame. We live in a culture That has almost lost this sense of shame. But the fact of the matter is that sin is the most shameful thing in the universe. And we all deserve the everlasting shame of hell, but God sent his beloved Son to take our guilt and our shame. The hymn writer put it this way, and we sang it together, bearing shame and scoffing rude, in my place condemned, he stood. Many preachers see here an allusion to the covering that God provided for the first sinners, Adam and Eve. Let me read from the Dutch theologian Klaus Schilder who said God could put clothing on the first atom only because he would one day take it off the second atom. Through his shame and suffering, we are saved. Through his shameful death, we have been clothed in his robes of righteousness. This is the wonderful truth that we celebrate at the cross because Christ was willing to bear that shameful aspect. And to die in our place. We do not need to stand in our guilt and in our shame before a holy God, but we can be wrapped in his righteous robes and received in the beloved. A wonderful truth for us to meditate on tonight. Let's close in prayer, Father. We pray that we would never get over the cross. We thank you that though we are sinful and wicked, We thank you that you have provided a Savior who would bear our sin, shame, and guilt, would drink the full cup of your just wrath That we might be delivered, that we might be free, that we might be clothed in his righteous robes. We thank you for this blessed truth, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.