Give your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to John chapter 4? Today we're going to conclude the story of the Samaritan woman that's found in this chapter. In the 1800s there were some prospectors who were panning for gold in Montana. And they started to find some really large nuggets of gold, and they know they knew that they had hit the jackpot. And they began to jump up and down and cheer and saying, We're rich. But they needed more supplies. They could not get it all the gold that was there. They had to go into town to the general store and buy more supplies. And so they made a solemn promise that none of them would mention anything about this gold strike to anyone. Otherwise, everyone would be out there prospecting. They went into the town They bought the equipment that they needed. They went for a meal. And people kept coming up to them saying So what did you guys find out there? Can I come with you? I'd like to help And they looked at one another and they're like, who told the story? Who broke their vow? Who told about our gold strike? And the people would say to them, nobody said anything to us. We could see it in your face. We could see it in the grin that would not be removed and the excitements that you had in your eyes that you had discovered something. I think this is one of the factors that made the woman of Samaria such an effective witness for Christ was the look in her face. Before she met Jesus, her face was filled with shame and sorrow. She would never speak to others in the village. She wouldn't make eye contact with them. She tried to avoid them But now she is eagerly and joyfully telling people about a man that she met at the well who told her life story. This unnamed Samaritan woman is certainly the most unlikely witness for Christ that we encounter in the New Testament. Let me mention five factors. By way of review, that made her such an unlikely witness. Number one, she was a woman. And their culture, women were considered inferior. In fact, they were barred from testifying in a court of law. They did not have as much status as men did, and this woman was a witness for Christ. She was a Samaritan woman. The Samaritans and the Jews hated each other. The Jews believed that the Samaritans were racially, religiously, and culturally inferior to them. So the fact that this woman is going out and telling people about a Jewish Messiah, even though she was a Samaritan, is amazing. This woman, thirdly, was not only a Samaritan woman, she was an immoral Samaritan woman. Early in their conversation, Jesus tells her that she has had five husbands, and the man she was currently living with was not her husband. She had a bad reputation in their community. And yet she was a witness for Christ. Number four, although this woman Knew very little about the Lord, she told what she knew. In verse 29, we see Her very simple testimony. Come see a man who told me all that I ever did. Can this be the Christ? She didn't know very much theology. She probably knew less than just about anybody here this morning. She was not a disciple. But she had a far more effective witness than the disciples did when they went into the village to purchase food. The final reason I say that she was an unlikely witness for Christ is that she didn't let the response of the disciples dampen her enthusiasm for telling others about Jesus. In verse 27 , It says, just then his disciples came back, that is, from the village purchasing food. They marveled that he that is Jesus was talking with a woman, but no one said, What do you seek, or why are you talking with her. That first unspoken question, what do you seek? We would put it this way, what do you want? The disciples are tired and hungry. They can't believe that Jesus is talking with a woman in public. And they want her to go away. They don't rejoice that she has found the Lord. They don't introduce themselves. They clearly want her to go away. But that didn't keep her from going into the village and being an enthusiastic witness for Christ. Then we have in verses 31 through 38, kind of a parenthetical paragraph. while she is going to the village to tell people about this man who knew all about her past, who might be the Messiah While she is there telling people, and then they're coming, making this half-mile trek back to the well. Jesus takes this as a teachable moment. And explains to his disciples that if they are going to reach people, they must make it a priority, more important than even their food. They're hungry, they want to eat right away, and Jesus says, I have food that you don't even know about. And then he tells them that they must do it eagerly. Because the harvest is there if they have eyes to see it. And at that moment there were Samaritan people walking toward him in their white garments, and so it was like a white harvest coming right their way. And there would be people in that crowd that would be saved that very day at the well. And then in verses 39 through 42, we have the conclusion of this remarkable account. And what we see is the impact of this one woman's witness. We read of many people coming to believe. This woman, this unlikely witness, this very unorthodox missionary was the key. To reaching that entire community for Christ. What was happening here was nothing less than revival. When large numbers of people get saved at one time. And it continues on, and the Spirit of God is clearly at work. We call that revival. And revival always starts with one person. And in this case, it started with this Samaritan woman. So I'm going to preach you this morning on this truth, the amazing impact of one unlikely witness for Christ. And my first point is this, through this unlikely woman's witness, many came to believe in Christ. Look with me, please, at verse 39. Now I want you to see how that verse 30 runs right into verse 39, and that verses 31 through 38 are kind of like in parentheses. Let me begin reading at verse So the woman left her water jar and went away into the town and said to the people, Come see a man who told me all that I ever did. Can this be the Christ? They went out of the town and were coming to him. Verse 39. Many Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the woman's testimony. He told me all that I ever did. So this is the connection. Now I want you to notice the first word. In verse 39, it's the word many, many Samaritans. It wasn't just a handful of people It wasn't just a few people. I don't know if it was in the hundreds. I don't know if it reached that high or even beyond that. I don't know, but I know that there were many people who had a response of faith that day. And the human agency that God used was this woman. The woman's testimony that we read of here is a word that's often translated as witness. It's the word used for someone when they give a testimony as a witness in a court of law. We still have that today in our legal system And what was the essence of her testimony? He told me all that I ever did. And we see this, of course. Reflected again in verse 29. It says, come see a man who told me all that I ever did. Can this be the Christ? When we covered verse 29, I mentioned to you that this is what is known as hyperbole. You should not take it literally. He didn't tell every single event that ever happened in her life from the day she was born. You know what people say how they use human language when they're really enthusiastic? They exaggerate It's a clue to the person who's hearing them. They're really excited about this. They're really worked up about this. She wasn't lying because people understood she's exaggerating because she's so excited about what the Lord is doing He told me all that ever I did. Jesus' knowledge of her past was not just remarkable, it was supernatural. It can only be explained as the work of God. So what made this woman such an effective witness for Christ? This one woman brings a multitude to believe. What made her such an effective witness? Let me mention several characteristics. That we should seek to emulate in our witness for Christ. Number one, she was persistent. And the text here, when it speaks of her testimony and the idea of her giving her testimony, the idea is that she kept giving it. She didn't go out of the village and one time say to the first person she met, come see a man who told me everything I ever did. Could this be the Messiah? And then she went back to her home. No. She kept saying the same things. Everyone that she greeted, everyone that she met, she went all through that village telling people this news. She was persistent. I'm sure there were people who rejected and said, that's nonsense. I'm not going to listen to that woman. And went back about their business. She didn't let the rejection of people deter her witness for Christ. If you're going to be a witness for Christ, one of the things you need to realize is that most people will reject your testimony Most of them will say no thank you. Some of them were very polite and kind and they will listen to you because they're just that kind of a person. And some people will get angry This woman was persistent. Number two, her testimony was simple. It just consisted of a few words. It wasn't complex. It wasn't hard for them to grasp. It was simple. Come here, this man that told me a whole life story. And that brings me to this point. Her testimony was personal. had to do with her, something that she experienced. You see, if you're a born-again believer here this morning, there's one thing that you do have. You may not have great theological knowledge You may not have a degree in theology, but you do have one thing. You have a testimony if you're a believer. Now, if you're not a believer, you don't have a testimony of salvation. But if you are truly a believer, you can at least say this to anyone. I want you to learn about this person who changed my life. I want to tell you about this person who changed me from the inside out. You see, I used to be a very different person from who I am now. That is compelling to people. One of the most effective ways of connecting with people is telling them your testimony, your life story. Because this was a personal story that she is giving. Fourthly, her testimony was sincere or earnest Now again, we don't have a recording of this, and I'm speculating a little bit here. I think I have good grounds to do so. I don't think that she went out there and she said Come see a man who told me all that I ever did. Could this be the Messiah? I don't think that's the way it sounds. I don't think that she is like taught like this is the kind of script you should use. And so she just kind of talked like that. No, I think she was animated. Come see a man who told me all that I ever did. And people could see that she was in earnest about this, that she was sincere about this. And her testimony was humble. She wasn't making declarations. She wasn't saying like a preacher, you people are all living in sin and you need to get right, go out and talk to this man here. She didn't make a declaration even of his identification. She just raised it as a question. And it piqued their curiosity. Come see a man who told me my whole life story. It was humble. We have to be careful when we witness to people that we don't talk down to them in a way that's condescending and that's actually offensive to them. Number six, her testimony was believable. Why was it credible? Because something had changed in her life. The residents of this village had never seen her speak with such enthusiasm. They'd never seen her face glow the way it was that she had joy and peace in her heart. Everything was different now. And so this is how we must speak for Christ. We are to be persistent. And simple and personal and earnest and humble and believable. But now I want you to notice how the response of faith is described. Look at verse 39. It says, many Samaritans believed in him. Doesn't that sound a little strange to you in him? We wouldn't put it that way today. You find this often in the Gospel of John about people believing in Christ or in him. For instance, in John 3. 16, whoever believes in him shall not perish. But have eternal life. What does it mean to believe in him? That construction Is demonstrating a reliance or a dependence on Christ You see, saving faith is not just mental ascent. It's not just agreeing that there was once a man named Jesus. A Jewish carpenter who died on a cross 2,000 years ago and rose again the third day. You do have to believe those things. I want to make those sound like they're not important, but just because you nod your head and say, yeah, I suppose that's so, that does not make you a Christian. The question is, is that your dependence for your salvation? Do you see yourself as a sinner who apart from Christ would face eternal punishment and that your only hope of salvation is to cast all your dependence on him alone, not in yourself, not in your good works, not in your righteous deeds, but in Christ alone, who died in your place. This was the response of saving faith that transpired that day at the well. And it was all through the unlikely witness of this Samaritan woman. Now secondly, I want you to notice that through this woman's witness, many more came to hear Christ. And to believe in him. Look at verse 40. So when the Samaritans came to him, they asked him to stay with them, and he stayed there two days. This is the initial response of the Samaritans who came to the well where Jesus was. Remember, this is about half a mile from the village. I suspect they spoke there for some time at the well. We have no record of this conversation. But it would seem from verse 39 that some of the Samaritans placed their faith in Jesus Christ right there at the well. They became convinced that he was the promised Messiah, that he was the Savior of the world. their Savior. But then we read in verse 40 they kept asking Jesus to come and stay with them in the village. That's the idea of this expression here. They kept asking him This was typical Eastern hospitality. They would not take no for an answer. But there was one thing that was remarkable about this invitation. This was not an invitation that they would typically have given to a Jewish individual and his friends. because of the strong animosity between Jews and Samaritans But they felt that this man was unlike any Jewish man that they had ever met before. He respected them. He spoke to them. He cared for them. He gave his time to them. He didn't treat them like they were defiled and contaminated and beneath his notice. And he gave them a very precious gift. You know what it was? It was the gift of time. In the Gospels, we read of Jesus being very busy, but think about this, he was never in a hurry. Busy, but never in a hurry. And when people needed his time, he gave them his time. His willingness to stay with them was a profound demonstration that he did not believe that they would somehow contaminate him. It was a sense, a very powerful sense of acceptance Now most Jews, there were several different layers of the way the Jews respond to the Samaritans. Some of the most scrupulous Jews, rabbis and Pharisees and so forth, would go out of their way and travel around Samaria to go to Galilee, going north to south. Most Jews, however, did travel through Samaria But they tried to avoid stopping or interacting or eating there. We know that Jesus and the disciples did stop there. They did go get food in the village and everything. But virtually no Jews of this time period would have dared have stayed a night or two in a Samaritan village. But Jesus does that. Because he did not come to condemn, but to save. Now look with me at verse 41. And many more believed because of this word. Very short verse. This is a connection up to verse 39 Look at verse 39. Many Samaritans from that town believed in him. Now verse 41. And many more believed because of his word. Alright? Many believed, many more believed. And why did they believe? Because of his word. That is the word of Christ, the message of Christ. What was that word? Well. It was the message that Jesus was the Messiah, the Son of God, that he was the Lamb of God who would take away the sin of the world, and that by believing they could have life in his name. The woman's testimony was simple, but certainly didn't answer everyone's questions. Jesus' message was far superior. Never a man spoke like this man. is certainly the case with Jesus. He spoke with both authority and compassion. By the way, we see something here very interesting. There are some people, not the majority, but there are some people the very first time they hear the gospel. They will respond in faith. But most people won't. But there are some people, like here, that after maybe two days of asking questions and getting answers from Jesus, they came to believe. Alright? Some people it takes longer for their questions to be answered and for them to be convinced. But we see this here I suspect that those two days were very busy, that Jesus spoke to them from sunup to beyond sundown. We have no record of what he said. We can only speculate. I suspect that he used the first five books of the Bible, the books of Moses, to demonstrate to them that he was the promised Messiah. And the result was a great harvest of souls. This is the first and the most powerful example of cross-cultural evangelism in the New Testament. And there is no revival during our Lord's ministry that really equals this. than what happened at this time period in Samaria. And it all started through the unlikely witness of one unnamed Samaritan woman That brings me to my third point. Through this unlikely woman's witness, many came to believe and gave witness that Jesus is the Savior of the world. You see, this is the way it's supposed to happen. We hear the gospel, we believe, and then we become a witness for Christ And other people who hear the word from us, they believe, and then they become a witness for Christ. It's supposed to be a chain reaction. Now we come to the last verse of this account, and John has carefully crafted This account so that the very last concluding words that you hear of this story is what? We know that this is indeed the Savior of the world. Now, before we get to that wonderful title , I want to make sure that we understand what's being said here. It says, they said to the woman, It is no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves. They're not disparaging her witness. But they're saying you were right. This man is remarkable. He's like no man we've ever met before Your testimony was right, but we have come to the same conclusion that you came to. They were no longer just coming out of curiosity and depending on what she said, they had come to believe for themselves. And the result of this is that they give us this powerful testimony, this is indeed the Savior of the world. These new believers are convinced of the divine identity of Jesus. And I like this word, know it. They say, we know That this is indeed the Savior of the world. The word no is a word that John likes to use often in his gospel, the specific term, and it has the idea of certainty. Or conviction. They were convinced from the depths of their hearts that he was the Savior of the world. Saying that they had come to the settled conclusion. This Is something that should be true of every believer. That we have a settled conviction that Jesus is who he claimed to be. Now, John intentionally concludes this story with this title. Remember, the entirety of the Gospel of John is all about convincing the reader that Jesus is the Christ, that is the Messiah, the Son of God, and that believing you might have life through his name. And so John structures his gospel with all of this evidence. He has, first of all, the seven signs or miracles. We're going to look in just a little while at the second of those miracles. He has the confessions of people, he has witnesses of people, and he has titles of Christ, like the king of the Jews, the Lamb of God, the Word, and now the Savior of the world. So what should we take from this title, The Savior of the World, that only John uses, and he uses it again in 1 John 4 and verse 14? All right, first of all, number one, this title refers to someone who delivers and protects his people. Now, when you or I or anyone else in the Western world and we hear the term savior, we think of it strictly in a religious context. That would not have been the case with the people here in the first century. It was a common term used for kings and rulers and emperors. Roman emperors such as Tiberius and Nero and Despatian, they all use the title Savior. But the ruler who's most famous for using it was a man you've all heard of named Caesar Augustus. He was the emperor during the early period of our Lord's life. Just a couple decades ago, archaeologists discovered an inscription. And this is what it says. It's going to sound blasphemous to you because it is. Divine Augustus Caesar, son of God, imperator of land and sea, the benefactor and savior of the whole world. That's what this inscription says. But you know what? None of these emperors were able to live up to these lofty titles. But Jesus did. He is the one who has rescued us from sin and from death and from the wrath of God. And he is the one who protects his people. And watches over us. And no one will snatch us out of his hand. Secondly, this title points to the deity of Jesus. In the Old Testament, on 11 occasions, we read of God or Yahweh being Savior. For instance, in Isaiah 43 and verse 3 it says, For I am the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior. And so when Jesus said to Jews or Samaritans who knew their Old Testament and he spoke and they said that he was the Savior, they were saying that he was God's. Because that's what they found in their Old Testament. Number three, this title, The Savior of the World, reveals the universality of Jesus' redemptive work. In the ancient world, people all had their deities, but their deities were for their nation or their people. So there would be a God who was the God of this particular mountain or of this valley. And when they went to war with another people, it was, they believe, a test of whose gods were the strongest. They had a very provincial view of their gods. And the Jews came looking for a Jewish Savior that would rescue them from the oppression of Rome. They should have known better because their Old Testament again and again said that he was to be a light to the Gentiles, to the nations. And the Samaritans were looking for a Samaritan Savior. We know in the writings they believed a Messiah figure would come named Tahiv. And he was a Samaritan, not a Jew. And he would vindicate them, these oppressed people And so when these Samaritan believers come and they say he's not just a savior of the Jews or of the Samaritans, he is a savior of the world, they were saying something that was revolutionary. And this is the theme that John develops in this gospel. In John 1. 29, we read John the Baptist proclaiming, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Not just the Samaritans or the Jews or the Gentiles, but the whole world. And John 3. 16, we read, For God so loved the world. that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. In John 6. 33, we read, for the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. John 8. 12, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. And very right at the very end of his public ministry in John's gospel in John 12, 47, we read, Jesus says, if anyone hears my words, and does not keep them, I do not judge him, for I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. This does not mean that everybody in the world will be saved. The book of John and all the other Gospels and all the epistles are filled with warnings. That say that those who will not believe will perish eternally. But what it does say is that he is the Savior, the only savior. for all the people of the world. It doesn't matter their ethnicity. It doesn't matter whether they're young or old, educated or uneducated, male or female. He is the Savior of the world. And the same apostle who wrote this gospel of John also wrote the last book of your Bible. the book of Revelation. And in Revelation chapter 7 and verse 9, he writes, After this I looked and behold a great multitude that no one could number, from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages. standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes with palm branches in their hands, and crying out with a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God, who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. See, this is what is happening in the world right now. This is why we had a missions conference last weekend. We are seeking to get the gospel to the ends of the earth. To every people group, to every ethnicity, to every little corner where the gospel so far has been shut out, we're seeking to get the gospel there because there's going to be representatives of every people group who have ever lived on this earth who will someday worship Christ. And then finally, this title, The Savior of the World, demonstrates the exclusivity of Jesus as the only way to God. We live in a world today where this is very offensive. More and more our secular Western culture teaches plurality. And it's intended to thought to be very tolerant. And it's pleasant. And it's thoughts, the idea that we all worship the same God, we just call him different names and we we have different ways of worshiping him, but after all, he's the same. And therefore, we should never disparage or try to convert anyone or evangelize anyone because that's offensive because they worship the same God that you do just in a different way. But even apart from Scripture, that's not true because what they believe about their God and his characteristics and his attributes are entirely different from what is revealed in Scripture. And so we just can't pretend that we're all on the same team. But beyond that, we have specific teaching in Scripture that God has provided only one Savior. And that is Jesus. And Jesus would say the night before he died, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. And this is why we send missionaries to the ends of the earth, because there is no other way for people to come into a right relationship with God except through Jesus. Now I'd like to conclude with just a few points of application. Number one, we see here again that salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone In Christ alone. These Samaritans didn't deserve to be saved. They didn't earn it They weren't worshiping in the right way. The worship was deformed and superstitious. And this woman Who first came to Christ was living a very wicked life. But we are saved by grace. And not by works. You notice that Jesus didn't come and give them some new ritual to perform. He didn't try to do that. He called on them instead to believe. This is the key word in this paragraph. Did you notice that? In verse 39 we read, many Samaritans believed in him. In verse 41, many more believed because of his word. Verse 42, we believe, for we have heard for ourselves. This is the key word of the Gospel of John, and it's the key word in this paragraph. So have you believed? Have you come to believe? That brings me to my second point of application. You can only be saved by having a personal faith of your own. And verse 42, we read the Samaritan saying, It's no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves. So let me ask you this question. Do you have a faith of your own? This is something that is perhaps most applicable to our young people. Do you have a faith of your own? When you are brought up in a Christian home, mom and dad come to church, they give you rules, things that you have to do. And they don't ask you, at least I hope they don't, hey, would you like to go to church today? And you say, we're going to church today. By the way, you should never feel guilty about that, parents. That's a good thing. And so you go to church. Maybe you make friends at church. Maybe because of the social aspect you enjoy going to church. And maybe you would profess to believe. And maybe when your mom and dad would ask you, do you believe? you would nod your head and say, Yes, I believe, because you know that's what mom and dad want to hear. They're very serious about it. And it vexes their souls and makes them very anxious if you were to say, no, I don't really believe. I don't really know what all this nonsense is about. So you keep all of this deep inside of you. Or maybe you think you do have a faith of your own. Let me just say if you're a young person here, time will tell. Because when you're out from the influence of your parents and you're out in the world and you're living life on your own, you will face a lot of temptations that you don't currently face and it will reveal what you really believe. And it could reveal that you just had a hand-me-down, a hearsay faith, a faith of convenience and compliance, but not a personal faith. Or it could reveal. When you stand up and you face temptation and trials and testings, you discover that indeed you have a faith of your own. That can stand on its own two feet and will follow Christ no matter what. Do you have a faith of your own? When you come to the gates of heaven, it will not do for you to say, I'm with her, or I'm with him. You have to come on your own through the merits of Christ. You must have a personal faith Number three, God can accomplish amazing things through the witness of one person. God can use the witness of one person to start a chain reaction. That changes an entire family in the course of a family. I've talked to you before, I think when we were in chapter one about how that happened in my family, how there was one man who was uh dating my my aunt and He witnessed to my father and he witnessed to several other people in my father's family. They were all lost and some of them got saved. And then they went and they told other people in the family. until virtually everyone in our household now for several generations are believers. And it all started with the courageous witness of one young man. That can even be multiplied to a nation. If you were here at our missions conference, you heard a fine message by Pastor Aaron, and in one of his applications he talked about this man named Adonairam Judson. He was from New England. Raised in a godly home, a brilliant young man, had a very keen mind But when he became of age, it became apparent that he didn't believe these things. And he lived a wicked and desolute life until God got a hold of him. And Adonaram Judson came to have a faith of his own, and then he felt called to go to the ends of the earth and take the gospel to people who have never heard. Now that doesn't sound that strange to us, but no one in his circles had ever heard of anybody doing that. It was a radical idea. But he went. He eventually, after going to India, he went to Burma, which is today the country of Myanmar. And he had a rough go of it. Imagine being the only believer in a country of millions of people. You're the only one, the only light. And of course he didn't have the conveniences of FaceTiming his parents and see how things are going. Or his pastor. No, he's cut off. He's on his own He faced great difficulties. First five and a half years, not a single convert. He was just mocked and ridiculed for what he believed. He was imprisoned for being a spy. Of course, he wasn't a spy. They thought he was British. He was American. His wife died. Children died. He went through some very dark waters. But he continued to witness and to translate and to preach. And when he died There were 63 Baptist churches in Burma and over 7,000 believers And today in Myanmar, in this one region of Myanmar, there are almost three million believers. And they trace their spiritual lineage all back. to Adonaram Judson, the incredible witness and power of one person's testimony. But I want to conclude with this. We've seen today that Jesus is the Savior of the world. My question to you is this, is he your savior? You've all perhaps heard of the name John Wesley, the man credited with founding the Methodist denomination. John Wesley was from the Church of England. His father was a pastor. He went to Oxford. He was very diligent in his studies, very disciplined man, intelligent man. And he decided that God was calling him to be a missionary, so he went to the Savannah region. And there he was trying to reach the Native Americans with the gospel. He wasn't very successful because he wasn't a believer himself. And on his way back, he was aboard a boat coming back to England. There was a great storm. Everyone thought they were going to die, but there was a Moravian family on board who were believers and they did not seem frightened at all. And this Moravian man named Spannenburg said to John Wesley, Sir, don't you have hope in God of salvation? And he said, Well, sir, I do believe that he is the Savior of the world. And then the man said to him, Yes, sir, but is he your Savior? And that question struck a chord with this very religious, disciplined man. He couldn't get those thoughts out of his head. A couple months later, when he returned to England on May 24, 1738, he was converted, and his life was never the same after that. And now he could say, Jesus is my savior. It's not enough to say he is the savior of the world. Is he your personal savior? your only hope of redemption. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, we thank you that you use weak, flawed, frail vessels like us. to tell the good news. We thank you that you did with this Samaritan woman and with countless others over the centuries. And you can still use us today. Pray that we would be faithful. And Father, for those who are here this morning who cannot say that Jesus is their Savior I pray, Lord, that today they would come to believe and trust in Christ alone. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.