We are in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, and we are continuing on with this epistle. We'll go over our memory verse first from 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. And if you would join me in standing, we'll say this through two times. 2 Thessalonians 2, 1 through 2. 2 Thessalonians 2, 1 through 2. Now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to Him. We ask you, brothers, not to be quickly shaken in mind or alarmed, either by a spirit or a spoken word, or a letter seeming to be from us. To the effect that the day of the Lord has come. Second Thessalonians 2, 1 through 2 Now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to him, we ask you, brothers, not to be quickly shaken in mind or alarmed. either by a spirit or a spoken word or a letter seeming to be from us to the effect that the day of the Lord has come. We'll go right into our lesson this evening. From 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, remember the theme of the book of Thessalonians, of 2 Thessalonians is be established in every good work. and word as you wait for the return of Christ. And there's three crises that are responded to in each of these chapters. The first chapter, they're going through continued persecution. And he's responding with comfort in the face of their persecution. Remember, there will be a great reversal. There will be a great roll reversal. Those who are persecuting you will be punished, and you will be exalted. Then in chapter two, there's prophetic correction in light of false prophecy. So there's been some degree of false prophecy. We see it in the verses that we are learning either a spirit or a spoken word or a letter, a forged letter seeming to be from Paul and his missionary team, saying that the day of the Lord has already come. They're living in the day of the Lord. And so he's correcting a false teaching. that was apparently spreading through that church of that time. Then in chapter three, there's some practical commands specifically responding to idleness, and probably in light of the fact that they believe that they are living in the day of the Lord. There's no point for them to to work. They will rather just live off the generosity of other believers and those in the community. And he urges them to faithful obedience, waiting for the return of the Lord. If we continue like in this passage of Scripture, beginning in chapter 2, we just read the first two verses. I'm going to continue beginning in verse 3. He says, Let no one deceive you in any way. For that day will not come unless the rebellion comes first, and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction. Who opposes and exalts himself against every so-called God or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God, proclaiming himself to be God. Do you not remember that when I was still with you I told you these things? And you know what is restraining him now, so that he may be revealed in his time. For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work. Only he who now restrains it will do so until he is out of the way. And then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord Jesus will kill with the breath of his mouth, and bring to nothing by the appearance of his coming The coming of the lawless one is by the activity of Satan, with all power and false signs and wonders, and with all wicked deceptions for those who are perishing, because they refuse to love the truth, and so be saved. Therefore, God sends them a strong delusion, so that they may believe what is false, in order that all may be condemned who did not believe the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness This is really a very significant passage of scripture that is challenging for us to understand. We see different characters that come on the scene in this passage of scripture. We looked at the man of lawlessness. who is also described as the Antichrist or the beast or the little horn throughout different passages of Scripture. Now we see another character known as the restrainer. And we're going to talk about him tonight. So we're going to talk about the man of lawlessness again. We're going to be talking about the restrainer. And we're going to be talking about the appearance of Jesus and what that results in. So the first thing I want us to see is the restrainer of the Antichrist, the issue of this restrainer. He says something here in verse 6 that is really startling. He says, and you know what is restraining him now, so that he may be revealed in his time. It's apparent the Thessalonians knew something That we don't know. And if the Apostle Paul had simply said what that person is or what that entity is that is restraining He would have saved a forest of trees for the books that have been written on this topic. It's apparent that these Thessalonian believers knew more about eschatology than we do, at least in one area. Augustine said of this individual, I frankly confess that the meaning of this completely escapes me. So, not the earliest, but a fairly early voice said, I don't know what this is talking about. There are many earlier voices who have strong opinions on this. But this is one of the most intriguing statements found in the New Testament Many books, many scholarly articles have been written trying to discern what this young church of believers who maybe have been believers for a year or less. already knew and had already been taught by the Apostle Paul about the restraining entity that is restraining the Antichrist. Paul had already taught the Thessalonian believers this, so he didn't feel the need to express this to them. So rather he merely reminded them, you know. Remember what I told you? You know what is restraining him. And they're going, Oh yes, of course. It's kind of like a professor before the midterms or before the final. He says, We're going to cover these things and these things. You need to make sure you study this. Remember we talked about that And you're like, everyone's got the notes on it. They remember they had that class. So he doesn't go into detail about what he had already taught because they had already learned it. And so Paul says, you remember these things, and he's simply jogging their memory about truths that he had already taught them. The word that's translated restrain is a very somewhat common word in the New Testament, and it's most commonly You're used to describe the idea of preventing or hindering or keeping something from happening or restraining. So it's a very good translation that we have here. Philemon chapter 1, we see this same word, I would have been glad to keep Onesimus, to keep Onesimus with me in order that he might serve me on your behalf during my imprisonment for the gospel. So Paul tells Philemon, I would have been glad to have kept him, but I sent him back to you. I would have been glad to restrain him with me. In Romans chapter 1, it says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. Who by their unrighteousness suppress. They hold down the truth. They're suppressing the truth. That's this exact same word. They're restraining the truth in their own hearts. And then in Luke chapter 4, and when it was day, he departed and went into a desolate place. And the people sought him and came to him and would have kept him from leaving them. They would have restrained him. from leaving them. So we have this idea of a restrainer who is in some way keeping or restraining or hindering The Antichrist, this man of lawlessness. And he says, and you know what is restraining him now, so that he may be revealed in his time. The restrainer, or this restraining entity, is restraining the revelation of the man of lawlessness. There is the time of this restraining activity is being seen here. When you look at what he says here. The activity of the restrainer was active even in the first century. He says, you know what is restraining him now. In the 50s of the first century, so that he may be revealed in his time. The mystery of lawlessness is already at work, only he who now restrains it will do so until he is out of the way. So you have this restraining activity that is beginning already in the first century. Maybe much earlier than the first century. In all of our excitement, however, to identify the Antichrist and to identify the restrainer in this passage, I think it's very easy to miss the beautiful and reassuring truth that is found here, that is clear. There is a divine purpose that is being exercised in the restraining of the man of lawlessness. God for his purposes and in his time is restraining the man of lawlessness or allowing him to be restrained. The restraint prevents the premature revelation of the Antichrist. The Antichrist cannot come onto the scene until It is God's time. And so there is a restrainer that is restraining him until it is God's time. So just like there was a fullness of the time for the manifestation of the Christ, Galatians 4 says. So too there will be a proper time when the Antichrist will be revealed. This is all under God's control. That's an encouragement because when we see that the state of the world, sometimes it begins to be Anxiety-inducing, sometimes fear-inducing. What is going on? The reality is that God is sovereign and he is restraining evil. Thank God that He is restraining evil. He is restraining the mystery of lawlessness even now, no matter how evil the world may seem at this moment. God, through his powers, through the restrainer, is restraining Lawlessness. So as bad as it is, it would be a lot worse if it wasn't not for the restraining activity and the sovereign guidance of God. 2 Peter chapter 3 tells us that the Lord is not slow to fulfill his promises, speaking of the day of the Lord and the end times. As some men count slowness. It might seem like it's taking a long time for these things to happen, but it's in this passage of scripture that we're told that a day with the Lord is as a thousand years, and a thousand years is as a day. God 's outside of time. And so the 2,000 years nearly that have elapsed since this was written and today is merely a day and some change for the Lord. It is an insignificant matter. God in his mercy restrains the activity of Satan until God's ordained time and for God's mercy to be revealed on the objects of his mercy. We see this in Revelation chapter six, when the saints, the souls under the altar who have been beheaded and murdered, they cry out to the Lord, holy and true, how long before you will judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth. Then they were each given a white robe and told to rest a little longer until the number of their fellow servants and their brothers should be complete, who were to be killed as they themselves had been. Have you ever thought about that? God says, I have a number of my saints who I have ordained for them to be killed. There is a specific number. And when that number is complete, then I will bring judgment. We realize that God's ways are much higher than our ways, and God's thoughts are much higher than our thoughts. We have too much of a sterilized Western view of Christianity and what God's purposes are for us. But when we read a passage like this, we realize they're a lot different than ours, and it causes us to really stop and consider. And to be thoughtful. But the fact is that the restraining influence here is under the sovereign control of God. And he is restraining until it is God's time. He describes this mystery of lawlessness. He says, and you know what is restraining him now, so that he may be revealed in his time. For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work. There in verse 7. The day of the Lord begins in conjunction with the revelation of the man of lawlessness. We saw that. And he's called the son of destruction. We talked about that last week. Other scripture passages identify him as the little horn in Daniel chapter 7, or the prince. who is to come in Daniel chapter 9, or the beast in Revelation 13, also known as the Antichrist. These are all names to describe the same individual. Although the man of lawlessness has not been revealed, the mystery of lawlessness was already at work. When Paul wrote this in the 50s, the mystery of lawlessness was already at work. And it was taking place even in the church and in the community there in Thessalonica. When we think of the word mystery, we often think of it as something that is a secret or not able to be understood. But here the idea is that it's not able to be understood apart from divine revelation. It's used in the New Testament. We have the mystery of the Gentiles being part of the church. For that the Gentiles and the Jews together will be brought into one body. We find that in Ephesians chapter 3. And they that the Gentiles, us who are Gentiles, would be able to partake of the promises in Jesus Christ. We have the mystery of the rapture in 1 Corinthians 15, 51, meaning apart from divine revelation, it would not be able to be known. And here we have the mystery of lawlessness. It's not referring to violations of the law, rather to what we saw about the man of lawlessness. His goal is to be Standing against and defying and standing up against the one who created the law, God. and to replace God. It's the definite plan of Satan to overthrow the rule of God and establish his own rule. It culminates in the work of the Antichrist as he declares himself to be God. And this is the revelation of lawlessness that will coincide with the revelation of the Antichrist. So when you think of this mystery of lawlessness, There's a sense in which it's been going on since the fall. When Satan began to undermine the authority of God, seeking to undermine God, and ultimately his end goal is to set himself up as God in authority. over all of creation. This mystery is working itself out, but it is being restrained until God's timing, until the man of lawlessness, God is ready to reveal him. This is consistent with what the Apostle John wrote towards the end of his life in 1 John. Oh, that's not supposed to be in there. 1 John 2. 18, where he says, Children, it is the last hour. And as as you have heard that Antichrist is coming, so now many Antichrists have come Therefore, we know that it is the last hour. So we are living from that time until now, we are living in the last hour. And he said that the Antichrist is coming, but even now the Antichrists are at work in the world. And then in chapter 4 he says, and every spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of the Antichrist, which you heard was coming and now is in the world already. So the spirit of Antichrist was already at work in the world. So who is the restrainer? This one who restrains the Antichrist? Well, there have been many suggestions We have these six of the most prominent ones. The Roman Empire and the Roman Emperor. People have mentioned Nero. People have also mentioned that Nero is the Antichrist. People have thought of uh Claudia as the restrainer, the pr the emperor prior to Nero, and Nero as the Antichrist. Uh Caligula, who tried to set himself up in the temple and to be worshipped and was unable to do so and his orders were not carried out. The problem with a couple of those is are significant in the sense that And Nero never did set himself up in the temple, and he died before the AD 70 when all that took place. So that would fall apart. And then Early Christians did not recognize that. Also, civil government is also described, not just the Roman Empire, but civil government in general. Genesis 9, God establishes the necessity of civil government and of capital punishment to a to restrain evil in the world? When you think about where would our world be if it was not for our government, as good as it is or as bad as it is, if we did not have government If we did not have civil authority, the world would be filled with anarchy. And you would not want to live in a world like that. It would be a horrible dangerous, evil place. Civil government definitely does restrain lawlessness. So that can be understood. The proclamation of the gospel is also another option. The idea that when the gospel is proclaimed, people get saved and it restrains Wickedness. It restrains lawlessness. And so that is an option. Other people have seen Satan as the one who is restraining lawlessness until the time of the revelation of the Antichrist. You may automatically be thinking of some reasons why that doesn't fit very well, but there that is one possible suggestion. Michael the Archangel is also an option. Michael the Archangel is described in Daniel chapter ten. He is a key figure in end times events that when he arises on behalf of the nation, the end time events begin to kick into place. He's also Revealed in Revelation chapter 12, Michael the Archangel is a very significant player. He does fight against Satan, and so he does restrain the forces of evil in some way. And lastly, the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit working to restrain evil. So let's look at the text and try to find some clues to help us identify the restrainer. And although we can't go through this and say this is exactly who it is with 100% authority, I think we can come down to some some helpful conclusions. He is not specifically identified by Paul. Again, because the Thessalonians already knew who it was. But let's look at some of these clues. First, the restrainer is referred to using both the neuter and the masculine genders in verses 6 and 7. I don't So let's look at these verses. And he says, and you know what is restraining him now, so that he may be revealed in his time. So you know what Is restraining the Antichrist now. There's a neuter gender there. Verse 7. For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work. Only he Who now restrains it will do so until he is out of the way. So now the what is described as a he. So we have neuter and then masculine gender being described here. So we have personhood. So the what is a person. It is a person. He has personhood. Not saying he's human, I'm saying he's a person. Just like God is a person, not that he's a human. There is personhood involved, and he's described in the masculine gender. The Holy Spirit significantly is addressed with the neuter noun for spirit. In Greek, the word spirit is in the neuter. And he's also addressed with the masculine pronoun. And this is found in multiple passages in the New Testament. I just put some of them in your notes. You could look them up. If you want to. Some have seen this also as referring to the Roman Empire, meaning a neuter, that the Roman Empire and a Roman Emperor, a masculine person, an individual. This was the view of Chrysostom. Though he was aware of the interpretation of the Holy Spirit as the answer to this, he said he thought the Roman Empire would be the better uh de answer for who is the restrainer. Personally, I think it it kind of argues against the idea that Michael the Archangel is being referred to. Because Michael the Archangel would be given the, not the neuter, but the masculine. Pronoun. So I to me that seems to argue against Michael the Archangel a little bit there. So that the first thing is he's referred to as both neuter and masculine genders. Second, the restrainer has supernatural power to restrain Satan himself. When we say supernatural power, we don't necessarily mean almighty power, but supernatural power. Maybe Almighty, but definitely supernatural. Verse 9 makes it clear that the coming of the lawless one is by the activity of Satan. With all power and false signs and wonders. So no mere human power can withstand the power of Satan So there's a a being, a person, who restrains with supernatural power. This, I think, also nullifies the idea that the restrainer is Satan. So if you didn't see number four on here, the restrainer is Satan. Satan does not restrain Satan. The house divided against itself does not stand. Jesus spoke about this. Michael the Archangel obviously does have great power. And his forces will overthrow Satan and Satan's demonic forces in Revelation chapter 12. So now war rose in heaven. Michael and his angels fighting against the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought back, but he was defeated, and there was no longer any place for them in heaven. And If you continue on reading, you find out that the dragon is Satan himself. So Michael the archangel and his forces fight against Satan and his forces, and Satan is ultimately cast out of heaven. Satan is defeated by Michael and his forces. So Michael would be a possibility. And Daniel chapter 12 also speaks of Michael. He is the angel, the archangel who has authority over the nation of Israel in a unique way. And so he is described in Daniel chapter 12 as being Working in coordination with the nation of Israel, especially at the time of the end So we have two characteristics here. The restrainer is referred to in both neuter and masculine gender. Also, the restrainer has supernatural power to restrain Satan himself. Obviously, that would work well with the Holy Spirit because the Holy Spirit has almighty power to restrain. And then lastly, what I see here is that it is a timeless individual. And I put that in quotes because it doesn't necessarily mean that he's eternal, but at least timeless in one sense, and that he is able to live without dying. This would have problems with, of course, the Roman Empire, the Western Roman Empire, the main part of the Roman Empire fell in 476, the Eastern Roman Empire fell in 1453. So that doesn't seem to work too well. The idea of the Roman Empire falls apart on many fronts, actually. He's been restraining activity of Satan since at least the first century. Maybe since the fall of Adam and Eve, whoever this individual is, it would not seem to me to eliminate the idea of Michael the Archangel since He has been active in combat with the forces of evil since at least the days of Daniel. We can go back to the days of Daniel. We know Michael the archangel was actively combating against the forces of evil in the days of Daniel, probably since the fall of Satan. He's probably the main angelic force that fought against Satan. It would definitely not eliminate the Holy Spirit, who alone as God has the power to restrain Satan. Ultimately, there is no greater power. Personally, I lean towards the identification of the restrainer as being none other than the Holy Spirit himself. That the Holy Spirit is the restrainer. Though to me, honestly, the second best option is Michael the Archangel. I think he fits enough the idea of neuter and masculine. Don't seem to work well with him. But I think other than that, he is the second best option. The reason other reasons why I think it is the Holy Spirit, if you go back to Genesis chapter 6, before the flood What does God say in those days? He says, my spirit shall not always strive with man. The idea is there is restraining man forever. But after 120 days I'm going to bring the flood upon the earth. In John 16, we're told that the Holy Spirit reproves the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. The Holy Spirit works throughout the world in a mighty way to restrain. And it is God, ultimately in Romans 1, who gives men up to a reprobate mind. So to do things that they would not otherwise do, but that is because God delivers them over to it. He stops restraining them. He stops restraining them to do things that they would not normally do. Some have objected to the idea that the Holy Spirit will be removed. If you look at verse 7, what does he say? For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work. Only he who now restrains it will do so until he is out of the way. And they say, Well, when will the Holy Spirit be out of the way? What does that mean? I like how the ESV translates it here. They do a very good job of this. The grammar actually indicates that it's a voluntary act by the restrainer, that he isn't removed out of the way. He No longer does this work until he is out of the way, but it's a voluntary act by the restrainer. This doesn't mean that the Holy Spirit will no longer be present. Obviously, the Holy Spirit is omnipresent because he is God. But that he will no longer exercise his restraining influence on the world, so that the mystery of lawlessness might take its full effect. And the rebellion that we talked about last week. Many have seen a connection between this act and the rapture of the church. The church is described as salt and light, and salt of course prevents decay, and light exposes darkness. And the darkness has not been able to overcome the light. This may actually be indicated by the words that are used in verse 7. Literally it reads, That he who now restrains it will do so until he is out of the midst. out of the midst. And D. Edmund Hebert said, this seems to point clearly to the Holy Spirit, who now who is now here in person as as the indweller of the saints. The indwelling spirit will be out of the midst of this present scene when the returning Christ calls his church to himself. This isn't, we can't say dogmatically that this is what he's teaching here, but this makes sense with the passage of Scripture. This is a a very viable understanding of this. So whether you agree with my conclusion or not. That's not necessary. It's not essential to get the main message of this passage. Paul is urging the Thessalonian believers not to be quickly shaken in mind, not to be fearful that they are in the day of the Lord. Because the man of lawlessness and the rebellion that we talked about last week has not taken place since he is being held in check by a superior power until an appointed time. So ultimately they don't need to fear, and we don't need to fear. Because God is in control. God is on the throne. And Satan cannot do anything apart from the permissive authority of God. So we don't need to fear. Let's continue on, though. Look at the destiny of the Antichrist. We saw the restrainer of the Antichrist. Let's look at the destiny of the Antichrist. We have this described in verse 8. It says, And then the lawless lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord Jesus will kill with the breath of his mouth and bring to nothing by the appearance of his coming. Although the Antichrist will rise to worldwide power with nearly complete control over the nations of the world, His time is very limited. It's massive power, a limited time. We find this in Revelation chapter 12. Oh actually I want to go on to the next No I want to Yeah, twelve, seven, eight, okay. So now war rose in heaven, Michael and his angels fighting against the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought back, but he was defeated. I should have mentioned this earlier. That just shows you the verses that I was referencing. in Revelation twelve. Revelation thirteen. And authority was given it over every tribe and people and language and nation, and all who dwell on earth will worship it, speaking of the image of the beast. Everyone whose name has not been written before the foundation of the world in the book of life of the Lamb who was slain You notice the massive authority that this individual has over every tribe and people and language and nation. You understand why he's called the Antichrist. Because Christ has a people up for himself from every tribe and tongue and language and nation. The Antichrist has authority in a similar way for a limited time over vast portions of the world. We are told that his authoritarian regime will be so complete that according to Revelation 13 I believe I have it. I don't have this one here. Verses sixteen and seventeen it says, Also it causes all, both small and great, both rich and poor, both free and slave. to be marked on the right hand or the forehead, so that no one can buy or sell unless he has the mark. That is the name of the beast or the number of its name. If you continue reading in verse 18, it talks about the number being 666. That nobody Small or great, richer poor, free or slave, can do any business, commercial activity apart from the mark of the Antichrist, the mark of the beast. And there is all sorts of speculation about what this is. Goes back to the first century. Interestingly, I was reading Irenaeus today and against heresies, and he talks about the speculation. And he says, there have been so many people identified by the 666 already. that it's pointless to speculate. It will be evident when he appears. And he wrote in the midpart of the second century, so the 150s, 160s, he's saying, There have been so many people whose name fits the 666 that it's pointless to speculate. And there's a thousand ways to make almost every name fit. So he said, the reality is, when you see the ten kingdoms, the ten kings uniting, and the one, the little horn that takes over, you'll know, and his name will fit. And it'll be evident in that time. Hierene says this, but he said, But knowing the sure number declared by Scripture, that is 666, let them await in the first place the division of the kingdom in the ten. Then in the next place, when these kings are reigning and beginning to set their affairs in order. and advance their kingdom, let them learn to acknowledge that he who shall come, claiming the kingdom for himself, and shall terrify those men of whom we have been speaking, have a name containing the aforesaid number, is truly the abomination So this is wisdom from the second century that just reminds us: don't speculate. It will be evident in its time. If you have a heart to know, it will be evident in its time. But he has massive power over the world. The ultimate example of this reality is the fact That you can't buy or sell without his number. It's been said that one of the greatest weapons of torture and oppression that a totalitarian state has is the ration card. If you control the food of a people, you control a people. Do you imagine the difficulty you would experience if you couldn't feed your family unless you took the mark of the beast? If you knew your children would starve to death in a brutal way, unless you took the mark of the beast, what a challenge that would be. That's what's going to happen, and that's how he's going to control the nations. But we also see here the demise of the Antichrist. We're told specifically that the Lord Jesus will kill him with the breath of his mouth and bring him to nothing by the appearance of his coming. This is reflective of what we read in Isaiah 11, verse 4, describing the time just prior to the millennial reign When it says, with righteousness he shall judge the poor and decide with equity for the meek of the earth, and he shall strike the earth with a rod of his mouth. And with the breath of his lips he shall kill the wicked. That Christ, when he comes to reign, will do so with great might and power, but with the very breath of his lips he will kill the wicked, the most wicked of them all. is the Antichrist. This is described as well in Revelation 19. Verses 11 and following. He says, Then I saw heaven open, and behold a white horse. The one sitting on it is called faithful and true. And in righteousness he judges and makes war. His eyes are like a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems, and he has a name written that no one knows but himself. He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood, and the name by which he is called is the word of God. And the armies of heaven, arrayed in fine linen, white and pure, were following him on white horses From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. He will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God Almighty. On his robe and on his thigh he has a name written, the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. And just skipping a few verses, and the beast was captured. And with it the false prophet, who in its presence had done the signs by which he had deceived those who had received the mark of the beast, and those who worshipped its image. These two were thrown alive into the lake that burns with sulfur. Lake of fire that burns with sulfur. So we see when Christ comes at his appearing, he speaks. And he destroys this mighty world ruler, the greatest, most evil of all world rulers. When Christ comes, he speaks, and it's final judgment for him. He goes immediately, without passing through death, into the lake of fire. His end is certain. His rise is sudden, but his demise is equally sudden. No matter how great his apparent power and authority, he's no match for the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. Who the very breath of his mouth will bring about, remember he's called the son of destruction. He will bring about that destruction with the very breath of his mouth. It's important to remember the end of all those who are filled with boasting and pomp. Psalm 73, remember his ASAF. His confession, how he was envious of the wicked who were filled with prosperity, and wore pride like a necklace, and violence like a garment. And ultimately he regained his footing spiritually when he went into the sanctuary of God. Remember, the sanctuary of God isn't this. He's talking about the temple. And the bloody sacrifices and the blood all over the temple from the sacrifices. And the Bible says that he realized their end. that unless they are covered with the blood of a sacrifice, unless their sins are placed on the on a sacrificial animal. They will bear their own guilt and their own blood will be spilt. And ASAP said, when I saw that, I regained my footing spiritually. And I was no longer envious of the wicked. And I realized that the nearness of God is my good. So when we see the rising of men and women in great power who blaspheme God. Remember their end. And do not envy them. The last thing I want us to see this evening is the demonic delusion of the Antichrist, beginning in verses 9 and following. We see the satanic power of the lawless one. Verse 9 tells us that the coming of the lawless one will be by the activity of Satan. He will be given authority and power from Satan and ability to work even miraculous works. Revelation 13 again speaks about this. It says, and I saw a beast rising out of the sea. Now The first beast here is actually talking about an empire. The second beast that we'll see is talking about the Antichrist. You have to follow through some of the logic carefully when you're reading passages like this. But it is evident as you read along. And I saw a beast rising out of the sea with ten horns and seven heads, with ten diadems on its horns, and blasphemous names on its heads. And the beast that I saw was like a leopard, its feet were like a bear's, and its mouth was like a lion's mouth, and to it the dragon gave his power and his throne and great authority. One of its heads seemed to have a mortal wound But its mortal wound was healed, and the whole earth marveled as they followed the beast. Now I think this is now talking about the man, not the nation. And they worshiped the dragon, for he had given his authority to the beast. And they worshiped the beast, saying, Who is like the beast and who can fight against it? And the beast was given a mouth, uttering haughty and blasphemous words, and it was allowed to exercise authority for forty-two months. The beast is worshipped along with the dragon, Satan, because Satan had given him his great power. And he's able to do Miraculous works. Perhaps this is surprising to you that Satan and the Antichrist they can do miracles. Maybe you thought only only God can do miracles. Remember even the Exodus when Moses stood up before Pharaoh and he cast down his staff and it turned into what? Snake? What did the wise men of Pharaoh do? They cast down their staff, and they turned into snakes. Oh. And every time he did a miracle, they mimicked it until they could no longer mimic it. And they said, this is the hand of God. This is different. This isn't magic. This is divine power. Irenaeus actually speaks about this as well in his book. He says, Let no one imagine that he performs these wonders by divine power. But by the working of magic. And we must not be surprised if, since the demons and apostate spirits are at his service, he through their means performs wonders by which he leads the inhabitants of the earth astray. This is the reality that is described in 2 Thessalonians, Revelation 13, and is for us to understand. The Antichrist, in fact, is is even resurrected from what seems to be a mortal wound, he says in verse 14. We read that just a little bit ago that he received what seemed to be a mortal wound. and he's resurrected and this ability, notice he's mimicking the the Christ who truly was resurrected by He says, what seemed to be resurrected from a mortal wound, even describing it as a wound from a sword. The Antichrist has a henchman. Who is able to perform miracles as well. He's called the false prophet, as you continue reading. We read about him a little bit already in Revelation 19. And it speaks of him saying, It performs great signs, even making fire come down from heaven to earth in front of people. And by the signs that it is allowed to work in the presence of the beast, it deceives those who dwell on the earth. Telling them to make an image for the beast that was wounded by the sword and yet lived. So you see the the resurrection idea here. We see also that He calls down fire from heaven. Remember when Elijah was going against the prophets of Baal, and the prophets of Baal trying to call down fire from heaven, and they were unable to. But Elijah was, and he did so on multiple occasions in his life. But 2 Thessalonians tells us that these are false signs and wonders. In verse 15 , Nope, I don't have it here. Verse 15 of this of Revelation 13 says, And it was allowed to give breath to the image of the beast, so that the image of the beast might even speak and might cause those who would not worship the image of the beast to be slain. We'll look at this quote from the Didic, which was roughly from the first century. If I can read this here, it says, For the in the last days false prophets and corruptors shall be multiplied, and the sheep shall be turned into wolves, and the love shall be turned into hate. For when lawlessness increases they shall hate and persecute and betray one another, and then shall appear the world deceiver as Son of God, and shall do signs and wonders, and the earth shall be delivered into his hands. And he shall do iniquitous things which have never yet come to pass since the beginning. This was the belief of the early church, and uh they looked to an Antichrist that was yet to come, and to do these works. But the ultimate authority is important here. The ultimate authority behind these miracles Is God Himself. I want you to see a couple things. I'm going to bring up a couple verses. I want us to look at them. Verses we just read. I want you to notice something. It's the words, it was allowed. It was allowed. In Revelation 13, 5 it says, and it was allowed to give breath to the image of the beast. It was given permission to do this. We see this even in our verses here. In verse 10. It says, And with all wicked deception for those who are perishing, because they refuse to love the truth, and so to be saved, therefore God sends them a strong delusion, so that they may believe what is false. In order that all may be condemned who did not believe the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness. If we continue on, we see this in Revelation 13. They perform great signs, even making the fire come down from the heaven to earth in front of the people, and by the signs that it is allowed to work in the presence of the beast. Then Revelation 13, and the beast was given a mouth uttering haughty and blasphemous words, and it was allowed to exercise authority for 42 months. Ultimately, God is on the throne. God is the one that allows them to do these things. It's so important to remember that even in the very worst of times that this world will ever know, God does not vacate his throne. God does not vacate his authority. He is sovereignly directing all things to their decreed end. And even the Antichrist has to get his permission to do these things. From God Himself. That's why it's been said that the devil is God's devil. There is not a single maverick molecule in the universe, and there never will be. But the deceived are not innocent victims. Maybe you read that and say that's just terrible. Why would God allow them to be deceived? Well, verse 10 tells us: because they refuse to love the truth. And so to be saved. And then verse 12 says that they're condemned not because they were not elect, but because they did not believe the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness. This is the reality. Because they refused. God sent his only son, his beloved son, to die for you and me, to be an atonement for our sins, to suffer a brutal sacrificial death. And yet men loved their unrighteous deeds more than they loved God, who would love them in such a way. And so God is just and God is right. to allow them to be deceived so that they might come to their ultimate end. I urge any who are here tonight who have not bowed the knee to God To recognize that this is the ultimate end of all who will not receive by faith the good news of salvation. Jesus Christ died for your sins and for mine. There is coming a day of judgment for all who do not believe the truth. For all who loved their sin too much and said, I will have my sin. I will not submit to God. I will not obey his word. I don't care what he says. There is a day of judgment. But the Lord Jesus died for you. And I urge you to come and repent and to believe the gospel. For it is the only good news that we have. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for these truths that we find in your word, and we marvel at the clarity that is revealed even in the difficult passage of Scripture. Lord, I pray that you would use these truths in our lives. May we recognize that you are on the throne. May we not fear, may we not be anxious, may we not be quickly shaken and mind or alarmed. But Lord, may we rest, waiting for the return of Christ And sanctifying ourselves until that day. Lord, I pray for any this evening who do not know Christ, who have not submitted and bowed the knee to you. I pray that you would show them their dire condition, cause them to fear, and break the proud will. That they might receive your glorious good news. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.