If you have your Bibles, you can turn with me to Isaiah 53. The Bible records many powerful scenes of grief in its pages. We read in Genesis 37 of Jacob's grief when he assumes that his favorite son Joseph is dead. Recall that his brothers took his coat of many colors and dipped it in animal blood and presented it to their father so that he would draw the conclusion that they wanted him to make. He assumed that an animal had killed his beloved son, and it says that he mourned for him many days. And then we read of David's grief over the death of his son Absalom in 2 Samuel 18 and his plaintive cry, O Absalom, my son, my son. And in the New Testament, we read of Paul's farewell to the elders at Ephesus. Paul had brought these men personally to Christ. He had discipled them. There was a bond there. And when he tells them that he is going away and that he will never see their faces again, it says, and they all wept sore and fell on Paul's neck and kissed him. But none of these touching events can match our Lord's sorrow in the Garden of Gethsemane When he says to his disciples, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful even unto death. It is here that we find the most striking fulfillment of the prophecy that Jesus would be a man of sorrows and acquainted with griefs. When we read that Jesus was a man of sorrows, it means that in his life he would experience great sorrow and suffering. This does not mean that he was morose or melancholy. Remember it was Jesus who frequently told his disciples to be of good cheer. The Bible says that Jesus was a man of sorrows. It's not referring to his temperament. but to his suffering in place of sinners, to the most important event in his life, which was his death on the cross and his resurrection to follow He did indeed live in the shadow of the cross. In recent Sunday evenings, when we have celebrated the Lord's table, we have been looking at the names and titles of Jesus We've considered his designation, I am, and the Son of Man, and the Lamb of God, and the Alpha and Omega. And this evening, as we meditate on our Lord's atoning work, I would like us to consider this title that we find specifically in Isaiah 53, Man of Sorrows. Let's begin by considering two prophecies that Jesus would indeed be a man of sorrow. So turn with me to Isaiah 53 if you're not already there. Isaiah 53, this great servant passage begins, as you know, at the end actually of chapter 52. It's divided into five stanzas of three verses each, and so in the second stanza that begins with Isaiah 53 and verse 1, we read these words, Who hath believed our report? And to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant And as a root out of a dry ground, he hath no form nor comingness. And when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised. And we esteemed him not. If we had to summarize this second stanza in Isaiah 53, it would be with the word rejected. This is brought out most powerfully in verse 3. Notice this word despised is found at the beginning and end of verse 3. As the idea of not valuing something. Let me give you two biblical examples of the use of this term. We read this of Esau in regards to his birthright. He did not value that. And so he lost it. And we also read of Goliath in that great contest with young David in 1 Samuel 17, and it says that Goliath despised David. It's put this way in the King James Version. He disdained him, for he was but a youth. I bring up these examples to make this point. The world Did not value the Lord Jesus Christ. Isaiah put it this way, we esteemed him not When something perplexing occurs, people often want to hear from the experts. And so the religious and civil authorities. In the time of Christ, all joined in rejecting the Son of God. John puts it this way, he came unto his own, and his own received him not. This rejection is certainly one reason why he is described as a man of sorrows. But there is very likely another passage that refers to Jesus in this idea as a man of sorrows, and that is found in the book of Lamentations. Turn with me to Lamentations chapter 1 and verse 12 The prophet Jeremiah writes, Is it nothing to you all? All ye that pass by, behold and see if there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow, which is done unto me, wherewith the Lord hath afflicted me in the day of his fierce anger. These are the words of the prophet Jeremiah at the destruction of Jerusalem. It is interesting to note that Jeremiah was known as the weeping prophet. And some people speculated that Jesus was Jeremiah come back from the dead during his ministry. Some of you recognize this text as part of Handel's Messiah, and many scholars believe that this is a prophecy of the cross, that when Jeremiah was speaking of his experience , There was a sense in which his words would find ultimate fulfillment in the Lord Jesus Christ. And I believe this to be the case for three reasons. First of all, most people who passed by the cross didn't really understand what was going on. And so it matches with the expression here, is it nothing to you all that passed by? And the Bible records that most people mocked Jesus as they went by the cross. We also believe that Christ's sorrow was the greatest that any human being could possibly experience. And so that fits this expression, if there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow. And thirdly, Jesus experienced the fury of God's wrath unlike anyone else At the end of verse 12 it says, Wherewith the Lord hath afflicted me in the day of his fierce anger. So it's very likely that we have at least two prophecies from the Old Testament that remind us that Jesus would face great sorrow in his life. I want us now to consider the factors that brought sorrow into Jesus' life before he ever went to the cross. There's first of all the defilement of the world. We must never forget that Jesus was the Holy One. He never felt the degradation of humanity until he came in flesh on earth. The fallen world was, in some respects like a foreign or alien environment to him. The culture shock of the world's depravity must have weighed heavily on his pure soul. Wherever the Lord turned, he saw wickedness in the world, in the religious leaders, in the crowds. and even in his disciples. Spurgeon compares our Lord's experience to an innocent young man from a sheltered background being cast into a vile prison surrounded by hardened criminals. He says the lifelong criminal The prison was home. Nothing was disturbing to him. It was life as he knew it. But to the young man, everything was strange, shocking, and would lead him to despair. And so it was in some sense when our Savior came to earth. Another factor that brought about his sorrow was the rejection of the world. I've already quoted to you John 1. 11. He came unto his own and his own received him not At the conclusion of John's Gospel, as it concludes really the life of Christ, he does with this statement, but though he had done so many miracles before them, yet they believed not on him. Some said that he was a resurrected Jeremiah, the weeping prophet. And it was Jeremiah's message, of course, who was that was also rejected. And in the Gospel of Luke, we have a record. It's also actually found in Matthew as well. I'll read Luke's account But in Luke chapter 13, verses 34 and 35, we read these words from our Lord, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem. which killest the prophets and stonest them that are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together, as the hen doth gather her brood under her wings, and ye would not Behold, your house is left unto you desolate, and verily I say unto you, ye shall not see me until the time come when ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. Jesus wept not so much because he was rejected, but because he knew what their rejection would bring, and that is everlasting destruction. I think another reason that Jesus was a man of sorrows is because of his sympathy with suffering humanity. In John chapter 11, we read the verse that every Sunday school child knows and claims as the shortest verse in the Bible when it says That Jesus wept. And in this passage, let me read this for you here It says, and then when Mary was come where Jesus was and saw him, she fell down at his feet, saying unto him, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died. When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews also weeping, which came with her, he groaned in the spirit and was troubled, and he said, Where have ye laid him? And they said unto him, Lord, come and see. And then we read, Jesus wept, then said the Jews, Behold, how he loved him. Why did Jesus weep on this occasion? There are there is some disagreement about this. There's a lot of speculation. Some obviously he wasn't weeping primarily over the death of Lazarus because he knew that in a few moments Or a few days he would raise him from the dead. And so he wasn't weeping that Lazarus really was dead. Some scholars have suggested that he was weeping because of the unbelief that was evident even in those who knew him the best. And that is very popular. And that is a view that I have espoused many times. But perhaps he was weeping because, as G. Campbell Morgan puts it, his friends and his loved ones were weeping. And Jesus was the most sympathetic man who ever lived. Many believers who have mourned have found great comfort, and knowing that their Savior is a man of sorrows and acquainted with griefs. There's a great old forgotten hymn that was written in the 1700s by a man named Michael Bruce entitled Where the Heavenly Temple Stands. And it has these two verses in that hymn. It says, our fellow sufferer yet retains A fellow feeling of our pains, And still remembers in the skies His tears, his agonies, and cries, And every pang that rends the heart, the man of sorrows had a part. He sympathizes with our grief and to the sufferer sends relief. Another reason that he was a man of sorrow was The failure of his disciples. They were so slow to learn. The night before his crucifixion, they failed him in numerous ways. They argued about who was the greatest. They failed to wash one another's feet. They failed to watch and pray with their Lord in his hour of need. One would betray him and another would deny him, and they'd all be scattered into the nights. This was heavy on our Lord's heart just before the hours of his crucifixion. We read in John chapter 13 and verse 21. It says, and when Jesus had thus said, he was troubled in spirit and testified and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me. And later at the end of that chapter in verse 36 it says, Simon Peter said unto him, Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus answered him, Whether I go, thou canst not follow me now, but thou shalt follow me afterwards. Peter said unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? I will lay down my life. For thy sake? And Jesus answered him, Wilt thou lay down thy life for my sake? Verily, verily I say unto thee, the cock shall not crow till thou hast denied me thrice. But the scriptures are clear that the greatest cause of our Lord's sorrow was the cross. He spoke of it in the Gospel of John as his hour. He spoke of it as a baptism that would overwhelm him, as the cup that he must drink. And it was on the old rugged cross that Jesus would drink the cup of God's wrath and cry out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? I would like us now to consider the extent of Christ's sorrows, the description of these that is found in the Garden of Gethsemane. There are seven different descriptions that we find of our Lord's suffering in the garden. It's very much a sense in which our Lord, it seems, endured greater turmoil of soul there the night before than he did on the cross itself. We first of all read in Mark's Gospel chapter 14 verses 32 and 33, it says, and he began to be sore amazed. Notice the word began. Christ in the upper room was a picture of composure. Remember, it was the disciples that were troubled, and so Jesus said, let not your heart be troubled. But now the enormity of what is about to happen comes crushing down on the Lord's consciousness in a completely new way. The Greek words that are rendered sore amazed express something that is a shocking surprise You might say, well, didn't Jesus know this would happen? Didn't he know the cross was coming? Yes, he did. The scriptures are clear about this. But can I say this reverently? He didn't know exactly how this would feel, how this experience would shock his system , the reality of it. The words denote horror and extreme anxiety. And then secondly, we read, and very heavy. These words describe a person who is confused, shocked. and stunned. It reflects restlessness and turmoil of soul. In Luke chapter 22 and verse 44 we read the third expression, and that is that he would be in an agony. And this is a transliteration of the Greek word agona It was a word first used in athletic competitions because there was a great expenditure of energy in athletic competitions as these men would compete. And so we see that this was, there was a great expenditure of energy on this sorrowful night. A mighty contest was taking place. The fourth expression that we read in Luke 22, 44 is that he sweat, as it were, great drops. of blood. This describes the enormous strain that he was under. Remember this very night? They would light a fire because the scripture says it was a cold night. And yet the Lord was perspiring in this way because it reflects the great turmoil that was going on inside of him. Because the day of the cross has come. And then there is an expression that we find outside of the Gospels in Hebrews chapter 5 and verse 7. It says that he with strong crying and tears prayed to God. This reveals the intensity of his sorrow that night. He was crying out like a desperate child to his father. The sixth expression is found in Matthew 26, verses 36 and 37. It says that he was sorrowful. He had never felt darkness of depression like this before. All the sorrows that he'd ever felt combined were nothing like the dark weight that fell on him this hour. And then finally, the seventh and final expression that we find in Matthew chapter 26 and verse 38 is that he said, My soul is exceeding sorrowful even unto death. It is as if the Lord could not keep these thoughts bottled up inside. And so he tells the inner circle of disciples. And let me remind you that he is not like a little child who is exaggerating or being dramatic. Our Lord always spoke the truth. His sorrow, his turmoil was so great that if the Lord had not sent an angel to strengthen him, he could have died that night. This is why Bible scholars are not being extreme when they say that he experienced the greatest human sorrow and suffering that any human being has ever faced. There truly was no sorrow like unto his sorrow. And certainly this makes him more beautiful to us. There is, I think, no incident in the life of our Lord that reflects his full humanity like this. The turmoil that he faced that night in his spirit, the pressure that was upon him, the sorrow that he reflected in his words remind us. That he did not just come looking like a human being, but that he did truly become one of us. And he experienced this profound sorrow. Fourth, I want us to consider the reasons for his sorrow. What was it that made him so sorrowful this night? Let me first of all dismiss any notion that it was his impending death. If the sorrow was just his response to the fact that he would die the next day, then he had less fortitude than many lost people who have held their composure even to the point of death. I think there are several explanations for this. One is that he was anticipating bearing the guilt. of sinners. He knew that this day would come. He had been speaking of it throughout his ministry. But he had no knowledge or no experience of what it is to bear the feeling of guilt. Now all of us know this very well. From a time we were little children and disobeyed our parents, we know the pain of guilt The pain of disappointing someone that we respect and love, of violating our own conscience, we're very well aware with that experience because it happens to us all the time. But Jesus never felt any guilt through all the ages past. But now he was about to bear the guilt of mankind. He would become sin for us. He would drink the cup that was full of the wrath of God. He says in John chapter 8 and verse 29, I always do those things that please my Father. He did not know what it was to experience the sense of the wrath of God, but now he was about to experience that in a very powerful way. But I think also the reason for his sorrow that we see in the Garden of Gethsemane was because he knew that he would be abandoned by his father in the darkness of Calvary. I don't think we can fully understand this. He had never been separated from his father. For all eternity, he had had perfect communion with his heavenly father. He never disappointed his father, he never disobeyed him, he never displeased him. But now the father would turn away his face from his beloved son and pour out his wrath upon him. This is what he was about to experience. And let me remind you that when Jesus said, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? He was not just expressing a feeling. He was expressing a reality. There are some liberal scholars. I was reading one this week. Who was saying, you know, when he said that, he wasn't really expressing the truth because it only felt like his father had abandoned him. But his father was there all the time, right next to him, comforting him and encouraging him and strengthening him, just like he is with us. But that is not true. If the words of Scripture mean anything, he was indeed abandoned in the darkness of Calvary. Because he was at that time bearing God's wrath on our behalf. Why did he endure such suffering and sorrow? Every true Christian knows the answer to that question. It was so that we might be saved. He became the man of sorrows that we might be the children of joy. This is what the scriptures reflect. The Lord, I think, makes reference to this and to his resurrection and John chapter 16 in the upper room. He gives his disciples a preview of what is about to happen. He says, verily, verily, I say unto you that ye shall weep and lament. But the world shall rejoice, and ye shall be sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy. And then he uses this analogy: a woman, when she is in travail, hath sorrow, because her hour is come. But as soon as she is delivered of the child, she remembereth no more the anguish for joy than a man is born into the world. And ye now therefore have sorrow, but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no man taketh from you. And the only reason that Jesus could give them that encouraging promise is because he would become the man of sorrows and would bear their sin on the cross. Man of sorrows, what a name for the Son of God who came, ruined sinners to reclaim. Hallelujah, what a Savior. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for what you have provided in the Lord Jesus Christ. I pray that we would never forget His great sacrifice, what he endured for us at the cross, the sorrow and grief that he would bear. Of bearing our sin and being abandoned by his Father that we might be the children of joy. I pray That we would reflect on this wonderful truth tonight and in the days ahead. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.