Everyone's heard of Napoleon on November the second. In 1804, he was crowned the Emperor of France in the historic Cathedral of Notre-Dame. Napoleon had Pope Pius VII brought to Paris for this special event. When the Pope entered the city, Napoleon did not kneel before the Pope in the traditional sign of submission to the church. When the day of coronation came, the cathedral was decorated in impressive fashion Majestic organ music filled the ancient church, and Napoleon arrived dressed like Charlemagne. The moment came for Napoleon to kneel before the Pope and to have the crown placed on his head. This was, of course, to signify that his right to rule came from God. But at the last minute before a stunned audience, Napoleon took the crown from the Pope and placed it on his own head. The proud general would yield to no one. The kings of the world. are usually arrogant and greedy and corrupt. They use their position to better themselves, to advance their favorites, and not to serve the people as they often claim. But Jesus was a different kind of king. He said that he came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many. Today, of course, is traditionally known as Palm Sunday, the Sunday that we celebrate the triumphal entry of Christ into Jerusalem that week before Easter Sunday This is one of the few incidents that's recorded in all of the Gospels. Both Matthew and John record that the Lord's entry into Jerusalem that day was the fulfillment of an obscure Old Testament prophecy. And I want to read the account in Matthew, Matthew 21 to begin with. And when they drew nigh unto Jerusalem and were come to Bethpage, unto the Mount of Olives, they sent Jesus Then sent Jesus to disciples, saying unto them, Go into the village over against you, and straightway ye shall find an ass tied in a colt with her, loose them and bring them unto me. And if any man say aught unto you, ye shall say, The Lord hath need of them. And straightway he will send them, All this was done, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet, saying, Tell the daughter of Zion, Behold, thy king cometh unto thee, meek and sitting upon an ass, and the colt. the foe of an ass. Now I want us, if you would please, to look at the source of this quotation Now the book of Zechariah is easily found if you just back up two verses from where we are in Matthew. Alright? So go to your left a little bit. You'll go to through Malachi, and then you will come. uh hopefully to the book of Zechariah. Zechariah chapter 9 and verse 9. As we're turning there, I want to give you A little bit of background about this prophecy. The prophet Zechariah was writing to the people of Judah. Who had recently returned from Babylon. You may recall they were in captivity there for some 70 years. And they had been back in the land now for about 20 years when this prophecy was written. And although they are back in the land of promise, things were far from perfect. The temple was still in ruins. They were weak and disorganized and under the control of the Persian Empire. And the Persian king had recently placed a high rate of taxation upon the people as he was preparing for a major offensive against Egypt, the other great world power of the time. The Jewish people were marginalized and their nation was regularly invaded by pagan kings who looked upon them as with contempt. as just a small and weak people on a piece of land that nations would pass through as they went to conquer other world powers. It was a day, as it says in chapter 4 of this book, of small things. And people, in large part, had lost their faith in the promises of the prophets. The prediction of a coming king, the Messiah, seemed like nothing but wishful thinking. And it's significant the name Zechariah means God remembers. His very name was a protest to the common sentiment that God had forgotten them. Zechariah is known as the prophet of hope. Because his ministry was all about giving hope to people who felt hopeless. In chapter 9 , is a chapter that speaks primarily of coming judgment upon the pagan nations that surrounded them. You'll notice in the first verse it speaks here of the land of Hadrach and of Damascus. That was, of course, the empire of Syria And he speaks of coming judgment upon them. He speaks of Tyre and Sidon a little bit later. He speaks of Ashkelon and Gaza, which were the Philistines. And so he goes down and he mentions that God's judgment is going to come on these people who have despised his chosen people. But then in verse 9, we have a great announcement of good news. Look with me at this verse. Rejoice greatly. O daughter of Zion, shout, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, thy king cometh unto thee. He is just, and having salvation lowly, and riding upon an ass and upon a colt. The full Vaness. The coming king here is set in contrast to the pagan monarchs who were then oppressing them Let me mention four things that is mentioned by way of contrast. These foreign kings brought fear to the people, but this coming king would inspire joy. Notice it begins, rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem. All the powerful kings at that time were foreign. But this coming king is described as your king, that is, a Jewish king. Kings in the ancient world were notorious for being corrupt and cruel and ruling by means of a bribe. But this king is described as righteous or just, and the kings of the nations were uniformly pompous and proud. But this coming king would not come riding on an impressive stallion. but on a lowly donkey. This is truly a prophecy of a different kind of king A king that came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. Jesus is a king who provides all that his people need. And I want us to spend the rest of our time examining this brief verse that has this powerful prophecy that was at least partially fulfilled on the triumphal entry of Christ Notice with me, first of all, that Jesus is the king who brings joy to his people. This prophecy of a coming king begins with a royal proclamation. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem. These two lines of poetry are like the fanfare of trumpets announcing the entrance of a king. This is a great example of what scholars call synonymous parallelism, which means two lines of poetry that say essentially the same thing, only in different words. And has done, of course, to emphasize this truth, to highlight it and underline it so you don't miss the points The prophet issues a stirring imperative. Rejoice greatly. The people of Judah were to rejoice that God was going to send his Messiah. And they are to shout with triumph. The people of Judah are commanded to rejoice because the king is coming. And this king would bring joy to his people in ways that they could not imagine. We see the fulfillment of this prophecy. Of course, on what we call Palm Sunday in Matthew chapter 21, let me read verses 8 and 9. And a very great multitude spread their garments in the way, others cut down branches. from the trees and straw them in the way. And the multitude that went before and that followed cried, saying, Hosanna to the son of David, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. We read that they spread their coats and these branches in the way. This was an ancient custom We read of men spreading their garments at the coronation of Jehu in 2 Kings chapter 9. We might say that we're giving him the red carpet treatment. It was symbolic of their submission and their loyalty to the king. In John, we read that they were carrying palm branches, which is of course why we call this Palm Sunday. And the palm was symbolic of victory and triumph. And indeed that was what they were sim what they were um communicating. The vista of the national capital combined with the perspective of the approaching Messiah cause the people that day to break forth with shouts of Hosanna and songs of praise. If you were to examine all four Gospels, you would find that those who were really involved in this celebration were not so much the residents of Jerusalem, but they were the Galilean pilgrims who were there for the Passover celebration. I have heard many preachers say over the years that the triumphal entry illustrates the fickleness of people. That, you know, one day they were proclaiming him as king, and a few days later they were saying, crucify him! But that's probably not really the point that should be made because most of the people who were rejoicing when he came and were Galileans. And most of the people who were shouting, Crucify Him, were the residents of Judah who never did accept his ministry. Now we see the great multitude was crying out, Hosanna. Which is not a word we use every day, but it means save now. This worked-up crowd of pilgrims wanted this to be the day the Jewish Messiah would cast off the bonds of Rome. They were tired of being a vassal state. They were tired of being a pawn in the hands of the great world powers, and they longed for the day when the Messiah would restore glory and dignity and significance to their nation. And they thought that this might just be that day. And verse 9, they said, Blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord. This is a quotation from Psalm 118 in verse 26. This passage would have been fresh in their minds because we know that the Passover pilgrims on their way to Jerusalem would sing together Psalms 113 through 118. And so they probably were singing this very psalm earlier in the day. For this joyous occasion , I think it was not the sole fulfillment of that prophecy. Certainly it was, as it says here and in John, the fulfillment of this prophecy made 500 years before. But I think that in that ancient prophecy, there was also a reference to a much more lasting joy. And that is the joy that comes through the salvation that Jesus brings. Well, the night before our Lord's crucifixion in John chapter 15 and verse 11, the Lord said this. These things have I spoken unto you that you might, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full. He said a little later that night, your sorrow shall be turned into joy, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no man taketh from you. Did you know that God desires that his followers be people whose hearts are filled with joy? This is not, of course, to make people feel poorly who already are depressed and discouraged about situations in life. And the Bible does understand that in 1 Peter 1 we read that he says, though you may be in heaviness through manifold temptations, God doesn't expect you. to just rejoice uh in every moment of your life when you hear of tragic news and things of that nature. God made us to sorrow, God made us to cry, God made us to experience the full gamut of human emotions. But Christians should be people have joy in our hearts. Joy, of course, is a fruit of the Spirit. But the real ground or basis of our joy It 's mentioned in an occasion that's found in Luke chapter 10. You don't need to turn there. I'm not going to turn to it myself. I just want to remind you of it. The Lord sent out the 70 on a mission team. And they went out. They were kind of like putting what they'd learned into practice. And the disciples went out and others with them. And they went and they ministered and they came back and they were all excited and they said, Lord, even the demons are subject unto us. We even have authority over the powers of darkness. And Jesus said, don't rejoice in this. but rejoice that your names are written in heaven. The great basis, the great ground of our joy as believers Which grows over time as we mature in Christ and we yield to the Spirit of God. The basis of that is exactly what we were talking about last Lord's Day. And that is the joy that comes in knowing that our sins have been forgiven. It's a wonderful thing for the believer to say with confidence, blessed assurance, Jesus is mine. This was the opening hymn at our funeral service for Charlie on Friday. It's a hymn that he loved. And it's a wonderful thing to do a funeral for someone when you don't have a question or doubt in the back of your mind of what happened when they died. It's wonderful to be able to say, even as a believer, blessed assurance, Jesus is mine. What a basis for lasting joy. And it came with Christ. and his coming in the first advent and his death on the cross. Jesus is a king who brings joy to his people. And that brings me to our second point, and that is that Jesus is the King who brings salvation to his people. Zechariah chapter 9 and verse 9, he goes on to say, Thy king cometh unto thee. He is just and having salvation. This coming king would not be foreign like the great monarchs who were oppressing them at the time, but he would come from the Jewish people. And he would come to his own. Notice how his character is described. He's described as being just or righteous. Unlike most kings who were corrupt, this monarch would be a man of integrity. David would write at the end of his life, he that ruleth over men must be just, ruling in the fear of God. And the next thing we read about him is that he would come having salvation. Now when we use the term salvation , We almost always use it to refer simply to what we call eternal life or going to heaven. And we almost forget the very meaning of the word itself. The word salvation is simply a synonym for the word deliverance. It speaks of being rescued. People in the ancient world often looked to a king to deliver them from oppression. to deliver them from the power of other empires, to make their life better in a little different way. People still often look to politicians today. thinking that political leaders will provide deliverance from things like foreign oppression or poverty or disease or debts. And they are always to some degree disappointed. Because no one, no human being can provide what only God can provide for his people. But what kind of deliverance did Jesus bring? It says here that this coming king would come bringing salvation or deliverance for his people. What kind of deliverance did Jesus bring? I wonder how you would answer that question. Well, the Bible answers it very clearly in the infancy narratives in Matthew chapter 1. In verse 21, we see that this purpose of his life is found in the meaning of his name. Matthew 1. 21 says, Thou shalt bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. Did you know that Jesus came to save you from your sins? I think so often we think about salvation as just being saved from hell And indeed, he does save us from the wrath of God. But he saves us from our sin. This reminds us of his purpose in Luke chapter 10 and what we sometimes call the traditional Christmas story that is often read. to commemorate the birth of Christ. We find his identification clearly spelled out here in Luke chapter 2. And verse 10, this announcement from the angels to the shepherds. And the angels said unto them, Fear not, for behold I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people, for unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior. Which is Christ the Lord, a deliverer, one who will rescue his people. In John chapter 4 , We read that Jesus is described as the Savior of the world. We read in Luke chapter 4 of Jesus going into the synagogue in his hometown of Nazareth And taking the scroll and turning to the prophecy of Isaiah the prophet and reading this, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me. Because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and the recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised. And twice in that prophecy there is reference to deliverance for his people. You see, the greatest problem that people face is not radical Islam. It's not even Ebola. It's not some mounting death they have in their life or even a diagnosis of cancer. The greatest problem that we have, the thing that enslaves us and separates us from God is our sin. Sin is a big problem. Sin is the transgression of God's law. Sin is our acts of defiance and rebellion against our Creator and our Redeemer. And therefore, it is a very serious matter until we recognize the enormity of that problem We will never see the greatness of our Savior and of the salvation that he brings. There is a connection. between the description of Jesus as being righteous or just and his work of salvation. We see this several times in Scripture. I want to just read quickly for you a passage from 1 Peter 2 in verse 21. It says, For hereunto were you're called because Christ also suffered. for us, leaving us an example that ye should follow his steps, who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth, who when he was reviled, reviled not again when he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him who judges righteously, who his own sin bare our sin in his own body on the tree that we being dead to sin should live unto righteousness by whose stripes ye were healed. Because Jesus is the righteous one, the Son of God, he is able to be the sinless, perfect sacrifice for our sin. We needed a perfect substitute that was pictured by the spotless lambs that were used in the Old Testament sacrifices. We needed a sinless human being to die in our place, and Jesus Christ. is the only Savior that God has provided. He is our substitute, our redeemer. And because Jesus is righteous, God the Father can credit Jesus righteousness to us and declare us to be not guilty, but righteous. and still retain his integrity as the just judge of all mankind. This is the great doctrine of justification, which is the very heart of the gospel. This is the beautiful logic of the gospel. It is the only way that we as sinful fallen human beings who are incapable of living a perfect life can yet be received and forgiven and accepted fully By the Holy God who rules over heaven and earth. This wonderful deliverance is available to all who believe, who come to trust in Christ alone. I wonder if you have put your trust in Christ. We've sang many songs this morning. About Christ. We've sang, we've heard songs sung about his forgiveness, about sinners coming to him. Have you come to Christ? Have you come to trust in him? Are you resting in what he has done? Are you relying on him alone for your salvation? Do you see him as your redeemer, as your deliverer, the only one who can rescue you from your sin? I want you to thirdly see with me, as we turn back to Zechariah 9. 9, that Jesus is a king who brings peace To his people. The last part of this verse, this prophecy, speaks, of course, of the animal that he would ride upon. We would call it a donkey or a mule. The word can refer to either one. And it's interesting to me that the scriptures put a great deal of emphasis on this animal. If you were to go and you were to line up the four gospels and look at the passages that speak of the triumphal entry, you would see that a large percentage of the verses deal with the animal. And two of the evangelists reference this verse in Zechariah 9. 9. So we have a prophecy, and then we have two Bible writers. speak of the fulfillment of that and all of this record of how they procured that animal. A great emphasis on the fact that he wrote on this particular kind of animal. What was that significance? It was an indication that Jesus was coming in peace. When a king would ride in on a white stallion, on a war horse, it was symbolic and suggestive of the fact that he was going to war, he was going to conquer and to kill. But when a king was riding on a mule or on a donkey, it was symbolic of the fact that he was at peace, that he came in peace. And so when Jesus rode into Jerusalem that day, he was not coming to fight. He was coming to die. Now the peace that the Passover pilgrims were anticipating from Christ was a different kind of peace. It was a peace that I believe would not come at the first coming, but at the second advent of Christ. In fact, if you look later in this prophecy in verse 10, it says, and I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim and the horse from Jerusalem, and the battle bow shall be cut off, and he shall speak peace. unto the heathen, and his dominion shall be from sea to sea, and from the river even to the ends of the earth. I believe this is a reference to the second coming of Christ and the millennial reign that would follow. But the peace that Jesus brought that day into Jerusalem, the peace that came with the first Advent I believe was the peace of salvation. You recall what the angels said at the birth of Christ, peace on earth. Goodwill toward men. Often we think of this at Christmas time as kind of a sentimental suggestion that there should be world peace and the nations should stop fighting and so forth. That is not what was meant. It was speaking of man being at peace with God, the peace that would come through the death of Christ. Now the Hebrew concept of peace means much more than just the absence of hostilities. You all know the Hebrew word for peace. Did you know that? You know it's the word shalom. And it's a word that speaks of well-being and every facet of a person's life Whether it was their health, their emotions, their finances, their family, everything, may there be well-being in your life is the idea of that term. Now the Bible speaks of two kinds of peace. It speaks of objective peace and subjective peace. One is factual. The other has to do with how you feel. We have peace with God, and you have the peace of God. And the scriptures relate that there should be a connection between those two. We as Christian people should be a people who are at peace in our hearts because we have experienced the peace we have peace with God. Because we know that we are right with God. Let me first of all speak briefly of objective peace in Romans chapter 5 and verse 1. It says, being justified by faith, we have peace with God. The Bible teaches clearly that every unsaved person is at war with God. They may not be aware of it. They may not acknowledge it, but it is true. This anger and hostility is often revealed when someone speaks to them about God's law or his judgment of sinners. And there will well up within that person this anger towards those kind of people who are judgmental and who speak of a God of wrath, who speak of hell. And their vitriol comes out, but really that vitriol is not directed so much to the people as it is to God People recoil and become angry at the idea of a sovereign God who has dominion over everything and who judges them for their sinful actions. The fact is, the only reason that people don't think they're at war with God is because they have created in their own minds a God who is like a weak old man who lets them do as they please. And in their mind, that's who God is, but that is not the God that truly exists or the God who is revealed in Scripture. The Bible reveals a God who is holy and almighty, a God who is both love and a consuming fire. And it's only through Christ and his death on the cross that we as sinful people can be reconciled or can be at peace. with a holy God. Let me ask you this morning, are you at peace with God? Do you know that his just wrath toward you has been appeased or absorbed at the cross? Can you claim a Savior who has died in your place? Are you at peace with God? The only way that you can ever be at peace with God is when you bow your hearts and your will to the Prince of Peace, and you recognize that God has provided one Savior. That king that rode in meekly to Jerusalem a few days later would die on an old rugged cross. And when he died, he died for sinners. He paid the just debt that we have earned through our sin and our alienation from God. And the only way that we can be saved is by believing that to be so, accepting it, and relying upon Christ. That is the only way that we can be at peace with God. It's the only way that we can have that joy. that I spoke of earlier. It's the only way we can have that peace. It's the only way that we can claim salvation and the righteousness of Christ. We're going to sing a hymn in just a moment, written by Charles Wesley. And he wrote In this one verse, I now am reconciled. His pardoning voice I hear. He owns me for his child. I can no longer fear. With confidence I now draw nigh. With confidence I now draw nigh and Abba Abba Father cry. Do you have that confidence? Can you draw nigh to God? Can the prospect of going to heaven, is that a joyful prospect for you? Do you do that, face that with confidence? Do you long to be with God? Do you have that blessed assurance? If not, I would encourage you to seek the Lord today. I would be delighted to talk to you. I know we have a busy day, but we would be happy to carve out time to speak to you about your soul, to speak to you about your relationship with God. This is the only way to live. This is the only way to have that joy and that peace and that love that God provides for his people. is by acknowledging him as your King and your Savior and relying on him alone. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you that we serve a triumphant Savior. We thank you that He is our prophet, priest, and King. We thank you that He is our only hope of redemption. I pray that you would help us to rejoice today. And this wonderful truth. And Father, for those who are here, who do not know this joy, who do not know this peace, who do not know and acknowledge Christ as their Savior, I pray that today They would come to trust in him. And they would know that peace that passeth all understanding. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.