Perhaps all of us here have never truly been thirsty, the kind of thirst that kills a person We live in a culture in a society that has access to clean drinking water. It's readily available in all of our buildings. And uh in my lifetime things have changed in that uh This is going to date me and may astound our teenagers, but when I was a young man, there was no such thing as a water bottle. Did you know that? You you went to a water fountain if you wanted to get a drink. You wouldn't carry around water bottles. There wasn't such a thing as a water bottle, but of course they're everywhere now And uh we have uh understood the importance of hydration, and that's a wonderful thing. People in the ancient world placed a great value on water Because in many portions of the world it was rare and hard to find, and many, many people perished of thirst, especially in arid places in the world like the Middle East. Perhaps the worst of our Lord's physical suffering was his thirst. Of all the things that he said from the cross, the only complaint, if you can call it that, it was more of a declaration than a complaint, was I thirst. And the fact is that many physicians and others and those who have experienced profound thirst have said that Being truly thirsty is about the worst agony that a human being can endure Tonight I want us to look at part of our Lord's suffering. And I want to look specifically at the cup that our Lord refused. There are four references to cups in the Passion narrative of our Lord. There was, first of all, the actual cup at the Last Supper. Which we will commemorate tonight. In Matthew 26, 27 it says, And he took the cup and gave thanks and gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it. That was part of the commemoration at the Last Supper Several verses later he says, I will not drink henceforth of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you in the Father's kingdom. And then we read of a metaphorical cop a short time later when he's with his disciples in the Garden of Gethsemane. He prays three times, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me, nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. The cup was symbolic of the wrath of God that Christ took for us at the cross. He says in John 18, 11, the cup which my father hath given me, shall I not drink of it? The third cup that's mentioned, or drink we might say, is the drink that he refused, and I want to focus on that tonight. But there's a fourth one that's mentioned in Matthew 27 , 48, moments before his death. After he had said, I thirst, we read, and straightway one of them ran and took a sponge and filled it with vinegar and put it on a reed and gave him to drink. And if you were to compare this with John's account, you would find that he that this occurred right after he said, I thirst, and he moistened his lips with this vinegar or sour wine, and then uttered his two final statements from the cross, one after another. It is finished And Father, into my hand thy hands I commend my spirit. And then it says, he gave up the ghost. So he took that brief sip not to Take care of his suffering, as it were, but so that he could enunciate and say these final words from the cross. But the the drink, the cup that I want to speak to tonight is mentioned in Matthew 27 verse 34. It says, They gave him vinegar to drink mingled with gall, and when he had tasted thereof, he would not drink. And then Mark has an account of this as well in Mark chapter 15 and verse 23. It says, and they gave him to drink wine mingled with myrrh, but he received it. Now neither one of these texts identify the individuals that gave him this drink. Many scholars feel this was probably something that the Roman soldiers did. They were there in charge of his crucifixion. At the very least they had a say in what anybody would do to him or offer him. And it seems clear That this drink that was a vinegar or sour wine mixed with myrrh or gall, we'll talk about that in a second. was part of the mocking or derision that Jesus faced at the cross. If you would look with me at Luke chapter 23 And verse thirty-six It says, and the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him. And offering him vinegar. And although it does not say it, I would think that this is the same drink that was mixed with the narcotic. This was part of their mocking and the in in Mark's account the tense that is used, and it seems to be alluded to in verse 36 of Luke 23 as well, is that throughout his crucifixion, at the very beginning When they came to Golgotha, and then throughout his crucifixion, they kept saying, Hey, you want some of this? It was repeatedly offered to him. And I would take it and assume it to be the case that he continually said no. Now let me talk a moment about what may seem to be confusing to you. In one passage in Matthew, it says it was mixed with gall, and the other was mixed with myrrh. Well, the gall describes the taste of it. It was bitter to the taste. And the myrrh describes its content. It was a painkiller. It was a narcotic. That might raise the question of why would the soldiers do this as a matter of their mocking? And the only thing that I can suggest that I can deduce from this is that They thought it would be humorous to see this man who claimed to be the king of the Jews, which they thought was rather amusing considering he's nailed to a cross. They thought it would be amusing to see this man after taking repeated drinks of this, in his desperation to quench his thirst, become intoxicated. And of course, this is prophesied. I want you to turn back with me to Psalm sixty-nine. Psalm sixty nine, verses twenty and twenty one It says, Reproach hath broken my heart, and I am full of heaviness, and I looked for some to take pity, but there was none, and for comforters, but I found none. They gave me also gall for my meat, and in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink. And we see how accurate these prophecies were fulfilled because both of those things were in one beverage offered to him. Now what was the impetus of this all? Well, this fits with what we find in the tradition written in the early centuries in the Talmud There's a writing that says, when one is led out to execution, he is given a goblet of wine containing a grain of frankincense. In order to benumb his senses, as it is written, give strong drink unto him that is ready to perish, and wine unto the bitter in soul. And we have some writings that say that there was a growth a group of wealthy women in Jerusalem That decided that these criminals should not die in such agony. And so they made certain that there was always provided this drink Which was mixed with narcotics so that those who were about to die could drink right before they were crucified. And this would maybe take the edge off and not make it so painful And it seems that the soldiers were happy to comply. So the women provided this beverage and the soldiers would offer it. I think to the Lord, but they saw it as an occasion to mock him and deride him and entice him to intoxication. And tonight before we celebrate the Lord's table, I want us to consider the significance of the cup refused. I think first of all we see the cup refused reveals that Jesus was in control of his death. Throughout the Passion narrative, it's very clear that Jesus was not a victim. He was not caught up in a web of treachery and unable to extract himself. And all the mocking that he endured And all of the scoffing, and all of the taunts that were hurled his way, he was in control. And in many cases, they were speaking the truth, though they knew it not. Even his death, Jesus was reigning from the cross. He says in John chapter 10, verses 17 and 18 I lay down my life that I might take it again. No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. Those are the key verses in the New Testament on the voluntary aspect of our Lord's death. He did not go to the cross unwillingly. He did not go in defiance of his father. He willingly laid down his life. This is why the scriptures say that when he died, he simply dismissed his spirit. He died precisely the moment and in the way that he wanted to die. But if he had been drugged with some narcotic, he would not be in full control of all these events surrounding his death. He would at least to some degree be controlled by a substance. And undoubtedly this would affect his cognitive abilities and perhaps his speech Perhaps his words would become a source of amusement rather than of amazement. But Jesus refused this cup because he was fully in control. And because he rejected this narcotic, he was able to give to his people these wonderful words that have probably been preached on more than any other text. Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Today thou shalt be with me in paradise. Woman, behold thy son, and behold thy mother. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? I thirst. It is finished. And Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. Because Christ refused that cup, he was able to leave with us these dying words of love. Great creature of the past said, never was Jesus more master of himself, never was his consciousness more clear, or his faculties more keen. Then when Jesus hung upon his cross as a monarch and sat upon his throne, gentle, gracious, and majestic. The cup refused reveals that Jesus was in control of his death. It also reveals that Jesus was a faithful high priest. As I'm sure you know, the Bible reveals that Jesus is the ultimate prophet, priest, and king. And at the cross, there's a sense in which all of these are brought out, but perhaps the most prominent is that he is indeed our great high priest. Now did you know that in Old Testament Israel, not just anyone could be a high priest? There wasn't an application that you could go and fill out. And become a high priest. There were very specific qualifications. First of all, you had to be a man. According to Exodus 28, 1, you had to be a descendant of Aaron, that is, of the tribe of Levi, and you could only serve between the ages of 30 and 50. They had a mandatory retirement. And you could not have any obvious physical defects That may sound unfair to you, but I'll explain why that was in a moment. It is not because God is against the disabled in any respect. as some unbelievers have sought to find in the scripture. Depending on how you interpret a certain Hebrew word, it seems that you couldn't be blind either and serve as a high priest. You can check that out for yourself if you would like. You had to have a proper marriage. You had to have a marriage that was without any scandal involved in it. that you would know any that no one could call into question your morality. And you couldn't have any kind of disease like leprosy or any kind of a skin affliction. And by the way, you had to wear a beard. I guess I wouldn't be able to be a high priest, at least not in my present state, and well-trimmed hair. And of course you had to be able and willing to wear the priestly garb. Why such requirements? Perhaps it seems discriminatory because some of those things you're not in control of. The answer is because the priest were to reflect the ultimate high priest, and they were to reflect the holiness of God. Turn with me, if you would, to Leviticus chapter 10. There was also this qualification. Leviticus chapter 10, I want to begin reading at verse 8 And the Lord spake unto Aaron, saying, Do not drink wine nor strong drink, thou nor thy sons with thee when ye go into the tabernacle of the congregation, lest ye die. It shall be a statute forever throughout your generations. Now that may seem a little harsh to you. It was something worthy of death. Why is that? Look at verse 10. And that ye may put difference between holy and unholy, and between unclean and clean. The high priest was to model what was right and what was wrong The tabernacle was the place where they did holy tasks, which pictured the coming atonement of Jesus Christ. It doesn't take a lot of imagination to figure out what's going on here. What would people think if they came into the tabernacle? And to the place where the presence of God was there, and they saw a drunken priest What would they think? What kind of thoughts would they have of God and His holiness? It would seem like a joke to them. I do not wish to single out any group of denomination, but the fact is I've been told by more than one lost person when I've been out talking to them of Times that they have gone to Mass and have seen that their priest was tipsy and was drunk. And I've had more than one person say that they realized there was nothing to that and they stopped going to church ages ago because it was all a bunch of nonsense. That's exactly why the Lord said the high priest could not drink when he went into the tabernacle. And so I would suggest to you that Jesus as the ultimate high priest , is fulfilling this because he died Unimpaired, he died with his mind clear, with his speech accurate In the book of Hebrews, we read a lot about our Lord's priestly work. It says in Hebrews 7. 26 that he was holy, harmless, undefiled, separated from sinners, made higher than the heavens. Hebrews 2. 17 describes Christ as a merciful and faithful high priest to make reconciliation for the sins of the people. Jesus was a faithful high priest when he died on the cross and refused that cup. Thirdly, the cup refused reveals that Jesus can sympathize with suffering believers. In Mark's account, and it's implied in Luke's as well, the offering of the drink is an attempt that indicates that this was done repeatedly. Remember, he was on the cross for a total of some six hours. We don't know how many times they offered him that drink. There he is out in some of the hottest part of the day, absorbing the sun with no shade. He's already been dehydrated with the whipping that he has taken. He probably has not been given anything to drink. Why would they cater to a prisoner? He is experiencing excruciating thirst and pain. And at any time he could take a drink that would relieve some of his suffering, that would numb his senses. But he would not. I believe he kept saying no. Jesus is showing that he was a man who fulfilled what he said. He said, if any man come to me and hate not his own light, he cannot be my disciples. taught the principle of self-denial. And he also said, I always do those things that please my Father. What a beautiful example he has set for us. I invite you to turn with me, if you would like, to Hebrews chapter 4 We read here This wonderful passage that he is a sympathetic high priest. I'll begin reading at verse 14 Seeing then that we have a great high priest that has passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God. Let us hold fast our profession, for we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted, like as we are yet without sin Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace that we might obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of meat of need. I think this is alluding to the fact that often when when Israelites in the Old Testament would go to the high priest They may have assumed and thought as they brought their sacrifices, this man could have no idea of what I face, the temptations that I endure. The failures that have taken place in my life, because this is a holy man. He serves God every day. He doesn't understand where I live and the temptations that I face. But the writer of Hebrews tells us that we have a high priest, a great high priest, who can sympathize. That's the Greek word that's used here. Perhaps it's referring to the fact that many of the high priests came across as being very clinical, very untouched Going through the motions, kind of in a robotic way, but that's not the way our high priest is. He is touched with the feelings of our infirmities. He is sympathetic. And the implication is that because of the incarnation, he is able to sympathize with us. This is a wonderful thing. This is a wonderful truth that suffering believers need to latch hold of. Jesus can sympathize with us because he lived on this earth. He suffered intensely. He knows how it feels to be rejected by people. He came into his own and his own received him not. He knows what it feels like to be lied about and mistreated. He knows how it feels to be tired and hungry and thirsty. He knows how it feels to be betrayed by a close friend. He knows how it feels to be sorrowful. at the loss of a loved one, remember him weeping at Lazarus's grave. He knows how it feels to face death. In the near future, and what it means to face extreme pain and suffering. We, when we come to the Lord in prayer, we come to a faithful high priest who is sympathetic to our plights. It can give us grace to help in time of need. I think the point that the author of Hebrews has in mind specifically is the temptation to avoid suffering by sinful means. This passage was written to Jewish individuals who were tempted to go back to their old ways. Because following Christ was just too costly, too painful. And so we have frequent allusions in the book of Hebrews to the suffering. that Christ endured. And Hebrews chapter 2, verses 17 and 18, it says, Wherefore, in all things that behooved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest and things pertaining to God to make reconciliation for the sins of the people, for in that he he himself has suffered being tempted. He is able to succor them that are tempted. He is able to help them. He's sympathetic to us because he has suffered himself. In Hebrews chapter 5, verses 7 and 8, we read a revelation here, I think, reference to his time in the Garden of Gethsemane. But it's set here in such a powerful way. It says in Hebrews 5 7, who in the days of his flesh, when he had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears unto him that was able to save him from death, and was heard and that he feared, though he were a son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered. And then towards the close of the book in chapter 12 and verse 2, these familiar words, looking unto Jesus. The author and finisher of our faith who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God, for consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest ye be wearied and faint in your minds. Ye have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin. You see, suffering often brings temptation. We're tempted to become bitter at God. We're tempted to disobey God's word in order to get out from our suffering. We're tempted to question God's goodness. And the furnace of affliction, our faith is tested. And Hebrews 4 tells us it is then that we desperately need to come to the throne of grace. to find help in time of need. And we can come knowing that we have a sympathetic high priest Jesus took the full measure of his suffering when it was within his power to relieve some of that suffering. And so suffering seems throughout the ages have found solace in the fact that they worship a suffering Savior who is sympathetic to their pain, their temptation, their difficulties. And fourthly, the cup reveals the extent of Jesus' love for sinners. On the night before his crucifixion, Jesus said, greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. But Jesus didn't just lay down his life for us. He died a horrible death of unspeakable pain and humiliation. This is why Paul writes in Philippians chapter 2, he was obedient unto death, even the death of the cross, that kind of death He could have lessened that suffering by taking repeated drinks of this narcotic mixture But he did not because of his love for sinners. Listen to these provocative comments by some scholars of the past. C. H. Spurgeon said, I do not think That if our Savior had drunk this cup, the atonement would have been valid. He could not have suffered to the extent that was absolutely necessary. Another scholar named Klaus Schilder says the cup, the refusal of the cup of myrrh is just as important as the shedding of Jesus' blood. Just the night before, Jesus prayed in agony that he might not drink the cup of God's wrath toward sinners. But he followed up those three prayers with, Not my will, but thine be done. And the cup of wrath that Christ drank on Calvary precluded him from drinking this cup that was offered to him. He drank his father's cup to the bitter dregs. So that we might escape the taste of death. He died that we might live. What a wonderful Savior we have. Let's close in prayer. Father. We thank you that we serve such a wonderful Savior. We thank you that he suffered the full measure that we might be saved. He bore all of God's wrath. We thank you for this love, for his sympathy that he is able to extend to us as a fellow sufferer. We thank you, Father, that he was ultimately in control at his death. We thank you, Father, that he was willing to face that mocking and ridicule. That we might be counted righteous in him. I pray, Father, that we would never get over the cross, and that we would never cease to praise him and rejoice. And what we have in our redemption, for it's in Jesus' name we pray, amen