You have your Bibles, please, which you turn with me to the book of Leviticus. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus. When Christians determine to read straight through the Bible, the book that usually ends their plans is the book of Leviticus. The book of Leviticus is filled with detailed information that at times reads like a recipe book. There's virtually no poetry, history, or drama to entice the reader. It is also hard for our modern ears to hear all the blood and gore that you encounter. in this third book of the Bible. However, the book of Leviticus is filled with great pictures of Christ. and the gospel. The great Baptist preacher Alexander McLaren called it God's picture book for children in religious development. The third book of the Pentateuch is all about the holiness of God. This is where we first read in the Bible, be ye holy, for I am holy. The question raised in this book is how can the sinful human beings have fellowship with a holy God And the biblical answer is that an infinitely holy God can only be satisfied with an infinitely holy sacrifice. Therefore, it's not surprising that the book opens with the various sacrifices prescribed by the law. There were five basic sacrifices in the Old Testament. Every one had a different purpose and significance. In chapter 1, we read of the burnt offering. In chapter 2, what's called in the King James Version the meat offering, or better, the grain offering. In chapter 3, we have the peace offering. In chapter 4, the sin offering. In chapter 5 through chapter 6, we have the trespass offering or the guilt offering. Now the burnt offering is mentioned first because it was the most basic of the sacrifices. It was also thought to be the oldest and the most common sacrifice. In the Old Testament tabernacle there was a burnt offering at least once in the morning and once in the evening. As the flesh of one beast was finally consumed by the fire, a new sacrifice was then begun. on the altar. Exodus 29, 42 says that in this there was to be a continual burnt offering throughout your generations. The Hebrew term burnt is thought to come from a root Hebrew word meaning to ascend. The Greek translation for this term in the Septuagint is the origin of our English word holocaust. The idea of the word is of something being burnt into smoke. It is in this way that the burnt offering was different from the other sacrifices. No meat was given to the priest. There was no meal that followed. It was all burnt up to the Lord. The sacrifice was turned as much as possible into vapor or odor. There were five steps prescribed For the burnt offering. First of all, there was the presentation of the selected animal to the priest. And then the placing of the hands on the head of the animal, and then the slaughter of the animal. And then the sprinkling of the blood by the priest, and then finally the burning of the carcass. The key to understanding the significance of this offering is the repeated refrain that is found in this chapter. Look with me at Leviticus chapter 1. I have this marked in my Bible. You might might want to do the same. If you look at the last phrase in verse 9, it says A sweet savor unto the Lord. And then look at the last phrase in verse 13. A sweet savor unto the Lord. And then again the final verse, the last phrase, verse 17. a sweet savor unto the Lord. The idea was that the aroma of this roasting meat somehow satisfied a holy God Through this sacrifice, sinful worshipers found full acceptance with God as we prepare for the Lord's table this evening. I want us to meditate upon this Old Testament right and discern the requirements for full acceptance with God. I want to divide our message into two main points with multiple subpoints. The first one is this: the requirements for the burnt offering remind us that we are all sinners. The first thing we see here is that the sinner must come to God. This chapter is divided into three sections according to the three social classes of Israel. The wealthy or upper class Hebrews were to bring an offering of cattle according to verse 3. This would be a bull. The section concludes with the refrain that I read earlier in verse 9. Now look with me at verse 10. It says, and if his offering be of the flocks, namely of the sheep or of the goats, this is the Stipulation, the instruction given to what you might call middle class Jews. And that section ends at the end of verse 13. Well, what about the poor? Look at verse 14. And if the burnt sacrifice for the offering to the Lord be of fowls, then he shall bring us offering of turtle doves or of young pigeons. You see, no one was excluded. Due to their financial circumstance, all types of people, whether they be rich or poor, must come to God. This chapter reminds the reader again and again that the worshiper was coming, was not coming primarily before the priest or the tabernacle or the people. No, he was coming before God. Look with me. At the following verses. It says in verse 2, speak unto the children of Israel, say to them, If any man of you bring an offering unto the Lord, look at verse 3. It says again at the end of verse 3, before the Lord. We see this again in verse 5, in verse 9, in verse 11, in verse 13, and verse 14, and finally in verse 17. Moses wanted the reader to know that when you came, this was not primarily for the priest or for the people to see, this was for God. Because this was not a social occasion, but a solemn occasion. This may seem unnecessary to point out. But the fact is that many Israelites did not come with sacrifices before the Lord. They never came. Why? Well, there were different reasons I suspect that many of them thought that it was unnecessary, that they were all right because they were God's chosen people. They were not like the heathen idolaters that surrounded them. They were born as a blessed descendant of Abraham. They trusted in their religious heritage, just like millions do today. I don't need to come to God as a sinner because I was born into a Christian home. But no one is born a believer. No one gets saved automatically. No one accepted by God due to their pedigree. Or it could be that a person would not come because they thought I have not done anything really that bad I'm not an extravagant sinner. I think I'm better than most people, which by the way is true for about seventy percent of people. When people are asked, do you think that you're more moral than most people, seventy percent of people say, yes, I think I'm better than most people are. Of course, that cannot be statistically true, but it reveals the self-righteousness of a fallen heart. They must not only come, but they must come as a sinner. When you brought your sacrifice, you were acknowledging that you had sinned. And this was a public thing. It was embarrassing. Many would see you walking with your animal toward the tabernacle. Many more would see you at the tabernacle, perhaps when you arrived. It was not a private affair. It was an obvious admission that you had violated God's holy law. Today we must still confess our guilt to be accepted by God. We don't need to go to the tabernacle or come to a priest. But we still come as sinners before a holy God in order to enjoy that fellowship. The Bible says if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And then we see thirdly that you must come in faith. A tricky question that people sometimes ask is: how did people in the Old Testament get saved? The short answer I give, of course, is by faith. We look back at our Savior who died for us. They look forward through the instruction of symbols and types. to the one who would die for them. According to Romans 4 and Hebrews 11, salvation has always been by faith. Sometimes people will ask if the sacrifices save them. The answer is a little complex. No Old Testament Hebrew was saved apart from offering a sacrifice And I say that because a person with a genuine faith would demonstrate that faith by doing what God requires, and God required that they bring a sacrifice. But on the other hand, just going through the motions and bringing a sacrifice didn't automatically save a person either. Just offering a burnt offering without repentance and faith accomplished nothing. This is what David says in Psalm 51, his great psalm of repentance. He says, For thou desirest not sacrifice, else would I give it. Thou delightest not in burnt offerings, the sacrifices of God are broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. This is brought out very vividly in Isaiah chapter one. The prophet writes, To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices unto me, saith the Lord? I am full of burnt offerings of rams and of fat of fed beasts. And I delight not in the blood of bullocks, or of lambs, or of he-goats. When you come to appear before me, who hath required this at your hand to tread my course? Bring no more vain ablations, incenses, and abomination unto me. The new moon and the Sabbath, the calling of assemblies, I cannot away with it It is iniquity, even a solemn meeting. Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hateth. They are a trouble unto me. I am weary to bear them And when you spread forth your hands, I will hide my eyes from you. Yea, when you make many prayers I will not hear, your hands are full of blood And what this passage is revealing is not that God didn't want them to bring sacrifices. It's saying that God did not want to do them without the N-word heart attitude he's preaching here against formalism of performing some ritual apart from faith And scriptures reveal here that when a person is just going through the motions, whether it's partaking of communion, Whether it's coming to worship God, their heart is not there at all. They can't wait till the time is over. They hate every minute of it. They're not really worshiping God. But for some reason they're there. God says that is an abomination to him. Because he knows your heart, and he doesn't want your hypocrisy to come under the guise of worshiping him. Many today have been baptized or walked an aisle or partaken of communion, and they think that this action on their part has earned them favor with God. But salvation has always been by grace through faith. And you must come on the basis Of a sacrifice. No one could just show up and say to the priest, I'm sorry for my sin. They had to come with a sacrifice. It may have been a bull or sheep or a dove. But you had to come with something to appease the wrath of a holy God. We don't think of God very often this way. But the Bible teaches that this very sacrifice, the burnt offering, was a reminder of the burning wrath of God toward sinners. Psalm 37 and verse 20 says, But the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of the Lord shall be as the fat of lambs, they shall consume And that terminology is a reference to the burnt offering where the carcass would be burned till there was nothing left. But now I want to return to the requirements for the offering, remind us of our beautiful Savior. Would you notice with me please that our Savior provided a sinless sacrifice? Look with me please at verse 3. If this offering be a burnt sacrifice of the herd, let him offer a male without blemish. He shall offer it of his own voluntary will at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the Lord. And we see this again in verse ten. And if his offering be of the flocks, namely of the sheep or of the goats, for a burnt sacrifice and burnt sacrifice, he shall bring it a male without blemish. Why was this the case? Why did it have to be a male animal Some have thought that this was because the male animal was the most valuable and they were to give their best. But the fact is That we know from ancient records that the female animal was considered more valuable for milk production and breeding. The only reason for the stipulation seems to be because it was intended to picture Christ. in his humanity. But he was the only man that ever lived without moral blemish. The testimony to Christ's sinlessness are found often in the scriptures. Only Jesus could say, I do always those things that please him In the epistles, we find at least five witnesses to this essential doctrine. In 2 Corinthians 5, 21, we read: For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin. That we might be made the righteousness of God in him. And in Hebrews 4:15 we read: He was in all points tempted, like as we are, yet without sin. In Hebrews seven twenty seven we read For such a high priest became us who was holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and made higher than the heavens. In first Peter two twenty-two we read, Who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth. And in first John three five we read, In him is no sin. Christ is the only human being who is qualified to be the Lamb of God that would take away the sin of the world. And the Bible teaches that our Savior also provided a substitutionary sacrifice. Look with me at verse 4. And he shall put his hand upon the head of the burnt offering, and it shall be accepted for him to make atonement for him. The word put in verse 4 has the idea of lean upon, that is of the placing of the hands upon the head of that animal. Many scholars think that at this time the penitent would audibly confess his sins and thus transfer his guilt to the animal. It says it shall be accepted for him, that is, as a substitute. This is an Old Testament picture of the doctrine of imputation. The word imputation means that something has been credited to your account or someone else's. And that animal was now symbolically bearing the guilt of the sinner and about to experience the wrath of God that was due the sinner. And here, of course, we cannot fail to see that Christ is our substitute who died in our place. and took our guilt, our sins upon him, and who bore the wrath of God that we deserve. We also see that our Savior shed his blood in his sacrifice. Make no mistake about it, this was a ghastly scene. Notice that the worshipper was responsible for killing his animal. The throat was slit with a sharp knife. Undoubtedly the blood of the animal would cover the hands of the one offering the sacrifice. In the Old Testament, bloody hands were a symbol of guilt. And we see here that even as they would put to death this animal, it was symbolically saying to them and to everyone around them, this person is guilty. Sometimes people ask, why was it that blood had to be shed in these sacrifices? Why is it that Jesus had to die and his blood had to be shed? Wealth in Scripture, blood is a symbol of life being poured out in violent death And here we read of the life of the animal given up in death, and the Bible says to us that without the shedding of blood, there is no remission. And our Savior died for our sins in his sacrifice. The animal was not just required to bleed, it had to die. Why is that? Because the wages of sin is death. I want you to think for a moment of yourself as an Old Testament saint. Just think about the the thoughts that would go through your mind as you bought brought a bull or lamb or goat to the priest in the tabernacle. This animal that had some value to you, and you knew that you were going to have to kill this animal, that this very unpleasant act, its blood being on your hands. And you would run that knife across its throat and it would fall to the ground in a slump And you would realize it was your death, your sin that caused its death. Your rebellion resulted in this repulsive act. This is a reminder to us of the cost of our sin, which I think so often we forget about. This is the heart of the gospel. Christ died for our sins according to The scriptures. I think the vividness of that act would have a profound impact upon a person about the cost of their sin and what God required. We don't have to bring an animal to a priest anymore, but we must not think that our sin was not costly. And our Savior's death was a well-pleasing sacrifice to God. Sometimes people ask, did these Old Testament sacrifices really take away the sin of an Old Testament saint? And the biblical answer to that is no. Turn with me to Hebrews chapter 10. We must always interpret the Old Testament in light of the new. In Hebrews chapter 10, In verse 4, we read these categorical statements. For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sins. Wherefore, when he cometh unto the world, he saith, Sacrifice and offering thou wouldst not, but a body hast thou prepared for me. In burnt offerings and sacrifices, for sin thou hast hast no pleasure. Then said I, Lo, I come in the volume of the book that is written of me, to do thy will, O God. Above when he said, sacrifice and offering and burnt offerings and offerings for sin thou wouldst not, neither hast thou pleasure therein, which are offered by the law. Then said he, Lo, I come to do thy will, O God. He taketh away the first that he may establish the second By the which will we are sanctified through the blood, through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. Now, in this passage that we've been looking at in Leviticus, we have seen that God was well pleased with these burnt offerings. Not because our God enjoys death, or because he likes the smell of roasted flesh. But because it was a picture of his son who would come someday die as a redeemer for sinners. And every sacrifice and every day was a reminder of God's beautiful plan of redemption that would someday be accomplished. The idea of a sweet savor under the Lord, that phrase that dominates Leviticus chapter 1, is the idea that God fully accepts the sacrifice that he is satisfied. He is well pleased. Let me ask you this question With whom is God well pleased? At the Lord's baptism, there was a voice from heaven that said, This is my beloved son. And whom I am well pleased. The fact is that the only person that can fully please the Father is his beloved Son. Who always did what was right and pleasing to his Father. But when we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, we are found in him. And therefore we are well pleasing to our Holy Father. Tonight, as we come to this table, Let us remember that this bread and cup are not empty symbols, but point to our Savior. whose body was broken and whose blood was shed that we might be forgiven and fully accepted by our holy God. We reminded that the Lord's table is level ground. We all come here this evening as sinners You may be rich, you may be poor, you may be a new believer, or you may be someone who's known the Lord for 40 years. You may be at a different level in your spiritual journey. Some of you may be mature believers. Others may be less mature. But when we all come here, we all come as sinners, we all come by faith in our Savior's sacrifice, and we all come fully accepted by our Father. Not because we have earned it, but because our faith is in Christ, and our Father is fully satisfied with his Son. Let us remember that tonight as we come to partake of these elements. Let's close in a word of prayer. Father We thank you for your word. We thank you that it is always profitable for us. I pray that tonight, as we partake of these elements, that our thoughts would be of you. And I pray, Father, that you would encourage us and strengthen our faith, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.