We're going to take a few moments to look at the Word of God. I'm going to be mainly addressing my comments to our graduates, but all of God's Word is profitable for us. Turn with me please to Jeremiah chapter 9. Jeremiah chapter 9. These are some of the most famous verses from Jeremiah, and rightfully so. It's one of my favorite passages of scripture, Jeremiah chapter 9, verses 23 and 24. Thus saith the Lord. Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might. Let not the rich man glory in his riches. But let him that gloryeth glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth me, that I am the Lord which exercised loving kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth, for in these things I delight saith the Lord. These are wonderful words for us to consider. The idea of the term glory here in these verses is of boasting. What you boast about reveals a great deal. It reveals what you value. It will determine how you spend your time and your money. It will determine what you daydream about and what you worry about and the very direction of your life This evening, as we honor our high school and college graduates, I thought it would be fitting that we consider a passage that considers a lifetime pursuit. These young people are adults now. They have already accomplished a great deal, but they're really just on the beginning of their life and their life pursuits. And so it's very important that you have the right goals ahead of you. And I want to submit to you from this passage that the greatest quest That you could endeavor on in life is knowing God. And our passage gives us some reasons why this is the case. Number one, because knowing God Is far superior to where the world looks for satisfaction. Where does the world look for satisfaction and meaning in life? What are the goals that that people of the world establish in their life that they think about and plan for and strategize about. We have them here. The world boasts and seeks wisdom and might or power and riches. Jeremiah here is addressing the people of Judah. He is pointing out here in context what they have come to trust in for their national security and well-being. They believed because of their wise men and their kingdom, their money and their military might, that they had nothing to worry about from other nations. But the reality is that Babylon was about to crush them. And what Jeremiah said to these people over 2,500 years ago is still relevant for us today. You see, people have not changed. The people that Jeremiah addresses were of a different language group, a different culture, a different time But their pursuits, their goals, their boasts were the same as people today because people have not changed. Notice the authoritative way in which these words are framed. It says, thus saith the Lord. What Jeremiah is about to say is not man's opinion, but the absolute truth. from the mouth of God. He speaks here about what a person glories in or what they boast in. And this is really significant because it provides what you might call an x-ray of the soul. Jeremiah is going to mention the world's big three This is what you might call the Trinity of the natural man. These things always impress people of the world, a person's mind or intellect. A person 's might or power or political sway, a person's money, and all that it buys This is what celebrities possess. This is what our cultural icons, sports stars, and politicians revel in. Let's look for just a moment at these three. First of all, he speaks of wisdom or our intellectual abilities. Now, wisdom is often used in Scripture. in a very positive way of godly wisdom or spiritual wisdom. But that's not what Jeremiah is speaking of here. This word speaks not so much of obtaining raw information as being able to apply facts in a very practical way. We would call these wise men today perhaps advisors or consultants We live in the DC corridor, and there are thousands and thousands of people who live in our part of the world who make their living as consultants. They are experts in their given field and country companies will hire them for incredible amounts of money to come in and analyze the situation and make recommendations They are consultants. And the world has always had its experts and its consultants. Such a person is highly prized and amply rewarded. Now, God is not against intellectual ability. Some people think that Christianity is for those who are ignorant And there are some people, some Christians, who have kind of supported that statement because the way they pursue the Christian life is without their brains. But the fact is that Christianity is a thinking man's religion. The Bible constantly calls on us to think and to consider and remember and reflect and meditate upon. Having said that, we need to understand that our intellectual abilities have their limitations. Education is indeed a noble pursuit. All of these young people have achieved different degrees of education tonight, and that is something to celebrate, and it is wonderful to develop your mind and develop skills. and to become advanced in some area. But we must always remember that intellectual pursuits and education will never solve man's greatest problems. This is the way human beings have always thought. This was especially prevalent a century ago when there were many people who had incredibly optimistic forecasts for the future. They were going to do away with hunger and with racism and with war and with hostilities and disease and everything was going to vanish vanish and the world was going to be a utopia because education was going to bring this about. And never before in the history of the world have human societies put such an emphasis on education. But guess what? We still have all of those problems in space. Because man's problems are not primarily intellectual, they are spiritual. God has given many of our young people here very good minds, but this must not be your ultimate boast or your greatest quest. Why is that? First of all, whatever brains you have were given to you by God. The scripture says, what hast thou that thou did not receive? And the fact is that your abilities are nothing compared to God's knowledge. And so when man sets up himself as the judge of God, and he sets up his own reason, his own intellectual abilities as the ultimate measure of whether or not God is to be believed or followed. He is doing the most foolish thing imaginable. He is setting his own mind above the creator of the universe who knows all things and has given him the puny mind that he does possess. The next thing that people look at is might. We can apply this in many different ways. Neither let the mighty man glory in his mights. And the ancient world and the culture that Jeremiah is writing on, he's probably thinking of warriors But probably the best application for us today would be in athletic competition. We live in a culture obsessed with fitness and athletics and being physically attractive. Everyone wants to look like a superhero. Don't get me wrong, it is good to be healthy. And bodily exercise does profit a little, that is, for a little time, but it should not be your boast. Every person who is older here knows that it is foolishness to rest your whole identity on how athletic or how fit you are. Because you will lose your ability soon enough. And we are all weaklings compared to God. And the gates of heaven do not open for the strong or the powerful. God delights to take the weak people. and bring something great out of them. Those who have no political power or might or influence or physical strength God likes to take broken, weak things to magnify his strength and his power. And physical might is nothing compared with knowing the creator of the universe. What else impresses the world? You know the answer comes immediately to mind. It's money. He says, let not the rich man glory in his riches. This is certainly our national obsession obsession. This is why we call it the American dream. It is our national boast. We are the wealthiest country in the history of the world, the wealthiest nation that has ever existed. And we seek to find our security, our satisfaction, and our identity and our possessions. But Jesus said a man's life does not consist of the abundance of things that he possesses. The Bible says that living for wealth is a foolish way to spend your life. This is why Jesus said we must not lay up for ourselves treasures upon earth. Why is that? Because it's a poor investment. Things will not last. They will be stolen. They will rust away. They will decay. It's a foolish thing to invest your very soul and life into things Before I began serving here as pastor at Calvary Baptist Church, I taught for a time at Frederick Christian Academy, and for one of the years I was there, I believe it was my last year, my role uh among other things was to be the senior advisor. And so I met with the seniors individually one at a time. And this is not a reflection on that institution. There's nothing unusual about that, but many, perhaps most of the young people that I met with, when I asked them, what do you want to do with your life? They would say, I'm not sure, I just know I want to make a lot of money. That was the one thing they had figured out. Life was all about Trying to gain more money, more possessions. Now the Bible does not forbid working hard, it encourages it The Bible exhorts us to save up money, to invest , to plan ahead. It encourages us to be generous with our giving. It does not condemn riches. Some of the greatest saints, especially of the Old Testament, were wealthy. Think of Job, think of Abraham, think of David. But the pursuit of money is a poor way for a man or a woman to invest their immortal soul. We are not to live for the things that catch the eye and that cater to our flesh. Jesus said, for what does it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Jesus said in Mark 10, 24, how hard is it for them that trust in riches to enter the kingdom of heaven? I know this is counter-cultural, but it is the plain teaching of Scripture. Don't find your boast In your brains, or in your brawn, or in your bullion. There's some alliteration for you. Find your glory in God. The second thing I want you to notice is that we should seek knowing God because knowing God is the greatest blessing that a human being can experience. He says, but let him that gloryeth glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth me, that I am the Lord. Would exercise loving kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth, for in these things I delight, saith the Lord. Now, who would really boast about knowing God? The answer is no one, because the more you know God, the more humble you will become. In fact, the more you know God, the more you will realize how ignorant you are of God. His ways are past finding out. This is a subject that no one will ever master. So Jeremiah is not calling on us to go around bragging about our prowess and theology. What he's saying is that our being will be so captivated by him that we will go around thinking about him and talking about him. Like a grandmother who can't help bragging about her grandchildren and talking to everyone she encounters about their abilities. Our text mentions two things that we are to revel in. First of all, in our knowledge of God, that he understandeth me. The focus here seems to be on the intellectual. This term speaks of having insight into the nature of a person. To really know a person, you must know what they have done and what they have said. I'm afraid that for many people who claim to know God, they are in fact worshiping a figment of their own making. Their God is very much like Santa Claus. He is jolly and generous and never judgmental. But that is not the God who is revealed in the pages of Scripture. To know God, you must know the truth about God that He Himself has revealed in His Word. We cannot know God apart from His revelation When man seeks to understand God apart from his revelation, we instantly distort and degrade our very concept of who God is. And then he talks about our relationship with God, him that knoweth me. Speaks of an intimate personal relationship. You see, it's possible to know about God. But not really know God. The Pharisees, who were the antagonists of our Lord, knew much about God, but they didn't really know God. And when God was in flesh before them, they rejected him and hated him. I've used this analogy before, but I think it's like a fan who may be obsessed with some celebrity or sports star. They can tell you all kinds of incredible trivial details about that person, their birthday and their favorite color, or how many home runs they've hit in each season, or how many films they have made. They know an incredible amount of information about that person, but they don't really know that person. They don't spend time with them. They don't have communication with them. When their celebrity person is going through a hard time, they don't reach out to this fan for consolation because they have no relationship with them. And this is the way many people are in their relationship with God. They know some facts about Him, but they don't know Him. Now most scholars believe that these two terms are used to express really one relationship and one idea, that of knowing God. What Jeremiah is saying is this, we must all seek to be the person who really knows God in a personal relationship of trust, because to know God is to experience his love. Jeremiah here mentions three of the most important theological terms in the entire Old Testament, and all of them are relational. He speaks of loving kindness, judgment. and righteousness. And these three terms are set in contrast to the three things that the world elevates. Of wisdom or intellectual capacity and might or power and riches or wealth The reason we must seek to know God is because of who he is. And because of who he is, this is the way he will always relate to those he knows. God demonstrates his loving kindness to his people. The word translated, loving kindness is one of the richest words. in the Old Testament. It's used 245 times. It really cannot be adequately translated with an English term. Let me give you some attempts. Some translate this steadfast love or unfailing devotion or merciful love or covenant loyalty You can't really define this, but you can truly experience it. And all of God's people who truly know Him and walk with Him know what it is to have that rock in times of difficulty, knowing that God will never leave you nor forsake you, that his love is steadfast and as sure as his promises. This is a whole lot more important than being financially secure or physically fit or considered the smartest guy in the room. And then he talks about God demonstrates his justice to his people. What does this mean? It means that God punishes the wicked and vindicates the just. It means that he protects his children just as the parents will do what they can to protect their children so God will ultimately protect his children You might object and say, well, what about all the Christians that every day are martyred for their faith and are killed? Why doesn't God protect them? God has a purpose and a plan for every life and in their lives that was his way and his purpose in their lives and a way of bringing glory to his name, but God will still vindicate their cause. And the final word of vindication will not be said in this life And God demonstrates thirdly his righteousness to his people. This is closely related to the previous term. Something that is righteous conforms to a standard. And there is no higher standard than God Himself. He is the ultimate measure of everything. And God is always true to Himself. He is the great, unchangeable I am But how do we truly know this God? Well, the New Testament gives us more explanation and revelation about this. Jesus said in his great high priestly prayer in John 17 and verse 3, and this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast since. The only way to know God is through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, the only Savior that he has provided. And knowing Him, that is knowing our Lord and Savior, is the best goal that anyone can have. One of the wisest men who ever lived, and the man that is set for us as a great example of a Christian in the New Testament is the Apostle Paul. Over and over again we read that we are to imitate him and follow him, not that he was perfect. He certainly was not on the same level as our Lord. But he is a model Christian for us to follow. And his motto in life was this, that I may know him. and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his suffering. This is the abundant life that Jesus promised and made available to his followers. It is a life of continual growing and our knowledge of the Lord This is the most joyful pursuit that you could possibly have in life. This is the only way to live. I say to you, young people, have your lives ahead of you. Yes, you will be pursuing different vocations, different careers. I'm not at all suggesting that unless you are a preacher or missionary, you are wasting your life. That is not true. But whatever you do in life, whatever way you believe that God would have you spend your time and your money and your energy Your chief pursuit must be the knowledge of the Lord and seeking to walk closely with Him. This is the greatest quest. That a human being can pursue. The Westminster Shorter Catechism was correct when it answers what is the chief end of man, or what we would say today, what is his primary purpose? And the answer is to glorify God and enjoy him forever, which is another way of what is found here in Jeremiah's words. That we would glory in our knowledge of Him. Young people, follow the Lord. Seek to grow in your knowledge of Him, and He will direct your steps. Let's close some prayer. Father, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you that it has all the answers that we need. I pray that you would be with these young people, Lord. We thank you for the homes they come from. We thank you for the things that they have heard, the things that they have learned. I pray, Father, that they would learn. to walk with you and to trust in you in the days ahead and that they would let their light shine brightly in this dark world. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen