If you have your Bibles, you may be turning to Matthew chapter 27. Scepters and sovereigns have always gone together. It's interesting to note that one of the first historical references to scepters in human history is found in the book of Esther. It was there that we read of King Hajiherus extending his scepter to Esther and thus granting her permission to speak to him rather than perish. We know that the ancient Chinese, the Greeks, the Etruscans, the Persians, the Romans all had scepters. But these scepters varied greatly. Some were plain like a staff. while others were very ornate, some were short like a rod, where others were taller than the person himself. And they were made of different kinds of materials. Some were made of wood, others of iron, some of ivory, and the most expensive of silver and gold. The most spectacular scepter in the world today is part of the crown jewels of England. It was originally made for the coronation of King Charles II in 1662. It is known as the Royal Scepter or the Sovereign Scepter. and it has been modified and changed over the years. It is still used at the coronation for a new British monarch. The scepter is three feet long. It's made of gold. At the end of the scepter are various exquisite and rare gems, the most famous of which is a diamond known as the Great Star of Africa. It was discovered in South Africa in 1905. It's the largest clear-cut diamond in the world, weighing in at 530 carats. But surely the most precious scepter in the world is the one that was thrust into the hands of Christ that is crucifixion. Once again tonight I want us to look at some of these instruments, these symbols. That are found in the crucifixion narrative that shed light for us on the cross of our Savior. They become fertile grounds for our spiritual meditation. Several of these instruments were used in the mocking of Jesus. These instruments of derision have been transformed into objects of contemplation. We read of the scarlet robe and the crown of thorns. And tonight I want us to look at this scepter that we read of. It's mentioned in only two places. In Mark chapter 15 and verse 19, we read that the Roman soldiers beat Jesus with this scepter. And in Matthew chapter 27 and verse 29, we read a fuller account, and I want to turn there now. Matthew 27, 29, it says And when they had platted a crown of thorns, they put it upon his head and a reed in his right hand, and they bowed the knee before him, mocking him, saying, Hail King of the Jews! And they spit upon him and took the reed and smote him on the head. This is only a part of ten acts of humiliation that Matthew records from verses 27 through verse 31. First of all, the gathering crowd of cohorts. Most scholars estimate that this would have been perhaps 200 men. They gathered to watch the spectacle in the praetorium, which was a large hall. They stripped him of his clothing. They put a scarlet robe on him. It was probably an old faded officer's robe that used to be purple. They put a crown of thorns on his head. They put a reed in his right hand. They kneel before him and they mocked him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews, which would have been a mockery. They, these Roman soldiers, were used to saying, Hail Caesar. And when the men grew bored with this game, they became violent. They spit on him. They hit him on the head with the reed that they had given to him. And finally, we read that they stripped him of his robe and took him to be crucified. Now all of this mocking was centered on his claim to be the king of the Jews. It was this charge for which he was tried. and the concept behind their contempt. The makeshift crown, the cloak, the scepter, all designed to heap ridicule upon his sovereign claims. But their cruel actions do not negate his claims. They only confirm his identity. The scepter, which is mentioned as an aside, does tell us some things of our Savior And I want us to point out several things tonight as we prepare for this table. First of all, this scepter tells us that this sovereign is meek. This is demonstrated in several ways in our text. First of all, in the way the scepter is given, the KJV states that the scepter was a reed scepter. The Greek word that's used here is very generic. It's a word that can refer to a reed or a stick or even a staff or a rod. It could have been a reed that they pulled up. from the same piece of land where they took his crown of thorns, but more likely it was a wooden rod like a baton, something that soldiers would often use. I say that this suggestion is more likely because we read in verse 30, of course, that they smote him on the head with it. And to hit someone with a reed would not inflict any pain and would not make any sense. So I suspect this was a wooden rod. And this wooden rod symbolized the very nature of his incarnation. It was all humiliation and condescension. He was not born in a palace, but in a manger. He did not grow up in splendor, but in a carpenter's cottage. And he was not accepted by his people. He was despised and rejected of men. And when he came into Jerusalem that final time, he did not come on a royal stallion, but meekly on the fall of a donkey. And so we should not be surprised that when this monarch holds a scepter, it's not made of gold or silver, but of common wood. It was not adorned with fabulous jewels, but stained with his precious blood. We also see his meekness revealed in the way he responds. He bears their reproach. Think about this for a moment. He could have refused to hold this reed in his right hand. He could have thrown it down instantly But he takes it and holds it gently in his hand. Why would he do such a thing? It was certainly not out of fear. It was certainly not because he was trying to get along or he was intimidated by them, because one word from his lips could have destroyed all these wicked men. Remember, earlier in this very evening, when he was arrested in the garden, he uttered, I am, and we read that the guards fell back to the grounds. This was just a glimpse of the power that he possessed. But this sovereign came in meekness. We read in Isaiah chapter 50 and verse 6 this prophecy. I gave my back to the smiters and my cheeks to them that plucked off the hair. I hid not my face from shame and spitting. And he did not refuse to hold that reed, but he took it as part of the mockery that he must bear. And 1 Peter 2 and verse 23, we read, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. Jesus knew that this was all part of his father's perfect will, and so he accepted it with meekness and humility We see that the sovereign is not only meek, but he is merciful. Kings in the ancient world were known for their brutality. They would not hesitate to execute even a family member because to show mercy was to show a sign of weakness. And weakness was to invite people to come and attack and seek to seize the throne. But this monarch did not fear that someone would challenge his kingdom, and so he can demonstrate mercy and restraints. In the guard when Judas came with the soldiers to arrest Jesus, Peter was ready to fight for his master. But Jesus said to him, don't you realize that I could right now Pray to my father, and he would send twelve legions of angels. A legion consisted of twelve thousand men, and so we're speaking of 144,000. Jesus could have reduced in an instant this jeering mob to dust, but instead He decided to show mercy. He showed the same spirit that he demonstrated at the cross when he said, as those soldiers were callously gambling below him, And perhaps even as they were nailing those nails into his wrist and into his teeth, Father forgive them, for they know not what they do. And perhaps a similar prayer for mercy went up from the lips of our Lord even as they were beating him on the head with this rod. And even as they pounded the crown of thorns into his brow, he was perhaps whispering, Father, forgive them. This is a stunning portrait of the mercy and the patience that God shows towards sinners. I have no hard evidence for it, but I would like to think that some of these soldiers that participated in that mocking ritual that day and that hall saw through the mockery and the hatred. to his true identity and in time came to be followers of the Lord We also see the sovereign is not only meek, but he is also the Messiah. Have you ever noticed the Old Testament prophecies about the Messiah? The book of Genesis presents prophecies that start out very broad And as the book progresses, become more and more narrow concerning his identity in Genesis chapter 3 and verse 15. We discovered the Messiah would be born of a woman, the seed of a woman, it says. Speaking of his humanity that God would take on fat flesh. Theologians call this the proto -evangelum, the first good news, Genesis 3. 15. In Genesis 9. 27, we read that he will dwell in the tents of Shem. Establishes that he would come from the Semitic race. In Genesis chapter 12, verses 1 and 3, we read that he would come more specifically from the line, the family of Abraham. He in him would all nations of the world be blessed. And then at the very end of Genesis, at the portion where we read of Jacob's blessings , We read in Genesis chapter 49, the first prophecy of the kingship of Christ, and it makes reference to a scepter here in Genesis 49. In verse 10, it says, The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor lawgiver from between his feet until Shiloh come, and unto him shall the gathering of the people be. Here we see that he would come from the tribe of Judah and that he would be a king. There is another prophecy that speaks of this a few books later in the book of Numbers, chapter 24. This interesting section of Numbers deals with the prophecies of a mercenary prophet by the name of Balaam. In Numbers chapter 24 and verse 17, he says this, I shall see him, but not now. I shall behold him. But not nigh, there shall come a star out of Jacob, and a scepter shall rise out of Israel, and shall smite the corners of Moab and destroy all the children of Shef. This prophecy speaks that this monarch would crush all the nations that would oppose him. And there's another reference to this in the book of Psalms, if you'll turn with me to Psalm 45. Psalm 45 and verse 6, we read this wonderful verse. Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of thy kingdom is a right scepter. And we know that this is referring to the Lord Jesus Christ because It is found and quoted in the book of Hebrews. In Hebrews chapter 1, we read this, verse 8, but under the sun he saith , Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. A scepter of righteousness is the scepter of thy kingdom. Thou hast loved righteousness. and hated iniquity, therefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with oil of gladness above thy fellows. You see, the man that was brutally mocked by these callous Roman soldiers was the promised Messiah who had been spoken of by the prophets centuries before. He was not just the son of David, but the ultimate king of Israel, the son of God who would save his people from their sins. And then we read that the sovereign is the ultimate monarch. There's coming a day when Christ will come not in meekness but in majesty. He will demonstrate for all to see that he is the ultimate king. He is the ultimate sovereign. Mark records that when Christ was being tried before the high priest, he was asked. if he was the Messiah in Mark chapter 14, verse 62. And he answered, I am, and ye shall see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power and coming in the clouds of heaven. And did you know that in the second coming, he will also have a scepter? But it will not be a scepter of derision, but a scepter of dominion. In Psalm chapter 2, I invite you to turn with me there a very interesting prophecy. that speaks of the Son's ultimate dominion. I want you to look at this for a few moments. Verse 1. Why do the heathen rage and the people imagine a vain thing? The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bands asunder and cast away their cords from us. There's very much a sense in which those first three verses encapsulate all of human history and the attitude, generally speaking, of human rulers and kings. To the rule of gods. They conspire against it, they resist it, they fight against it, they want to have free reign. And not to have his restraints upon them. And in verse 4, we read: He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh, the Lord shall have them in derision. It's important that you remember that every time some ruler comes on the scene and he balls up his fist and defies God, God's response is to laugh at him because it's pathetic. And then we read in verse 5, then shall he speak to them in his wrath and vex them in his sore displeasure. Yet have I set my king upon my holy hill of Zion. I will declare the decree. The Lord has said unto me, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. Which is a reference to the resurrection. Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance in the uttermost parts of the earth. For thy possession. Now notice this. Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron. Thou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel This is a reference again to his scepter. It will be a scepter of judgments. And all the resistance of all the powers of the world will be like a dried piece of pottery. And therefore he says, be wise now, therefore, O ye kings, be instructed, ye judges of the earth, serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the sun. The idea there is pay homage to the sun, lest he be angry and ye perish from the way, when his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all they that put their trust. in him. And in the book of Revelation, this passage, especially in reference to the rod, is mentioned again. Turn with me, if you would, to Revelation chapter 2. The Lord's message to the church at Thytira ends with a quotation from Psalm 28. Revelation 2, 27, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron, as the vessels of a potter shall they be broken to shivers, even as I received of my Father. And then towards the end of the book in Revelation chapter 19, I want you to read. The spectacular vision that we have here in verses 11 and following Revelation 19. And I saw heaven opens. And behold, a white horse, and he that sat upon him was called faithful and true, and in righteousness he doth judge and make war. His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns, and he had a name written that no man knew but himself, and he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood, and his name is called the Word of God And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses clothed in fine linen, white and clean, and out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword. that with it he should smite the nations, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron, and he shall tread upon the winepress of the fierceness and the wrath of the Almighty God. And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written, King of Kings, and Lord of Lords. You see, in that day there will be no more mocking But there will be a universal acknowledgement that Jesus is King of kings and Lord of Lords. This is what Philippians is referring to when it says, every knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. So though those Roman soldiers that day put that rod in his hand, that wooden stick in his hand, and they used it as an instrument of derision to mock his claims to be a king. Yet they were actually pointing to a great truth. Listen to the words as he preached on this passage. He says, I cannot help believing that our blessed master, when he was in the hands of those cruel soldiers, And they crowned him with thorns and bowed before him in mock reverence and insulted him in every possible way, all the while looked behind the curtain of the visible circumstances. and saw the divine reality, for he was a king even then. And he had a throne and a thorn crown was the emblem of the diadem of universal sovereignty that shall in due season adorn his blessed brow. That reed was to him a type of the scepter, which he shall yet wield as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Our Savior knew that these soldiers unconsciously to themselves were setting before him pictures of the great reward of his soul travail. Wonderful truth for us to contemplate tonight. The world may mock our Savior, they may ignore our Savior, but someday he will reign in majesty. Because he is King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for this wonderful truth. Even as was mentioned this morning, Father, I would pray that you would help us to yield our hearts to you That they would indeed be thy royal throne, that we would not be in any way like the nations of the world who stand up defiantly And seek to resist your will. Help us, Father, to be those who are bowed down at your feet. who rejoice with trembling, who worship you and adore you and are yielded. To your purposes in our lives. And I pray that you would comfort our hearts with the wonderful truth that someday you will reign in a much more visible way. And that we can be a part of that great chorus that sings praise and honor to the Lamb. Help us, Father, to look with great anticipation. to this day. Help us, Father, to remember this even. Tonight as we partake of these elements, we are to do these things till he come. And when he comes He will come with power and great glory. And so I pray that you would help us to find comfort and joy in this tonight. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.