We're going to look at Psalm 84 this morning. I've always loved this Psalm. Theme's not hard to discern. And um I'm gonna start about talking about one of the my favorite hymns that's not in this hymn book It was written by a man named Timothy Dwight. Timothy Dwight was the grandson of Jonathan Edwards. He grew up in Northampton, Massachusetts. He ended up serving in George Washington's Continental Army as a chaplain and later in the Massachusetts State House. But he was first and foremost a pastor. And he enjoyed preaching the gospel. He pastored in Greenfield, Connecticut. until 1795, and then he was called to be the president of Yale College. And when he went there He estimated after talking to the student body that there were only four or five Christians in that college. He was shocked by this because the college was started to train preachers of the gospel. But the Enlightenment and the ideas of the Enlightenment had come over the Atlantic. and had infected really all of our institutions of higher learning. And so it was cool and sophisticated to say that you were an agnostic or an atheist. And so that really discouraged him and upset him. And so he began to have daily chapel services and would preach the gospel fervently. And many, many students were converted. And they started prayer meetings in the evenings. And there was such a spirit of revival on that campus that it spread to other colleges. And it became known as the Second Great Awakening. He was one of the leaders of what's known as the Second Great Awakening. His grandfather, Jonathan Edwards, was the leader of the first Great Awakening and his grandson was a leader of the second Great Awakening. Now I tell all of that background to let you know that that hymn that he wrote that I really, really enjoy, that's not in our hymn book. is entitled, I Love Thy Kingdom, Lord. And a lot of it comes from Psalm 84, and it reveals the affection that a believer should have for corporate or we might say public worship. Let me read these stanzas to you. I love thy kingdom, Lord. The house of thine abode, the church, our blessed redeemer save with his own precious blood. I love thy church, O God. Her walls before thee stand, dear as the apple of thine eye, engraven on thy hand. For her my tears shall fall, for her my prayers ascend To her my cares and toils be given, till toils and cares shall end. Beyond my highest joy I prize her heavenly ways. Her sweet communion, solemn vows, her hymns of love and praise. Sure as thy truth shall last. To Zion shall be given the brightest glories earth can yield, and brighter bliss of heaven Psalm 84 is a beautiful psalm about the believer's affection. For gathered worship. Let me tell you just a few details about this psalm that will help us in our understanding. It has an inscription to the chief musician upon Gita. Sometimes you'll read terms like that in the book of Psalms. You may have wondered, what is that? That means nothing to me. Well, it's very likely a reference to a tune. that everyone who originally uh read this, remember this is a hymn book, would have said, Oh yeah, yeah, I know that tune. And it's saying that this song was to be sung to that tune. It's also the same tune, by the way, in Psalm 8 and Psalm 81. This is written, it says, well, it says, for the sons of Korah, and they were temple musicians. There are twelve other psalms with their names in the inscription. And you may have noticed as we read we as we read together the psalm that's divided by this term Selah, this is a Very likely a musical notation for the musicians. It has no further meaning for the reader. And in each of these stanzas that are separated by this refrain, Selah, there is a benediction, or you might say a beatitude. There's a blessed proclaimed. You'll see this, for instance, in verse 4, Blessed are they that dwell in thy house. They will be still praising thee. And verse 5, Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee, and whose heart are the ways of them. And then concluding the Psalm verse 12, O Lord of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth in thee. I've mentioned to you in previous messages that this term blessed is a very significant Old Testament word. In fact, The hymn book of the Old Testament, the book of Psalms begins with this word, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. The focus of this term is not so much on what a person does, but on who they are. Describes a person whose life seems so fortunate. That people envy them, not so much for their wealth, but for their peace, their joy, the harmony of their life. This term translated blessed is often rendered happy. There is a joy that those who gather regularly for worship have in their hearts. And this is an important thing for us to always remember. We gather here today, I hope Not out of a sense of duty, but because worshiping with our brothers and sisters is the delight of our hearts. We gather here not because we should worship, which is true, but because we want to worship. That is the expression of our hearts. This is a very entelling thing about our spiritual help. I remember when I was early in the ministry, and this is something that happens to every pastor. Every pastor when they start out and they have very little experience, always says, Why aren't more people coming to church? I mean I'm working hard and I'm preaching and I go out and I visit people and they all say, You'll see me there on Sunday, Pastor, and they're not there on Sunday. I mean, if I had a dollar for every person who says, you're gonna see me on Sunday, and they weren't there, I would be a wealthy man And I talked to a veteran pastor about this one time. And he says, you know why people don't come to church primarily? And I said, why? He says, because they don't want to. It's that simple. I mean, they can come up with a variety of excuses, and I'm not here uh preaching against those who have not assembled here because of health concerns But but the reality is we tend to do what we want to do. And so the the the the point of this message is you better be in is not you better be in church. The point of this message is why would you not want to be in church? That's a more important thing. In other words, you could come to church. With a rotten attitude and said, Pastor said I gotta be here, and people think poorly of me if I don't come, so I'll come, but I'm gonna hate every minute of it. Well, you know what? That's not pleasing to the Lord. You might as well stay home. We should come and gather because we want to. And for those of you at home, I know that many of you would say, oh, I long to be there. I would love to be there this morning. And that's the important thing that speaks of the uh the health of your heart spiritually, that it's your desire. My father loves to worship. He hasn't been in a church service for five years. He can't hear the message and he's very compromised and he in his health and he and he and he can't um He has to be in a wheelchair. He can't really get out of the wheelchair anymore. So he just can't come to church. But his heart is to be at church. And that's what I'm preaching about this morning. I want to talk to you this morning. The theme of this psalm is the blessedness, or we might say the joy of corporate worship. Now when I say corporate worship, you should not think corporation. All right? I remember I said that once in a sermon and someone came up to me afterwards and they were highly bothered. They says, I just don't think that that you should view the church as a corporation. I said, wh wh why would you think I would say well you talked about corporate worship? Corporate means a body of believers gathering together. That's the origin of the term. Okay, so that's what I mean by corporate worship. Now I want you to notice in this first stanza the believer's pleasure of worshiping in God's house. Look, look how this is brought out in the stanza. Lord, thou hast, excuse me, that's verse chapter 35. How amiable are thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts. We might say how beautiful, how excellent. My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of the Lord. My heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God. Yea, the sparrow hath found a house, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young even thine altars, O Lord of hosts, my king and my God. Blessed are they that dwell in thy house. They will be still praising. the what I want you to see here is here the the the joy, the anticipation that is reflected here of the believers desire to gather with others and worship. Now the context here is in the Old Testament when Jewish believers would make a pilgrimage to Jerusalem and worship in the temple and they did that. three times a year. So his longing for this is a reflection that it's been several months since the last time this occurred. And this is similar to our circumstance here this morning. And and and and that's the longing that we should have, the anticipation, the desire. I hope you felt that this morning. I did as I was getting ready. Oh, we're actually going to gather for worship again. I'm actually going to see people. I haven't seen in over two months. And of course, we're going to worship the Lord forever. Now I realize that there are definitely some differences between the Old Testament temple and the New Testament church. And I I realize the church is not a building and I realize that the church is a is the people. We are the body of Christ. So please, please understand I recognize uh those facts. But there are parallels. There are parallels between the Old Testament saint gathering for worship and the New Testament saint gathering for worship. Now I want you to notice that there are six references to the place of worship in the Psalm. In verse 1, it speaks of tabernacles. And in verse 2 of courts, in verse 3 of altars, and verse 4 of house. And verse 10, we read of courts, and he refers to the house of my God. Now the Psalmist didn't love the building as such, but it gives us a clue as to why he wanted to gather there. Refers to it as thy tabernacle, as the courts of the Lord, and as thy house The reason why this was a sacred gathering is because the Lord met his people there. This is where the Old Testament saints gathered to worship their one true God. This man was not coming to worship out of a sense of duty. He was coming to worship because he had a desperate desire to gather with the people of God and worship the Lord. This should be true of every believer. This is a theme, like a thread that runs through the book. of Psalms. I'm going to read some verses here for you. If you want, you can turn to them. If you don't, you don't have to just listen. Psalm 27. And verse 4, I love this word, this verse. David says, One thing I have a desire to the Lord, that will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. to behold the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. And then in Psalm 42 The first two verses, these familiar verses, as the heart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? And then in the very next chapter, Psalm 43 , Verse 3, it says, he says, O send out thy light and thy truth, let them lead me and guide me, let them bring me unto thy holy hill and to thy tabernacles. Then will I go unto the altar of God, unto God my exceeding joy. Yea, upon the harp will I praise thee, O God. My God. And then Psalm 63, a very familiar Psalm, I think, to most of you. David, who is in exile. says, O God, thou art my God, early will I seek thee, my soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee, in a dry and thirsty land where no water is. to see thy power and thy glory so as I have seen thee in the sanctuary. And all this week As we've been preparing for the service, I've been thinking of Psalm 122 and verse 1. This was a song that the pilgrims would sing as they made their way to Jerusalem. And it says this. I was glad when they said unto me, let us go into the house of the Lord. So let me ask you, do you have a heart for worship? I wonder if you truly missed gathering here these last nine weeks. I suspect that you did. Or you probably wouldn't be here this morning. In verses 3 and 4, we have a very interesting analogy here. He speaks of a bird making a nest up in the roof of the temple. And he compares himself to a bird that lives in the temple, and what an advantageous thing that would be. This was true of some of the sons of Korah. It may explain the reference in verse 10 of him being a doorkeeper. He may have been a musician who had various duties in the temple, and he actually lived in apartments in the temple, and he was saying, what a wonderful thing that is to be there and to be reminded of the presence of the Lord all of the time. What is unmistakable about this man is his affection for the temple. Now let me ask you a question here. Why is it that God has commanded us to gather with other people for worship. Is it true that a person can worship just them and the Lord? Can you commune with God individually? The answer is you can and you should. The Lord calls on us to go into our closet and to pray to him in secrets. And we encourage everyone to have a time of scripture reading and prayer each day and to focus your mind on the Lord's. This is an important part of our Christian exercise and discipline to bring structure and stability to our Christian walk. So if it's possible to commune with God as an individual, just me and the Lord, that vertical relationship, then why has he called on us to gather with other people? We have more and more of a culture that says , I can do it myself. I can worship the Lord on my own terms. I don't need to be around other people. There are many reasons in Scripture as to why we should gather with others. I want to mention just a few. Number one It's alluded to in this psalm. Because it's pleasing to God and to his people to sing praises to him together. Some of you have had the experience in our live stream services of singing at home. Maybe just a few of you. And some of you have let me know. It doesn't sound very good. Maybe you're not very musical. Maybe you don't have a good vo voice and you're feeling a little awkward standing there the three or the four or the seven or whatever it might be of you and singing. Maybe you kind of mumble a little bit. But when you gather with the people of God and you have all these voices around you, it encourages your heart And it's pleasing to the Lord to hear the voices of his people blended together. That is something that you cannot replicate on your own. That's pleasing to the Lord. We read in the Psalms, Let the people praise Thee, O God, let all the people praise Thee. We have Wesley's great hymn, O for a thousand tongues to sing. And the descriptions we have of the worship in heaven and like Revelation 4 and Revelation 5 are of a great host that no man can number. Singing praises to God together. That is given as like the ultimate expression of worship. And so when we gather with our brothers and sisters and we unite our voices together, it's a little foretaste of heaven. It's pleasing to our souls. And it's pleasing to God. Secondly, the second reason why we should worship corporately It's because the Christian life is intended to function in a community of believers. Did you know that? It is not an individual sport, if I can put it that way, if I can use that analogy. All right? It's a team sport. And if you try to play a team sport as if it's an individual sport, it's not going to work very well. You could put it this way, it's a group project All right? And some people never get that clear in their minds about the Christian life. It's not just about you and the Lord. It is about the community, the body of believers that you are part of. You see, Lone Ranger Christians don't do well. We need one another. We don't like to admit this, but we are interdependents. What does that fancy word mean? It means I need you and you need me. We need each other. God did not intend that we just become like little hermits. who go out somewhere into the wilderness far away from other people. And you always think of this man that named Simon Strigoitis, who went and lived up on a pole out in the wilderness. And and he was considered this great holy man because he lived up there and people would hand would bring him food on a pole and he would eat up there and he lived up there for decades. And uh, you know, he he was a strange individual, to say the least. There's people who think that that's what the height of godliness is. It is not You know what's a challenge to your spiritual maturity? When you get around your brothers and sisters in Christ. You see, if you're living in a cave somewhere and you're praying and you're fasting and you're reading scriptures, you might think, man, I've really become a spiritual giant. I've really grown. Now you go out and rub shoulders with your brothers and sisters. You know what you'll find out? You're still a work in progress. You're still a work in progress. And that's intentional. The Lord wants us to be reminded of how far we still have to go. and and the challenges of growing as a body of believers. And the third reason why God has called us to gather together for worship is that those who worship together on a regular basis have a much better support system for their spiritual lives. Lone Ranger Christians don't do well. Whether they like to admit it or not, you need the encouragement, you need the instruction, and yes, you at times need the rebuke. of your brother and sister to say to you, what are you doing? Why are you involved in this? This is not good. This is going to lead you astray. We all need that accountability. This is why in Hebrews 10. 25, a passage that Pastor Nick mentioned recently in the message. It says, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another as we see the day approaching. Now you might have thought That the writer of Hebrews would have said, you know, the reason why you guys need to gather together is you need to hear the preaching of the word. That is true. That's not what he says. He says, because you need your brother and sister in Christ to encourage you. And that word exhort there. is a very flexible word. It can include like instruct, to encourage, and and and even to rebuke. You need your brother and sister there to help you say, you know You know what? You're not seeing things accurately. You're not looking at this right. Let me show you what the Bible says. We all need that. And often that ministry happens when we gather together and we fellowship together and we interact with one another. This is a very common analogy, but it's a good analogy. You know, if you if you've ever um used charcoal and you've grilled, and I I love to grill, you can ask my family about this. I try to grill every day if I can. And you know, you get this that charcoal when it's glowing and it's hot. If you take the tongs and you take one of those pieces and you and you put it over here, it's going to cool very quickly. But when those coals are all touching one another, they they remain heated for a long period of time. Haven't every man here knows what it is to have like a campfire. and you think you've put the fire out and the next morning you come and you dig through the ash and there's still some smoldering coals there. They've been You you dumped a whole bunch of water on it and it's been you know 12, 14 hours, and they're still because they're connected The only way that we can keep our spiritual health at a strong level is by interacting. and worshiping together with one another. A weak attachment to the church of God is a dangerous thing. Secondly, I want you to look with me at this next stanza, verses 5 through 8, and that is the believer's pilgrimage. to worship in God's house. That's what's picture here of of pilgrims traveling to Jerusalem to worship in the temple. Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee, and whose heart are the ways of them, who passing through the valley of Baccha maketh the well, the rain also filleth the pools. They go from strength to strength. Every one of them in Zion appeareth before God. Oh Lord God of hosts. That's the next stand, so we'll leave that for a moment later. Now, when it says here, and whose heart are the ways of them, it's kind of a confusing statement. But what it means is the blessed man has his heart set to go and worship in the temple. Now what is the Valley of Baca? The answer is we don't know exactly. The original readers would have known, but we don't know. There's two suggestions. It could refer to a dry valley where shrubs like balsam trees grow. The Hebrew word baka is etymologically related to the uh something to the balsam tree. And so they say it must have been a dry valley where shrubs like balsam trees grow. Or it could be rendered, some take it from another root, that means a valley of weeping or a valley of tears. And I think that's more likely. But whether you take it as a dry valley or a valley of tears, it still refers to an unpleasant place. Now the writer here is probably referring to a very real valley that pilgrims would pass through as they made their way to Jerusalem. And so his original readers would say, oh yeah, I know the valley of Baca. I've been through that desolate place before. But many scholars and preachers of the centuries have seen this as a metaphorical reference to the pilgrimage of a believer's life. All of us as Christians are in a sense traveling to Zion. We are all pilgrims. We are all on a journey. And our journey and life will undoubtedly at times cause us to pass through. a valley of tears. This is not some strange anomaly. It's not an indication necessarily that you're being punished by God because this experience is happening in this psalm to the blessed man. Now what does the blessed man, this man that has a passionate desire for for worship, who trust in his God. How does he weather the storm of the valley of tears? Notice this is a beautiful expression. He says, he maketh it, makes it a well. The rain also filleth the pools. And what it means is that he makes it a place of springs. This is a figurative way of saying that the blessed man not only thr survives this difficult experience, but he actually continues to thrive through this dark valley. Now how does he do this? The answer is found in the stanza. If you'll notice in verse 5, it talks about in whose strength is in thee. And in verse 7, we see the same term again. They go, it says, from strength to strength. That is, his life is characterized by kind of an unseen strength or stamina or stability in his life that keeps him upright in difficult times. The enablement that God gives us, we call in New Testament terms grace And the scriptures tell this to us again and again in Psalm 28. It says in verse 7, the psalmist using the same expression, the Lord is my strength and my shield. My heart trusteth in him, and I am helped. Therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth. And with my song will I praise him. And Psalm 29 and verse 11, it says, the Lord will give strength unto his people. The Lord will bless his people. With peace. So the Bible tells us that God will give strength to his people when they go through difficult times in their life. But What do we do with this truth? Well, in order to receive God's strength, you must recognize that you can't handle all the circumstances that you face in life. We all like to be independent. You know? And there's a part of that that's good. You know, a little child. comes to a point that even when they can't do something, they'll pull away from their mom and say, I want to do it myself. And there's a sense in which that is good and it's part of growing up. You've got to learn to do things for yourself. And and and certainly the Bible teaches the importance of responsibility and not unduly depending on others. But the fact of the matter is. We all need the Lord, and we will all face times in our life when we can't get through this on our own resources. We need the Lord's grace, and therefore we must rely on Him. In order to receive God's help, you must ask for his strength. And the scriptures are filled with this. Do you know what happens when you rely on God's strength in the valley of tears? Well, it's mentioned in verse 7 of this beautiful psalm. It says they go from strength to strength. That is, from one degree of strength to another. You can look over your life and you will see difficulties in your journey and God gave you grace to meet that. And then a few years may pass with relative ease, and then will come another difficulty, and God will give you his grace to face that. And you can look back over your life and say, God gave me strength for this and strength for this and strength for this and strength for this. My whole life is a record of from strength to strength. And it was all due to the grace of God. The Christian should be growing and becoming stronger and learning to depend more on the grace of God as we grow up physically. And emotionally and mentally, we become less dependent on our parents. But as we grow up and mature as believers in Jesus Christ, we become more dependent on God, not less dependent. Now I want us to look at the third stanza, and there we have the believer's privilege to worship in God's house. Look with me. In verse 8, O Lord God of hosts, hear my prayer. Give ear, O God of Jacob. Behold, O God, our shield, and look upon the face of thine anointed. For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I'd rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. For the Lord God is a son and shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly. O Lord of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth. So when we gather for worship, we can enjoy a unique aspect of the privilege of prayer. We see his prayer in verse 8. Hear my prayer, give ear, O God of Jacob. Of course, the Lord has called on us to pray individually, but the temple was also called by our Lord as a house of prayer. There is a certain power that believers have when we gather together for prayer. We've already talked about the fact that there's a uniqueness to when we praise God together. There's a uniqueness also when we pray to God together. We read in Acts chapter 4 of the early church under persecution praying together, and it says the whole place was shaken. And that's because it says they prayed as with one voice. There was a blessed, spirit-led unity of that early assembly. This is a spiritual power that comes when we unite our hearts together in prayer. And one of the reasons why God has called us to gather and worship Him together is because when we gather together, we have ability to really serve one another and minister to one another in a way that we don't when we're by ourselves. This is mentioned in verse 10 of this psalm. Notice for a day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I'd rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness. The son of Korah was a doorkeeper. That was one of his responsibilities as well as probably being a musician. The Bible says there is joy in serving the Lord's. There is a joy, every pastor knows, that if you can find a place for a person in your assembly to plug in and to minister , They will be much more content, they will be less critical, and they will be more faithful because they feel a certain ownership This is where God has brought me and this is where I will serve his people. That's the way God intends it to be. It unites our hearts when others, when we minister to them, when we get involved in their lives. Now would you notice with me in verse 10 that this verse is comprised of just two comparisons? For day and thy courts is better than a thousand and I'd rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. This expresses the heart of this writer. This is a healthy, a healthy desire to serve the Lord and to worship the Lord. So let me put this in contemporary terms. Could you say a day at church is better than a thousand days on the golf course? Or a day at church is better than a thousand days at the shopping ball Or a day at church is better than a thousand days hunting in the woods. Or I would rather have the most menial job in church than being a big shot in the world. That's kind of what the psalmist is expressing here. To serve the Lord, to worship the Lord, to be doing what He has called me to do, what He has made me to do, is a blessed privilege. And and I I ideally that's the way it should be when we all gather for worship. And then when we gather for worship, we can enjoy a unique aspect of the blessing of God. I love what it says here in verse 11. This is a beautiful verse. The Lord God is a son and shield. And then this parallel line, the Lord will give grace. And glory. And then this promise. No good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly. This is beautiful imagery. The Lord is compared to a son. What does the sun do? Well, it brings life. It brings light. Without the sun we could not live. And then we have the uh the picture of a shield, and we think of a Shield, you might think, well, this is obviously expressing uh protection that God brings to us. And that is possible, but I don't think that's what the psalmist has in mind. We know that in the ancient world, you know something they they frequently used shields for? They made very decorative shields and they put them up on their walls. We found in ancient ruins these beautiful shields made of gold and silver with gemstones on them. And they they revealed that a man was powerful. He was a man of privilege. They were a source of honor and glory. That's what the psalmist is saying here. And if you doubt me, look at the parallel line. The Lord will give grace and Glory, not grace and protection, but grace and glory. And when I read this verse, verse 11, I can't help but think of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, who is the light of the world, who gives us eternal life. And of course, is the most prominent and conspicuous display of the glory of God that has been given and revealed to us. And then this wonderful promise, no good thing will he withhold from them but walk uprightly. That's a precious promise to me I've reclined on that promise many times when I've been going through a difficult time and I didn't know what the future would hold. And I didn't know how things were going to turn out to think of this verse. No good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly. That God has good plans. That God will bring good things out of this. And even the difficulty that we've gone through and the way we have not been able to gather for worship, you know what? God is going to bring good things out of this. God is going to bring good things out of this desire. And one of the things that we pray and hope for is that there are many people who are seeking the Lord's in this time of difficulty when they consider their own mortality. When their whole lives has been disrupted, that they will seek the Lord. This verse, this phrase at the end of verse 11 is kind of the Old Testament equivalent of Romans 8. 28. If you are truly a child of God, everything that comes into your life is for your good. And we need to remember that. And then this beautiful psalm fittingly ends with this beatitude: O Lord of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth in thee. Now remember, this whole psalm is about what? It's about the believer's relationship and desire and affection for public worship. So what's the connection between that major theme and this last phrase, blessed is the man that trusteth in thee? I think it is this. That there's a real connection between how strong our faith is and how careful we are in our public worship. And that is that our public worship is intended by God to strengthen our faith. Where every week we hear the preaching of the Word of God proclaimed to us. And we need that because we so often forget it. And there's something about the Word of God when someone tells you, remember, this is what God says and this is what it means for your life that's different than you just reading the Word on your own. There's a different dynamic to it. God wants his people to hear that every week. And as they gather, they are strengthened in their faith. They are encouraged by their brother and sister. Their heart lifts up its voice in praise to God. These are all expressions and demonstrations of their faith. This is part of the blessed life. The Bible says in Romans 10, 17, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. And I know the context there is primarily of evangelism. and why we send out preachers. And it's the proclamation of the Word of God, the gospel that saves sinners. But it's also true That as we hear the word of God read and preached and exhorted to us, that it feeds our faith. And enables us to go from strength to strength and to continue our spiritual lives with stamina and not just with dogged determination, but with joy. with the blessings of God that are mentioned in this psalm. May God help us. One of the things that I have prayed for Because every prognosticator, every church growth expert has said, listen, when things get back to normal, your church is not going to be as large as it once was. Because a lot of people are going to be still fearful for years and years and years to come to come back, or they've gotten to the pattern of not going to church. And they've gotten comfortable not coming out and they're just not going to come. And visitors aren't going to come because they're saying I'm not going to go with those hundreds of people. I'm not going to jeopardize my health, so they're not going to come. That's very discouraging to a pastor. My heart and my prayer is that people, the people of God will say from this time, man, I really need to be in church. I can see in my own life how much I've missed it, how much I've become weak in my faith because I haven't gathered with the people of God. And I hope that there will be lost people who will say, I need to hear the truth. I have really important questions that need to be answered. I can't make sense of the world and that all the prognosticators will be proved wrong. And that the house of God will in the future be filled. That is my prayer. And I hope that that's the desire of your heart May God bless us as we seek to do his will. Let's close our service in a word of prayer this morning. Father, you've been so good to us. You've allowed the weather and the rain to just miss us, allowed us to have pleasant temperatures and sweet fellowship. I pray, Lord, that there would be joy in our hearts and rejoicing because we have gathered with your people on the Lord's Day. And for all of our dear people at home who cannot gather here, We pray that you would work in such a way that in the days ahead they they would be able to come and that we would be able to be fully united as an assembly and sing our praises to you and bring our prayers before you. And hear the word of God proclaimed to us. We pray, Lord, that you would bring good out of this as you have promised that you would. And Father, that you would bless us and the time that we have spent here together. We thank you, Lord, for all that you have done for us, for your faithfulness through this time. Help us never to forget this. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen