So good to have you here and to be back in Romans chapter 8. One of the greatest works of art that comes from the Renaissance. It's a large fresco painting by Michelangelo. This masterpiece is known as The Last Judgment. It was completed in 1541. It's painted on the wall of the Sistine Chapel. Sistine Chapel is famous for paintings on the ceiling, but there's also a massive painting on the back wall. It depicts the judgment of all mankind At the return of Christ. It's not a pleasant painting to behold. Nearly 300 people included in the painting are filled with looks of terror, panic. And regret on their faces. The fact is that it was common for great churches in the Middle Ages to have a painting of the Last Judgment on the west wall of the church. So that as people filed out of the building, they would be reminded that they must someday give an account to a holy God. Now the whole idea of people being judged by God seems almost laughable to most people today. But the Bible does clearly teach that God is the ultimate judge of mankind, and that we must all give an account to Him. I want you to think about that for a second. This is not some esoteric truth. This is not something that might happen. This is something that the Bible says from cover to cover will happen. And that is that all of us Every one of you individually must stand before God and give an account. Paul told the philosophers at Athens that God hath appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness. Acts 17, 31. And Hebrews 9. 27 says, it's appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment. No one will escape this judgment. No one will elude God's justice. Such a prospect is sobering. My question to you this morning is: what verdicts will God declare concerning you? Will he declare that you are guilty or not guilty? This morning, as we return to our study of Romans 8, we are reminded that this chapter is intended to bring comfort and assurance to the people of God. God doesn't want his children to wonder what will happen on that great day. He desires that we know the verdict that we will hear on Judgment Day. Let me remind you where we are in Romans chapter 8. We are effectively in the home stretch. Look with me at verse 31. Paul here is concluding his thoughts. He begins a series of six rhetorical questions What shall we then say to these things? That's the first one. If God be for us, who can be against us? That's the second The third encompasses all of verse 32. He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with them also freely give us all things? And then we come to the fourth of six rhetorical questions. Verse 33. Who shall lay anything to the charge of God 's elects? It is God that justifieth. Now there's some question about the punctuation of these verses because the original text of the New Testament did not contain punctuation. So anytime you see punctuation in your Bible, know that that is a guess of editors as to the way it should be punctuated. It's not there in the original languages. And there are about six different ways that I have seen that you could understand the punctuation versus 33 and 34. But most Bible scholars see the structure of verses 33 and 34 as a question-answer format. That is, the verses begin what the question and then the answer is given. And that's the way I understand it. And that's what we effectively have here in verse 33, which is our text this morning. Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? That's the question. And the answer is this: it is God that justifieth. The words used here are all borrowed from the court of law. Paul here is addressing the Christians Legal status before God. The Bible teaches that God is the ultimate judge and that He will render a just verdict on every human being who has ever lived. But in this fearful prospect, there's actually comfort for the people of God. I'm going to preach you this morning on this truth. The gospel of grace is the Christian's comfort both now and in the day of judgment. I want you to first of all notice that Christians find great comfort knowing that no one can ultimately accuse us. Let's look at this question. Who shall lay anything to the charge of God 's elect? Let's begin by considering the charge or accusation that Paul states here that will not be brought against us The verb that Paul uses here is a word that refers to a formal charge that would be brought in a court of law. This term is used six other times in the New Testament, all in the book of Acts. It's used of Paul's trials before Felix and Agrippa. And it's most often translated as accused This word refers to a legal accusation. Now I want us just for a moment. To consider all the possible sources of accusation that we as Christians face in this life. First of all, there is the accusation that comes from our own conscience, or sometimes referred to as our heart. And I want you to turn back with me earlier in this book of Romans to Romans chapter 2. Turn with me, please, to Romans chapter 2. Look with me at verse thirteen, please. Romans chapter 2. In context here, Paul is revealing that the Jews who were privileged to receive God's law were guilty Because they did not truly keep God's law. He says, for not the hearers of law, verse 13 are just before God, but the doers of law shall be justified. For when the Gentiles which have not the law do by nature the things contained in the law, these having not the law are a law unto themselves Would show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts, then meanwhile accusing or excusing one another in the day when God shall judge the secret of men by Jesus Christ according to my gospel Now the key word here , key verse I should say, is verse 15. Here we read that every human being has a conscience. Some sense of right and wrong. And that is because all human beings are made in the image of God. And because we reflect, although in a distorted way, his moral perfections, we have some sense of right and wrong. I want you to notice that the conscience does two things according to the last verse in verse 15, last phrase. It either accuses or it excuses an individual. Everyone here knows what it is to have an accusing conscience. If you don't know what that is, then either you're not alive or you're some kind of psychopath We all know what it is to go to bed at nights and to think about something we did or said or didn't do. And have a voice inside of us say, that was not right. So one source of accusation is our heart or conscience within us. This is something that many Christians struggle with, with an accusing conscience That constantly reminds them that they do not measure up, that they have come short of the glory of God, that they fail the Lord every day in some way. But there's another source, and that is other people. Do you remember Job's so-called friends? When Job was suffering, they came to console him. But they all believed to a man that his trials were the result of his sin, but they were wrong. God was actually involved in a contest where he was proving that Satan was indeed a liar because Satan said the only reason that Job serves you is because you're so good to him. So take away His health and his family and his riches, and we'll see what kind of a man he is and how faithful he is to you And we see in this passage that even those who may know us and care for us and call themselves our friends, may at time falsely accuse us But thirdly, another source of accusation in this life is the world itself. The Bible teaches that the world is hostile to Christians. That has not seemed very real to us. Especially in this country, but it is true. And it may become much more real to us in the days ahead. We see this in the Old Testament. We read of foreign dignitaries mocking the people of God and making false accusations about this. We read about David and the way he mocked His culture, his God, in that contest. We read of Rabshekah, who did the same before King Hezekiah And in the New Testament, we read of the early church being falsely accused by both the Jews and the Gentiles. Christians in the first century were considered to be dangerous revolutionaries. And we know from ancient writings that they were often slandered. They were considered to be unpatriotic because they would not affirm that Caesar is Lord. They were considered to be immoral because they called one another's brothers and sisters, and they loved one another's, and so the outside world slandered them by saying that they were all immoral. They were even called cannibals because they partook of the Lord's table, and they spoke of this being the blood of Christ and the body of Christ. The followers of Christ were slandered and falsely accused. They were an oppressed minority. So we've looked at three sources of accusation, but most scholars would say that what Paul has in mind when he writes these words is the fourth one that I bring up to you, and that is that Satan accuses. Christians. We read of this in several places in Scripture. Of course, we read of Satan accusing Job I mentioned this a moment ago. In Job chapter 1, we read of this cosmic contest. And Satan suggested the only reason that Job obeyed God is because God blessed him abundantly. He said that Job was nothing more than a mercenary. But God proved him wrong. We read in Zechariah of a vision of Joshua, the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord. And it says that Satan was at his right hand to resist him. And that word resist in the Hebrew means to accuse. Satan was there to accuse that high priest. And in Revelation chapter 12 and verse 10, we read that Satan is the accuser of the brethren. It says there that he accuses Christians before God day and night. You ever thought about that? You like it when someone slanders you Well, Satan slanders you day and night. The only problem is a lot of what he says about you is true. I want you to notice how Christians are described in our text. Turn back with me if you're not already there to Romans chapter 8 and verse 33. It says, who shall lay anything to the charge of God 's elects? Paul describes Christians here as the elect of God. This is one of his designations for believers. Most often the word here that's translated elect is rendered as chosen. You see, the elect are those who have been chosen of God. Now, why does Paul use this term in this verse? I mean, he could have said Who will lay anything to those who have received Christ? Or he might have written, Who will lay anything against those who believe the gospel? Or perhaps he could have said, Who will lay anything against those who have repented? of their sins. All of this would have been true. But that's not what he wrote. Instead he said, who shall lay anything against the charge? Of God's elect. Paul's emphasis here is intended to bring comfort and assurance to the people of God. And what will bring assurance to the people of God is not That we chose God, but that he chose us. Not that we love God, but that he first loved us. Not that we know God. But that he knows us. Not that we are clinging to God, but that he has us in the grip of his almighty hands. Paul is essentially repeating what he's just said in verses 29 through 30. For whom he did for know, he also did predestinate. to be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called, and whom he called, them he also justified, and whom he justified Them he also glorifies. God finishes what he starts But let me ask you a very important question. Why is it that no one can successfully bring a charge against God's elect? Paul makes this grand declaration. But how can that be true? I mean, it's certainly not because the devil has no material to work with It's not like he looked over your life and he says, I've got nothing. There's nothing I can find here. This person ever did wrong It's not because we're innocent. We are all sinners. We all come short of the glory of God. And yet Paul here says, that no one will bring a charge against God's elect. Why? That brings us to the answer that's given in the last phrase of verse 33. And my next point is this. Christians find great comfort knowing that God is the one who justifies us. Look what he says. It is God that justifieth. Now the key doctrine of the book of Romans Is at the very heart of the gospel. And that is the doctrine of justification. A verb form of this word is used thirteen times in this epistle. This is actually the last time that Paul uses a form of this word in the book of Romans. This is at the very core of the gospel, and so it's important that we get this right in our thinking. So let me first of all begin by saying some things that justification is not. Justification is not amnesty. Amnesty means to pardon a person or people for past offenses simply by the decree of an authority. As you know, the President of the United States has the power to pardon. Often this is controversial because there has been no satisfaction of justice. Doesn't mean that person has paid their dues to society or they put in all these years. He can just by decree say, set them free. They are not guilty. But our justification is not like that. It is not something that is arbitrary. It's not God just deciding that we're not guilty and suspending his sense of justice and righteousness. That's not what the Bible teaches. Justice has been served, and God is a just judge because Jesus Christ, the righteous one, died in our place. Romans chapter 3 and verse 26 says this is how God can be just and the justifier of those who believe in Jesus. Secondly, justification does not mean to make righteous Justification refers to the verdict of a judge. It's our legal standing before God. But at the moment of conversion, we do not become perfectly righteous in our character and practice. That would be wonderful, wouldn't it? Isn't when you got saved, boom, you never sinned again. One of the things I sometimes have noticed in some new believers is when they get saved, they are so zealous for the Lord. that they have in their mind this unrealistic expectation that they will never sin again. And then they fall. And they are painfully reminded of their indwelling sin that wars within them No, justification does not mean that God zaps us and now all of our sin has been eradicated and we are perfect. That's not what the scripture teaches. Our justification is the beginning of our sanctification. Sanctification always follows justification, but we must not confuse the two. Because when you confuse sanctification and justification, you always end up with a works-based salvation that's contrary to Scripture. However, when we are saved, we do have a new standing before God, and this new standing of being not guilty is intended to motivate us and inspire us and give us confidence that we can live and walk in newness of life. It gives us new desires and new goals And by the grace of God, we progressively become more righteous until the day we are glorified in heaven. So we've just noted what justification is not. And I've mentioned two things. And now I want to mention two halves. This is what justification is. Number one, justification is the declaration of God that all are sins. have been forgiven. It is the verdict not guilty. This is our acquittal. It means that we have been exonerated from all charges It means that before God's holy law we are innocent and not guilty. We have also been set free from the stigma of guilt and shame that separates us from our holy God Forgiveness is one of the most beautiful words in the Bible. Reminds us of the gospel. And forgiveness is connected intrinsically to the doctrine of justification. I want to show this to you Paul, who wrote Romans chapter 8 through the Holy Spirit, also preached in Acts chapter 13. I want to ask you to turn back to the book preceding Romans to Acts chapter 13. This is Paul preaching at Pisidian Antioch. And in Acts chapter 13, verses 38 and 39, in the midst, as he's coming to the conclusion of this sermon, he says. Be it known unto you therefore, men and brethren, that through this man is preached unto you the forgiveness of sins. And that by him all that believe are justified from all things from which ye cannot be justified by the law of Moses. You see the connection there between the forgiveness of sins and the doctrine of justification. Notice that all the forgiven are those who believe, and all those who believe are the justified. Ephesians chapter 1 and verse 7 says, In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. according to the riches of his grace. And in Colossians chapter 2, verses 13 and 14 we read, and you being dead in your sins and the uncircumcision of your flesh hath he quickened together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses, blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us. which was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross. When I was a kid I was taught that justification meant just as if I had never sinned. Now the doctrine of justification Is more complex than this definition, but it's not less powerful. The point is that in justification, God forgives us of all of our sin, past, present. And future. There are many Christians who fail to grasp the enormity of that truth. They might think that God forgave their past sense, but they never think about their present or future sins as also being forgiven at the cross. But let me remind you that when Jesus died on the cross, all of your sins were yet in the future. Many Christians struggle to accept the fact that they have been forgiven. The Bible says the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin, 1 John 1. 7. Many believers are haunted with guilt and shame and believe that God is perpetually angry at them. And sometimes they think of this as a pious thing. I should just be miserable all the time and keep my distance from God because I fail him often. That's a a lie of Satan. God doesn't want you to stay out in the far country. He wants you to come home. God's word is filled with reassuring promises of forgiveness from cover to cover The Bible says, as far as the east is from the west, so far hath they removed our transgressions from us. The Bible says, though your skin Sins be as scarlet, they shall be white as snow, though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. The Lord says, For thou hast cast all my sins behind thy back. Isaiah 43 says, I, even I, am he that blotteth out thy transgressions for my own sake and will not remember thy sins. He says in Jeremiah 31, in the New Covenant, for I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sins no more. And in Micah 7 he says, He will subdue our iniquities, and thou wilt cast all their sins into the depths of the sea. We have all these promises to remind us of God 's amazing forgiveness. But as incredible as this truth is, justification means more than just that God has pardoned or forgiven our sins. It's the declaration that God's, that Christ's righteousness has been imputed to us. Justification has often been called the great exchange. In an exchange, there are two things that occur. And so it is in our justification. Number one, our sin is placed on Christ. Who died in our place. This is the better-known aspect of the great exchange. But the other amazing side of the exchange is that Christ's righteousness is imputed to our accounts. I've used this illustration before. The word imputed is a concept that we can grasp because it means to be credited to your accounts Let's say that you had a serious spending problem. You got yourself into a billion dollars of debts. And of course you could never hope to repay it in your lifetime. And the credit card company was so gracious that they decided to pardon it. I know it's very far-fetched. But if they were to do that, you would be left with nothing. Zero resources. But the gospel is greater than we imagine. The Bible it teaches that not only have our past debts and our future debts and all of our debts been pardoned and forgiven, but we have been imputed, we have been credited, there's been credited to our account the perfect righteousness of Christ. Theologians call Christ's death on the cross his passive obedience, but they denote his perfect life as his active obedience. He lived on this earth for thirty-three years and he never sinned. He always did always did those things that pleased his father, and that perfect righteousness as imputed to our account the moment that we believe. And so the Father sees us in the righteousness of Christ. He doesn't just see us as a person who has zero balance. Their sins have been forgiven, but that's all you could say about them. No, our sins have not just been forgiven, but we've been imputed, we've been credited with his righteousness. We are in Christ. In justification, we receive not only the benefits of Christ's death, but the blessings of his life Not only does the Lord take away our filthy garments, but he wraps us in the righteous robes of Christ. You see, believers are all prodigal sons who have not only been forgiven, but clothed in the garments of grace. This is the great exchange. Jesus takes our sin and gives us his righteousness. This is the glory of the gospel. Justification is the judicial act of God whereby he pardons sinners who trust in Jesus and declares them to be righteous because of Christ's atoning sacrifice on their behalf. For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. I want to make two applications as I conclude this morning. The first one is this. True believers should have the assurance that their standing before God is secure. Now look with me one last time at our text. Romans 8, 33 says this Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifies The key point that Paul is making is that our standing before God is secure because of God's choice and his verdict. In the Greek text, this is brought out by the central aspect of this verse being God So at the end of the first line, which is the question in verse 33, it literally leads, reads, Who shall lay anything to the charge of the elect of God. That's the last word. God in that line. And then the second line reads, God justifies. So you have at the center of this verse the doubling of the name of God, so that the reader would see originally, this is all about God. This is all what God has done. You see, the great emphasis and the reason why we're secure is in this phrase, it is God who justifies. Now I'm going to bring out five truths very quickly from this that should bring great comfort and assurance to the people of God. Number one, did you know that God knows your sin better than anyone else? He knows your sin better than you know your sin. The Bible speaks of sin of ignorance. We sin sometimes and aren't even aware of it because we're such sinful people. But God knows every one of our sins. And yet he has justified us. God knows his holy law better than anyone else. A skillful lawyer may know the law better than another lawyer or even the judge, but no one knows God's law better than God because the law is a reflection of his character. And thirdly, consider this: no one has been more offended by your sin than God This is why David could say to the Lord after his sin with Bathsheba, Against thee and thee only have I sinned. So if the one who has been most wronged, most offended by our sin has no more objections, then who can honestly bring a charge against us? Number four, God's just wrath has been satisfied through the death of his beloved Son. And so if God's wrath has been satisfied at such a dear price, who can lodge a complaint against us? And finally, number five, God's verdict is universal, final, and unassailable. Sometimes in this world we have judges who are corrupt and crooked, but no one can question his character or his judgment. The Bible describes him as the judge of all the earth. In Genesis 18, 25 it says, Shall not the judge of all the earth do rights? No one can bring out new information to condemn us because God is omniscient. No one can appeal to a higher court. There is no higher court. There is no Supreme Court above God. There is no greater judge. And this judge will never change his verdict because he is the great I am, the immutable God of the universe. You see, dear Christian, your standing is sure if you are in Christ. But now I want to conclude with this. Those of you who are yet lost in their sins should understand that by faith in Christ, all of your sins. can be forgiven. I want you to turn back with me, if you would, to the book of Acts. I want to rapidly read three passages. That answer this question, how could a person know that their sins are forgiven? I began in Acts chapter 10 and verse 43. Acts ten forty-three says this to him: Give all the prophets witness That through his name, whosoever believeth in him shall receive remission of sins or forgiveness of sin. Turn with me to the passage we looked at earlier, Acts 13. This is Paul preaching. Look with me at verse 39. I'll begin at verse 38. Be it known unto you therefore, men and brethren, that through this man is preached unto you the forgiveness of sins. And by him all that believe are justified from all things from which ye could not be justified by the law of Moses. And then turn ahead with me, please, to Acts chapter 26. And verse 18, this is Paul sharing his testimony, the commission that God gave to him. Acts 26 verse 18. It says, to open their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light and from the power of Satan unto God That they may receive forgiveness of sins and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me, that is in Christ. So the question is, have you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ? This is not speaking of some intellectual scent where the preacher mentions several doctrinal points and you nod your head and you say, I guess that's true. No, it means that this is your own personal conviction. This is what you are relying on for your salvation. That in your heart you have become convinced that there is a heaven, there is a hell, there is a Savior who died for you, and that this is your only hope of forgiveness. And if you put your faith and your trust in Jesus Christ and you turn from your sin, you can have the assurance of your salvation. So let me ask you, has the great exchange occurred in your life? Can you say with the hymn writer, bold shall I stand in thy great day? For who ought to my charge shall lay, fully absolved from these I am, from sin and fear, from guilt and shame. Let's close in prayer. Father, I pray that you would comfort your people and that you would convict those who are lost with the truth of your gospel. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen