If you have your Bibles, please would you turn with me to the passage we read together? Galatians chapter 4. Galatians chapter 4. I strongly suspect that everyone here knows that Christmas is the day that we celebrate the birth of Christ. It was a day that would change the world forever. If you doubt that, just look at our calendar. This is the year 2024. And this is A. D. which stands for in the year of our Lord. Now I must confess to you that our calendar is a little bit off. The people who first designed this did not have the tools of research at their disposal. So Jesus was probably born about five or four years before year one. But uh we're not going to say it's 2028, we're going to say it's 2024. And of course, it's very unlikely that Jesus was born on December 25th. We don't know when he was born. Most probably in the spring. I guess there's a 1 in 365 chance that he was born on December 25th, but very unlikely. But the birth of Christ marks a new era. Ralph Stockman said the hinge of history is on the door of a Bethlehem stable. This morning I want to look at a passage that's not usually associated with Christmas, but does have a reference, a clear reference to the birth of Christ. It's found in the book of Galatians, which was probably the very first book that the Apostle Paul wrote. It's known as the Magna Carta of the Christian Faith. The letter explains that by virtue of Christ's redemptive work, the believer is fully justified. No amount of good works can add to our standing before God. Man is not saved by works, and he's also not sanctified by works. Now the paragraph that we read together, chapter 4, verses 1 through 7, I want you to notice. The first and the last verse. The first verse says, I mean that the heir, as long as he is a child , is no different from a slave, although he is the owner of everything. It's using the analogy of a person who is the heir of an estate but is still a child and they're under governors and rulers and they have a very prescribed schedule, even though legally They might own everything, and someday they will come into their inheritance. And then look with me at verse 7. So you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir through God. Now, the key word in this paragraph is the word son. It's found six times. I have it highlighted in my Bible so that it stands out to me. But I need to quickly explain to you. The term sun in our passage today refers to both believers who are men and women. You probably noticed from the first verse that it was like the beginning, like you're in the middle of a conversation. That's because the chapter divisions are not inspired. They were something that was developed centuries after the Bible was written. And the end of chapter 3 flows into the beginning of chapter 4. So I want you to look for me at verse 26 of chapter 3, for and Jesus, for in Christ Jesus, look at this, you are all sons of God through faith. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ, there is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free. There is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you are Christ, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to the promise. But there's another question that I would like to quickly address before we look at our text, which is verses four and five. There are many passages of Scripture that speak about believers being servants, or the word can also be translated as slaves, as it is in our text of God. And yet in verse 7 we read that you are no longer a slave, but a son. So how can they both be right? Well, as Christians, we are forever under the authority of Christ, and in this sense, we are always servants. But as New Covenant believers, we are more than servants. We are also sons, which speaks of our status in the family of God. And I will say more about this later. There is an intimacy and a closeness that exists that did not exist before. In John chapter 15, Jesus tells his disciples in the upper room that he no longer calls them servants. but friends. And then he says, because the slave master does not tell his slaves what his plans are , But I have told you all things concerning the future. In other words, the relationship that he had with his disciples at the cross was changing. And so it is with us. There is a closeness, an intimacy, a sharing of the hearts. That is true of new covenant believers. That was not true of old covenant believers. Now the point of verses 1 through 3 is that before the coming of Christ, God 's people lived like minor children under guardians. And although they were heirs of a great inheritance, they still to some degree lived like slaves since all their choices was made for them, and their relationship with God was somewhat different than what we enjoy today. I will explain more about that in the rest of the sermon. Now what changed everything was the sending of two persons of the Godhead. Notice the parallelism in verses four and six. In verse 4, we read that God sent forth his son. And in verse 6, we read, God has sent the spirits. What is the result of the sending of the Son and the Spirit? Verse 7, so that you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir through God. Our relationship with God is that of a mature son. And this all began with the coming of the Son. There's a sense of play on words in our text this morning, and that is, because the Father sent his son, we have become the sons of God. I want us to first of all consider God's preparation for the coming of his son. Look with me at the first phrase in verse 4. But when the fullness of time had come. In context here, Paul is comparing the birth of Christ to a time when a child comes of age and is no longer a minor. And verse 2 it says, but he is under guardians and managers until the date set by the Father. When we become an adult legally is when we turn 18. But this is a reference to the adoptive process that I will explain later, a date that the father could set when his the child would become his heir. Now the point is, is that Jesus was born on the exact day when God the Father determined that it would occur. The world was like a stage awaiting the entrance of a king, sort of like a couple that's about to have a child. They make everything ready, they prepare everything. I get a crib, perhaps a bassinet, and several hundred outfits from various friends. They get everything ready. There's preparation. And so it was with the birth of our Savior. For thousands of years, God the Father had been preparing the world for the coming of his son. First of all, I want you to notice the world was prepared politically. The birth of Christ took place towards the beginning of a period of time that lasted for about 180 years known as the Pax Romana. This was the golden age of the Roman Empire. The Roman Empire had in some form been around now for about five centuries. And they had defeated all of their foes. There was no serious rival to their power. The entire known world was under their dominion. And consequently, there was peace, security, and tranquility throughout most of the world. You may say, yes, but these people in large part were oppressed. They were, and they wanted their own freedoms. But Rome tended to let them govern themselves the way they wanted to as long as they kept the taxes coming in and complied with major requests. And because of Rome's power, they were able to connect these isolated regions of the world through their network of Roman roads. They built these roads so that their military could move rapidly and directly from one end of the empire to the other. If there was an uprising, they could get there relatively quickly. Now, not by our modern measures, but by ancient methods, they could get there in time to put down a rebellion. God prepared this so that when the gospel era came, people like the Apostle Paul would travel on the Roman roads. from one end of the empire to the other, and they would be able to do so quickly because Rome had built these roads. By the way, these roads, some of these roads are still being used today. That's how well they were constructed. Secondly, the world was prepared culturally. Three centuries before the birth of Christ, there was a remarkable man called Alexander the Great from Macedonia. He was a very ambitious and determined young man, and he conquered the known world by the time he was 30. He never lost a battle, although almost in every one of his battles he was outnumbered. He's even mentioned in Scripture and prophecies. And God used this man's ambition and military prowess to unite parts of the world that were disconnected and to provide a way for them to communicate with each other and that was the language of Greek So that within a century or so of his death, every civilized person in that region of the known world was able to communicate in Greek. Yes, they had their own native language, but they also knew Greek, which enabled them to communicate to others. And guess what language the New Testament was written in? It was written in Koine Greek or the Greek of the common man. And it was able to spread, we would say today, virally. throughout the known world, because three centuries before the coming of Christ, there was a man named Alexander the Great who spread this language and this Greek culture throughout the world. And the world was also prepared religiously. The gods of the Greeks and the Romans were no longer worshipped by most educated people. There was a time when remember the pantheon of gods and all these different gods that had Greek names and Latin names that they would worship. But as time went on, the educated people said, you know, this is all mythology. This is not true. So they the the whole that once this pantheon of God's hat on people was gone and they were no longer thinking of God in that way. But they still had a God-shaped void in them And we know that after the Babylonian exiles, the Jews in large part never returned to idolatry. That was their besetting sin. If you read the prophets and the history of Israel, they were always so quickly turning back to idolatry. But when they went to the Babylonian conquest and they were living in exile for some 70 years. They turned away from that and they were they were in very way many ways zealous about following the faith of their followers And so there was a thirst both in the Gentile pagan world and in the Jewish world for the coming of the Messiah. And the Jewish religion spread over the Greco -Roman world in almost every large city and in many smaller cities there was a synagogue. And so Gentiles that were thirsting to know the one true God were often intrigued by the religion of the Jews, and they would come in. And they would often sit in the back and they would learn and some of them would convert to Judaism because they wanted to know God's And after the 400 years of silence from God, what we called the intertestamental period between the Old Testament and the New Testament, people were longing for a word from God. And it's in this context that God sends forth his son. And the word was also prepared prophetically The Old Testament scriptures speak often of a coming king that would bring deliverance. It starts all the way back, you may remember two weeks ago with Genesis 3. 15. In the curse that God gave to the serpent, there is the hope of one who would come and destroy the serpents. And so any serious reader of the Old Testament would see that the whole Old Testament was preparing the reader for the coming of the Messiah, the law, the first five books. Focused man's attention on the holiness of God and the need for a perfect priest who would atone for all the sins of the people. The historical books focus man's attention on the need for leadership, but the Bible reveals that even the best of men like Moses and Samuel and David failed. And so these books called the reader to long for a perfect king who would reign in righteousness. And then the poetic books Reveal how we should think and feel about our king. But there was no king that was found to inspire such devotion. And then the prophetic books reveal that even God's servants, the prophets, could not turn the people away from their sins And so the reader is left who reads and meditates in the Old Testament, desiring a perfect prophet who will fulfill all that these holy men of God had revealed. So the Old Testament in summary is filled with unkept laws, unavailing sacrifices, unsuccessful leaders, unfulfilled prophecies, and unsatisfied longings. Because there was no perfect prophet, priest, or king. The stage was set for God to send his beloved Son. The fullness of time had come. And then we see God's plan for the birth of his son. Look with me, the second half of verse 4. It says, God sent forth his son. Born of a woman, born under the law. Notice how these two expressions are couched in parallel form. What do they mean? The first born of woman means that Jesus would truly be fully human This speaks of the mystery of the incarnation. There are volumes of Christology that are found in this phrase. Notice it assumes the pre-existence of Christ. The second person of the Trinity did not begin to exist at Bethlehem, not like you and I. When we were conceived, that was the beginning of our existence. But God the Son, the second person of the Trinity, existed from eternity past. This expression also assumes a virgin birth. No human father is mentioned here. He was born of a woman. This is the sort of thing that we read of in Genesis 3. 15, where we read of the seed of the woman. You see, the doctrine of the virgin birth is not a quaint story that we repeat at Christmas time. It's an essential truth of the Christian faith. But the primary thing that's revealed in this expression, born of a woman, is that Jesus would be fully human. This expression, born of a woman, is found several times in Scripture. For instance, in Job 14, 1, it says, Man that is born of a woman is a few days and full of trouble. profound verse. It means that human life is short and it's filled with suffering. That's the reality. You see, when it we instinctively know when it says man that is born of woman, we know that's talking about all of us. You know, I'm not going to have you raise your hand and say, if you were born of a woman, raise your hand. Because I'm hoping everyone would raise their hand with that. And not that you came from out underneath a rock or something. This is part of what it means to be human. Our text this morning excludes three possibilities. Jesus did not come just as a spirit. There was some early heresy called Gnosticism. that taught that Jesus only appeared to have a human body, but he didn't really have one. He was like a hologram. And some of the early writings in Scripture refer to this, John does, in his last epistle, in the book of 1 John. So this is not what the Bible teaches. Jesus also did not come in a temporary visible appearance. We call this a theophany in the Old Testament. We read of the angel of the Lord appearing like a man. It's the second person of the Trinity in human form, but that was a temporary manifestation. This is not. And thirdly, Jesus did not simply indwell a human being. There is another ancient heresy that says that Jesus was just an ordinary man, but at his baptism The Spirit of God came upon him, and that's when he became the Messiah, the Son of God. Before that, he was just a normal human being. And then when he died, the Spirit left him. That's not what the Bible teaches. He was fully human from his conception. Jesus became a man, and he is still the God-man. For Christ to transform mankind's relationship with God, he had to come as a man. We sang of this today, veiled in flesh, the Godhead see, hailed the incarnate deity, pleased as man with men to dwell, Jesus our Emmanuel. But then we come to this other parallel phrase that he was not only born of a woman, but he was born under the law. What does this mean? What certainly indicates that Jesus was Jewish. But again, I think the main point that Paul is making here is that Jesus was fully human. Because our text goes on to say that Jesus was born under the law to redeem them that were under the law. And this does not mean that Jesus came to simply save Jewish people, but not Gentiles. I believe that Paul is using this phrase under the law. In the same way he does in Romans chapter 3 and verse 19, which says, now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law. so that every mouth may be stopped, and the whole world may be held accountable to God. What is the basis on which God will demonstrate that we are sinners? He will show from his law that we have all broken his law. And I believe this is a reference to what we would call the moral law, those timeless truths that are always true. You see, the law of God is a reflection of his being. It is not some random list of rules. And the Bible tells us That Christ was under the law and that he submitted himself to God's law. He was the sinless Son of God. He never broke God's law. We read in Luke 2 that Jesus was circumcised on the eighth day as the law required. Christ was dedicated in the temple as the firstborn male as the law required. Jesus observed the religious feast days as the law required. Jesus kept the Sabbath as the law prescribed. He worshipped in the synagogue. In Matthew chapter 5 and verse 617, Jesus says, Do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the prophets. I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. So we have seen God's preparation for the coming of his son and God's plan for his coming. Now I want to consider God's purpose in the birth. Verse 5 gives us two reasons why the Son was sent by God and these are interrelated. They're connected. First of all, to provide believers full redemption. Notice what it says. To redeem those who were under the law. What does this mean? Well, the word redemption means that we have been purchased out of the slave market of sin But what does it mean that we are redeemed from being under the law? Well, there's a lot of theology, a lot of of writing about this, I want to mention three things that I think it clearly means. The first one is this. We are not saved by keeping the law. According to Romans 4, no one has ever been saved by keeping the law. One of the reasons this book of Galatians was written is because it was targeting Judaizers who were very zealous for the law of Moses But they heard the gospel message and they tried to accommodate these two. And they said this, all right, yes, you have to believe that Jesus died for your sins. But in addition to that, you must obey God's law for his people, the Jewish dietary restrictions and everything else. You have to do both if you want to go to heaven. And Paul writes in Galatians chapter 1 and he says, that is another gospel. That is not the gospel of salvation. It must be rejected by the people of God. But secondly, when it says we've been redeemed from under the law, it means that we have been saved from the condemnation of the law. Galatians chapter 3 and verse 13 in the previous chapter says, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who is hanged on a tree. You see, the law never saves It only condemns. It only reveals how far short we have come of the glory of God's. But then there's a third thing that I think that this means, that we've been redeemed from being under the law, and that is that we no longer relate to God on the basis of law. This is one of the big transformative differences between the Old Testament believer and the New Testament believer. And it's very, very important. That the people of God understand this truth. The Christian life is not one of keeping a list of rules and regulations. Let me hasten to add this. This doesn't mean that we don't follow God's truth and God's law. Because Jesus said, if you love me, what? Keep my commandments He said, the greatest commandment is to love God with all your heart, and the second is to love your neighbor as yourself. But we don't relate to God on the basis of law. If I were to ask you , How are you doing spiritually? And you said something like this. Well, I go to church, I pay my tithe. I don't get drunk. I'm doing really well. If that's the sort of answer that you would give, I want you to know something. There are many lost people who could give that answer. That does not speak at all of having a relationship with God. It's so easy to do this, and some people have, because of their personality and their experience, they tend to view things more like this. It's very easy for you to think of the Christian life as checking off a series of boxes. Right? Read my Bible? I prayed. I went to church. I'm doing really well. Do not misunderstand me. All of those are means of grace. And if you're going to grow spiritually, you do need those things. in your life. Those are not optional. Those are not unimportant things. But what I'm really getting at is the motive behind doing those things. Let me give you an illustration of this. I read a story once of a woman This is over a century ago who married an older man, something that was very common in previous centuries. And she soon found out that he was a tyrant. He treated her horribly. And shortly after they were married, he gave her a list. of her responsibilities, of when she was to get up, of what time she had to have breakfast ready, and what time they would have their dinner. And the fact that she could not leave the home, and what time she had to go to bed, and all of these duties were put down in paper And she lived like that for a couple years. And then, mercifully for her, her older husband died. And sometime after he died, she made the acquaintance with a wonderful Christian gentleman. Who wooed her and asked her to marry him, and she married him. And he treated her with respect and with love and with kindness. But a couple years after she was married to him, one day she put on an old sweater that she had not worn for some time, and she reached into the pocket and she felt a piece of paper and she pulled it out, and it was the list. That her first husband had made for her. And she looked at the things on that list of when to get up and the meals to prepare and all of these things. And she realized that most of those things she was still doing. But she was doing it out of love. Because she wanted to, not because she had to. And that should be the mark of a mature believer. We walk with God in an intimate relationship. You'll notice in verse 6 it says, because you are sons of God, God has sent the Spirit into our hearts crying, Abba Father! We are like a child who cries out to his heavenly father in times of distress, and there's an intimacy there. There's a closeness there. And our relationship is that of one of love, not of I've got to follow these five rules, or else God's going to get me. That's not the way the Christian life is supposed to work. And then the second thing that's provided here in verse 5, through the birth of Christ. is notice so that we might receive adoption as sons. The word adoption means to place as a son. That's literally what the word is. It's a combination of two words. This term is found five times in the Bible, all in the writings of the Apostle Paul. Now I wonder if you understand the biblical doctrine of adoption. It's important for you to understand that there really was not adoption in the Old Testament time period. And the adoption that was taking place in the first century when this was written. was very different from the adoption today. This is a reference to what all of the readers of the Apostle Paul would understand because they lived in a Greco-Roman world. And in the Roman world Adoption looked like this. It was when there was a wealthy father that had a large estate, but he had no sons. What was going to happen to that estate? Well, what he would normally do is he would adopt A young man that he trusted, usually a young man who worked for him as a servant, who had great character. in whom he had developed a relationship over many years. He trusted this young man. He would make him proud after he was dead and gone. And so he would let it be known that he was going to adopt the son and place him in the status of a son, although he was not his biological son. And all of that , he would in one sense enjoy that status when he came of age, but he wouldn't enjoy his full inheritance until the father died. And there were several consequences to being adopted in the Roman world. See if these sound familiar or significant. First of all, the adopted son lost all ties to his old family. That sounds like old things have passed away, all things have become new. Secondly, the adopted son enjoyed the same status as if he were a biologically born son. The law did not look any differently at him. Number three, the adopted son was the heir to his father's fortune. And number four, the adopted son was forgiven. of any past transgressions. His debts were canceled and his name was forever changed. And this doctrine of adoption is like many other doctrines, like the doctrine of salvation, where there's an already but not yet component. There's a sense in which the moment you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, at that moment you were adopted into the family of God. But you haven't received your inheritance yet. That will come when you're in heaven someday. Now, the term adoption does not exhaust all that the Bible teaches about our relationship with God because the Bible also teaches that we have been born again, that we have been regenerated. So there's a sense in which both of these pictures are pictures of the fullness of our salvation. We have been adopted. We also have been naturally born into the family of God. And both of these speak of God's grace. In the Roman world, when a man would adopt someone who was going to be an adult heir to him, he would make sure that it was a man of sterling character who would reflect well on his name. But that's not true of any of us. Even when we were enemies We were adopted into the family of God. Romans 5. 8 says, but God shows his love towards us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And because of our new status as sons and daughters of God, we should no longer serve the Lord out of a sense of guilt or obligation, but out of love. The Old Testament and those believers' relationship with God is compared to the relationship that minors have with their parents. Let me explain. If you have little tiny children that you're bringing into the world, can I give a little parenting advice? Children need structure and they need clear boundaries. And you've got to, from the beginning, regulate everything. You don't tell them, you know what, get up whenever you want, go to bed whenever you want, eat whenever whatever you want and whenever you want. You're a really bad parent. That's not biblical parenting. Children need structure. It's the most loving thing you can do for them. But as your children begin to age and mature and think and start to process things for themselves, you need to pull those structures back. So that they have more freedom. And they begin to think about things and the decisions that they make. And they have to wrestle with what's the right thing to do in the situation. And they're going to fail sometimes, but it's the only way they're going to learn to make the right choices. This is why your New Testament. Have you ever noticed this? Have you ever noticed that your New Testament is not filled with all of these rules that you that the Christian should live by? I I've known some people that are like unhappy about that. They would like there to be more clear rules, you know? These are the things you can watch, these are the things you can't watch, these are the things you can listen to, these are the things you can't listen to. This is when you want to worship, and you have to worship between this time and this time. There's some of you, your personality is such that you would really like it if the New Testament was laid out that way. Guess what? God has different ideas. What we have are principles. You see, if you have a loving relationship with God and you walk with him, you're going to make the right decisions. You're going to make the right decisions. And what parents want to see as they're raising their children is that their children begin to make the right choices and they begin to obey their parents Not because dad's going to take the car keys away or he's going to make my life miserable and I want to be grounded or whatever. But because I genuinely love and respect my parents, and more importantly, I love God and I want to do what's right in his eyes. Because in a very short time they're going to be out on their own and they're going to be making decisions. And guess what, parents? Every parent who's here like close to my age know there's a time in your life and like oh the rules have changed now I have no leverage on them anymore they're adults I can't dictate what they do And hopefully I've taught them what's right and what's wrong and how to walk with God and make wise choices in life. This is the mature relationship that God wants to have with his people. This is what it says at the end of this paragraph. It says, and because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba Father, so you are no longer a slave, but a son. And if a son, then an heir through God. Because God sent his beloved Son to earth, we can know him as the sons and daughters of God. So my question to you this morning on the Sunday before Christmas is, are you a son of God's? Do you enjoy the kind of personal relationship that is inscribed here in this passage? The Bible says that that kind of relationship begins when we repent of our sins and trust in Christ, when we turn to Him. It says, as many as received him to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. So have you believed in his name? Have you received Christ as your Savior? If you have, you can have this beautiful relationship of intimacy and trust that God desires. for all of his people. And this is the reason that God sent his son. Let's close in prayer. Father. We thank you for your word. We thank you for our great Savior. We thank you for all the blessings that we have in him. I pray. that you would help us to rest in him and at this Christmas season to understand the full meaning of his coming and how that has changed everything in our lives. I pray, Lord, for those who are here who are yet lost in their sins, that they would turn to the Savior and trust in him alone. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.