If your Bibles, please would you turn with me to Luke chapter 10? Luke chapter 10. The final paragraph of that chapter. When the famous missionary David Livingston began his expedition into the interior of Africa. He had 73 books in three packs, weighing nearly 180 pounds And although he was not carrying them all himself, he still found that that burden was too great for his party. And so after 300 miles of trekking through the jungle He stopped and very regretfully threw some of his prized volumes away. And as he continued on for hundreds of more miles, he found that still He had to abandon more and more books until finally the time came that he was reduced to carrying just one book. And that book, of course, was his Bible. This evening we come to a passage that speaks of the priorities that a disciple of Jesus Christ must make. Our life is filled with a multitude of choices. These choices are often between good and evil. And those decisions are usually clear if we know the Word of God. But some choices are not as obvious. They are between what is better and what is best. This evening, I would like us to consider the last paragraph in Luke chapter 10. Luke has structured his gospel so that really the bulk of what we find in this third gospel is what occurred on our Lord's final journey to Jerusalem. In Luke chapter 9, verse 51, he begins, he set his face To go to Jerusalem for that final time where he would suffer and die, where he would be the ultimate Passover at that Passover season. And so from Luke 9. 51 until Luke 19. 27, we have a record of the incidents that occurred in that final journey. And most of those events are unique to the Gospel of Luke. During that period of time, the Lord's focus was not on the multitude. It was on his disciples. And what our Lord was teaching his disciples during that period of time was what it meant to be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now when we come to a passage of Scripture, we must always ask ourselves Why it was placed there. What is the authorial intent of that paragraph? And how does it figure into the structure of that particular gospel. This is how we understand the meaning of the passage. Luke could have included many events that are not recorded. John tells us at the end of his gospel in the final verses. That if everything that Jesus did, all the miracles, all this all the discourses, all of the teachings that and parables, if they were all included, he says hyperbolically that the whole world could not contain those books. That's his way of saying that what we have in our four Gospels is a small sample of what our Lord said and did. And all of us, I think, have in our hearts a desire that wouldn't it be great if we had all of that recorded, if everything that he said and all the places that he went and all the miracles he performed were recorded in Scripture, we would love to have all of that information. But God has chosen in His infinite wisdom to just give us a sample of what our Lord said and did. And it makes what he said and did all the more precious and significant to us. It gives us more of a sense of why this included? What does this mean for me? Now it's important for us to understand that in this final paragraph, Luke did not include this material to give us a quaint story about our Lord's dining with some family friends. It's an historical event designed by the Holy Spirit to teach us About a disciple's priority. And let me delve into the context of this a little more specifically. If you'll look with me at Luke chapter 10, verses 26 Through 28, we have this incident where a certain lawyer, that is a a religious scribe, we might say a theologian today, Stands up and he tempts, or we would say, he tests the Lord by saying, Master, verse 25, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And he said unto him, What is written the law? How readest thou? And he answered and said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself And he that is Jesus said unto him, Thou hast answered right, this do, and thou shalt live. So what we have here is this interaction with our Lord and this man who's trying to trip up our Lord. And the Lord says that he rightfully summarizes God's Ten Commandments by saying they can be reduced to loving God with all your heart and with all your mind and with all your soul and loving your neighbor as yourself. And then in verse 29, this man, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, and who is my neighbor? And so the Lord answers him with what is probably his second most famous parable, the parable of the Good Samaritan. And that parable illustrates what it means to love your neighbor as yourself. And I want to suggest to you, and it's not my idea, this is what you will find in really good analytical commentaries. That in the last paragraph, the reason why Luke includes this story here is because he wants to illustrate what it means to love God with all your heart, soul, might, and strength. In other words, he answers and illustrates this lawyer's question and answer in reverse order These verses do teach us that it is our personal worship of the Lord that must be a priority in our lives. It also illustrates for us how that even good things can crowd out our time with God. Now this brief paragraph has three parts to it. After the introduction in verse 38, which gives us the setting We have in verse 39, introduction to this woman, Mary. who is listening intently to Jesus' words. And then by contrast in verse 40, we have a description of Martha, who is busy being a hostess. And is distracted, is annoyed, is cumbered about much service. And then thirdly, in verses 41 and 42, we have Jesus' response to Martha's complaint. And in doing so, we have a helpful example of how Jesus will evaluate The choices that we make in our everyday lives. Now, last Sunday evening, if you were with us, I spoke to you about worshiping the Lord in spirit and in truth. The focus in that message was more about corporate worship or gathered worship. The Samaritan woman was asking about how her people, the Samaritans, worshiped. And Jesus was therefore in the context when he spoke of worshiping in spirit and truth, talking about how we must worship when we gather with our brothers and sisters in Christ to worship. But this paragraph focuses more on the private aspect of our worship, on how we worship the Lord individually. in our daily lives. Certainly it has application to corporate worship as well, but the emphasis really is on our private interaction with the Lord because we have Mary here as an individual sitting at his feet and listening to his words. So what I want us to see in this paragraph this evening is that Christian disciples must make the ministry of the Word A priority in our lives. What I think we see here is that the way that we worship the Lord Jesus The way that we can worship him as an individual and as a body of believers is we have to worship him through the media of his word. And so, first of all, I want us to see in the example of Mary how Christian disciples make the Word of God a priority in our lives. Now we know, especially from the Gospel of John, that Mary is one of three in a family that lived in Bethany. Bethany, we know, is located about two miles outside the city walls of Jerusalem. It's on the eastern slope of the Mount of Olives, right on the major road that leads into Jerusalem. And it seems that it was customary that when our Lord traveled to Jerusalem for those Passover seasons That he often stayed with this beloved family. Martha was probably the oldest in the household. We don't know if she was married or not. Her husband is never mentioned. Most Bible scholars suggest that her husband had died, that she was a widow. This may explain why the house is described as her house. And verse 38. You would expect her brother Lazarus to be the head of the house. But if her husband had died and left this property to her, she would have then been, of course, rightfully the head of that home. So she was the hostess, the one who took the lead in this household. And that will explain, at least to some degree, her response later of serving as the hostess. Now Luke does not mention Lazarus. Perhaps he was present. Perhaps he was not. Perhaps he was working. Perhaps he was away. But Luke's account here is not intended to speak of three individuals, but of two, but of two, because Luke's purpose in describing this event is to draw a clear contrast Between these two responses, these two sisters , Nameri is obviously the more reserved of the two. And the Lord uses her actions in this incident as a timeless example of making the Word of God a priority in our lives. So I want to look very briefly at this passage, first of all, and look at how how is it that we make the Word of God a priority in our lives? You notice with me, first of all, you must make an intentional choice. In verse 42, Jesus says, Mary hath chosen that good parts. He's indicating that this is not just something that happened randomly, but was a conscious decision on her part. Mary decided that she was not going to miss this opportunity to receive personal instruction from the Lord. I don't think she was oblivious. For the needs of hospitality. I don't think that she was unaware of what her sister was doing. I don't think that she was lazy. But I think that she made an intentional choice that this was her opportunity to really listen to the Lord. It's interesting to note that Luke does not record anything of what our Lord said to her. Wouldn't you like to know that? What was their discussion about? What did he reveal to her? Did he answer some of her questions? Did he speak to her of her soul and her relationship with God? Did he follow up on a message that he had preached earlier that day that she had questions about? Oh, we would be so fascinated in knowing what the conversation was, but Luke doesn't include that because that's not The point of what he's trying to say here under the guidance of the Holy Spirit. You know, sometimes what the Bible doesn't say is almost as important as what it does say. This is like a a painting or a picture or a sketch where much of it is ill-defined. It's not clear It's it's just kind of an outline, but then there's one portion of the picture that is very clearly drawn out because the o the artist wants the onlooker to focus in on that and not anything else. And that is what Luke is doing in this passage. Now the application from this is if the Word of God is going to be a priority in our lives , We have to intentionally make a choice that it will be a priority in our lives. We must make plans to read it. And study it and memorize it and listen to the preaching of the word. If you just say, you know, that would be a really good thing to do. But you don't set your heart to do that. If you don't make a plan to do that, it simply will not happen. The circumstances will crowd it out. And day after day will go by and at the end of the day you will think to yourself, oh, I should have spent some time with the Lord today. I probably should have read the Word Or you hear a message like this and you'll say, yeah, I really need to start doing that. But if you don't intentionally structure your day and develop a plan, it simply will not happen. Secondly, you must adopt the right attitude. This is beautifully described here as Mary sitting at his feet. Now the first Jewish readers of this account would have found this account to be a little strange and perhaps disturbing. No one here felt that way when you read when we read this together. No one says, well, that's odds. And the reason why they would have found it to be a little unsettling is because The posture of sitting at the feet of someone who is teaching or talking was the posture of the pupil of a rabbi. But this is the thing. Women never would sit in that posture because they would never be invited to hear the theological instruction of a rabbi. That was something that women were not allowed to do. That was something reserved for men. And so the first Jewish readers would have said, that's a little edgy, that's a little strange, that's not according to my experience. They may even have taken some issue with it. But Jesus is more than willing to instruct this woman who is eager to learn Now the posture of sitting at someone's feet symbolized humility and submission to that teacher's authority. You're not sitting at a table like a peer and saying, you have your ideas and I have mine. No, you are there sitting at their feet and listening to them teach. When we come to the Word of God, whether we are reading it, whether we are studying it, or whether we are listening to the preaching and teaching of the Word of God, we must come with the attitude of humility and submission. One of the things that we believe, as those who believe in the fundamental teachings of Scripture. part of the whole package of the sufficiency of Scripture and the inerrancy of Scripture and the inspiration of Scripture is this term, the authority of Scripture. What does that mean to you? The best description I've ever heard of that, the best explanation of the authority of Scripture is that when we read the Word of God , It is as authoritative to us as if we were in a room and God Himself was speaking to us I mean, if you heard audibly the voice of God, you would take that to be an authoritative utterance. And when we read the Word of God, these words that have been breathed out by the Spirit of God working through us holy men of God, and as it has been preserved for us in written form, it is to us as if God was speaking directly to us. This is the attitude with which we must come to the Word of God. Third You must not only be intent, that is, have a plan, not only must you have the right attitude, but you must be willing to listen. It says, and Mary heard his word. And in the original Greek text, this speaks of a continual tense. She kept listening to his words. We would say today she was hanging on every word. She wasn't missing anything. She was just soaking it up like a sponge. This was a priceless opportunity for her to hear from the master. Perhaps on many occasions she wanted to have a private conversation with him, but he was always surrounded by people. But now he has come to the home where she resides. And she has the opportunity to have a one-on-one audience with him. This opportunity may never have occurred again in her life. And she was not going to miss it. This happens to be one of the emphasis of the Gospel of Luke. If you have your Bibles, you may turn to these passages. Let me show this to you. Luke chapter 6 and verse 46. Our Lord says, And why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say? Whosoever cometh to me and heareth my sayings and doeth them, I will show you to whom he is like. He's like a man which built a house and digged deep and laid the foundation of a rock, and when the flood arose the stream beat vehemently upon the house and could not shake it, for it was founded upon a rock. But he that heareth and doeth not is like a man without a foundation built an house upon the earth against which the stream did beat vehemently, and immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. Notice hearing and doing, but it begins with that attitude of heart that says, I will listen to the authoritative word of God. Now turn with me to chapter 8. Luke chapter eight and verses nineteen Then came to him that is Jesus, his mother, and his brethren, speaking here, of course, his earthly physical half-brothers. And could not come at him for the press. And it was told him by certain which said, Thy mother and thy brethren stand without desiring to see thee. And it answered and said unto them, My mother and my brethren are these which hear the word of God and do it. In this record, Luke is saying, this is what it means to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. You hear the word of God and you do it, you put it into practice. And then in Luke chapter 11 Right after the passage we're looking at, shortly after it anyway, in Luke chapter 11 and verse 28, we have this woman who pronounces this blessing. Upon Jesus and his mother in verse 27 and in verse 28, Jesus responds: Yea, rather blessed are they that hear the word of God and keep it. You see, disciples of Jesus listen to his word. So have you made listening to the Word of God a priority in your life? This is what disciples do. This is why disciples of Christ love their Bibles. This is why disciples of Christ engaged in Bible study. This is why disciples of Christ come to hear the preaching of the word, because it is an essential part of their worship. You cannot truly worship Christ apart from his word. And let me clarify something here for a moment. When I say his word, I'm not talking about just the things that he said. Many times Christians have the mistaken notion Because of the proliferation, I have one right here on this pulpit of a red letter edition of the Bible, that somehow the words of Christ are more authoritative. are more the word of God than other things recorded in this book. That is not so. All of these, all of this is the word of God. And we must give heed to it. But now I want to move to that second part of this paragraph, an example of how Christian disciples, true followers, misplace their priority of worship. And for that we have the example of Mary's sister, Martha. Now, I want you to notice that her choice is commendable. Martha is a good woman. She is a true, devout follower of Christ. I don't think she is somehow less of a Christian, less of a disciple, less committed to the Lord than her sister Mary. It says in verse 38 that Martha received him into her house. This was a commendable action. She opened her home to the Lord. The Bible extols the importance of hospitality. And here Martha is being hospitable. Now it's very likely that part of the flurry of activity that you see in between the lines of this passage is because Martha was not expecting him. There were no phones. There were no emails. The Lord didn't say, hey, you know, I'm going to be in in uh Bethany in about five days, so uh I'll show up around five o'clock. That's not the way people uh Structured of their lives in the ancient worlds. They weren't that aware of time the way we are And it was very difficult to precisely engage when you would arrive because your travels could be interrupted in any number of ways. So people just showed up at your door. And you had to drop everything and meet their needs. I suspect that Martha was overjoyed and a little worried when she saw the Lord at her door. We don't know for sure. Some scholars speculate this may have been the first time that he actually was at their home. Perhaps that's not the case. But in any way, all of a sudden she was delighted to see the Lord, but that meant she had to get a meal together. Maybe like like like every woman, she feels like her home wasn't as clean as she wished it was. I mean if she knew she was going to have guests, she would have cleaned this back room over here. And all of a sudden she's a little flustered because now there's this pressure on her. But she loved him and she wanted to make him as comfortable as possible. Her actions here are very commendable. She was a woman of action. And she took the initiative in making these arrangements. She wanted Jesus to know that he was her honored guest. And so she begins to prepare a delicious meal. She begins to her plans for an elaborate meal that would be worthy of a king, because the King of Kings was dining at her home. Her choice was understandable. Her choice in many ways was commendable But Luke has structured his gospel in our Lord's comments to reveal to us that it was not the best choice that Martha could have made. Would you notice secondly that your choice may come from mixed motives? Look at verse 40. Martha was cumbered about much serving And came to him and said, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her therefore that she help me Now how would you know if your service for the Lord Which is a commendable thing. It's a good thing to serve the Lord. How would you know that perhaps you're doing it for the wrong motives and not in the right spirit? The answer is revealed, I think, in this verse. It becomes no longer a joy, it becomes a chore that's annoying and irksome. Did you notice the little two-letter word that shows up twice in verse 40? It's the word me. Her focus had suddenly shifted from the Lord whom she was seeking to serve to herself. Could it be that one of the reasons why she wanted to make such an elaborate meal was because she wanted to impress Jesus with her abilities? This is always a subtle temptation when we serve the Lord. We should serve the Lord with the spirit of excellence. We should seek to do our very best. Don't misunderstand me. But it's very easy to be motivated or to be disturbed and upset Because our focus quickly moves from how does the Lord receive my service to how do the people I'm ministering to understand my service. Do they think I'm doing a good job? Do they appreciate what I'm doing? That's a very easy thing to do. I know about this very well because there's no one who is more tempted to think this way than a preacher who preaches every Sunday. Every preacher, if he is honest, would tell you that he wants people to think that he has done a good job. That people would appreciate his labors, that they would pay attention, they would benefit from it. And many a pastor can fall into the trap. of gauging the success of his ministry by the comments that people give him at the end of the service. So how do you know when your your focus bec has become misplaced where it's not so much about pleasing the Lord as it is about pleasing others? Well, first of all, there is A carnal response. Notice this distraction of focus. It says that she is cumbered and the idea there is distracted. It's a word, I think, for anxiety that means to be pulled apart. She was trying, I think, to do two things. She was trying to listen in to what the Lord was saying to her sister, but she is also preparing these meals and the The implication of verse 40 and where it speaks about much serving is that she was trying to multitask She had all kinds of things going. Maybe she's trying to clean a little bit and she's trying to prepare this and she's trying to have more than one dish and she's trying to think on the fly. All right, do I want to put this out What exactly do I want? What recipe do I want to follow? And she she is she is very, very distracted. And the more she is in this state of frustration and distraction, the more she becomes annoyed with the fact that her sister is not lifting a finger to help her out. And she begins to pity herself. One of the great dangers of any kind of ministry, any kind of service in a local church. Is that you begin to feel sorry for yourself. No one appreciates me. No one realizes all the work that I do. No one commends me for my faithful service Sunday after Sunday after Sunday. They don't see the work that I do behind the scenes and How I'm here during the week or how I set things up and how I tear things down or how I do these things. No one ever says a word, hey, I really appreciate what you're doing. I really appreciate how you're ministering to me. And you can very easily begin to feel sorry for yourself and to make serving the Lord an irksome task. Now I have preached about this sort of thing before, this type of attitude before, and one of the responses that people have, which is not the response that you should have, is well, I guess I need to resign from what I'm doing because I have a bad attitude about it. No You need to change your attitude about it. She has a distracted focus. And worse, she distrusts the Lord. She says, Lord, dost thou not care? This is where self-focused thinking always goes. The Lord doesn't really care about what I'm doing. You see, your anger will not just be directed towards people who don't appreciate you, but ultimately it will become focused on the Lord itself. Now what does she want the Lord to do when she finally boils over, when she just can't keep it inside anymore, and she says, Lord, would you would you would you say something to my lazy sister over there that she helped me out? She expects the Lord to rebuke Mary and perhaps to commend her But that's not exact that's not at all how the Lord responds. His response is basically, Martha, I never ask you to prepare me a meal. It's a nice gesture, but that that that's not really what you should be doing. That's not the best choice that you can make with your time right now. The real best choice you could make would be to join your sister in listening to what I'm saying. We also see her disharmony with others. Martha says, my sister hath left me to serve alone. In the world in her mind, she thinks of Mary as being lazy, selfish, and thoughtless. But Martha has actually completely misjudged the situation. The Lord not only refuses to rebuke Mary, he takes her side and corrects Martha. Can you imagine how difficult that must have been? This passage, and this is not the main focus of this passage, but by the way, this passage shows us how careful we have to be about evaluating situations and judging people. I think so often we think that our perceptions, our narrative about how things are going and how people are treating us are absolutely r right on target. I mean We can see things with our own eyes. Here she is working furiously, and her sister's just sitting there. But how many times have we judged other people to be wronging us? judge their character wrongly. And if the Lord were there, sitting there in our presence, he would say, no, actually, what they're doing is right and what you're doing is wrong. I think that suggestion almost never enters our mind as a possibility. So why did Martha so misjudge her sister? Well, everyone notices from the little descriptions we have and Here in John's Gospel that Martha and Mary are the exact opposite of one another. One of the most amazing things is you can come from the same family. You can be so close to someone and be completely different from them. And you look at everything in a different light. One of the reasons that Martha misjudge Mary is because in her mind, her approach Of being very active, of being very aggressive, of taking leadership, was the way a person should be. Essentially, she had made herself the yardstick by how everyone else was measured. I've talked about this before. This is why sometimes people are so critical and so judgmental. Because maybe they do have a strength. Maybe you are very driven, you're very aggressive, you're very orderly, you're very structured. You're very, let's get this task done in your mind. That's the way you live your life. And if you ever notice, there's a lot of people who are not like that. And if you're not careful, you're going to make the assumption in your own mind that everyone who's more contemplative and reflective and more intentional and perhaps more patient and more relational, but those people are just plain lazy and they don't get it and they're not really pulling their weight as they should in a local church or in any other setting. But what you need to realize is that God has made us differently. And that sometimes those people that are more relational and more reflective Could teach you something. Now, is it true that people that have that real, real laid-back personality may have more of a tendency to become lazy? and unstructured and disorganized? Absolutely. God made us differently so that we can complement each other in the body of Christ. But my point that I'm trying to make, and I want to come back to the main point, is that when we are serving the Lord and And we are filled with self-pity and we're filled with judgment, and we're irritated with other people who are not doing their parts. And we want the Lord to correct them. So often that spirit reflects that what we're doing is really not for the Lord, but for ourselves. And we have taken our eyes off of our chief purpose. Now we have, thirdly, in this passage, an example of how Christ will evaluate our priorities for Verses 41 and 42. Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful or anxious and troubled about many things. But one thing is needful, and Mary hath chosen that good part which shall not be taken away from her. So how would you like the Lord to come into your life and evaluate your priorities? Let me give you three questions that arise out of this passage, our Lord's comments, that would help us evaluate whether what we are doing is really a priority. First of all, the question is, is it a necessity? Martha, Martha here, the Lord says, whenever you find a doubling of a personal name in Scripture, it's an expression of affection. Think of David when he mourned over his son and he said, Absalom, Absalom. Or when Jesus wept over Jerusalem and he said, Jerusalem, Jerusalem. Yes, there is rebuke in our Lord's words to Martha, but they are tender, affectionate rebuke. He says, thou art careful or anxious and troubled about many things. He says to her, essentially, you're trying to do too much. You have taken your focus off of your priority as a disciple of Christ Now some scholars have interpreted his words about one thing as necessary as an indication that she only made it to only needed to make one dish on this occasion, not a whole variety of dishes. But I don't think that's what our Lord is saying at all. The one thing that is necessary for this moment Was that she would sit at the feet of Jesus and hear his words. Because our spiritual needs must supersede our physical needs Perhaps she would never have this opportunity again. Perhaps Martha would look back years from now and say, if only I would have stayed there at his feet and listened to his words, that would have been a better use of my time. One of the questions you need to ask yourself about life's priorities is, is this truly necessary? We tend to live our lives today at a frenetic pace. So much of the stress that people experience is self-imposed. I often encourage people to simplify their lives That one of the reasons why they have no time for God and why they find it almost impossible to spend time with the Lord or with their families is because they're doing a lot of things that are not really necessary. That have cluttered their lives and they need to simplify it. Another question that you could ask that arises out of this passage is: is this the best choice? Jesus says, Mary hath chosen that good part. She had a choice between preparing food or listening to Jesus' words. And Jesus says she made the right choice. You see, we'll often find ourselves choosing between the good and the best. Questions about how we spend our money, how we spend our time, what kind of person we should marry, what kind of house we should buy, what sort of community we should seek to live in what church we should attend. The Christian life is filled with a myriad of choices. And often those choices are not between good and evil. But between what is excellent and what is only good. And our choices are significant because they reveal our heart's desire, our priorities, our true ambitions. The Christian disciple should always be seeking to make the best choices, not just the acceptable choice. And so one of the questions we should ask ourselves is, what choice is the choice that I'm making, a choice that Christ would commend? Would he say that is the good choice that you have made? And then the third question you could ask is: Is it of eternal consequence? Jesus says Of Mary's choice, he says, which shall not be taken away from her. Now, some commentators take this to mean that Jesus was not going to force Mary to help her sister Martha. I'm not going to take that away from her, he was saying they would suggest. But certainly the Lord was saying more than this. I think he was saying that the benefit that Mary received during that time of instruction was of eternal consequence. She would never forget that private lesson. She would never forget that time of worship and interaction with her Lord. I think she would tell people about it for years and years to come, long after the Savior was crucified and ascended to heaven, she would be telling people about that afternoon in Bethany when she sat at his feet and heard his words. And I don't think that she ever regretted the choice that she made. You see, our choices are to be made not with the worldview that our time on earth is all there is. We are to always think as Christians that the decisions that we make count for eternity. Jonathan Edwards, as a young man, made 70 resolutions. And one of his resolutions, number seven, was this. resolved never to do anything that I should be afraid to do if it were the last hour of my life. That's an amazing thing to do. That really narrows what you would do. The last hour of my life, I'm not going to do anything. Now perhaps you would quibble with that and say, I'm not sure that's really true. Sometimes people make profound statements that may be a little over the top. But what we should not do is just dismiss it out of hand, but listen to the intent of it. We are beings that will live somewhere forever. Therefore, our decisions, how we use our time, are of eternal consequence. So what kind of choices are you making in life? Is loving God your top priority? I always think in this regard of Amy Carmichael. That Victorian missionary to India who had a very effective ministry of rescuing children from the degradation of the Hindu temples. And after a number of years in the field, she became almost a celebrity. And she was busy from morning to night, and people would line up to meet with her, to receive her counsel. And often there would be a line and they would have to wait there because she would say, That until she had finished her time in the morning with the Lord, she would see no one. No matter how great the emergency may seem, she must spend time sitting at the feet of her Lord and hearing his word. Because that was her top priority. And I think that is the way it must be for us as disciples of Christ. Now the point of this message is not have your devotions. That might be a good application, but it's broader, it's deeper than that. I'm not just trying to adjust your behavior in a slight manner. Now, the point of this paragraph is that we must love God. By worshiping Christ through his word. And we must structure our lives in such a way that it's evident to everyone that that is truly a priority in our lives. Because apart from listening to the Word of God, we have no other way to commune with our Savior. We have no real other way to worship God because this is how He has revealed Himself to us. These are the words of life. Jesus said, the words that I give unto you, they are spirit, they are life. And so if we want to worship God, we must come through his son and through his word. And we must sit at his feet. And that must be be the disciples' priority. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word We thank you that it's always instructive. I pray that you would take what is said here tonight and use it, Father, for eternal consequence. In the lives of those who have heard it, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen