You have your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to Romans chapter 5? Ernest Gordon wrote a book coming from World War II entitled Miracle on the River Kwai. He tells a story that didn't make it into the movie by that name. As the Scottish forces were forced to work on a jungle railroad It was discovered that there was a shovel that was missing and every so many days they would stop and count to see If all the tools were there. The Japanese officer in charge became enraged. He demanded that the missing shovel be produced, or else No one, however, raised their hand to claim that they had taken the shovel, and so the officer pulled out his sidearm and threatened to kill them all on the spot, and it was obvious that he meant what he was saying. Finally, one man stepped forward and the officer put away his gun. He picked up a shovel and beat the man to death there on the spot. When it was over, the survivors picked up the bloody corpse and carried it along with them. When they made the next count of the tools, they discovered that all the shovels were there. They had simply miscounted. And it was obvious that this man gave up his life that the others would live Acts of sacrificial love have a powerful influence on people. Costly love stands out like a bright beacon of hope in a world of selfishness and cynicism. This morning, as we prepare our hearts to receive communion, I want us to consider a very important text in the book of Romans. Romans provides the clearest and most compelling explanation of the gospel in the Bible. The key word in this book is the word righteousness. The first half of the book answers the question, how can a person be right or righteous before God? In chapter 1, Paul says that the Gentiles are all condemned before God, that because of their idolatry and immorality, they have clearly demonstrated that they are not righteous. And then in chapter 2 into chapter 3, Paul says that the Jews are condemned before God because they tried to obtain righteousness by keeping the law, and yet they failed miserably. And so he comes to a conclusion in the middle of Romans chapter 3. I want to read verses 19 and 20 He says, Now we know that what things soever the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. Therefore, by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. Paul's conclusion is that everyone is guilty before God, whether they be the moralistic Jew or the pagan Gentile, everyone stands condemned. And then in verse 21, he gives this grand announcement. But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifest, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Even the righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe, for there is no difference. And what he means here by there is no difference is that it doesn't matter if you're a Jew or a Gentile, there's no difference. Salvation works the same for all of humanity. Why is that, Paul? Look at verse 23. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. The logic is this. Salvation is available to all who believe because everyone has the same problem. And therefore the same cure works for all. So how is it that people who are all condemned can be saved? That's the most important question in the universe. And the clearest explanation in answer to that question is found in verses 24 and following. It says, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God had set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness. for the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance of God. To declare, I say at this time, his righteousness, that he might be just and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus. Where is boasting then? It is excluded by what law? Of works? Nay, but by the law of faith Therefore, we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law. In those verses, we have the glory of the gospel. Salvation is by faith alone. It's by grace alone. It's in Christ alone. And then in chapter 4, Paul is going to show that salvation has always been by faith alone. He looks at the examples of David and especially The example of Abraham and shows that justification has always worked this way. And then we come to chapter 5. So in chapter 3 of Romans, in the last half, we have the explanation of justification. In chapter 4, we have the illustrations of justification. And then in the first 11 verses of chapter 5, we have the blessings of salvation or the benefits of salvation. Begins by saying, therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. How can a person have the sense that they're at peace with God? It's only through the gospel, it's only through justification. He goes on in verse two , by whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand and rejoice in hope of the glory of God. Some of the fruits of our justification include not only peace, but joy and hope. In fact, the key word of this paragraph, verses 1 through 11, is the word hope. Notice how it's found in at the end of verse 2 that says we rejoice in hope. And then in verse 4 it says, and patience experience and experience hope. And verse 5, and hope maketh not ashamed. Now, every time you speak of biblical hope, preachers have to make this clarification. Our English word hope does not mean the same as the biblical word hope. Our English word hope has the idea of a wish or desire, perhaps a probability that something will happen, expresses the sentiment of our hearts Biblical hope expresses certainty. That's why he says it maketh not ashamed. The idea is that no one who has put their trust And the Lord Jesus Christ has come to the end and said, you know what, I made a big mistake. I've been disappointed. I've been let down by the gospel. That has never happened. Biblical hope speaks of our confident expectation as believers. Something that we look forward to with a sense of certainty. But what is the basis of our hope of salvation? What is the ground of, we would say, our assurance that we are saved? What is the basis for us to know that our sins have been forgiven and that we have a home in heaven? That is a very, very important question. In fact, it's a question that you might want to consider this morning. Most people, if you ask them, do you think you're going to heaven, they'll say, oh yeah, sure. Yeah, I think so. Most people will give some kind of response like that. And the next question that I always go to is, well, why do you feel that way? What is the ground? What's the basis? What's the reason that you say that? And often you get answers that reveal that there really is no basis. Well, the believer has a basis for his claim. Of being justified, of being a child of God. This is a very important matter. Assurance is something that many, many Christians struggle with. Because if you don't know that you're really a child of God, if you have that sense of insecurity about your own identity your essential identity as a human being. You don't know what your destiny is, what your purpose is in life, and who you belong to. If you don't have those things figured out and they're in question in your mind, your life is going to be difficult. But when you know that you're a child of God, when you know that heaven is your home, and you know that you're living here with a purpose to bring glory to your Lord, it makes all the difference in the world. So what is the basis? And I want you to notice the flow of this passage. And verse 5, he speaks of He says the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost or the Holy Spirit, which is given unto us. He says The love of God pours into our hearts like a mighty river, and it overflows from our lives. And now he is going to talk about the greatness of the love of God. And logically what he is doing here is he is demonstrating what is the ultimate basis of our hope, or we might say our assurance of salvation. And the answer is it's the love of God. That is the basis of it. So I'm going to preach to you this morning before we Come to this table, that the love of God is the ultimate basis of the believer's assurance. And I want us to remember three truths that come out of our text this morning. First of all, we need to remember that God's love is extended to the undeserving. Look with me at verse 6. For when we were yet without strength in due time, the idea of being there at just the right time, Christ died for the ungodly. There's some question about that timing if that's talking about in the right time of history or in the right time of our lives. Theologians debate about that. We we can't be dogmatic about it. But at the right time, at just the right time. Christ died that we might be saved. Now, what I want to focus on in verse 6 are these descriptions of who we are apart from Christ. It says when we were yet without strength means here that we were weak. Now let me ask you a question you may never have thought of. Why do you love certain people and other people you don't? Why is that? Well, there are some reasons that psychologists and others have come to. First of all, There is a sense of obligation and a sense that we have to love people and care for them. We love our children, we love our other family members, and that's why we're outraged when when when a child shows no love or concern for a parent or when a parent shows no love or concern for a child or when brother hates sister because it's natural for people who live that close and have so much in common To love one another, there is an obligation of love within the family Let's go beyond that. We tend to love people who are also attractive. Did you know that? No one falls in love with someone they find repulsive. All right, now you you might disagree with me about that, but I still think it's true. No one falls in love with someone they find repulsive. And number three, we tend to love people who love us. Did you know that? I remember hearing a man many years ago say the most attractive person in the world is someone in love with you. Right? It's a reciprocal thing. But I want you to know that we're God loves us And we're not in any one of those categories. First of all, he's not obligated to love us. He didn't have to save us. And we're certainly not attractive to him. He doesn't need us in any respect. And the fact is that he loved us when we didn't care about him at all. But let's look at these descriptions here. It says, first of all, without strength, speaks of someone who is weak or spiritually impotent. You see, salvation is not a matter of us doing our part and God doing his part. It's not us meeting him halfway, as many people think of it. We are powerless to save ourselves. Now it is likely that there are at least a few people here this morning. Who think that by doing their best, they can earn their way into heaven. This is the way people naturally reason. This is the number one answer. If you go, if you were to go through our community, you do a survey and talk to everyone in the Westminster area, everyone in Carroll County, and say, How do you think it is that a person goes to heaven? By far and away, the number one answer that you would get is, well, you know, you've got to do your best. You've got to try to try to live a good life. You've got to live by the golden rule. and all kinds of ancillary things that boil down to that. You've got to do your parts. And you might be here this morning, you might say, yeah, that sounds reasonable. It makes sense to me. I want you to know that you're absolutely wrong with that answer. Just because something is the number one answer does not make it right. The Bible is crystal clear about this. And if you persist in believing this lie, you will perish eternally. The Bible teaches that you are powerless to save yourself. Only God can save you. Secondly, notice in verse 6, we are described as being ungodly. Christ died, it says, for the ungodly Literally, this has the idea of being godless. What is a godless person? I want you to turn back with me to Romans chapter 3 for a description of godless individuals. Look with me at Romans chapter 3 and verse 10. Romans 3 verse 10 As it is written, there is none righteous, know not one, there is none that understandeth. There is none that seeketh after God. They are all gone out of the way. They are altogether become unprofitable. There is none that doeth good. No not one. Their throat is an open sepulchre. With their tongues They have used deceit, the poison of aspis under their lips, whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood. Destruction and misery are in their ways. And the way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Now, this is not a description of some horrible group of most wanted criminals. This is a description of all of humanity apart from God. This is the way all of us were before we were saved. It's revealed in our attitude, it's revealed in our words, it's revealed in our actions. And really the most significant phrase here is the last one in verse 18, there is no fear of God before their eyes. What does that mean? It means that they live their life every day without any awareness that there is a God that they must answer to. This is the way most people live. They live every day without thinking of God at all. He doesn't enter into their decisions. They don't think and say, yeah, I can't do that because I would have to answer to God. They don't think I should do this because this is what God would want me to do. This is what he instructs me to do in his word. Those calculations never enter their mind. because they live without any fear of God. Now if a pollster came to them and said, Hey, do you believe in God? Many of them, perhaps most of them, would say, oh yeah, I believe in God. But God is just a theoretical concept in their mind that they will occasionally encounter at a wedding or at a funeral or at some special religious events. But apart from that, they never ever think about God. For all intents and purposes, they are godless. They are practical atheists. Then this passage, this paragraph goes on to describe man in his natural states apart from God in verse 10 and that excuse me verse 8, that famous verse that says, While we were yet Sinners. What is a sinner? Sinner, the word sin, going back to its Old Testament roots, speaks of missing the mark. It's like an archer aiming at a target and he keeps coming up short, he misses that target. But that that that illustration can be misleading. Because it makes it seem like everyone is like trying really, really hard to please God and to do what's right. And what we're just we just come up a little bit short. The fact is we're not even shooting at the same targets. We're not even trying to please gods. We're living life on our own terms, making ourselves our own gods. And in verse 8, the idea is that it's not that we in the past sinned or whatever, or that we kind of have the identity of sinners. That's true. But the fact is that He died for us when we were actively sinning, when we were still in bondage, when we were still living our lives by our own wicked and natural impulses. And then there's a fourth description of us here. It says in verse 10, for where if when we were enemies. You see, all people apart from the grace of God are hostile towards God Now you might think that's not true. You might think I know a lot of people, lost people who don't go to church, who don't read their Bibles, but they love God Well, they love the popular conception of God. They love of God that has become a figment of their own imagination, but they don't love The God who truly exists, who has revealed Himself in His Word. A God of holiness and justice, a God of wrath, a God who is to be feared, a God that they must answer to. When those truths are presented before them, you will see that they will bristle, they will resist because there is a natural hostility they have towards God. Some people that'll be very evident. Others it'll be more hidden, but it's there in the heart of every lost individual. There is a hostility towards God. So these are the kinds of people That the love of God can reach to those who are powerless and godless and sinful and hostile. These are the only kinds of people that God saves. Because that's the way we all are apart from the grace of God. You see, our assurance that we have been truly forgiven is not based on our character. It's based on the very nature of God. If you're here this morning and you feel that you do not deserve the love of God, you know what? You are caress. You do not deserve the love of God. In no way, shape, or form, you haven't come close to earning his favor. You have done just the opposite your whole life. You have been hostile towards him. But the love of God is so great that it reaches to the lowest sinner. The second thing that we need to remember Is that God's love is far greater than any human expression of love? Look with me, please, at verse 7. It says, For scarcely for a righteous man will one die, yet per adventure for a good man some would even dare to die. Notice For seven begins with the word for. He's explaining something he just said, where it says, Christ died for the ungodly. What do you mean by that, Paul? He says, let me explain. And then he's going to come to another, he's going to conclude that thought in verse 8. Paul here is illustrating the uniqueness of God's love for us by contrasting it with human love. Now in verse 7, Paul provides two types of individuals that some courageous people might be willing to die for. First of all, he speaks of A righteous man. Notice we're scarcely for a righteous man. Now it's important to realize that Paul is using the term righteous here, not to refer to those who have been justified, because that would make no sense. No, he's using the word to refer to the type of person who conforms to a given moral standard. He's really talking about a person who has a certain type of personality and outlook on life. This is a person who is disciplined, strict. and carefully keeps the rules. Whether it's the rules in the office building, whether it's the rules of the road. or whether it's what they perceive to be the law of God. This person is very careful to do what is considered right. This is the kind of person that people respect, but they don't necessarily love. They respect that guy because he comes in every day. He never takes off work. He works hard. He's very disciplined and everything. He's not the friendliest guy in the world. But I tell you what, he's got his principles, and he's a hard worker. That's what Paul means here by the righteous person. Now, some individuals would be willing in a crisis to die for that kind of person, but not most people. And then we come to the second type of person. This person in verse 7 is described as good. This person is kind and loving. And giving. They are more relational than the previous person. The previous person was more rules-driven. This person is more relational. They just exude goodwill and love and concern for everyone around them. You know people like this. As I'm describing this, you have people popping into your mind who are just like this. This type of individual engenders personal affection from others. Now you probably in your years of schooling have had interaction and perhaps teachers that would fit these two descriptions. You might have one teacher who is very strict, who always went by the letter of the law. There are no excuses there. There are no exceptions. We do it this way no matter what And then you may have had a teacher who was very relational, a teacher who had controlled the classroom, but also related to you as an individual and talked to you about your problems. And perhaps even talked you out of class and helped you with your homework and mentored you and had a relationship with you. Now Unfortunately, this is all too common scenario, but let's suppose that there was an active shooter scenario in a classroom, which one of those two teachers would people be more willing to give their life for? To use their body as a human shield? It would be the person that they have a relationship with, the person who is good and kind and loving and is invested in their life. Paul says there'd be some people who would be willing to give their life for that kind of individual, the person who is good. Now the point that Paul is making in verse 7 that serves as basically an illustration Notice the first word in verse 8. The first word in verse 8 of this famous verse is the word but. It's a word of contrast. And what that means is that you and I are not like either one of those examples in our relationship to God. We were not righteous and we were not good. We had nothing in us to draw out the love of God Some people, some well-meaning Christians, get the cross all wrong. They think that the fact that Christ died for my sins means I'm incredibly valuable. I mean, because he was willing to send his son to die for me. I mean, that's how valuable. That's the great treasure that I am. You're looking at it backwards. Christ didn't die for you because you are lovable, but because he is a God of love And so that brings me to the third thing that we need to remember in this matter of assurance. First, we need to remember that God's love extends to the undeserving. That's all of us. God's love is unique. It's not like human love. And thirdly, God's love was supremely demonstrated at the cross. Verse 8 But God commendeth his love towards us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Now many of you have memorized this wonderful gospel text. It's part of a gospel presentation commonly known as the Romans Road. And as I mentioned a moment ago, it presents a contrast. We were neither righteous nor good. We were actively sinning against God in our life. When he saved us, while we were yet sinners. Do you want to know the extent of God's love? Paul's answer is always this, go to the cross. It was there that Christ died in place of sinners. In verse 6, it says that Christ died for the ungodly. And in verse 8, it says, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Both of these verses express the essential truth of the substitutionary atonement that Christ died in our place. He was the only substitute that could secure our salvation because he is the only perfectly righteous man who ever lived. Now this word commendeth means that the cross is the proof or the irrefutable demonstration of the love of God. The cross makes the love of God conspicuous. There's nothing else like it in the religions of the world. There's no parallel in any way, shape, or form. It is utterly unique. And this is the repeated proclamation of Scripture For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. 1 John 3. 16, hereby perceive we the love of God because He laid down His life for us 1 John 4, 10, hear in his love, not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. You know, there's a downside to being raised in a Christian home and to being in a country where we have uh mention of Christ in the gospel all the time, and that is that the astounding truth of Christ's sacrifice at the cross becomes commonplace and familiar to us. How many times have you heard about Jesus dying on the cross? Hundreds? Maybe thousands of times? Many of us here from the time we were old enough to discern what was happening, we heard this marvelous truth and we've heard it every year of our life. Of our conscious existence, that Jesus Christ died for sinners. And so there's a sense in which the magnitude of this declaration Does not really strike our hearts as it should because it's so common to us. Have you ever seen people and primitive tribes in the world? Hearing the gospel for the first time, that Jesus, the Son of God, died on the cross for their sins. He took their punishment. It's astounding to them. You can see it on their faces. Some some missionaries go into places of the world and they show like the the Jesus film or something and you can see you can see the reaction that people have to the gospel the first time they hear it as an adult. They're blown over by it. It's amazing. It's astounding. It grips them emotionally. And the Bible reminds us again and again of the love of God that was demonstrated at the cross. One of the great struggles that Christians experience is they doubt their salvation. Often this is a ploy of Satan to neutralize them, hold them in bondage to a lie. And sometimes they doubt their salvation for the very reasons that Paul argues against here. They look at their life and they say, I haven't done very well as a Christian. Mess up all the time. I don't deserve the love of God. Exactly. No one does. That's who the love of God is for, the undeserving. Or they think in human terms of love And they think things like, if my friend failed me, as often as I fail God, I would have nothing to do with him. Yeah, well, God's not like your friend Or perhaps God will stop loving me like my spouse who has abandoned me But God's not like your spouse. God's love will never fail you. It's described as a steadfast love You see, if God's love for you was simply the reciprocal response to your love for Him, we would all be in trouble. We could all Be doubting our salvation, we can have no assurance because the greatest Christians who have ever lived have confessed the coldness and the inconsistency of their affection for Christ. But God loves us not because we're lovely, but because he is a God of love. He initiated this love. And continues to love us even when we fail him miserably. 1 John 4:19 says, we love him because he first loved us. Let me ask you this morning, have you experienced this love? Was there a time when you recognized that you were a sinner and cried out for Jesus to save you? Are you trusting in the objective truth that Christ died for you on the old rugged cross, that he paid the penalty of your sins and his sacrifice there? If your answer to these questions is no, I would urge you to seek the Lord today. The Bible says that if you come to Him, He will not cast you out. And if you come to him in faith and repentance, you can be certain that his love for you will never fail. It will never cease. It will never end. Because the Bible says that nothing can separate us from the love of Christ. This is the basis of our hope. This is the ground of our assurance. Can you say with joy and with confidence in your heart, my hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame. But wholly lean on Jesus' name. That is the blessed assurance that we can enjoy because of the love of God. Let's close in prayer. Father, I pray that as we gather around this table now, that we would rejoice because we have that assurance. That the love of God has reached us and saved us and changed us. And I pray, Father. That you would help us to love you more. And I pray that for those here today who are lost in their sins, that they would come to trust in you this morning. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.