Give your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to the passage that we read a moment ago? Very familiar Christmas story in Luke chapter 2. There was once a young man who was a soldier in the Russian army. His father was well connected and personally knew the czar Nicholas I. And so this young man was given a prominent position as a paymaster in one of the army barracks. However, this young man did not have the character for that important responsibility He was a gambler. He began to steal money from the Army's payroll to support his habit. This went on for some time without anyone taking notice. One day the disturbing news came that the Tsar was coming to inspect the troops and to see the son of his old friend. That night he totaled up the funds that he owed the Army, and in another column, he added up his total assets. This desperate young man came to realize that he had no means of paying off his debt. What he owed dwarfed what he possessed. And so he wrote at the bottom of the ledger, a great debt, who can pay? He pulled out his revolver and placed it on his desk, and he determined that at midnight he would end his own life rather than be disgraced in front of the Tsar. But as the evening wore on, the young man fell asleep at his desk, and the czar arrived. He saw the gun, the two sums on the ledger, and he quickly deduced what had occurred. And wrote under those tragic words, a great debt who can pay his royal signature, Nicholas the First. The young man woke up a few minutes before midnight ready to kill himself, but he saw the unmistakable signature of the Tsar himself. He then realized that the Tsar must have come while he was asleep and had forgiven his enormous gambling debts. The next morning a messenger came from the palace with the funds. sufficient to pay his debts. Only the Tsar could pay that great sum, and he did so graciously. The gospel is the greatest news ever told. It's found, of course, throughout Scripture. It's found in the Old Testament. It's found in the New. It's explained in our epistles. But it's also found In the birth of Christ. Look with me at Luke 2, verses 10 and 11. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour. Which is Christ Lord's. Now, the Greek words behind the phrase glad tidings in verse 10 is the word that is most often translated gospel in the New Testament. It's the origin of our English words like evangelize or evangelical or evangel. And as you know, the word gospel simply means good news. The coming of Christ to earth was the ultimate good news. And this is what we find at the birth of Christ. The first two chapters in Luke's gospel are what scholars call Luke's infancy narrative. It's really utterly unique. It's connected, of course, to the rest of his gospel, but it's also like its own little parts. It has many recurring themes such as angels announcing good news, the fear of those receiving a heavenly communication. the sign that God would confirm his promise, a song or a poetic declaration of praise, and then the joy that God's revelation brings. If you were to read to the first two chapters, you would see these themes reoccurring again and again. We find them especially parallel in the birth of John the Baptist. and the Christ child. There is a beautiful symmetry in Luke's account that is both natural and powerful. Everything in Luke's account up until this point is preparing the reader for the birth of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And everything after this birth Is going to confirm in this gospel that indeed a Savior was born in Bethlehem. Now last week we examined the first seven verses of this famous chapter and noted how God providentially worked to bring about the birth of Jesus in Bethlehem. This morning I'd like us to consider the angelic interpretation of this historic event What is the meaning of Christmas? May I suggest to you that the best place to look is what the messengers sent by the Lord were to say. You see, it's not about winter or family gatherings or holiday shopping. It's all about Christ , the salvation that he brings to fallen humanity. So I'd like to preach you this morning on the good news of the gospel in the birth of Jesus. And I want us to note four facets of the gospel. That are found in this birth narrative. Would you notice with me, first of all, that Christ came to sinners. Look with me at verses eight through ten. And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field. keeping watch over their flock by night. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them And they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. The setting is of quiet shepherds out in the fields that surround the sleepy village of Bethlehem I've seen these fields that tradition says were the site of this visitation. And let me just say they are nothing like our perception of good pasture land. What I saw looked like stubble growing up through rocky soil on the side of a hill These shepherds were doing what shepherds do every night. They were watching the flock. Literally, the text reads, watching their watches. It's a Semitic expression that conveys a sense of boredom and routine. Shepherds would take turns watching the sheep as other shepherds slept. Now, why did the angels, the messengers of God , bring this monumental news of the birth of Christ to these lowly shepherds? That's an important thing for us to consider. I mean, why didn't the angels go to the Emperor's palace in Rome or to King Herod or the High Priest in Jerusalem? Why the unnamed shepherds in Bethlehem? Well, there seem to be two reasons for this. Number one, the message given by the angels to these shepherds in Bethlehem is intended to remind the reader of King David, who was a shepherd from Bethlehem. We know that King David was a hero to their to the shepherds. They all looked up to him, and so much more the shepherds there in Bethlehem. A thousand years earlier, one of their own from this very village would rise to become the fabled king of Israel. And so it's fitting that these shepherds from Bethlehem heard the first announcement that Jesus Christ was born. But the second reason that this angelic message was given to these shepherds is because I think they are representatives of sinners in this narrative. The kind of people that Jesus would come to save. Now, we all have warm regards for shepherds today. No one thinks of shepherds in a negative light. And probably at home you have decorations where you have very nice-looking shepherds there on your mantelplace or somewhere at home. And we think highly of shepherds. But that is not the way people in the first century thought about shepherds. They had a poor reputation Let me mention several things about them. First of all, they had a reputation for being thieves. Shepherds were often transient and poorly paid. And it's not surprising that they resorted to stealing to meet their basic needs. They often gazed, grazed their sheep on property that belonged to others because good pasture land was difficult to find and Boundaries were poorly marked. They failed to observe the Sabbath and other religious observances because someone had to watch the sheep even on the Sabbath And their work responsibilities made it very difficult for them to attend important religious festivals like the Passover or the Feast of Tabernacles. And the sheep the shepherds were often unclean, ceremonially unclean, because of their duties of with the birthing of lambs and the disposal of dead sheep, because they touched these Dead animals they were considered ceremonially unclean. They also had a reputation for lying Later Jewish law prohibited shepherds from giving testimony in a court of law because their words were so unreliable. In fact, there's documentation that the only people in the strat uh the um hierarchy of people that were lower than the shepherds were the lepers. Who were kept apart from civilization. So you see, the shepherds were exactly the kind of people that Jesus came to say. He says in this very gospel in Luke chapter 5 and verse 32, I came not to call the righteous but sinners to repentance. He says in Luke fifteen, verse seven, I say unto you that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth more than over ninety-nine just persons which need no repentance. When we covered that text some years ago, I mentioned to you this is not saying that there's some people who do not need to repent because they're already inherently righteous. This is a dig at the Pharisees who felt that way about themselves, but it wasn't the reality And then what many of the people see is a theme verse in the Gospel of Luke, Luke 19, 10, for the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. This is indeed good news because we are all sinners in need of God's grace, and we see here that it wasn't the sinners that were going to seek Christ It was Christ that came and the angels that came with the announcement of his birth to sinners. Secondly, I want you to notice in the second facet of the gospel that Christ came to save sinners. Look with me at verse 11. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ. The Lord. Who is this baby that was born in Bethlehem? Verse 11 identifies this child. Now there are three titles that are given to him in verse 11, but really the emphasis is on just one, and that is Savior. The other two titles, Christ and Lord, qualify and describe the type of savior that he is. Now what does the title Savior mean? We've become so accustomed to hearing this in reference to our Lord that it no longer has any real meaning to us. We hear it especially in a religious context. But it may surprise you to learn that this is the only place in the synoptic gospels that is Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Where Jesus is specifically called by this term. In Luke 1. 47, Mary describes God as her Savior. But only here is Jesus directly called Savior in the first three Gospels. Now we instantly associate this word with Jesus, and so we should. But that would have not been true for Luke's first readers. I mentioned to you last Sunday, if you were here, that Caesar Augustus, the man who Issued this proclamation that there be a census. That man, one of the titles he took upon himself was the savior of the world. The term savior was often used by Romans in a military context of liberating captive people. In the Old Testament, we read of judges and kings who delivered or saved the people of Israel from their foreign enemies. But these victories were short-lived, and those leaders were always flawed and in need of a savior themselves. But now God has sent his only begotten Son into the world, and John would call him the Savior of the world. This title is indirectly alluded to in our text. If you look with me at the end of verse 10, it says that this proclamation which shall be to all people. And what Luke is recording here is that this was not just for the Jewish nation. This was not just for one ethnicity. This is for Jew and Gentile. This is for rich and poor. This is for educated and educated. This is for men and women. The message of the gospel is not intended to be for one elite social club. It's a message. For all types of people. It is for forgotten people like the shepherds And it's for very sophisticated, educated people like Nicodemus who came to Jesus by night. It's for people like the woman at the well And it's more like the noblemen who came to our Lord seeking help. The gospel. is for everyone. Whatever you're thinking this morning, so often I've witnessed to people and talked to people, and they just very politely say, that's really not for me. But it is for you. This message goes out to all people. Sometimes people say that because they think they don't need the gospel, but sometimes it's because they think they're not worthy of God's grace. And you know what? They're right. They're not worthy of God's grace. In fact, one of the very first steps Of coming to Christ is to recognize that you don't deserve to be saved. You have to recognize you're a sinner before you can find a savior. Now I mentioned a moment ago that the term savior was used in the first century to describe a person who was a captive, somehow enslaved. So let me ask you this question. It's a very important question. What did Jesus come to rescue us from? The answer is found in his name. Turn with me back to Matthew chapter 1. We're looking now at Matthew's infancy narrative. In Matthew chapter one, it says this, and she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus. For he shall save his people from their sins. Matthew one twenty-one I think sometimes we, even as Christians, think of Jesus as coming to save us from hell, to save us from the ultimate death. And that is indirectly true, but what is specifically revealed in his name Jesus is that he came to save us from our sins. And so the fact that we are all sinners reveals that we all need A Savior. Implied in this title for Christ is the absolute helplessness of man to save himself. This idea runs counter to the way people naturally think. Most people think, the vast majority of people think But they can save themselves by simply doing the best they can. They think that they are moral, decent, good-hearted people. We all tend to have very gracious estimations of ourselves. But all of this is a self-created delusion The Bible teaches that there is no one who is righteous, that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God, that all we like sheep have gone astray, we have turned everyone to our own way. This is the plain teaching of Scripture from cover to cover, that we are sinners in need of a Savior. And the only way you can ever claim Christ as your Savior is to realize that you are helpless to save yourself. Perhaps you've heard the expression, God helps those who help themselves. It's absolutely false God saves only those people who recognize they cannot help themselves. Now, would you please look with me at the last phrase? In Luke chapter 2 and verse 11. Turn back there if you're not already there. We have these two words that describe the word Savior. He's called Christ the Lord. Sometimes people think of Christ as Jesus' last name, but it's not. It's a title that means the anointed one. It's the same meaning as Messiah. Comes from the Hebrew word for the anointed one. To be anointed was to be chosen for a special task. So who were the individuals who were anointed in Israel? Well, prophets were anointed. We read of the great prophet Elijah anointing his successor, Elisha, in 1 Kings 19. These men were God's spokesmen who cried out, Thus saith the Lord. But the prophets Did not always please the Lord, and sometimes they didn't obey the Lord and failed to speak his word. And of course the people generally rejected their message But the Lord promised Moses that someday he would send an ultimate prophet who would speak for him. And that anointed prophet was Jesus. The priests were also anointed. They were chosen to teach the people about holiness. They were to intercede for the people. They were anointed to make sacrifices for the sins of the people, but they had to offer sacrifices for themselves as well because they were sinners too. The kings were also anointed to positions of power. King Saul was the first king of Israel, but he had disobeyed and lost his kingdom. King David was the greatest of Israel's kings, but he failed God horribly by committing adultery and murder. And wise King Solomon foolishly married many foreign wives who took his heart away from the Lord's. When one reads the Old Testament, they encounter failure and all the anointed leaders of Israel. The prophets failed, the priests failed, the kings failed, they were all flawed men, but they were faint shadows of the Lord's anointed, the Messiah who would come. And at the beginning of Jesus' ministry, when he went back to the little synagogue in Nazareth, he opened the scroll. And he read from Isaiah these words, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he hath anointed me To preach the gospel to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and the recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised. Did you notice the people he came to minister to? They're described as brokenhearted, as captives, as blind, and as bruised people. These are the people that Christ came to save. You see, Jesus is the ultimate prophet, priest, and king. He is the promised Messiah. And next we read that the Savior would be Lord. Notice that the angels say that this newborn Savior would be both Christ and Lord. Luke employs a word here that has the idea of master. It was used very broadly and very flexibly, but it was also used sometimes in the Old Testament, in the Greek translation, to translate the term for Yahweh. This baby would be fully man, but he would also be fully God. The Savior was born as the God man. This is clearly taught throughout Scripture and is apparent in the accounts of Jesus' birth. Turn back with me to earlier in Luke's infancy narrative in Luke chapter 1. I want you to look with me at verse 31 The angel's message to Mary is this: Verse 31: And behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and shalt bring forth a son. Thou shalt call his name Jesus. He shall be great. and shall be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David, and he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there shall be no end. Then Mary said unto the angel, How shall this be seeing, I know not a man? And the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the highest shall overshadow thee. Therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God. In this annunciation, we see him described as the Son of the Highest, verse 32, that he would reign forever, verse 33, that he would be the Son of God, verse 35. And we could look at other gospels and verify this again and again. You see, there's no getting around the fact that the Bible clearly teaches that Jesus was more than just a remarkable human being. He was and is the Son of God. Charles Wesley had it writes, when he wrote, Veiled in flesh, the Godhead see, hail the incarnate deity Pleased as man with man to dwell, Jesus our Emmanuel. The angel's proclamation was that a Savior is born, and he is the Lord. The good news of the gospel is that Jesus came to sinners, and that secondly he came to save sinners And now would you notice that Christ came to glorify God in the salvation of sinners? Look with me at verse 12. And this shall be a sign unto you, you shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts. Praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth, peace, goodwill toward men. I want you to notice in verse 12 that the Lord wanted these lowly shepherds to seek the truth for themselves. And you'll notice in verse 15 that they followed up on this invitation. And it came to pass as the angels were going away from them into heaven, the shepherds said one to another, let us Now go even unto Bethlehem and see this thing which has come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us. This is why the Lord provided for them a sign. Because there's a sense in which we must experience the truth before we can really share the truth. It's possible that there was another baby born that night in the village of Bethlehem, but there would only be one baby who was placed in a feeding trough. We see in this detail of the Christmas story that God desires that people seek out the truth. The Lord invites honest inquiry. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. God is not afraid. For people to seek him and to ask hard questions. He is open and transparent with the answers. In verse 13 we read of another dramatic change. It's as if they were Uh it was not already a spectacular evening, but now an army of angels joins the solitary angel who was most likely Gabriel. Now some scholars conjecture that all of God's angels were present for this occasion. If that were the case, what a spectacular sight that must have been We read that this great heavenly host was praising God and saying, glory to God in the highest. Now there's a little debate about whether or not they actually sang these words. We can't settle this today But the term saying could include singing. The poetic form of their words suggest the likelihood of singing or at least chanting. Traditionally, this has been viewed as a song, and we know from Job chapter 38 that angels do sing. So we can't be dogmatic, but I think they probably did sing the special announcements. But what is significant is the lyrics of their song. They start out first by saying, Glory to God in the highest. I take this to mean that the birth of Christ would bring glory to God because of the salvation that He would provide through His coming death and resurrection. So often when the gospel is presented, it's presented entirely from man's perspective In other words, the only reason the Father sent his son was for our benefit, that we might be saved, that we might escape the flames of hell, that we might be redeemed from our sin. And all of these things are true. But may I suggest to you that if you look at the whole compass of Scripture, that is not the primary reason that Christ came. The primary reason for the birth of our Savior was the glory of God. Because the whole plan of redemption is primarily for the glory of God. Ephesians says again in chapter 1. That our salvation is for the praise of the glory of his grace. Because God is glorified in the salvation of sinners. You see, the birth of Christ is ultimately not so much about us. It's not about the presence or family. Or charity, the incarnation is essentially a manifestation of the glory of God in redemption That a holy infinite being would condescend to send his only begotten Son to take on human flesh and dwell among men that they might be redeemed. This is the glory of the gospel. But there's a fourth facet of the gospel, a fourth reason that Christ came. And that is that Christ came to bring peace to forgiven sinners. The second line of this angelic chorus reads, And on earth, peace, goodwill toward men. This line is often used at Christmas as an expression of man's desire for world peace You perhaps have received a Christmas card or heard a news report about peace on earth. There seems to always be some type of of uh news report, like on Christmas Day, about that. But I want you to know that Christ did not come to end war and conflict on this earth. That's not what the angels were announcing, contrary to popular opinion. This line could be translated, peace among men with whom he is well pleased. The angels are talking about Mankind having peace with God, not peace with each other. Political leaders throughout the history of the world have sought to bring about peace between warring factions. But until man is rightly related to God, he can never be right related to his fellow man. We've always gone about it in the wrong order. But what the angels were announcing was about human beings having peace with God. The Bible teaches that sinners are naturally at war with God. Now people think this is not true. They don't sense it about themselves. They say, I don't hate God. I'm not angry with God. But the reason why they say that is because their perception of God is not biblical. But when someone tries to show them what the Bible requires of them, And impresses upon them the gravity of God's law, then there is a hostility that naturally rises from their fallen hearts that says, we will not have this man reign over us. And this is why Christ came to bring about reconciliation. Through the atoning work of Jesus Christ. to reconcile all things unto himself by him, I say, whether they be things in heaven or things in earth, or and you who were sometimes alienated and enemies in your minds by wicked works, yet now hath he reconciled. But the most famous verse in regards to this doctrinal truth is this, therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, Romans 5, 1. Caesar Augustus brought peace through the edge of a sword. But this king would make peace by dying for sinners. And all who place their faith in Christ will be declared not guilty, but righteous, and be at peace with God You see, the only way that you will ever be pleasing to God is if you are found in Christ, because God the Father is well pleased with his beloved Son. You see, the record of the birth of Christ is indeed full of gospel truth. Christ came to save sinners. Christ came to bring glory to God and the salvation of sinners, and Christ came to bring peace to forgiven sinners. So let me ask you this morning. Do you know that your sins have been forgiven? That is your greatest need. Your greatest need is not money or health or strong marriage or great retirement fund. Your greatest need Is for your sins to be forgiven. And know that you are forgiven by God is the only path to peace With God. Someone once wrote years ago, if our greatest need had been information, God would have given us an educator If our greatest need had been technology, God would have sent us a scientist. If our greatest need had been money, God would have sent us an economist. If our greatest need had been pleasure, God would have sent us an entertainer. But our greatest need was forgiveness. So God sent us a Savior. My question to you this morning is, is He your Savior? Can you with assurance say that you're at peace with God because you know that He has died for your sick This is the message of the gospel. May God help us all to believe it and to live out this truth. Father, we thank you. for the gospel in the birth of Christ. We thank you, Father, for his advent to earth is coming to us, to the sin -cursed world, living a perfect life and dying on an old rugged cross. That we might be saved. I pray that you would help us never to forget and never to lose our joy in the gospel. And Father, I pray for those here that might be present this morning who are yet lost in their sins. I pray that today would be their day of salvation, for it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen.