Take your Bibles with me and turn to Psalm one hundred and eighteen. Psalm one hundred and eighteen. We'll be looking at verses 22 through 24 this evening. Psalm 118, beginning in verse 22, the Bible says, The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. There's an ancient story of a rejected stone. that during the building of Solomon's temple came to be well known. According to this story, all of the stones that were used in the construction of the temple, we know from the Bible, were quarried off site and were brought to the temple site where they were then constructed. The Bible says that because they were quarried off-site, it allowed the temple area where the construction was taking place. Not to have the sound of construction. There were no hammers on the temple ground. One day, one particular rock arrived from the quarry. And it came to the construction site and it was different than the rest. The foreman examined it and decided it must have been delivered accidentally because it didn't seem to fit. So he ordered it to be discarded. However, when it came time to lay the cornerstone, they searched for the proper stone that was to be the cornerstone, and they discovered that the discarded stone was the cornerstone, the stone that had been chiseled out and carved to fit perfectly. Whether or not this is a true story, we don't know. Something like it, however, is the basis for the metaphor that we have in this passage of Scripture. This beautiful passage is one of the most quoted passages from the Old Testament in the New Testament. We find it in all three of the synoptic gospels. We find it in Acts, 1 Peter, Ephesians, and an allusion to it in Romans as well. And depending on how you understand the timing of the writing of this psalm, it is also referenced in Isaiah 8 and Isaiah 28. So this is a significant story, significant metaphor that we have in the passage before us. This is again one of the Hallel Psalms. Psalm 113 to Psalm 118 are known as the Egyptian Hillels because they were sung at the Passover celebration every year. Psalm 118 would have been the last song that Jesus would have sung before he was betrayed the night he established the first communion, the first Lord's Supper, like we are celebrating this evening. We've talked about this psalm for several different Lord's Supper or communion services, and we've noticed that this song has many layers. There is a layer that refers back to the Egyptian deliverance. There's a layer that probably is a Davidic layer, but primarily this psalm is messianic. The main player, the main actor in this psalm is the Messiah. You'll notice as we were reading this, you may have noted it, I mentioned this in a previous time, that there's a change in the speaker beginning in verse 22. From verses 5 through 21. We find the first person singular all throughout these these verses. Out of my distress, I called. The Lord answered me and set me free. The Lord is on my side. I will not fear. All through verses verse 5 through 21, we have the first person singular. But beginning here and through verse 27, we have our, us, and we. And I'd encourage you if you if you back then that you note that because that will help you in the future as you study through this psalm to notice the shift that is taking place. It's a shift in speaker. Most likely the speaker in the first half is the Messiah himself, calling all peoples. We looked at this in the past. Israel and the house of Aaron and those who fear the Lord, meaning Gentile believers, to give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, because his steadfast love endures forever. He's in this psalm, the Messiah is recalling the distress that he faced in order to purchase our salvation, to purchase the steadfast love of the Lord that endures forever. And how he cried out to the Lord in the midst of the persecution that he faced, and the Lord answered him and set him free. Now in light of the salvation that the Father enabled him to accomplish, we have his followers responding with joy. The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. So the theme of this passage and of this message this evening is that this is the day. That the Lord has made. Let us live joyfully because Christ is our cornerstone Let us live joyfully because Christ is our cornerstone. I want us to see this evening, first of all, that we should be filled with joy because of the stone. The stone that was rejected. When we come to verse 22, we're abruptly brought to this stone. There's no preparation for us to understand why this metaphor is here. It's assumed that we can make sense of this. Some think that this psalm, as we've talked about, is referring primarily to the nation of Israel, and that they would say the stone, then, is referring to Israel. being rejected by the great empire builders of her day as something that was an insignificant nation. But God is going to make her the focal point of his work of building a new people of God. And and that is true. But that is not what the stone is here. Others would look at this and they would say, it must be the Davidic layer. We talked about this a few months ago, that David could fit this very well. David could be like a stone. After all, remember when Samuel the prophet was sent to his father Jesse to anoint one of his sons to be a new king, he told Jesse to bring all of his sons together. And David was left out. He was left out with the sheep, and all the other sons were there, but surely David's not going to be the next king. Oh, he's just a boy. He was, you might say, the stone which the builders rejected. David was also rejected by the nation of Israel for quite a time. until he became the king. In a very real sense, David became the chief cornerstone of the Davidic monarchy that stretched nearly 430 years until the Babylonian captivity. And although that is true, and there is a layer here, there's an allusion here to David, I think more clearly The stone is someone greater than David. We know the stone is a person. Turn with me to Isaiah chapter 8. If you're in Psalm 118, just turn forward a little bit to Isaiah chapter 8. In Isaiah chapter 8, we have another stone that is mentioned in verses 14 and 15. And we're told something about the stone in Isaiah chapter 8. This is in the context of the Virgin being conceived and the Emmanuel prophecies. And in Isaiah chapter 8, verse 14. It says, and he will become a sanctuary, and a stone of offense, and a rock of stumbling, to both houses of Israel, a trap and a snare to the inhabitants. So we see that the stone is a person. This stone is a person. Well, you say, how do we know this is the same same stone? Well, if you go to the New Testament, we find in multiple places where Psalm 118 and Isaiah 8 are combined into one passage, referring to the same person. What's even more startling is that the stone is not just a person. It's none other than Yahweh of hosts. Look at verse 13. It says, but the Lord of hosts, Yahweh of hosts, him you shall honor as holy. Let him be your fear, and let him be your dread, and he Will become a sanctuary and a stone of offense and a rock of stumbling to both houses of Israel, a trap and a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. So we have this individual, this person who is this stone is none other than Yahweh of hosts, the Lord of armies. The New Testament quotes Psalm 118, verse 22, six times. And in each of those instances, the stone which the builders rejected is unequivocally described. as Jesus Christ. When Peter preached in the temple after healing the lame man, he said in Acts chapter 4, verses 10 and following, let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel That by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by him this man is standing before you well. This Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders, which has become the cornerstone. And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men. By which we must be saved. This beautiful passage of scripture we have in Psalm 118 tells us that this stone Is Yahweh of hosts, is Jesus Christ. He is the only name by which there is salvation. But what else do we know about the rejected stone? We could take some time and examine Isaiah chapter 28 and verse 16, where we are told, Therefore, thus says the Lord God. Behold, I am the one who has laid as a foundation in Zion a stone, a tested stone, a precious cornerstone of a sure foundation. Whoever believes Will not be in haste. So when we compare these together, we have Yahweh laying Yahweh as a stone. We see something about the mysterious plurality of God that is described in the Old Testament. Well, we're told here that he is a tested stone. It's a term that refers to the testing of precious metals. Metals are tested under an intense heat in order to reveal the quality of the stone. The stone that Yahweh has prepared is one that has been tested under intense heat and pressure and is perfectly pure. If we were to continue on in Isaiah chapter 28, the next verse speaks about the perfect measuring line and the plumb line of righteousness and of justice that is found in Jesus alone. Only of Jesus could the Father say, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. He is a tested stone. He's also a precious stone, a precious cornerstone. And it refers to something that is of costly value Jesus alone as Yahweh can meet the perfect righteousness that God's holy law demands. This makes the fact that Jesus was rejected all the more shocking, all the more startling for us, that he is a stone that the builders rejected But we should rejoice because of the stone that we have that is our salvation. We also should rejoice because our Savior endured this rejection. He says, the stone. that the builders rejected. When we come to the Gospel of John in chapter 1, we are told that the true light that lights everyone has come into the world. That he is in the world, that he and the world was made through him. And yet he came to his own, and his own people did not receive him We're told here that there was a rejection, but who rejected the stone? Well, we're told in Psalm 118, verse 22, it was the builders. The stone that the builders rejected. This is actually a verse that Jesus himself quotes in The synoptic gospels, we find it in Matthew chapter 21. And he makes a stinging application of this truth, and he drives it home directly to the builders so that they would know this applies to them. In Psalm 18 or Matthew chapter 21, immediately after telling the scribes and Pharisees that tax collectors and prostitutes will enter into the kingdom of God before them. Not exactly the words you use to make friends and influence people. He tells them a parable The parable of the vineyard owner and the tenant. The parable is about a vineyard owner. If you know Isaiah chapter 5, God is described as the vineyard owner, and Israel is the vineyard. And this vineyard owner leased out his vineyard to tenants. And then he went on a trip to another country. When the harvest came in, the vineyard owner sent some of his servants to his tenants to collect his profits. But instead they beat one, the Bible says, they killed another, and they stoned another. And Jesus is using this analogy to picture the way. The prophets of God were treated and mistreated by the leaders of Israel. When we study the Old Testament, we find prophets who are stoned. We find others who are imprisoned, others who are starved. And Isaiah likely sawn in half because he was a messenger of God's truth As Jesus went on with this parable, he says, he sent more servants, and the same treatment ensued. Finally, he sent his son, assuming that they would respect his son. But when they saw the son, they knew that he was the heir. And so they took him and threw him out of the vineyard, and they killed him. Now Jesus is doing something kind of like what Nathan the Prophet did to David. Remember when Nathan the prophet tells a story to David after he sinned with Bathsheba? And he's trying to get David to make an indictment and then say That's you. And David falls into it. Well, Jesus does the exact same thing here. Jesus tricks them into indicting themselves. And he asks, When therefore the owner of the vineyard comes? What will he do with these tenants? You can just picture them all excited to be able to show their knowledge of what the proper thing to do would be. And he baits these religious leaders with their pride and self-righteousness. And they fall for it, hook, line, and sinker. And they indict themselves. And they say, he will put those wretches to a miserable death and let out the vineyard to other tenants who will give him the fruit in their season. And he just, they just indicted themselves. There's two things that they say here. First, he will punish those wicked tenants. And secondly, he will replace them with others. And they answer perfectly. Jesus said to them, Have you never read the scriptures? And here's where he goes back to Psalm 118, verse 22. The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. Therefore, I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing its fruits. And the one who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces. And when it falls on anyone, it will crush him. You notice how Jesus blends Psalm 118. And Isaiah 8 together into the same prophecy, saying the stone is the same in both cases. But what's interesting about what Jesus says here is that the rejected son And the rejected stone are the same. The rejected sun and the rejected stone both refer to him. Because they rejected the Son, who is God's chosen chief cornerstone, they will ultimately be crushed by him. The chapter comes to a close saying, when the chief priests and the Pharisees heard this parable, they perceived that he was speaking about them. They are a little bit intelligent. They got that. Oh, you tricked us. You got us to indict ourselves. Peter, remembering the words of Jesus in Acts chapter 4 that we already read, Says the same thing to the rulers and the elders of Israel, saying, This Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you. And then he says it, the builders. Which has become the cornerstone. The re the people that should have been leading the nation of Israel into the worship of the Messiah to receive the Messiah. They were the builders. They sat in Moses ' seat. They had responsibility to guard and to shepherd and to protect the people of God and to lead them into truth. And instead, they rejected the stone that God had prepared. How did they reject the stone? First of all, they rejected the stone by first rejecting God. You notice in the parable that Jesus tells. The tenants did not have any affection for the vineyard owner. They had no concern for him. They didn't love him. They didn't submit to him. They loved their position and their wealth and their prominence, and they gained that from the people, but they had no love for God and ultimately no love for his word, or else they would have received God's Son joyfully. They rejected the stone by despising the Son who came in the name of the Lord. They despised the message that Jesus preached, even to them. That was the problem. He preached, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Even to them, the gall To preach to them. They despised the fact that he was the king, but he was coming to free them not from Roman tyranny like they wanted. But from the tyranny of their sin and the bondage of death. They despised the fact that Jesus taught the people, saying, Unless your righteousness exceed that of the scribes and Pharisees. You will in no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven. And so he publicly stated that their righteousness was deficient. It was insufficient. And that they would never enter into the kingdom of heaven. They rejected the stone then by murdering the Son who represented God. This was no passive rejection. They knew that Jesus spoke of their ungodliness and their hypocrisy. They knew that he was telling the truth and that he had put his finger on the issue But they refused even for a moment to consider the charges that Jesus was leveling against them. They knew the truth about their sin, but they were unwilling to repent and to be forgiven. So in the face of abundant evidence, as we've been going through the Gospel of John, we've been seeing the evidence that was given day after day, week after week. month after month as Jesus comes and he preaches the gospel and he heals all who were sick and who are who are filled with demons and he casts them out, even like we saw today, the raising of a dead man Because it means they must humble themselves and put their trust in him, they reject him. What are the consequences of rejecting the stone? Well, just like we saw in Isaiah chapter 8, verse 14, he says that many will stumble over the stone, and they shall fall and be broken. They shall be snared and be taken. Ever wonder why there are so many that are tripped up by the stone? Why there are so many that refuse to come and are instead crushed by it There are many reasons, but ultimately it comes down to the fact that Jesus exposes our sin. He exposes our wretchedness. He exposes our bankruptcy. He tells us, unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. He tells the self-righteous Nicodemus. You must be born again. And unless you are born again, you will not see the kingdom of God. He tells them, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. And this confronts and exposes their pride and self-righteousness. And instead of coming with a broken and contrite heart They're offended, and they reject the one living way of salvation, the only begotten Son of God. We see in the nation of Israel what happens as a result of their rejection. They were indeed crushed. The position of privilege was indeed taken away in less than 40 years. The temple that they felt gave them such power and prominence and position of authority was utterly destroyed, and not one stone was left upon another as Jesus prophesied. In less than 40 years, their religious system and their positions of power and influence were utterly decimated. In less than 40 years. The nation of Israel was entirely cast out of its land There is one thing that's very important to note. When we read of the chilling prophecy of our Lord in Matthew 21, this prophecy was completely fulfilled The spiritual authority was taken away from the Jewish leaders and given to another, given to the apostles of the church. The kingdom of God was removed from the nation of Israel and given to the church, a mixed multitude, made up mostly of Gentiles and a remnant of the nation of Israel. But it's vitally important to say as well that God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew. And that God has a plan for the nation of Israel. And as regards the gospel, unbelieving Jews are enemies. As Paul says, for your sake. But as regards election, they are beloved for the sake of their forefathers. And God's promise that all Israel will be saved is still valid. We see this rejection is a serious rejection. They rejected the stone. But we should rejoice because this is the Lord's doing. This is the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. It's very easy to observe the rejection of Jesus as the Messiah, to observe his death on the cross and think that God's will was somehow thwarted. But although Jesus was rejected, this was not the final word. It was part of God's foreordained plan. Jesus was made the chief cornerstone through the rejection, through the death. That was caused by the Jewish leaders. Shortly after Peter boldly proclaimed to the Jewish leaders that they had rejected the stone which had become the cornerstone, he prayed to God. And listen to what he prayed. In Acts 4, the same the same chapter. Truly in this city there were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel. to do whatever your hand and your plan had predestined to take place. So when we read these words in Psalm 118, verse 22 or verse 23, this is the Lord's doing. And it is marvelous in our eyes. We come to the New Testament and we see the same thing spoken by Peter in a prayer. This is the Lord's doing. What you had foreordained has come to pass. Jesus' death on the cross was an essential part of him being made the chief cornerstone. In 1 Corinthians chapter 1, Paul says, For the word or the message of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. Paul says that Christ crucified is a stumbling block to the Jews and folly to the Gentiles, but to those who are called both Jews and Greeks, Christ is the power of God and the wisdom of God. For the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. It's on the cross when we come to the Lord's Supper this evening, we are celebrating the fact. That on the cross, God 's plan was perfectly fulfilled On the cross, the wrath of God for your sins and mine was satisfied, and a way into the very presence of the Holy God was made. If it were not for the cross of Christ, we would have no hope. We can say truly that every good that we have in this life and in eternity is purchased by the cross. Every grace that you and I enjoy, whether common or otherwise, is purchased by Jesus Christ on the cross. The cross was not a failure of God's plan. It was the very core element of God's plan. And it is the wisdom of God and the power of God in full display. When we come to Isaiah 53, that great chapter that speaks about the suffering servant, we find that The prophet says, Who has believed our report, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? Speaking of the power of God revealed in the suffering and the death and the resurrection. Of the servant of God. It's in the cross where these seemingly incompatible attributes of God, justice. And mercy. They meet in perfect harmony. Apart from the cross, there is no way for God to show us mercy It is the cross that is God's foreordained plan. And we ought to rejoice in the cross. We ought to rejoice because not only in did Jesus die for our sins, but also he was made the chief cornerstone through his victorious resurrection. Do you see in here as well that the resurrection not only is the death, but the resurrection of Jesus Christ is prophesied in this text. The rejection and the establishment Of this stone, the chief cornerstone. We've already seen that the way that the stone was rejected was by the judicial murder of Jesus Christ on the cross. In the parable of the vineyard owner, we have the wicked tenants who reject the sun and they take him outside, likely depicting the fact that Jesus was taken outside of Jerusalem and they murder him. Well, how was this sun to become the cornerstone? Remember, the sun and the stone are the same. And Isaiah 28, 16 says, Behold, I am the one who has laid as a foundation in Zion a stone, a tested stone, a precious cornerstone of a sure foundation. So we see here, it is the Lord's doing. The son who was rejected, who was murdered, is established as the chief cornerstone by the Lord's doing. Peter makes the parallel complete in Acts chapter 4, verse 10. He says, Let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, Whom God raised from the dead. By him this man is standing before you well. This Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders. Which has become the cornerstone. You see, the parallel is made complete by Peter. You rejected him, you crucified him, God raised him from the dead. God has made him the chief cornerstone. So we see in Psalm 118, not only is the death of the Messiah prophesied, but so also is his resurrection. Jesus was made the chief cornerstone of the church through his death and resurrection. The cornerstone. is the stone that binds together the two sides and keeps them aligned. And Jesus fulfills this imagery in amazing perfection In Ephesians chapter 2, we're told that we are the church is built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure being joined together. Grows into a holy temple in the Lord. We see that the uniting reality of the cornerstone, that the entire structure is united in Jesus Christ. Charles Spurgeon spoke of this saying, now he is the bond of the building, holding Jew and Gentile in firm unity. This precious cornerstone binds God and man together in wondrous amity, for he is both in one. He joins earth and heaven together, for he participates in each. He joins time and eternity together, for he was a man of a few years, and yet he is the ancient of days. wondrous cornerstone. Jesus is the perfect cornerstone through his death. Through his resurrection, he is made the cornerstone of the church that unites us with God. Unites us with eternity. Unites us, Jew and Gentile, people of every ethnicity, into one living organism. What a marvelous cornerstone we have in our Savior Jesus Christ. And we ought to rejoice that God has made such a cornerstone for us. And lastly, this evening, we should rejoice. Because, as he says, it is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. The first step before you can rejoice in the marvelous cornerstone is that you must come to the stone in humble faith. When Peter began his discussion about the cornerstone in 1 Peter chapter 2, he says this, as you come to him. A living stone, rejected by men, but in the sight of God, chosen and precious. He says, first of all, you must come to him. You must come to him who is the living stone. You have this metaphor of a stone that is alive. What does he mean by that? Well, he means that not only is he a person , But that he is the resurrected person. He is the resurrection and the life. He is the way, the truth, and the life. We come to the living stone. And then just a few verses later, Peter quotes from Isaiah 28:16, and he says, Whoever believes in him, will not be put to shame. There's only two responses to Jesus Christ. Either you will come broken and repentant and find grace and forgiveness, and be built upon this stone as a living stone yourself, or you will reject Jesus like the builders. And you will be broken. You will be crushed by him. The choice is yours. James Montgomery Boyce. Said it this way, God wants Jesus Christ his son to be honored and exalted even by you. He will be. One way or the other, since at the name of Jesus every knee will bow. It would be far better for Jesus to be exalted by your praise of his great grace and mercy in saving you. than to be exalted in his power as he judges you justly for your sins. He will be exalted. He will be exalted by each one of us At the name of Jesus, every knee will bow and every tongue will confess. But will it be done in rejoicing or in dread? I urge you to come. You can see that God's plan of salvation has been prophesied for us. It's woven throughout the Old Testament. And it comes to full light in the New Testament. So that no one could say, this is something that man has made up. Hundreds of years before Christ was rejected, it was prophesied that he would be rejected. Hundreds of years before he was raised from the dead, it was prophesied that he would be raised from the dead. So that you could not say, This is the doing of man. It is the doing of the Lord. And it is marvelous in our eyes. Won't you come to Him tonight and repent and put your trust in Christ alone? He is the cornerstone. There is no other stone. And what you do with Him determines your ultimate destiny. Either you come broken and repentant, acknowledging your sins and find grace, or you will come and be broken by him. There is no other way. So that just sounds very fearful. It is fearful. It is something that should cause us to fear. And then run to salvation. Run to safety. Why would you stay in the hardness of your heart? and be destroyed when salvation is available. Won't you come? But perhaps you've read this verse here, verse 24, many times. Maybe you even have this on a plaque in your wall, on your wall at home somewhere. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Maybe you've said this many times. Like many people, I have used this in response to people that are complaining and have a whining attitude. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. But what is actually being spoken about? Just any day? No, not just any day. The day when God's wondrous salvation is accomplished for us in his death and resurrection. The day that the Lord has made refers to the crucifixion. It refers to the resurrection of Jesus Christ, the day that God accomplished our salvation, and we ought to be glad and rejoice in it. It ought to be something that thrills our souls, the idea of a dour Christian. Should be an oxymoron. We ought to be of all people the most joyful Because God has given us a living stone as our Savior. He has resurrected our Savior, and He said that if we put our faith in Him, we too will be given new life. Let me ask you, is your mouth filled with praise to God who loved you enough to send his only begotten Son, to be rejected by men, to be judicially murdered? So that you might have eternal life? Is your mouth filled with praise to God that sent his only begotten Son to die for you? Peter says that because of Jesus being the stone that the builders rejected and being made the chief cornerstone. We have become a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people of his own possession. Why? That you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. And that's one of the things that we're doing this evening. When we observe the Lord's Supper, we are proclaiming the excellencies of Him who called us out of darkness into His marvelous light. We are saying it was his broken body, his shed blood, that transferred us from darkness and slavery and death. to eternal life. And we proclaim that by the action of observing the Lord's Supper. As we take that bread and we drink that cup. We are proclaiming his death till he comes. We ought to be proclaiming it tonight with joy. Because he has done this for us. We need to rejoice in God's glorious plan of salvation that was purchased for us at such a great cost. We remember his death that was foreordained by the Father and obediently fulfilled. by the sun. So that we who once were not a people are now a people of God. And this should impact the way we live. If you were to follow Peter's train of thought into the remaining verses in 1 Peter chapter 2, he describes how because we have been made living stones, that our lives are to be radically different. And that we are to walk in light. Because we've been called out of darkness into his marvelous light. As we come to the Lord's Supper this evening Let us rejoice and be glad in the salvation that God has accomplished for us in His Son. And let us, by God's grace, confess our sins. And come to him again that we might walk in light as he has called us to be. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the living stone, our Savior Jesus Christ. We thank you that he was rejected, but that you have established him for us. Lord, help us this evening as we come in observing of the Lord's Supper, that our hearts would be thrilled by this glorious plan that you have enacted from eternity past and you have accomplished in your Son. Lord, I pray that if there are any here this evening that do not know Christ, that today they would come broken. To the living stone, that they might find life and forgiveness and salvation. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.