If you have your Bibles, please, would you join me in John chapter 4? John chapter 4, we're continuing to look at this great gospel of John and we're in chapter 4 where the Lord is dealing with the woman at the well. And this morning, we're going to go and look at the very interesting part of the conversation where the Lord reveals himself and his identity to her. But before we get to that, I want to mention some introductory matters. All of you here have heard of Charles Darwin. He's credited with developing the modern theory of evolution. He wrote a monumental book called The Origin of the Species in 1859. And this book. has had a tremendous detrimental impact on modern society, perhaps more than just about any other book. But before Darwin wrote this famous book, he traveled around the world making observations of different cultures and animals and peoples. Once he traveled by the New Hebride Islands, which are in the Pacific in the early 1850s, and he noted in his journal that the people of these islands were the most savage that he had ever encountered. They were cannibalistic, they were violent, and not at all refined Thirty years later, as he sailed near the same islands on a Sunday, he heard the sound of church bells and the singing of hymns. He was amazed what had happened to transform these people And the answer is that there was a missionary named John Payton who had come with the gospel in the later 1850s. And multitudes of people were saved, and the entire culture was changed These once primitive people turned from their wicked ways and became worshipers of the one true God. The gospel has the power to save the vilest sinner and to transform the most wicked culture. This morning we return to John chapter 4, where Jesus has been speaking with the woman at the well. He has come on this journey for this conversation. He could have gone to Galilee a different way. He could have gone through a different village. But he went through this village of Sikar, and he came to this well at this time to speak with this woman. This was his divine appointment. He engages her in conversation by asking her for a drink. This was a startling event for her. Because not only was he Jewish, but he was a man. And he was breaking many taboos and asking her for help. But then he quickly changes the conversation by offering to give her a drink of living water. And she doesn't understand that he's speaking symbolically of salvation. And so in verse 15, she says simply, give me this water so that I may not be thirsty or come here to draw water. She probably says this with a almost comical response, or perhaps a sarcastic response, because this man is offering her water. That is permanent, that will last, you'll never be thirsty, yet he doesn't have the ability, he doesn't have any vessel, he can't go down into the well. What is he going to do? But Jesus continues to speak with her, and he brings the conversation to a much more personal and powerful and pointed uh suggestion. He starts to share the good news with her. And in this conversation He's going to reveal three very important truths. The first thing is he's going to reveal to her who she is. And then he's going to reveal to her who God is. And then he's going to show her who he is. And these three revelations will forever change her life. So Jesus reveals three life-giving truths in this conversation The first thing that Jesus reveals is that she is a sinner who needs to be saved. This is not the way lost people think of themselves. Now I want you to notice what he says here as the conversation changes in verse 16. Jesus said to her, Go call your husband and come here. Notice it's getting personal now. He's talking about her family. And the woman responds in verse 17. She says, I have no husband. This has been called an answer of honest deception. It is technically true that she had no husband. But she doesn't tell the whole story. It's possible, you see, to be technically accurate with your words and yet be deceptive. And that's what she is doing here. And Jesus responds in a very interesting way. He says, You are right in saying, I have no husband. For you have had five husbands, and the one you have now is not your husband. What you have said. It's true. He commends her in a sense for being technically accurate that she has no husband But then he reveals that he knows her whole life story about the fact that she's been married five times and the man she's currently living with is not her husband. This of course changes everything in the conversation. Now let's talk about this for just a moment. He first says, you have had five husbands. We're not told how these marriages ended It's possible that one or some of these marriages ended in the death of her husband. It was common in the ancient world where one-third of women died bearing children, that younger women would marry older men. And so it's possible that she married her first marriage was to an older man and he died. However, the tone of our Lord's conversation with her Would suggest that all or most of these marriages ended in divorce. Now, if you've been here on previous Sundays, you've heard me mention that among the Jewish and Samaritan cultures only the man had the right to divorce. And this was pretty much true in all ancient cultures. A woman did not have the right to just say, you know, I'm tired of my husband. I'm going to go get another one. That didn't exist Now once again, we are not told why these marriages ended, if indeed they ended in divorce. Why was there a divorce? The most common reason for divorce in the ancient world was the same as it is today, adultery. And so because of our Lord's condemnation and because of the pattern of her life I think it's likely, I say this tentatively, that she was a serial adulteress. The Jewish rabbis taught that two divorces were allowable, or at the most three in a lifetime, but this woman had been divorced five times. And each time it was the husband that had divorced her. And then we read, and the one you have now is not your husband. This would plainly suggest a pattern of immorality. Now I want to pause here for just a moment and comment on something here. In the ancient culture , Jewish and Samaritan , there was no one who tolerated or excused A man and a woman living together when they were not married. But in our enlightened, supposedly, culture This is not only allowed, it is celebrated. I've had so many people tell me, well, you know, it only makes sense Kind of practice marriage and see if it works out and see if you guys are compatible, and then you can get married. By the way, statistics show you have a higher rate of divorce if you live together before you're married. So that little common wisdom is completely false. But I want you to notice that living together does not create a marriage. Jesus says he's not your husband. This is not some traditional way of looking at things that somehow we've evolved to a place where we know better today. God says it's wrong and it always will be wrong. It doesn't matter if every culture on the planet Earth adopts it and says it's wonderful and it's great and it's right, God says it's wrong. And it's wrong. Now what's fascinating here is how Jesus deals with this woman. He pinpoints her sin, but he does so in an indirect way. I want you to think about this How could Jesus have dealt with her? Well, first of all, he could have done what his disciples would have done, and that is he just could have avoided her You know, you're in an awkward situation with someone who's very different from you. What do we tend to do? We avoid them But that's not what Jesus does. He intentionally goes to talk to her. Number two, he doesn't condemn her. That's what the Pharisees would have done. He doesn't condemn her. He could have said, you are a wicked adulteress, and if you do not repent, you will perish eternally. It would have been true. It would have been accurate. But that's not what he does. He comes and he reveals her sin indirectly and he allows her own conscience to convict her. He deals with her gently, graciously, and patiently. Jesus knew everything that was in her heart. You've probably heard people say before that insanity is doing the same thing again and again and hoping for a different result. Have you heard that before? There's a lot of people who live their lives like that. They do the same thing again and again. And it never turns out well. Sometimes people are caught in cycles of addiction, drug addiction, alcohol addiction. And sin. And they just keep going in that. This woman This woman kept doing the same thing, and it kept turning out really bad I think this woman kept starting new relationships, hoping that maybe this time she would find someone who truly loved her, who truly would care for her. Who would really be the husband that she had been looking for all of her life? And every time she was profoundly disappointed. And so she would seek to start a new relationship. Only because of her reputation, the men that she was marrying became worse and worse. Until the man that she was with now would not even marry her, which was unheard of in her culture. She was scraping the bottom of the barrel, if we could put it that way. And she didn't know what else to do. What she desperately needed was a savior to rescue her, because she could not save herself. She could not change her ways. And by the grace of God, the Savior of the world came to seek and to save her. This woman comes to see this day by the well that she is a sinner who desperately needs a savior. Secondly, Jesus reveals to her that God is a spirit who desires true spiritual worship. Look with me, please. At verse 19. The woman responds to this embarrassing revelation by saying, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. This was a logical conclusion because this man was a stranger, she'd never seen him before, he'd never been in this community, and yet he read her like a book, he knew everything about her past. How else could you explain this except that he was a prophet? But I can't help but see in her response also, she quickly wants to move on from what they were discussing. She doesn't want to talk about her moral failures. She doesn't want to talk about the fact that her life has been a train wreck. So she goes in this direction and she engages him in theological discussion. Which is fascinating. And what we have in verses 20 through 24 is the most significant passage in the New Testament on worship. And this profound revelation is given to this immoral Samaritan woman, not some great theologian. Not the rabbis in Jerusalem, not the philosopher in Athens, but this woman in Samaria. It's an amazing thing. And verse 20, she summarizes the key differences between the Samaritans and the Jews. She says, our fathers worshiped on this mountain. And when she said that, I suspect that she pointed to the mountain that was right in front of them because they were right at the base of Mount Gerizim. Mount Gerizim was the holy mountain of the Samaritans. It is mentioned in the Old Testament. This was the place where Abraham built his first altar to the one true God, according to Genesis chapter 12, verses 6 and 7. Moses called this the Mount of Blessing in Deuteronomy 11, 29. But the Samaritans had added some fanciful speculation to these things. They claimed that this mountain was the location of the Garden of Eden. They said that this is where Noah offered his sacrifice after the flood. The Samaritans believed that this is where Abraham met Melchizedek. They said that this is where Abraham was prepared to offer his son Isaac. as a sacrifice. But that was actually, of course, in the mount in Jerusalem. My point is that in their estimation this mountain was holy grounds. It was the place where man could meet gods. And this is the way billions of people think today. This is true of the way all lost religious people think. They think that if you want to really know God, you must go to Mecca or Jerusalem or Rome or Salt Lake City. You have to go to a special place. That's how they conceive of worship. There are holy places and there are other places that are not holy. Worshiping God is all about going to God at the right place, at the right time, in the right way. And this is the way most people naturally think. They think that religion is all about traditions and rituals and ceremonies. But it really has nothing, they think, to do with your private life. And so this woman can here stand and defend her Samaritan worship. and about our fathers and be proud of her culture and her tradition and her worship, and yet she is an incredibly immoral woman. Because in the minds of many people, what they do in the mosque or in a temple or in a church has nothing to do with how they live the rest of the time. Those are two separate things. Jesus is going to correct these false notions. Look with me now at verse 21. Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. That must have been startling to her. You mean you can worship God now on Mount Gerizim or the Temple Mounts? The hours are referenced in the Gospel of John to the approach of the cross. At the cross, the veil of the temple would be torn in two signifying that the true worship of Jehovah had forever changed. The Lord, in essence, if I can boil it down here, is saying to her, your concern about where to worship is ultimately irrelevant. And then the Lord is incredibly blunt with her in verse 22. Notice what he says, you worship what you do not know. We worship what we know for salvation is from the Jews. Now I want you to know that Jesus doesn't say these blunt words to her until she has already come to believe that something is unusual about this man. This man knows all about her past. And she is riveted to his words. And so my point is he has a platform from which to be incredibly blunt with her. Now what does he mean that your worship is based on ignorance He is saying that since you do not receive most of God's Old Testament revelation, only the first five books, you only have a partial understanding of what God has revealed about himself. And also, your worship has been distorted by traditionalism and some pagan practices. It's not pleasing to God. And then Jesus says, we worship what we know. In other words, Jewish worship is based on God's revelation. Not that the Jews worship God perfectly because Jesus often corrected and condemned their worship as being heartless. And hypocritical. But it was correct in that it was based on what God had revealed about Himself. And then he says: salvation is of the Jews. That must have been very offensive to her. What did he mean by that? He meant that God had created a covenant with his people, the Jews. And he had given to them the oracles of God, according to Romans 3. 2. Of all the peoples of the world, they had this divinely given revelation. Other people did not But he's also saying that from the Jewish people would come the Savior of the world. Then Jesus reveals some of the most profound theological concepts to this uneducated woman. Look with me, please, at verse 23. But the hour is coming and is now here when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father is seeking such people to worship him. He says, the hour is coming and is now here that is right now The world was in a period of transition. The king has come. The Messiah has come. There is this transition between the Old Testament and the New Testament, the Old Covenant and the New Testament. It will be culminated with his death, his resurrection, and then the day of Pentecost. It will be fully inaugurated, this new beginning. But there's a sense in which it has already come because the Messiah has come and he's right there in her presence And he's saying that worship will no longer be all about rituals and ceremonies that were prescribed in the Old Testament. They were given by God. They had their purpose. They pointed men and women to Christ, but they were temporary. They were like training wheels on a bicycle. They weren't meant to be there forever. Instead, the people of God will come to worship the Father in spirit and in truth. Why will this occur? For the Father is seeking such people to worship him. This is an amazing, amazing verse, very significant. What kind of people is God seeking to worship him? He's looking to transform people like the wicked woman of Samaria. He wants to take people and transform. You see, he's not going around looking for like really perfect people, really good people, people of wonderful character, and he goes, you know, I think they would make a good worshiper. No, no, no, no. He only has sinners to choose from. People who worship idols of one sort or another. And he wants to transform them by his grace so that they come to worship him. Now this is very important. So often when we think about the gospel, we think about it this way. That Jesus came and he died to save us from going to hell and so that we can go to heaven. That is true. But that's not the most important reason that he saved us. Did you know that? He saved us so that we would come to worship him and bring glory to him. That's why he saved us. It's not just a man-centered thing where he's feeling bad for us and wants to help us He wants to transform us from what we were to what God wants us to be so that we will worship him not only in this life but in the life to come. You were saved to worship the one true God. By the way, that's also the reason you were made. This is why man cannot find satisfaction in the things of this world, because you were made to worship God, and the only way your soul can be truly satisfied is when you come to Christ and then you come to worship Him. Then we come to verse 24, very significant theological verse. Look with me at this verse. God is spirit. And they and those who worship him must worship in spirit and in truth. We are told in Scripture that God is light, that God is love, and now that God is spirit. This is the very essence of who He is. What does this mean? It means, among other things, that God the Father does not have a body and is therefore invisible. Did you know that? God is spirit. He does not have a body. I'm referring to God the Father. God the Son does have a body, but God the Spirit does not. And this should have a profound impact on the way we worship. This is why we have the second commandment. Thou shalt not make unto me any graven image. Why is God concerned about that that seems completely irrelevant to us, right? The answer is because any image that you make of God is a distortion of who he is because he's a spirit. This is why in Exodus 32, when Moses was up on the mountain receiving the Ten Commandments, and the people were down in the valley, and they made this golden calf with the help of Aaron's leadership or lack thereof. And they bowed down and they worship this golden calf. That calf was a representation in their distorted thinking of Yahweh. Because a bull was powerful, and they said, Our God is powerful. He delivered us from Egypt. And so let's make a symbol of his power. We'll make him to look like a bull. But you know what? God's not like a bull It was not something that God received as worship. It was blasphemous. It was contrary to his nature. Our worship should be fitting in line with who God is Not by what we think we would like to do in worship, which a lot of people get confused. So what does it mean to worship God in spirit and in truth? First of all, let me say grammatically these two things must go together. You can't have one without the other. What does it mean to worship God in spirit? First of all, this is not a reference to the Holy Spirit. I don't have time to prove that, but it's not. Secondly, this is the opposite of man-made worship that Jesus has just been talking about. Worshiping in spirit is the opposite of formalism, traditionalism, and externalism. Alright? Formalism. We go through these forms. We do these things. We follow these rituals. It doesn't matter what I'm thinking inside or if my heart's engaged. It's just all about the performance. And then we're done. That's what worship is. That's what worship is for most people in the world. And God does not receive it. No, what it means to worship him in spirit is that we worship him from the depths of our hearts from our inner man. This is how Jesus diagnosed the problem with the Jewish worship in his day. He said, the people draw nigh to me with their mouth and honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. They were saying nice words, and they had the right look and they had the right dress. They were following the regulations of the Old Testament, but they had no heart for God You see, you can fool people by putting on a pious demonstration that you're a really holy person. But you don't fool God because he knows exactly what's inside of you. And so when you worship God that way and think God must be really impressed with how I'm doing this, you know what? He is not Because he knows what's inside of you. He is saying that real worship engages the inner man, who you really are. God requires whole-hearted worship. This doesn't mean that our worship has to be a frenzied emotional experience. But it has to be authentic and sincere, expressing how we really feel and are responding to the situation. You see, real worship will focus not on man but on God. True worship is not about how to live a better life, but it's about how to know the one true God. And our worship must be in spirit, notice, and in truth. The point of the matter is that because God is a spirit being, the way we can worship Him is when our spirit interacts with his spirit. But how do we know about what God wants in worship? Well, that's according to his revelation, what he has told us in his word It must be in truth. That means our worship must be filled with scripture and based in scripture and what God has said about himself. And so worship service should reflect on God. It should constantly draw our attention to who God is and who his son is. And what our need is. This is why we worship the way we do I hesitate to say this because I don't want us to say, you know, we worship the right way. We're so much better than everybody else. I don't want you to have that impression. But you probably notice we don't have a whole lot of ceremonies and rituals or anything going on here. We're not repeating rote prayers. We're not kneeling and standing and bowing and crossing ourselves and doing all of this stuff in the service. And that's because that type of worship is more in line with Old Testament worship, where the form and the ceremony is everything. rather than New Testament worship, which as we have described in Scripture, is from the hearts. But on the other end of the spectrum, you've probably noticed, have you noticed that we don't have a fog machine in here? And it's not because it's not in the budget. It's not because we can't afford it. We have intentionally chosen not to approach God in that way. Because God is not a cool entertainer. That's not who he is. And our worship is to reflect who God is. He is the sovereign, holy God of the universe. And our worship should reflect that. So Jesus shows this woman who she is. He shows her who God is, and now he's going to show her who he is. Look with me at verses 25 and 26. The woman said to him, I know that Messiah is coming. He who is called Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things. The Samaritans believed in a coming Messiah just like the Jews, because it's revealed in the first five books of the Bible. They believed that he would restore everything, that he would straighten everything out, that he would bring about righteousness and judgment and He he would make sure things were right. And she's saying in a sense, you know, when he comes, he is going to straighten out all these differences between the Jews and the Samaritans. And she's kind of sighing, if only he would come, the world would be so much better. If only Messiah was here, well you know what? He's right in front of her And then we come to the climax of this conversation and one of the most dramatic expressions in Scripture, verse 26. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He This is one of the clearest declarations that Jesus makes of his identity that we have in the Gospels. One of the reasons he did not do that often among the Jews is because of their political understanding of what it was to be the Messiah. And so he was very careful. That's why he tells people that he would heal and so forth, not to tell people about this. He was guarded about that, but he didn't need to be with the Samaritan woman But it's amazing that this incredible revelation, this life-giving revelation, he gives to her. And now it all started to add up. She understood how he knew all about her. She knew what he meant by that living water that would forever quench her thirst. In a moment she understood who this man was. And now I I want you to notice I strongly suspect that Jesus revealed more to this woman that John has chosen not to include in this conversation. But this is clear. That Jesus is the promised Messiah. And let me just say, this is the reason that John has included this in this gospel. We look at this, we find this a fascinating story. It illustrates for us his love for the lowest of sinners, that he's the savior of the world, both for Jews and Samaritans. It reveals to us an important way of sharing the gospel with people, but those are all secondary. The reason John's includes this is because Jesus reveals to her that he is the Messiah, and he says at the end of this book that the reason he has written this book is so that the reader would come to believe that Jesus is the Christ, that is the Messiah, the Son of God, and that by believing you might have life in his name. Now let me conclude with just a few points of application. Number one, when we share the gospel with the lost, we must address Their sins. Jesus did not condemn this woman, but he did expose her sin. And if people do not know they are a sinner, they will not think they need a savior. People need to feel a sense of conviction, like God is displeased with me. I thought I was a really good person. I thought he would accept me the way I am, but now I know differently. Now that I know that I am sinned and therefore I'm under his judgments, I must turn from my sin and turn to Christ. I must change my mind about who he is. You see, if you just present the gospel as God has a wonderful plan for your life, most people say, I'm glad that works for you, but I don't need that But when you present to them that they are a sinner and under the judgment of God, that changes things a little bit And so we cannot fail to mention people's sin when we share the gospel, because it's only when they know they are sinner that they will seek the Savior. I want you to notice that we must continue to proclaim an exclusive gospel Did you notice that Jesus was very politically incorrect here? He doesn't espouse a pluralistic gospel When this woman says, you know, you guys worship on that mountain and we worship on this mountain, he didn't say, well, we all worship the same God, so you do it your way and I'll do it mine. He didn't say that. He said the way you're doing it is wrong. Because there's only one way to God, and it's through Jesus Christ. But this is perhaps the biggest point of application for most of us. And that is we must beware of worshiping God. without our hearts. Did you know that you can go to a gospel preaching church where Christ is exalted that Bases all their comments on the word of God and still not really worship. It happens all the time. I'm sure it's happened here. Let me ask you this morning, did you really worship God here today? Or did you just go through the forms? Just get up, get dressed, come here. Sing some of the Psalms in a half-hearted way. Snooze during the prayer. And allow your mind to drift to a hundred different things you have to do this week during the sermon. And you really, really didn't give any attention to the Word of God. And if the truth was known, you couldn't wait for it to be over. Because you're here out of convention, out of habit, out of deference to a spouse or your parents, but it's not really where you want to be. I'm sure I'm describing many people this morning. I want you to know God does not receive your worship. It has to be in spirit and in truth So we have to be so careful. It's very easy for even born-again believers to develop a habit of not really worshiping God. And perhaps you would say that you enjoy coming to church, but it's not to worship God It's perhaps to serve in some capacity that makes you feel good about yourself and using your gifts or to see certain people, or it's just part of your weekly routine. My friend, God wants wholehearted worship. Wholehearted worship One of the first things I look for when a person professes faith in Christ is this. Do they have a desire for worship? And when I say worship, I'm not just talking about here on Sunday. I'm talking about their whole life as a lifestyle of worship. They live their life in the presence of God. They spend time with the Lord every day. And they walk with Him. They pray to Him throughout the day. They think of Him throughout the day. They rely on him throughout the day. And when they gather for the worship, they gather with their brothers and sisters, and it's the overflow of what they've been experiencing all week long. They live a lifestyle of worship. And so one of the things that God does is he changes a person's heart so that the last place in the world a lost person, especially who's not very religious, wants to be is in church, but all of a sudden they want to be in church. They want to be with the people of God. They want to hear about Christ. And I want you to see here that God can save the violent sinner. God delights in saving the vilest sinner. Did you know that this is why we go out? This is why we seek to have people saved and why we have outreach opportunities and we have activities like we did yesterday. And why we preach the gospel, we want people to come to worship God, which will truly satisfy their souls. And God delights to take the most wicked people and turn them into worshipers. One of the most powerful examples of this is that many of you have heard of the famous missionary Jim Elliott. and his four fellow missionaries, and they're taking the gospel to the Wadani tribe in Ecuador. And all five of those American missionaries were killed as they tried to make contact with this very primitive tribe that was cut off from the outside world. They were speared to death. On the banks of that river. And it became big, big news here in the States. and throughout the Christian community. What some people don't realize is that in time missionaries went back there and continued to work, contact was made. And several of the men who murdered those missionaries became believers. And several of them became pastors. And they were baptized in the very river that once ran red with the blood of the missionaries they had murdered. And God changed their pagan, wicked ways so that they came to worship the one true God through Jesus Christ. That's what the gospel is all about.