If you revivals, please would you open it to John chapter 10? If you're visiting with us, we are making our way through the Gospel of John sequentially, chapter by chapter, paragraph by paragraph. This is what's called expositional preaching, which means the main point of the passage is the point of my sermon. I'm not trying to impose some twist or spin or interesting insight into the passage. I'm just trying to tell you what it says. John chapter 10. Samuel Seymour was born in eastern Maryland in 1860. His father was a wealthy businessman. And so when Samuel was five years old, his father decided to take him along with him on a business trip to Washington, D. C. And they arrived in the morning and they decided that they were going to go to a play in the evening that was known as our American Cousin. It was on the night of April 14, 1865, at the Ford's Theater. Of course, that was the fateful night that Abraham Lincoln was assassinated. by John Wilkes Booth. And five-year-old Samuel Seymour was not very far away and witnessed this important historic event. And when Mr. Seymour was 96 years old, he went on a TV show in the 1950s known as I've Got a Secret. And he shared his testimony, and he was the last person alive who witnessed this tragic event. This morning we're considering a passage in John's Gospel where Jesus defends his divine identity by appealing to three witnesses. The idea of being a witness or giving testimony in a court of law is about as old as human civilization. This has been the basis of how courts and judges determine who's guilty. The idea of being a witness is a common theme in the Gospel of John. He uses the term for witness 14 times and he establishes he he gives a number of witnesses John does not want his readers to just take his word for who Jesus is. He wants his readers to carefully consider what they've heard from other witnesses and to weigh their testimonies. so that they will come to the conclusion that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. And so he provides an array of witnesses in this book. We have The witness of God the Father in John 818. He says, the Father who sent me bears witness of me The fact is that Jesus was a witness to his own identity. In John chapter 8 and verse 14, he says, if I do bear witness about myself, my testimony is true. The Holy Spirit bears witness to him. In John chapter 15 and verse 26, Jesus says, When the helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, he will bear witness about me. And the Lord's disciples, of course, would become his witnesses, especially after his death. In John chapter 15 and verse 27, Jesus says, you will bear witness because you have been with me from the beginning. And then we find in this book the witness of those whose lives have been changed because of their interaction with with Jesus. The Samaritan woman who ran to that village and said, Come see a man who told me all that ever I did. And then we remember the man born blind in John chapter 9, who said, one thing I know that though I was blind, now I see. But today we're going to consider three other witnesses who provide compelling evidence to the divine identity of Jesus Christ. The whole point of the Gospel of John is kind of like a lengthy Gospel tract where John, one of the 12 apostles, is trying to convince his readers through a multitude of evidence that he provides that Jesus is who he claimed to be. the Messiah, the Son of God. And this morning we're going to look at three witnesses to his divine identity. I want you to know that this is not an academic lecture or something of just interesting for you to consider. If a person does not believe that Jesus is who he claimed to be the Son of God, and that he died for their sins, and that he rose again the third day That individual, no matter how likable they might be, they will perish eternally. This is what the Bible teaches. We must believe who Jesus is And it's the word of God that reveals this wonderful truth to us. So first of all, I want us to consider the witness of his good works. Look with me, please, at verse 31. We read, the Jews picked up stones again to stone him. Why were they picking up stones to execute Jesus? Well, look at the previous verse, verse 30. Very brief. It says, I and the Father Are one. When Jesus said, I and the Father are one , he was making a reference to the most sacred verse in the Hebrew Testament. And that was what was known as the Shema. Deuteronomy 6. 4, hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one God. The Jews so revered this verse and this truth that they had it written in microscopic form on little scrolls that they would wear in boxes on their wrist and sometimes on their forehead. We call it a phylactery. They would have it up on the doorpost of their home. Because this was, in essence, and boiled-down form, the essence of their faith. They worship the one true God who had revealed himself through his word. And this is what separated them from the religions of all the pagan nations around him. They were all polytheists. They believed in many different gods. gods that were just like extensions of human beings, that were more powerful than human beings, but were very much like human beings in their flaws and in their sins. But the Jews believe in the Holy One, the one true and living God, the creator of heaven and earth. So when Jesus said, I and the Father are one, it seemed to them to be a violation of their core principles. It was nothing less than blasphemy in their minds. And so they pick up stones to kill him. Now this is not the first time you notice in verse 31 it says again. You see that word again? Because this is the third time in the Gospel of John that we read this occurring. And John chapter 5 and verse 18. This is why the Jews, John says, were seeking all the more to kill him, because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. And then in John 8. 48 We read that Jesus said to these leaders, before Abraham was, I am, and they picked up stones to throw at him. So just picture this. This entire passage that we're covering this morning. Down through verse 39 it should say, the Jews are there talking to Jesus and they're holding stones in their hands. Now I want you to know that these stones were not pebbles. They were not going to pelt him with pebbles. These were stones that weighed 10 or 20 pounds, that were big, that were designed to kill a person, to break their bones. And they're holding these stones as he's talking with them. Look at verse 32 now. Jesus answered them, I've shown you many good works from the Father. For which of them are you going to stone me? So this is the first evidence he's going to provide, his good works. Jesus presents these as a witness to his divine identity. He mentions this just a few verses earlier in John 10. 25. He says, the works that I do in my Father's name bear witness of me. Now in this sermon, we're going to look at three different witnesses for Christ, but I want to say at the beginning, this is the main one in this passage. The other two are kind of ancillary. And kind of in line with it, but the main thing is his works are a witness to his identity. Now, what are these good works? These works include the totality of his earthly ministry, both his words and his actions. In Acts chapter 10 and verse 38, Peter summarizes the ministry of Jesus in this way. He says he went about doing good things And the word that's used here for good is the same word that is used for the good shepherd. It means that which is beautiful and attractive. Now, in this context here, I think primarily what Jesus has in mind when he talks about his works is he's speaking of his miracles that he performed. These men had witnessed some of his miracles. They had investigated those miracles. I want you to notice three ways that Jesus describes his work here. He describes it first as many. If you were to take the four Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, and you were to count carefully, and you were to throw out all the duplicates, you would find there's a record of about 40 specific miracles that Jesus performed. Alright? Including, of course, the famous seven that we have here in the Gospel of John But we also come across in the Gospels summary statements that speak of Jesus going into a village or into a certain region, and it says, and he healed everyone that was pressed of a demon or who was sick. And we read this several times. Well, how many people lived in those villages? We don't know. But it says he healed everyone who had a health issue. So scholars have concluded that if if if you look at these carefully, probably Jesus performed thousands of miracles during his three years of earthly ministry. In other words, it wasn't just this happened on a rare occasion, every once in a while. When you're trying to determine patterns and understand things, you look for what lawyers call a preponderance of evidence. You don't want to have a sample of one. Well, John says there are many good works that Jesus did. many good works. And then we read that they are good. Not only they're morally right, but they were noble and beautiful. He made the lame to walk and the blind to see. He took broken people and he made them whole. And these miracles are not just witnesses to his power and his identity. They're not just Jesus showing compassion to people, but they're also pictures of conversion of what God does by grace through the gospel when he takes broken people and he makes them whole when he changes them from the inside out. He gives them new sight. He gives them new ability to walk in the way of the Lord. This is the purpose of these miracles. But then there's a third way that Jesus describes his works. He says that they are from the Father. Notice in verse 25 of this chapter, the works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me. And verse 32 , I have shown you many good works from the Father. And then look at verse 37, a little further down. He says, if I am not doing the works of my Father, then do not believe me. And in chapter 5, earlier in this book, verses 36 and following, he says, the works the Father has given me to accomplish The very works that I am doing bear witness about me that the Father has sent me and has borne witness about me, his voice you have never heard, his form you have never seen, and you do not have his word abiding in you. for you do not believe the one whom he has sent. Although these learned men claim to know God, they were in fact ignorant of him because when he sent his beloved son who was doing his work, they did not recognize him. Instead, they rejected him. Now look with me at John 10, 33, please. The Jews answered him, It is not for good work that we are going to stone you. But for blasphemy, because you being a man, make yourself God. Now, before I get into their argument, I want you to notice something that's interesting here. They don't deny that he did good works. He says, for which of the good works do you condemn me? They could have said, you don't do any good works. That's not what they said, because they couldn't say that. Because they had witnessed and investigated his healing of the blind man, his healing of the lame man in chapter 5. These were undeniable facts. And so they couldn't argue on that line. Instead, they wanted to say that he had committed blasphemy. And it's very interesting. They say, being a man, you made yourself God. They actually got it reversed. Being God, he made himself man. And what you see here is they did not want to allow for the possibility that he was who he claimed to be. They never allow that to be something they should investigate and try to determine from the evidence if he is who he claimed to be. That was just off the table to begin with. They weren't going to carefully look at the evidence. Now I also want to point something out that again is kind of an aside here. If you have ever encountered um uh people who perhaps do not believe in God, who do not believe in the deity of Christ. They often like to claim that Jesus never claimed to be God. Oh, he never claimed to be God. That's just something that other people, the church came up with later, they will say. Well, I want you to think about this for a second. These men are standing there with stones in their hand, ready to kill him, and the reason they say they're going to do this is because he claimed to be the Son of God Now, if that was not true, what would he have naturally have done? He'd have said, you guys misunderstand me. Don't stone me. I'm not saying I'm God. I'm not saying I'm the son of God. You haven't been following and tracking my teaching very well, have you? But he doesn't do that. Because their conclusion that this is what he's claiming to be is absolutely true But now we must turn to the second witness in this passage of Jesus' identity, and that is the witness of the Word of God. And this is embedded within this argument of his works. Earlier in this book, we have seen that the scriptures testify to the identity of Christ. In John chapter 5 and verse 39, Jesus said to the rabbis, perhaps some of these same men, You search the scriptures because you think in them you have eternal life, and it is they that bear witness about me. He says to these men who were experts in the Old Testament law, you know, the very scriptures that you claim to believe and that you study all the time, they actually point to me. And yet they missed it. Remember what Jesus said of the two on the road to Emmaus after his resurrection. We read, and beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted them and all the scriptures the things concerning himself. All of the Old Testament points to Jesus. We must never think of the Old Testament as in some way inferior to the New Testament. You know, the New Testament's the good part of the story. The Old Testament has all these boring genealogies and history lessons and and sometimes people think of the Old Testament as, you know, just kind of encouraging morality and doing what is right. And it's a good place to find illustrations for New Testament truths, but there's not a whole lot there. That is not true. All of the Bible, Old and New Testament, is the Word of God, and it is all profitable for us. The Old Testament is filled with prophecies. and types and ceremonies and symbols and patterns that point to Jesus Christ. And that is how we must read it and understand it. Now, here in John 10, Jesus is going to argue from one passage in Psalm 82 and verse 6. And I have to tell you that verses 34 through 36 are are a little bit difficult to comprehend at first glance. I remember as as a uh years and years ago reading this and just kind of scratching my head, you know Sometimes you read a passage and you I don't get what it's saying. Then you read it again, I still don't get what it's saying. Then you read it again. And and and and and just the the connection of the words and sometimes is hidden from us. So I'm gonna do my best to explain it to you. Look at verse 34, please. Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, that is your Old Testament? I said you are gods. He's quoting there from Psalm 82, verse 6. If he called them gods through whom the word of God came, and Scripture cannot be broken. Do you say of him whom the Father consecrated and sent into the world, you are blaspheming because I said I am the Son of God? That's kind of a really long sentence So let me try to explain this to you. In Psalm 82 and verse 6, the Hebrew word Elohim, which is often used of God , is used of human beings, probably a reference to judges. Now, there's also a theory that this is a reference to angels. It's a very popular view today. But I think Jesus' argument would not fit as well if it was indeed a reference to angels. I think it's a reference to human judges Because when a human judge like deals in a court of law with with a with a person and they have the power of life and death, They have that power delegated to them from God. They're kind of like in the place of God saying this person is guilty or this person is innocent. In fact, in Exodus chapter 22, verses 8 and 9, the equation is made that to appear before a judge is like appearing before God. Now, I want you to carefully notice the argumentation that Jesus is using in these verses. He's essentially asking these experts in the Old Testament who revered the Old Testament, is God's word mistaken? When it uses the term gods to refer to some human beings, now they would never say that the word of God was wrong because they believe rightly that the word of God could not be broken, which was a rabbinic way of saying the word of God cannot be proven wrong. It has authority in and of itself. And so Jesus here, and I'll say more about this later, Jesus here is arguing From lesser to greater, as rabbis often did. This is the essence of what he's saying in these verses. If the word God could be used in Scripture of human judges, how much more appropriately can the term God be used for the one whom the Father has set apart and sent into the world as his beloved Son? He's saying that if you're really going to be scriptural about this, you need to investigate this further. Jesus says, based on scripture, can you rightly say that I am blaspheming because I claim to be the Son of God? And he goes on to say that this is no boastful claim that he's making, but it's backed up by an abundance of evidence. Look at his miracles. And look, so in verse 37 he says, if I am not doing the works of my Father, then do not believe me. He's calling on them to look at the evidence. Look at the evidence. Look at these miracles. How else can they be explained? No one's ever opened the eyes of someone who is congenitally blind. How can you just dismiss this evidence and walk away? To me, there's something really powerful here. These men, remember, they're holding stones in their hands. They're ready to murder him right here, and they will in about four months' time. Jesus knows this, and yet he's still patiently urging them to reconsider and to come to trust in him This to me is a powerful reminder of how we have to be patient with people. We can't just present the gospel to them one time and they say, no, thank you, and we say, all right. I guess I'll never try again. I'll never pray for them again. They've crossed it out. They've rejected it. That's it. No, he continues to plead with them to believe. Jesus is suggesting that if you put aside their animosity towards him and look at his works, they will see that he is indeed doing the work of his father. Jesus' works testify that he was sent on a mission by his father, and whatever his father wanted him to do, that's what he did. It's not like Jesus was a free agent roaming around doing whatever he wanted. He was doing exactly what his father wanted him to do. And also, by the way, what he wanted to do, because he wanted to do his father's will. But notice their reaction in verse 39. Again they sought to arrest him, but he escaped from their hands, which again could be a reference to a miraculous way that he invaded capture because his hour had not yet come. But now I'm going to look at the third witness that's kind of an aside, and perhaps you didn't see it, but it's in this next paragraph, and that is the witness of John the Baptist. Look with me at verse 40. He went away again across the Jordan to the place where John had been baptizing at first, that is at the beginning of his ministry, and there he remained. Jesus leaves the hostilities of Jerusalem and he goes out into the wilderness where John the Baptist had the headquarters of his ministry. where he was preaching a gospel of repentance. Now I want to remind you that every time John the Apostle, the man who wrote this book refers to John the Baptist in his gospel, he always refers to him just as John. This has caused a great deal of confusion with people because They're reading this and they're thinking, so is the author of this book like speaking in the third person when he's talking about John? He's talking about himself? No. John never refers to himself by name in this book. He does refer to himself as the beloved disciple. But every time he uses the term John, he's referring to John the Baptist. But if you look in Matthew, Mark, and Luke, they always refer to him as John the Baptist, to make it clear, not John the Apostle. So this can be confusing. Now John the Baptist is already dead by this time. Remember, he was beheaded by Herod. This passage in John chapter 10 is the last mention of John the Baptist in this fourth gospel. And it's a precious tribute to a faithful witness. John the Baptist plays a special role in this book. He's the first really individual mentioned in the opening verses of this book in John chapter 1. In verse 6 we read this, there was a man sent from God whose name was John. He came as a witness to bear witness about the light that all might believe through him. He was not the light. But he came to bear witness about the light. John the Baptist did not come with his own message He came to point men and women to the light of the world, the Lord Jesus Christ. And so when a religious delegation came to find out if he was the Messiah, he said he was simply a voice crying in the wilderness. Prepare the way for the coming of the Lord. And when John the Baptist saw Jesus, you remember what he said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. He even called his own disciples to follow Jesus. What an act of condescension. Don't follow me, follow him. The ministry of John the Baptist could be summarized with his famous declaration that he must increase, but I must decrease. And in John 5. 38, Jesus summarizes the ministry of John the Baptist in this way. He was a burning and a shining lamp, and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his light. John the Baptist was not the light of the world, but he was God's appointed lamp to point people to Jesus. This idea about him being a burning and shining lamp is the idea that he was a sensation. Everyone was talking about him. He was the first prophets sent by God in 400 years and people streamed in from Jerusalem to see him and the Bible records all kinds of people came, rich and poor, religious and irreligious, men and women, Jew and Gentile, everyone was curious about this man of God. But his ministry was brief. It only lasted a few years, and he was gone. But he was his forerunner to bear witness to Christ. And this is the amazing thing. Even though he is now dead, when this passage occurs , He is still bearing witness for Christ. Because look at what it says. And many came to him, and they said, verse 41, John did no sign, that is, he did no miracle. But everything that John said about this man was true. The people in that region who had witnessed John's powerful teaching and preaching, they remembered what he said. They remembered that he said, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And so when Jesus here, coming to the end of his ministry, goes to this region again, they remember the witness of John the Baptist. And they said, everything he said about this man is true. And so we read this wonderful summary. Many believed in him there. This is a wonderful thing. Did you know that a person can have a testimony for Christ even after they have died? The people that you witnessed to, the people that you've given Bibles to, the people that you've lived your life before, long after you're gone, that can still bear fruit. That's a wonderful thing. This chapter ends with the triumph of the gospel. Chapters 5 through 10 to be honest with you, are kind of a dark section in John's gospel. Oh, there's beautiful things in there like he's the the the the bread of life and the light of the world and these wonderful teachings of Christ. But the entire chapters, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10, are filled with conflict and controversy where the religious leaders are trying to arrest Jesus, where they're rejecting him, they're trying to undermine his teaching. They're responding in unbelief again and again and again and again. And a reader of this gospel might think, is anyone going to follow him? Is anyone going to believe him? And here at the end of this very dark, negative, contentious portion of the gospel, we read that many believed in him there. And this is a reminder to us of the triumph of the gospel. Sometimes we look out at the world and we think, you know, all hope is lost. The church is weak. People are not being saved. Moral values are in decline. Everything's horrible and awful. It's easy to get that perspective, but it's not true. The gospel will triumph at last. We know the end of the story. We know how the story ends. And it doesn't end in defeats. It ends in victory. So Christians, as I always say, should be the most optimistic people in the world. The gospel will triumph and Christ will reign. Now I want to make two points of application as we conclude this morning. Or I guess it may have just become afternoon. I don't know. The Bible is the inerrant, infallible, and authoritative word of God. Now we went through verse 35 pretty quickly, and there's this little phrase in there that is very important theologically. Did you catch it? It's Jesus' words when he says the scripture cannot be broken. Now why is that so important? It gives us Jesus' view of the Bible himself. And may I suggest to you, his view should be our view The scripture cannot be broken. What does that mean? Does it mean that you can't destroy a Bible? You can't break a Bible physically There have been many Bibles, I've heard people say superstitious things like, you know, you can't burn a Bible, it's indestructible. Not true. Not true. Don't experiment. I'm telling you right now, it's not true. All right? The truth of the Bible can't be destroyed. This is a very significant passage. It means that the Bible cannot be demonstrated to be false in anything that it teaches when properly understood. Now sometimes people get weird ideas of what the Bible said that the Bible didn't really say. Those ideas can be proven false But something that truly comes from the teaching of the Word of God cannot be proven to be false. That's why we believe that the Bible is inerrance. It doesn't have mistakes in it. It's infallible. It's authoritative. We don't sit over the Bible's critics and say, hmm, I don't think this part's , I don't agree with what Jesus is saying there. I think he got that part wrong. We don't say that. We are underneath the authority of the Word of God. You see, all of people's opinions of the Bible can fall into two big categories. Listen to this. The Bible is either the words of men about God, or it's the word of God given to men. Alright? Lost people invariably think of the Bible as it's just ancient men's thoughts about God. They might be inspiring, they might be right, but then again, they might be wrong. If you were to go to a secular institution and take a course in comparative religions or in world religions, something like that, this would be their perspective. The Bible. They would say reflects ancient man's superstitious, uninformed, pre-scientific understanding of the world. But of course, today we know so much better. And so they would say that the Bible is like historic curiosity. It's interesting, but it's wrong in so many things. But the Bible is the inerrant and infallible word of God. And as we sang together this morning, it's absolutely true. It's never been proven false. There have been many people in the history of the world who have predicted that as humanity becomes more and more informed and educated, they would reject The Bible and all religion is superstitious, and this would be something in our past that we were embarrassed about. That will never happen because the Bible is the timeless word of God. And it will endure forever. And so what does this practically mean? It means that for a believer, everything that we believe and do should be governed by the Word of God. We don't ask ourselves, what do we think would be advantageous for us to do in this situation? Or how should I live my life? How should I spend my money? What kind of morality code should I live by? We don't have to wonder about those things because all of that is answered in the Word of God. We simply must do what God has told us to do because the Word of God has authority. It is as if God is speaking audibly to us. And therefore we do not disobey it. And then I conclude with this. I want to ask you this question. Do you believe that Jesus is the Son of God? This passage is all about witnesses, witnesses to his identity How many witnesses, let me ask you this question, how many witnesses to Jesus has God brought into your life? If you're here this morning, I hope if you've been awake, you've heard the witness of his word. We've read the record of this encounter of Jesus. with these religious leaders and then with these people on the other side of the Jordan River. And these are witnesses to his identity. But you've probably had other witnesses. You've probably heard other preachers. You've probably had someone share the gospel with you. You have access to a Bible. If you have a phone, you have access to the Bible. And you've probably seen God do things in maybe your life or the lives of others where perhaps He's answered your mom's prayers, or maybe you've seen someone who God completely changed, that used to be chained. to some addiction and then God got a hold of their heart and saved them and they are a different person now. These are all witnesses to the identity of Christ But what we see in this passage and throughout the Gospel of John is an abundance of evidence does not guarantee that a person will believe. These men who were holding those stones in their hands saw his miracles. They heard his words. They saw the works of the Father unmistakably through him, and that they were good works, and yet they responded in unbelief. And so we must be careful that every time we hear the word of God, we don't just dismiss it. We don't view it as a curiosity. But we listen to it as if our life depends upon it because it is the Word of God and it has the words of life And unless we believe, we will perish eternally. Don't respond like these men who hardened their hearts to the truth No respond in faith like these people in the Jordan region who believed in him. Jesus is worthy of your trust. Let's close in prayer this evening. Our Father, we thank you for giving us a great Savior. We thank you that throughout his earthly life he did good works that were consistent with everything his father wanted him to do. That everything that he said was in keeping with the prophecies of the Old Testament about the coming Messiah. And we thank you, Father , that by your grace our eyes have been opened and we have seen Jesus as he is, and so many of us have put our trust in him. But Father, we We believe that there are probably others here who have not done that, who have not come to that place where they recognize their need of a savior, their sinfulness. and their danger of being under the wrath of God. I pray that today, Father, there would be some people Who would come to see their need of a savior and would come to trust in Christ and in Christ alone and would recognize that they can never do anything to earn your favor. But to repent and bow before Christ their Savior. I pray, Lord, that you would work in hearts today. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.