You have your Bibles, please would you join me in John chapter 3? If you're visiting with us, we are making our way through the Gospel of John. And we happen this morning to be in a very familiar and well-known portion of God's Word. John chapter 3, this morning, our attention will be on verses 14 and 15. I wonder if you know what the most deadly snake in the world is. Perhaps you would guess it's the Burmese python or the king cobra or the black mamba. These are indeed deadly snakes and very fearsome looking. However, the snake that is responsible for the most deaths every year is the carpet viper. This unimpressive two-foot-long viper lives in the Middle East and North Africa. It is easily angered and very aggressive. It has a deadly venom. When it's about to strike, it rubs its scales together. It produces kind of a sizzling sound. And when this viper strikes, the venom produces a painful burning sensation. This species of snake is very likely the fiery serpents that are mentioned in Numbers chapter 21 and are referred to by our Lord here in John chapter 3. The first 15 verses in John chapter 3 record the conversation between Jesus and a Jewish religious leader named Nicodemus. This man came to Jesus by night probably to evade the attention of the people. He greets Jesus very respectfully. He says And verse 2, Rabbi, we know that you are teacher come from God, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him. But Jesus does not respond with a polite greeting, but with a statement that Nicodemus needs to be born again. Jesus essentially repeats himself in verses 5 and 7. And Nicodemus finally responds in verse 9 with the question, how can these things be? Nicodemus doesn't understand how a person can be born of the Spirit, how they can be spiritually transformed from the inside out. But Jesus doesn't answer his question right away. Instead, he humbles Nicodemus further in verse 10, saying that as the great teacher of Israel, Nicodemus should know this basic spiritual truth. And then Jesus reveals That Nicodemus's real problem is not intellectual, it is spiritual. But Jesus doesn't leave Nicodemus in the dark. He is going to explain how a person is saved. In answering this question, Jesus reminds Nicodemus of an incident that occurred in the Old Testament and helps to explain the basic truths. of salvation. Now I have been preaching for several weeks about being born again, about the gospel, but I have not laid out In the same manner I will this morning, the doctrines that a person must understand and believe in order to be saved. But our text this morning provides a wonderful opportunity to do so. How could you know if you have been born again? What is grace? What is faith? What does it mean to possess eternal life? These are abstract truths, and sometimes people have trouble understanding and defining them, but they are very important because they are the essence of our response to the gospel. And these questions, I think, are implicitly found in this Old Testament historic event that Jesus refers to here. Now let me ask you, do you have the assurance That if you were going to die today, that you would go to be with the Lord in heaven. I hope you do. I hope you would answer like our brother just did here. I hope you have that assurance. And whenever I ask that person, there's always a follow-up question, right? Why do you think that is the case? And that is perhaps even a more important question. Because the majority of people do answer yes. But often they do not have a good basis for that answer. I'm hoping that this morning as we look at this passage , If you don't already know, you will come to understand the essential doctrines of the gospel. I want to preach to you on three foundational truths that are essential in salvation. The first one is this: that salvation is by grace alone. Look with me please at our text this morning, verses 14 and 15. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness So must the Son of Man be lifted up that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. Now, in order to see this aspect of grace , We're going to need to turn back to the Old Testament event that's recorded in Numbers chapter 21. So would you please keep a figure here in John 3? We're going to come back. But I want to invite you to turn with me to Numbers chapter 21. Numbers is the fourth book of the Bible. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers. Numbers chapter 21. Here we read of an incident that occurred towards the very end of their wilderness wanderings. Look with me at chapter 21. I want to begin reading at verse 4. From Mount Hor they sent out by the way of the Red Sea to go around the land of Edom. And the people became impatient on the way, and the people spoke against God and against Moses. Why have you brought us? up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness, for there is no food and no water, and we loathe this worthless food. Then the Lord sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people, so that the people of Israel died. And the people came to Moses and said, We have sinned, for we have spoken against the Lord and against you. Pray to the Lord that he may take away the serpents from us. So Moses prayed for the people, and the Lord said to Moses, Make a fiery serpent and set it on a pole, and everyone who is bitten, when he sees it, shall live. So Moses made a bronze serpent and set it on a pole, and if a serpent bit anyone, he would look at the bronze serpent and live. This is the historic background to what Jesus is referring to in John chapter 3. Let me give you some of the background here. of of what we're encountering here. Verse 4 says that the people became impatient on the way. Sort of like your children when you're on a long road trip and they say, Are we there yet? This journey to the promised land could have taken a matter of weeks. But because they went around Edomite territory, and because the people kept responding in unbelief and they were wandering in a circle, it seemed like this journey would never end. And so the people began to complain. But this was not the first time. This is actually the last time the Bible records their complaint. It's the last of eleven times. But this particular time of complaining is different from all the others. Let me show you this. Notice what it says And verse verse 4, or excuse me, verse 5. And the people spoke against God And against Moses. But that first part there, they spoke against God. In none of the other ten occurrences that are found in the wilderness wanderings, do we read of the children of Israel speaking against God? But now they do. This was blasphemy This was taking it to another level. They are questioning the very nature of God. They are saying that he has not provided their basic needs. They were tired of his gift of the manna. And so in verse 6, God sends these fiery serpents, probably carpet vipers. And they began to bite the people, and they began to die. Now let me ask you an important question. Did these people deserve the judgment that they received? Yes. God could have sent these serpents the first time they complained. This is the eleventh time. And remember, they've taken it up another notch. They deserved the judgment that they received from God on this occasion. And yet, God is going in his grace to make provision for their healing. This incident illustrates an important truth that I want you to understand, and that is that salvation is completely undeserved. These people had rebelled from day one, even though God brought them out of Egypt with a mighty arm, and God used ten plagues to humble that proud man Pharaoh. And after 400 years of slavery, God set them free. And then, of course, the Lord rescued them from the Egyptian army and that amazing miracle at the Red Sea. And throughout the wilderness wanderings, God gave them water out of the rock and manner from heaven. He guided them with a cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night. And yet, despite all of this care, the people continually complained. And their murmuring, the Bible says, was rooted in unbelief. By the way, all of our sin is rooted in unbelief. And then of course there were other incidents. We read of how they questioned God. They said, can God furnish a table in the wilderness? They're questioning the greatness of God. Does God have the ability to really provide for all these people? What an insulting question to ask. He's God. And then they even questioned his goodness, not only his greatness, but his goodness. They said that he has brought them out into the desert to die like it was some kind of conspiracy that he's going to wipe them all out, and that's why he has brought them out of Egypt. And then there was the golden calf incident when Moses was up on the mount receiving the commandments from God, and the people were down in the valley. and they turned back to idolatry and sexual perversion, even though in their distorted minds they believed they were worshiping the Holy God Yahweh. And later we read of the rebellion of Korah, who rose up against Moses, and the earth opened up to swallow him and his followers. And now they directly blaspheme God. You see, they deserved to perish, but God graciously spared them. This is a picture of God's saving grace. It is his undeserved favor. No one deserves to be saved, not even a respectable religious leader like Nicodemus, because we have all sinned and come short of the glory of God. I think we also see here that salvation is unearned. In verse 7 of Numbers 21, we read of their confession. And the people came to Moses and said, We have sinned, for we have spoken against the Lord and against you. Pray to the Lord that he may take away the serpent from us. Confession, your sense of of sin is essential for salvation. It is a condition, but it is not the basis of our salvation. Do we understand that? God 's not impressed with our repentance, our confession, say, oh wow, this person feels sorry for it. I I guess I'm obligated to save them. No, the basis of our salvation is the death of Christ on the cross. But when the Spirit of God reveals to us the peril of our situation, then we will come in confession and repentance. And so that's what we see taking place here, foreshadowing what takes place when we respond in faith to the gospel. What we see here is that you can contribute nothing to your salvation. You must come as a beggar with empty hands. These people don't negotiate with the Lord and say, listen, if you get us out of this mess, then we'll do this. There was no negotiations. They had nothing to offer him. They did not earn his deliverance at all. What do you think would have happened? If those Israelites had rejected Moses ' remedy and tried an herbal remedy of their own devising to counteract the poison. The answer is they would have perished because God has only one remedy for their problem. And God has provided only one remedy for our sin. Salvation is by grace alone. And this was a truth that Nicodemus needed to understand because he was brought up and the very pillar and foundation of his faith was that by keeping the law and the hedge about the law through careful religious observance a man can be right with God. And Jesus here says to this great profound theologian. No, your entire premise is wrong. You cannot manipulate God. You cannot earn his favor through your good deeds and behavior. Salvation is by grace alone. The second great truth that I want you to see in this passage as we turn back now to John chapter 3. Please turn back with me to John chapter 3. is that salvation is found in Christ alone. We sang that song today, in Christ alone. That is Biblical truth. I want to begin reading at verse 13 of John chapter 3. Jesus says, no one has ascended into heaven except he who descended from heaven, the son of man. Notice that title, Son of Man. And then verse 14, and as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness So must the Son of Man be lifted up. This is a very significant title for Christ, the Son of Man. It's one that's often misunderstood. Often people think it simply refers to his humanity, that he's a man. And of course, Jesus is 100% man. But that is not the essence and the meaning of this designation. This happens to be, by the way, how the Lord most often referred to himself. Almost always in the gospel record, when you hear and you encounter the title Son of Man, it's Jesus speaking of himself. Over 80 times we encounter this. What is the origin of this title? Jesus would expect Nicodemus, a master of the Old Testament, to instantly know the answer to that. And the answer is. In Daniel chapter 7 we have the key text, verses 13 and 14. Listen to these words. I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven, there came one like a son of man, and he came to the ancient of days. and was present before him, and to him was given dominion and glory and the kingdom and all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. So how would you summarize the identity of this person, the Son of Man, from those verses? The Son of Man is the King of Kings. He has an everlasting dominion over everyone and everything. You see, Jesus was not satisfied that Nicodemus recognized that he was a great teacher and a miracle worker from God. That was not enough. Nicodemus had to come to the place where he believed that Jesus is God in flesh, the Son of God. You see, before a person can be saved, they may must have a proper understanding of the person of Jesus Christ. Many cults claim that they believe in Jesus, but they don't believe in the Jesus that is revealed in Scripture. Jehovah's Witnesses will say they believe in Jesus, but they do not believe in the deity of Jesus Christ. Mormons say they believe in Jesus. But they do not believe in the Jesus who is described and carefully defined in Scripture And if a person does not believe that Jesus is God in flesh, the Son of God, they cannot be saved by their trust in Him because He is not a Savior who can save them. Only God can save. And so we must have a proper understanding of who Jesus is, and that is how he has revealed himself in the pages of Scripture. And then we see that our salvation is based in the death of Christ. We have to understand the person of Christ, but also the death of Christ. Look with me again now at verse 14. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, Even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. Notice at the beginning and end of that verse you have this phrase, lifted up. This expression is used three other times in John's gospel. In John chapter 8 and verse 28, Jesus says when you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am He. And now I want to invite you to turn with me if you would please. to John chapter 12. This marks the end of our Lord's public ministry. John chapter 12, and I want to begin reading. At at verse thirty two, please. John chapter twelve And verse 32. Jesus says, and when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. He said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. This is a reference to crucifixion. So the crowd answered him, we have heard from the law. that the Christ remains forever. How can you say the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is the Son of Man? So Jesus said to them, the light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. While you have the light, believe in the light that you may become the sons. You see the urgency by which Jesus exhorted the people to believe. So to be lifted up is a reference certainly to his crucifixion. The Bible teaches that Jesus lived a perfect life. That he never wants sin. He says in John 8. 29, I'll always do those things that please my Father The Bible says in the epistles over seven times that Jesus never sinned. If Jesus was a sinner, then he couldn't be our substitute. Because he would be deserving of judgment just like us. He would need a savior just like us. But Jesus is the sinless Son of God. Who fulfilled all of those thousands of spotless lambs over the centuries that were sacrificed at Passover? Jesus is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. He was sinless and he was our substitute who died on our place. Now let me take a moment to mention one aspect that's not the focus of this passage, but perhaps a distracting question that comes to your mind. Have you ever thought it was inappropriate or strange? That Moses made a bronze serpent and put it up on a pole. I mean, you would think that's the last symbol. That should be used to represent our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, right? Maybe a bronze lamb or something else Or maybe the figure of a man, but why a snake? Because what do we associate snakes with? Satan, right, the devil. So it seems completely out of place, and yet this is exactly what we find the Lord told Moses to do. Why is that? Well, there are a lot of theories and a lot of writing has been done on this. I don't claim to have the final answer on this, but I'm going to tell you what I think it is. The Bible doesn't specifically say. I think it is because in Genesis chapter 3 we read of the serpent being what? He was cursed. He was cursed. And the Bible tells us that when Jesus died on the cross, he took God's curse. That was intended for us upon himself. Galatians 3. 13 says, Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. For it is written, cursed is everyone that hangs on a tree. This is the only way that sinful people like us can be right with a holy God. A perfect sacrifice had to die in our place. This leads me to another question that I am asked frequently. Why couldn't God just forgive us of our sins? I mean, doesn't God have the power and authority to forgive people? Yes, he does. Well then why did Jesus need to come and die on a cross? Why couldn't God just forgive us when we repent and we confess our sins? The answer is because that would violate his own perfect standard of righteousness and justice. We often say that God can do anything, and I know what people mean by that, but technically it's not true. God cannot do what is contrary to his character. For him to just forgive our sin without there being any just recompense for it would in a sense to be undo his very nature. Because God is a holy God. He's a just judge, and he is perfectly righteous. So there had to be a payment for it. Just imagine if the President of the United States pardoned some serial killer who murdered dozens of people in the most torturous of ways. People would cry out and say, this is not just. The family of the victims would protest. It would be all over the news. And it would not satisfy people for the president to say, well, according to the Constitution, I have the power to pardon people. Everyone would feel at the core of their beings that this is not just. Because no payment, no recompense was made for the crime. In the same way, it would not be just for wicked sinners like us to be forgiven simply because God wanted to forgive us. There had to be a price that was paid. There had to be a perfect substitute who died in our place. And God provided one remedy, one way of rescue and deliverance and salvation. And that was through his son. Now people don't think about it this way, but it's actually very insulting. It's actually very insulting for individuals to try to work their way to heaven or be under the delusion that they can earn God's forgiveness because they're essentially saying to Jesus and the sacrifice that he has made. No, thank you. I don't really need that. I can take care of this myself. This is why God not only doesn't receive our good works as payment for our sin, but it incurs his wrath. Because it's an insult to the sacrifice of his son. Moses provided own remedy for One remedy for that snake bite, and God has provided only one way of salvation, and that is through the Lord Jesus Christ. Salvation is by grace alone. Salvation is in Christ alone. And finally, salvation is by faith alone. Now, what is the point of comparison between the people and the fiery serpents and salvation? I think that there are at least four. First of all The people were sinful and dying, or people were sinful and undeserving of rescue, just like us. Secondly, that people were dying, just like us. In John chapter 3, we read that sinful humanity is in a natural state, is perishing. And not just that we are all dying physically, but that we are all headed to eternal death, eternal death unless we are born again. The third comparison and similarity is that the symbolic viper and Jesus were both lifted up. Referring to Christ's crucifixion. And fourth and finally, the people were saved just by looking in faith. These nine people did nothing to save themselves. They just looked. But how was this an act of faith? Let me mention two possible ways. Number one, only those who believed they were dying looked at the bronze serpent. Perhaps there were some people there who were like, ah, this isn't a serious bite. I'm not worried about it. I'm just going to shake it off. It'll be alright I'm not going to look at that serpent of the pole. I don't need that. I think I'm going to be good. If they had that response, what would happen to them? They would die. That's exactly right. But people who recognized that they were perishing that they were dying, that they were in a very bad place, that unless there was something done, they would perish. Those people went and they looked And this truth is paralleled in our passage here. We have, of course, right after our text this morning, which Lord willing will come to next Sunday, that very famous verse, John 3. 16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him, look at this, should not perish, but have eternal life. Those people were perishing, but by looking in faith at that serpent, they were healed and they had life. And there seems to also be a parallel that's intended here, in that in Numbers 21 and verse 8, we read this, every one that is bitten when he looks upon it shall live. Notice that everyone. Now what do we have in John 3. 15, the first words, that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. And we have the same phrase of whosoever in verse 16 as well. This is this open-ended invitation. One of the great lies of Satan that he uses to keep people from coming to Christ is by telling them, you're too bad off. That that Christianity, that's for good church people. It's not for you. You're beyond repair. You've messed up so many things. You've made so many bad choices. You've broken so many commandments. You're too far gone. So there's no use in even seeking the Lord. Just think about this for a second. I'm speculating here. But I think it's very likely that among those people that were bitten, there were some people that were bitten multiple times. They had a lot more venom in them than other people. There were some people that moment perhaps had been bitten some time ago and they were nearing the point of death, and others had just been bitten recently. My point is that there were people that were in different levels of danger. They were all perishing, but some seemed to be a much more dire case. But everyone, the Bible says, everyone who looked in faith at that serpent was healed. So the lowest sinner. The most wicked person who has a checkered past, that person who looks in faith will be saved, along with the person who perhaps has lived a sheltered life, perhaps from a religious environment, like Nicodemus. That person also will be saved, because the gospel is the power of God unto salvation to all who believe. But there's another way that I think this was, this look was an act of faith. Doesn't it sound kind of crazy when people heard the the the cure? All right, you gotta go and you gotta look at this bronze serpent up on a pole and if you look at that you're going to be healed. Do you suspect there were some people that said that's crazy? I never heard of such a thing. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to go look. I'm not going to do that. That's nonsense. That's not how things work. How is that going to stop the venom from killing me? And so undoubtedly there were people who responded in unbelief. But the people who went to look They were saved. They were cured. And let me take this a step further Do you suppose that there were some people there that day who had better eyesight than others? Of course. That's true wherever you have a group of people. Some of us here are wearing glasses. Some of us are not wearing glasses. Some of us can see things really good up close, but everything in the distance is kind of a blur. And there's the people who are the reverse, right? They see things far away really clear, but nothing up close And some people have very, very poor eyesight indeed. I'm sure there were people that day that when they went and they looked at that bronze serpent, it was fuzzy. and blurry because they didn't have good eyes. But they looked. And there were some people probably far away, hundreds of feet away, and they could just barely make out that, but they went and they looked. And then there were other people maybe who were only 10 feet away from that pole and they were looking right up at it. Some had a really clear view, some had a cloudy view. Some were close, some were far away. But if they looked in faith, they were saved. Now, why do I make that point? Because often when people struggle with doubts about their salvation, they ask predictable questions. And what they tend to agonize over is their faith. Did I really mean it? Did I really believe? Did I really understand everything perfectly? How all that doctrine works together? Did I really repent? Did I really confess all of my sins? Did I really turn from? How do I know that I did things right? Did I look carefully enough or long enough? Did I see things clearly enough? No. The question is, did you look It was faith that saved. There were probably some people who looked with a great sense of fear, while others were not so bothered, but they looked. But all who looked were healed. What I want to make from this point is what makes faith valuable is the object of your faith. Do you understand that? What people tend to think is that it's the sincerity of your faith or the intensity of your faith. Alright? So then they agonize, like, how intense does your faith have to be? Do I really, really, really strongly believe? Or is my faith kind of tepid and weak at times? You see, if if your sense of your spiritual well-being is always gauged by how strong your faith is at a given moment , and how complete your obedience is, my friend, you'll never have any assurance of salvation. You'll be constantly taking your spiritual pulse and say, oh, it's pretty weak today. I wonder if I'm still a Christian. I wonder if I'm still a child of God's. Because my faith is weak. Listen to me. There are many people that have a very sincere faith, but they're trusting in something that will not save them. Have you ever been put to shame by people in false religions or in cults? They may seem so much more active. They may seem so much more diligent. And often the reason is because they're trying to earn their way to heaven. They may seem to take their faith more seriously, which should put us to shame. But it's not the intensity of your faith that saves or the sincerity of your faith. It is the object of your faith. And so if your object of faith is Christ, And you in simple faith have come to trust in him, and he is your only hope of salvation. You're not trusting in anything else. You're not trusting in your good deeds. You're not adding what Christ have done and what you have done and putting them together. No, no, no. It's only what Christ has done But you believe that in his death he took your sin upon him, and on the third day he rose again, and you believe that your only hope is in him alone, then you are saved, my friend. And that should demonstrate itself by you walking with joy and gladness and confidence in your life. On January the thirteenth, eighteen fifteen, eighteen fifty, excuse me. A 15-year-old boy named Charles Spurgeon made his way through a heavy snowstorm to a primitive Methodist church on Artillery Street. He ducked in there. This was not the normal church he went to, but he couldn't get to the church that he normally went to because of the snow. There were only about a dozen people present. In fact, the preacher didn't make it. And so an uneducated man, probably a tailor, got up to preach the sermon. And he preached from Isaiah 45 and verse 22: Look unto me, and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth. And Spurgeon says in his journal, in case you didn't know, Charles Spurgeon became the greatest preacher of the 19th century. He says in his journal it wasn't a very good sermon. He says that when he had managed to spin out ten minutes or so, he was at the end of his tether. Then he looked at me under the gallery. And I dare say with so few present, he knew me to be a stranger. And just fixing his eyes on me as if he knew all my heart, he said, Young man, you look very miserable. And you will always be miserable, miserable in life and miserable in death if you do not obey my text. But if you obey now this moment, you will be saved. And then lifting up his hands, he shouted as only a primitive Methodist could do. Young man, look to Jesus Christ. Look, look, look, you have nothing to do but look and live. And Spurgeon looked that day and was saved. And his life was forever changed. He was a religious young man. He knew the gospel in some ways better than the man who preached the sermon. But he had never simply come to look to the Savior in faith until that day. This is the same gospel. The gospel that I'm preaching this morning is not some strange formulation that I've come up with. It's the gospel that Jesus preached. It's the gospel of the apostles. It's the only way to God. It's what the church, the true church, has been preaching for 2,000 years. And although the world does not accept this message, it is still the only remedy for man's deadly sin problem. And anyone and everyone who comes to put their trust in Christ alone will be saved. That's the glorious offer of the gospel. It is open to all who believe. May God help you to trust in Him even today. Let's close in prayer. Father. Thank you for your word. Thank you for the beauty of the gospel. Thank you, Father, that even though There are many amazing doctrinal aspects of the gospel, yet at its core it is simple and can even be understood by a child. I pray that you would help us to glory in the gospel, to never get over it. And Father, for those who are here this morning who have never been born again, Who have never put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. I pray, Lord, that just as it was that one Sunday for Spurgeon, so it would be for them today, that today they would look and live. They would put all their trust in Christ alone. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.