Many years ago there was a captain of a ship who was traveling in a foggy night, and he saw in the distance the faint glimmer of a light that was directly in front of him. Immediately he told his signal man to send a message, alter your course 10 degrees south. He received a prompt reply that said, alter your course 10 degrees north. And there began a battle of the wills. The captain was a little angered that his command had been ignored, and so he sent a second message, alter your course 10 degrees south. I am the captain. Another message was received immediately after that. Alter your course 10 degrees north. I am a seaman third class. Immediately the captain sent out a third message hoping that this would end the argument. He said, Alter your course 10 degrees south. I am a battleship. And then the reply came back, alter your course 10 degrees north, I am a lighthouse. To fight the will of God is like engaging in a battle that you cannot possibly win. But many people try it. Today we come to the third petition of the Lord's Prayer. I'm sure you know this prayer by heart. The first petition is: hallowed be thy name. And then, Thy kingdom come. And this morning we come to thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. These three petitions go together. They both, they all deal with God 's rights, and that's where we must begin in our prayers. Our focus must not be on ourselves and our needs, but on God and His glory. These three opening petitions are, of course Connected, they cannot be really torn apart. To pray for God's name to be hallowed, that his name would be set apart through all the earth is to pray that his kingdom would come. And how would you know that his kingdom has come? Well, it's when his will will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And so these three opening petitions are connected. I read this week of a man who was singing the Lord's Prayer. Many of you know that this prayer has been set to music And he was singing this song, but he had trouble remembering the exact words. And so when he came to this third petition, he said with a very powerful and clear voice, My kingdom come, my will be done. And his audience looked a little horrified. But I'm afraid that often when we pray That is indeed our spirit of prayer. We are praying that God would build our kingdom and that he would grant our will to be done. The third petition is a prayer of submission. You see, prayer is not getting God to do what we want. But it's aligning our will with God's will for our lives. Our prayer should always be, teach me to do thy will, O my God. But what exactly do we mean by God's will? We come once again to a term that we use all the time. That is a little more complicated than perhaps we first think because there's different nuances of meaning to it. I'm going to mention, I'm going to speak very briefly of three senses of God's will. There's first of all God's sovereign will. This is what God decrees. It's sort of like when he said a creation, let there be lights. And there was light. There was no doubt that was going to occur because this was a decree from the God of all the universe. the creator of heaven and earth. We see the same kind of authority when Jesus said before an open tomb, Lazarus, come forth. There was no doubt that Lazarus was going to rise from the dead and come to life and walk out of that tomb, because that was his sovereign decree. We see this aspect of God's will in the prophecies of Scripture in Isaiah 7. 14 when it said, Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son. It was certain that that would be fulfilled in the birth of our Lord. This is God's sovereign decree. But then there is another aspect that we can speak of, and that's God's providential will. This is what God allows to happen in the world. There is a sense in which everything that happens is God's will. Because the Bible says that God is ultimately in control. However, that does not mean that God is pleased with everything that happens in the world. There are many sinful and wicked things that occur. There are Christians that are being hunted down today and put to death There is great suffering in the world. There are natural disasters where thousands of people die. The Bible tells us that God does not have pleasure in the death of the wicked. But he does allow these things to happen. We have many biblical examples of this. Do you remember during the time of Samuel, that great prophet? Israel requested to have a monarchy. Previous to this there was a theocracy. God ruled through prophets and leaders. But they wanted to be like all the other nations. They wanted to have a monarchy. They wanted to have a king. They wanted to have a palace. They wanted to have royalty. Be Because they looked around at the other nations and they said, This is really neat, we want this too Samuel was angry and God told Samuel, no Samuel, they're not rejecting me. They're not rejecting you, they're rejecting me. Let them have what they have requested. And so Samuel told them, listen, you're going to live to regret this because to support a monarchy is going to involve a great deal of taxation and you're going to complain about it, and your sons are going to have to go to war. But God's going to let you have what you've requested. But then God sent a hailstorm at the time of harvest that greatly damaged their crops in judgment. For their sinful request. So I could ask you, was it God's will for Israel to have a monarchy? Well, yes and no. Depending on what sense you're talking about. But you know what the Lord did? What came out of Israel's monarchy out of that sinful request? Well, there are several kings, including King David, and God made promises to King David about an ultimate king that would come from his dynasty, an ultimate king of Israel. whose reign would last forever. And that of course is a reference to the coming Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ. God incorporated their sinful desire for a monarchy to accomplish his ultimate purposes. God often does this. He takes the sinful acts of men like the crucifixion of Christ and uses them for his own purposes. But a third aspect of God's will is God's prescriptive will. This is what God commands. Such as, I can say with confidence that it's not God's will for you to steal or to lie or to take his name in vain. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and verse 3 says, This is the will of God, even your sanctification, that you should abstain from fornication. You don't need to ever wonder. If God wants you to be sexually immoral, because the Bible says very clearly, it's God's will that you be pure. Now, which one of these aspects of God's will is in view when we come to this third petition, Thy will be done? Well, there's some overlap. Certainly, I think there is a sense in which this is referring to a coming kingdom, a time when God's name will be hallowed when his will will be accomplished on earth as it is in heaven, there's an eschatological dimension to this. But I think most scholars would agree that the main thrust of this petition has to do with God's prescriptive will. That is, that what God instructs us to do in his word, because this particular petition comes with an explanation. Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Well, how is God's will accomplished in heaven? It's done perfectly. The angels obey the Lord. They do his will joyfully and immediately and reverently and a whole bunch of other ways we could mention. The saints in heaven are not arguing with God. They're not disobeying God. They're perfectly aligned with His holy will. And so this is a petition, this is a prayer that we and others would come to obey the will of God more fully. We are praying in this third petition that God would mold and make our wills after the pattern of his own. So I'm going to preach you this morning on this truth that Christians should pray that God would make us more submissive to his will. There is an other focus of this will, as in all of these petitions. But I'm going to this morning, because of time, just focus on how this relates to us personally as individuals. Why should we pray that God would make us more submissive to his will? I would say, first of all, because submitting to God's will is an essential part of being a Christian. Did you know that the Christian life is a life of yielding to God's will in our lives? We read a passage together. If you're not there, I'd invite you to turn with me there to Matthew chapter 12. Matthew chapter 12, we began reading at verse 46. It says, While he talked to the people, referring to Jesus, Beod his mother and brethren, stood without desiring to speak with him. Then one said to him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren stand without desiring to speak with thee. But he answered and said unto him that told him, Who is my mother? And who are my brethren? And he stretched forth his hand towards his disciples and said, Behold, my mother and my brethren, for whosoever shall do the will of my father which is in heaven, the same is my brother and sister. and mother. Jesus had a mother by the name of Mary, and we know he had at least four half-brothers and at least two sisters. The scriptures name his brothers that we know of as James and Joseph and Judas and Simon. Seems like they had a bunch of J's going, but the last one they couldn't think of another J, perhaps. And we know he has two sisters at least because it's in the plural, but they're never named. And for some reason that we're not told, his family members wanted to speak to him about something. It must have been something important. But Jesus was engaged in public ministry. He was teaching. There were crowds gathered. And so they send a messenger and say to him, you know, your your family needs to talk to him. I want to Pause here for a second. At first glance you might think the Lord's being rude to his own family members. But he's not. I strongly suspect that as soon as he uttered this saying, he went out and he spoke to them and and answer whatever question or need that they had. But he saw this as a teachable moment. And he paused before that crowd, his audience, and he said, who is My mother and my brother, who are really those that are rightly related to me? What he's saying here is what's really important is not those who are physically related to me. but those who are spiritually related to me, those that are part of the family of God. But notice, and I came to this passage because notice how he describes those who are truly and rightly related to him. Verse 50, for whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven. That sounds very similar to the Lord's Prayer. The same is my brother and sister and mother. You see, this is one of the ways that Jesus describes and defines a believer A believer is someone who does the will of God. That's what we see very clearly. I want you to turn ahead with me in the same book to Matthew chapter 21 now, please. Matthew twenty-one. I'd like to go to verse twenty-eight, a very brief parable. Jesus says, but what think ye? A certain man had two sons, and he came to the first and said, Son, go work today in my vineyard. And he answered and said, I will not. But afterward he repented and went. And he came to the second and said likewise, and he answered and said, I go, sir, and went not. Whether of them twain did the will of his father? They said unto him, the first, Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto you, that the publicans and harlots go into the kingdom of God before you. This is known as the parable of two sons. The picture here is of a small family vineyard where the father and son work to provide their living. The firstborn son is asked by his father to go to work in the vineyard, and he says no. When Jesus said this, this would have shocked his ears. The idea of a young man just showing that level of disrespect was unthinkable to them. But afterwards he started to feel badly about it. And he went to the work. The father came to the second son, and the second son said, sure dad, I'll go to work. You know me. I love to serve you. But he didn't go to work. He said one thing and did another. The Lord is using this, of course, to picture the Pharisees who said that they were doing the will of God, that they were being faithful to him, but they really weren't. But those that the Lord often ministered to, the outcast of society, were the ones who initially rejected the message of God, but then they repented, they had a change of mind, and they ended up doing the will of their father. But what we see here, again, is that those who are truly followers of Christ are those who do the will of the Father. This is an essential part of what it means to be a believer. The Lord says again the same thing in the very sermon where he gives us what we call the Lord's Prayer. And I want you to turn with me to one more passage under this point, Matthew chapter 7. This would have been only minutes later, after he said, Thy kingdom come, thy will be done. He's coming to the conclusion of the greatest sermon ever preached, the Sermon on the Mountain. And in Matthew 7, verse 21, he says this. These are some of the most startling words that our Lord ever spoke. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father, which is in heaven. Many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name have done many wonderful works. Then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. Notice how he describes again in verse 21 those who truly know him. He says in verse 21 at the end, but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. Now we've looked at three scriptures that have all taught essentially the same thing. And I do so because I want you to see that doing the will of God for a believer is not an optional matter. It's not the icing on the cake. It's not extra credit. It's part of what it means to be a follower of Jesus Christ, you might say, but I thought that we were saved by grace, we are. But those who have truly been saved by grace will yield their will to the will of their Father which is in heaven. Good works doing God's will do not save us, but they are evidence that indeed we have been saved. Now, having said that, we are all at different levels of submission to the will of God. There has only been one human being whoever always did God's will. And that was the Lord Jesus Christ. But I want you to know that there is a serious problem when you deliberately and intentionally disobey God's will. It is one thing when you fail to do God's will and it stems from weakness and you're grieved over it, you're perplexed over it. You repent over it, you struggle with it, and you say, I don't want to be like this, but I seem to keep falling into this trap. It's another thing when you say, you know what? I know this is not according to God's word, but I'm going to do it anyway, because that's what I want to do. I never get used to people sitting in my office who are facing a grave situation and I open up my Bible and I read scriptures that are as plain as day. This is not a matter of interpretation. This is not some weird way that I see things. But it's very obvious to anyone who reads that this is exactly what God requires and what he says. And people say to me, you know, I know that's God's will. I know that's what God's word says, but I'm not going to do it. Sometimes they're a little more subtle about the way they say that, but that's clearly what they are saying. When they do that, only one or two things are possible. Either they are a wayward child of God who is about to experience the correcting hand of their Heavenly Father. Or they are an imposter who will someday hear, I never knew you, depart from me, ye that work iniquity. That may seem a little blunt to you, but this is what the Word of God teaches But there's another reason that we should pray for God to make us more submissive to his will. That brings me to our second point And that is because submitting to God's will is the only way to effectively deal with suffering in our lives. The Bible says that every human life will have affliction within it, trials, difficulty. problems. Job chapter 5 and verse 7 says, man is born into trouble as the sparks fly upward. If you were to light a campfire and you get a good fire going, you don't have to wait very long for the snap of those sparks going up. One after another after another after another. And the Word of God is using this illustration to say that's the way it is in our life. No sooner than one problem has come to a conclusion or come to an end, another will come, and sometimes there's going to be a whole short burst of one of them right after another. That's the way life is. Why is there so much suffering in the world? This is one of those great questions that people ask in the realm of apologetics. I'm not going to begin to give you a complete answer to that, but let me mention a few things. Number one, the Bible teaches that we live on a fallen planet. You ever feel like things do not work the way they should? Well, you're right. Because ever since the fall, things. are tainted and corrupted by the fall. We have decay and we have destruction. We have sinful acts that people do to others and we have genocide and we have murder. And the planet itself with natural disasters brings about death and destruction. And every single one of us is tainted by the fall. We don't know what God's original creation was like, but it was not like this. We see faint glimpses of it through creation and through the world, but it was so much better than anything that we've ever experienced. Secondly, I would say that much of the suffering in the world is the result of sinful choices that people make. For many people, these are self-inflicted wounds Where people try to cope and deal with various issues and problems that they have not been able to resolve, and they use destructive means to do so, and rather than making them better and stronger and healing them, it actually takes them further down How many millions of people today are dying a slow death by their own hands? Millions and millions of people. And how many people today are suffering? We have a great refugee crisis in the world, the likes of which Europe has not seen for over a generation. How did that come about? It came about by violence and people fleeing for their lives and being willing to go to strange lands where in many cases they're not welcome because they just want to survive All of this is the result of sin and suffering and people desiring to impose their will on other people. We will have our will. We will set up our kingdom. But thirdly, I would say that God has providentially allowed suffering in the world to accomplish his purposes. This is again where we get into the various aspects of God's will, and it's important for us to remember those things. The fact is that God uses the agony of events in our lives often to draw us to Him. How many people I have met in my life who have come to Christ, who have come to trust in Him as their Savior because of great adversity and suffering in their life. This is how God often works and how many Christians have gone astray and God brought discipline and correction into their lives to bring them back into the folds. Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 6 says, For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. But there's another explanation for suffering. If you're suffering this morning, it doesn't mean it's because God is angry with you, or God's trying to get your attention, or God's correcting you. It means that God, perhaps if you're his child, is trying to strengthen you. The Bible compares the trials of our faith to a refining fire that burns out the impurity of our lives. And the fire of affliction, our idols are consumed, and our emotional crutches are incinerated, and we are left with a pure face. You see, so often in our Christian lives we think we're really resting in the Lord and we're trusting in Him and we're depending on Him, but we're really not. And then when a crisis comes into our life, it demonstrates and shows that we really weren't leaning on Christ. We had some other crutch that we had constructed or some idol that had stolen away our affections. And the Lord will have no rivals. And so he removes those from our lives. But it's not true, it's not true that suffering always makes a person a stronger Christian. I wish it were. But that is not the case. The fact is there are many, many people Many of the Lord's children who, when they go through the fires of affliction, they don't draw close to God. They go further away. They don't become better Christians. They become bitter Christians. This is a huge, huge problem. Where people have faced some incredible disappointment in life. They were going along in life. They had a plan. They had their life laid out. They're going to do this and this. one step after another, and then all of a sudden out of nowhere, something comes into their life they never anticipated. They never thought a million years would come into their life. and it just completely disrupts everything. It knocks them off their feet and all of their goals and dreams have been smashed to pieces. And they often get angry at God because they know enough to know that God's ultimately in control, and therefore if this has happened, he had to have at least allowed it to occur. And they become bitter and angry. And some people say, well, you know, if that's the way God's going to be, I don't want to serve Him. I don't want to trust in Him. I don't want to follow Him. If that's the way he's going to deal with me, it becomes a real test of our faith. So why is it that people respond in such different ways to similar circumstances? The answer is that some people fail to yield their will to God 's purpose in that circumstance. This is a hard thing to preach. Because I know people out here who are really, really hurting, who have faced incredible difficulty and pain and suffering. And the words that you need to accept this as your heavenly Father's will seems almost cruel and heartless. But what other option is there? You 're going to get angry about it and just kind of go off in a rage the rest of your life and and everyone just kind of walks on eggshells around you and says, don't talk to him too much because you know He's not a very happy person. Is that a way to deal with it? Or are you just going to become despondent and give into despair and withdraw and retreat into a little cocoon of your own making and live there until the day you die where you have very little interaction with other people. You never have any meaningful ministry with anyone. You don't really worship the Lord. There's no joy in your life. You see, there is no other alternative. You have to come to the place where you embrace God's will and say, Yes, Lord, I accept this. As Eli said when he was told about the end of his sons in his dynasty, he says, it is the Lord, let him do what seemeth good. Or when Job, who lost his whole family, said, the Lord giveth, the Lord taketh away, blessed be the name of the Lord. We have to accept God's will. We have to trust in the fact that our Heavenly Father knows what He is doing and He's not doing anything in a vengeful, cruel fashion. He does not afflict the children of men. For no purpose. We have to trust him when we can't understand And we have a perfect example of this. I want you to turn with me to Matthew chapter 26. I don't know what crisis you might be facing this morning, what sorrow may be overwhelming your heart, but you know what? I can say with confidence that there's no one here That is facing more suffering than the Lord Jesus Christ. Matthew chapter 26 and verse 36 we read of Christ in the Garden of Gethsemane. He says this. Then cometh Jesus with them unto a place called Gethsemane, and said unto the disciples, Sit ye here while I go and pray yonder And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee and began to be sorrowful and very heavy. Then saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death. Tarry ye here and watch with me. And he went a little further and fell on his face and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. And he cometh unto the disciples and findeth them asleep, and saith unto Peter, What? Could you not watch with me one hour? Watch and pray that you enter not into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. And he went away again the second time and prayed, saying, O my Father, if this cup may not pass away from me, except I drink it, thy will be done. And he came and found them asleep again, for their eyes were heaven. He left them and went away again and prayed the third time, saying the same words. That night in the garden, Jesus faced the greatest crisis that any human being has ever faced. It was not the prospect of his brutal death the next day that made him exceedingly sorrowful that night No, it was the fact that he would drink the cup of God's wrath. He would experience the feeling of guilt for the very first time. He would become the Lamb of God. who would take away the sin of the world. He would be abandoned by his heavenly father in the darkness of Calvary. And that was a thought that he could not imagine. It was terrifying to him. And he knew that that day was only hours away. He had known about this all of his life, of course. In the Gospel of John, we read about him speaking of his hour yet to come. But now, on the eve of that fateful day, the reality of what he was about to experience came home to him. You might say, but I thought he was God. He was God, but he was God in flesh. And he would not be fully human if he could not face this incredible crisis without it touching his heart and his spirits. He could not imagine facing and bearing the sin of the world and being abandoned by his father, but he says, Thy will be done. That is what a submissive will sounds like. So whatever you're facing this morning, whatever difficulty. It 's clouding your horizon. I would submit to you that the only effective way to deal with it is to come to the place where you say, thy will be done. I trust you, Heavenly Father. I'm not going to get angry. I'm not going to pout. I'm not going to run away and live life on my own terms. I'm not going to act out of anger and despondency. I am going to trust you that you know what you're doing in my life, that you have a purpose a good purpose that will come somehow from this, and I will bring you glory. And I will say with Job, though he slay me, yet I will trust in him, thy will be done. And thirdly, I want you to notice that we should pray this prayer of submission because submitting to God's will is the only way to truly live. Joyfully. So you might have suspected the by what I just said that what I'm calling you to do is just kind of have an air of resignation that you resign yourself, you know, my life is horrible and everything, but I guess God wants me to be miserable, so I'm just going to have to accept it. This is his will. That is not the message. The fact of the matter is submitting to God's will is the only way to truly live joyfully. I think there are many Christians that are afraid to yield to God's will in their life. Because they have bought the great lie That to yield to God's will is to live a life of misery. They see people who might go off as a missionary or become a pastor or something. And uh they might see affliction and difficulty in their lives and they say to themselves, you know, that's very noble what they're doing. Admire them. for wanting to uproot their family and go to the ends of the earth and live in a third world country. I applaud them for that, but you know what? That's not the way I'm going to live. And I'm not going to yield to the Lord's will in my life because I'm afraid that's what he might do. My will be done. This is a very effective life, especially with young people. Especially with young people who haven't lived long enough. to know how things really work in the world. There's so many young people who live under this illusion that the world is just a great playground where there's all this fun and enjoyment out there waiting for them, but somehow their their pastor and their parents want them to walk this narrow road. that is incredibly boring and dull. It has no fun connected with it. It's a life of misery and self-sacrifice. But no thank you. That's not what I want. But that is one of the devil's biggest lies. I want to be honest with you, following God's will can be costly and difficult. But listen to me carefully. It's not as costly and painful as it is to resist his will. The Bible says the way of the transgressor is hard. You get out of the boundaries of God's will for your life and you say, I'm going to live life on my own terms, on my own way. You know what? You're going to have a hard life. You're going to have a hard life. Now the world paints a picture for you that people who are self-driven and self-motivated and live life on their own terms, that they have a great and happy life. But it's all an illusion. We see the celebrities look into the details of their life. They're not happy people You know where true joy comes? It comes not when we do our will, but when we do God's will. Our Father knows us better than we know ourselves. I've known some parents that have played perhaps a cruel experiment with their children, talking about little children here. And the children are very resistant because the parents don't let them eat nothing but junk food and candy, and they make them eat food and they go to make them go to bed at a certain time and What would happen if you let that child eat whatever they wanted and stay up as late as they want and do whatever they want? You know what? They will be utterly miserable. Because their will is not what's best for them. And we are all like little children. We think we know what will make us happy. We think we know the path we should go. But the Bible says there is a way that seemed right unto a man, but the end thereof is the way of death. Our Father knows us better than we know ourselves. And you know what? The most joyful, the most peaceful, the most loving human beings this world has ever known have been people who have yielded themselves to the will of God. We could go through scripture and look at different Bible characters. We could go through the pages of church history and see holy men and women And you would find that people who walk close with God are not really miserable. They're joyful in the Lord's. But I want to give you the ultimate example. And that is the Lord Jesus Christ. Did you know there's just been one human being that has perfectly accomplished his Father's will, and that was Jesus. He said in John chapter 4 and verse 34, My meet is to do the will of him that sent me and to finish his work. Sometimes we use an expression about somebody who's just really obsessed with something, you know, like that guy. He just eats and sleeps hunting Or that kid, he eats and sleeps skateboarding. I mean, that's all he thinks about. That's all he wants to do every waking hour. Jesus says that he eats and sleeps to do his father's will. That's all he was obsessed with. John chapter 6 and verse 38 he says, For I came down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him that sent me. In John chapter 8 and verse 29, Jesus said, I do always those things that please him. And in Hebrews chapter 10, we discover that the words in Psalm 40 and verse 8 are actually The words of Christ, when he says, I delight to do thy will, O my God, yea, thy law is within my heart. His own understanding of the incarnation was this, I delight to do thy will, O my God. And I would submit to you that when we can come to the place where we can say, Lord, I delight to do your will, that is when we will find joy in our lives. We have another quotation in Hebrews chapter 1 and verse 9. It says, Thy God hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. Referring to Christ, that he had joy like no other human being, we also read that Jesus Christ was perpetually filled with the Spirit of God, which means he was always bringing forth the fruit of the Spirit, which is love, joy, and peace. among other things. So I would submit to you that though the Bible describes Jesus as a man of sorrows concerning his crucifixion, that he was the most joyful human being who has ever lived. And he was a man devoted to doing the will of his father. When I was in college I was part of a little prayer group of young men, and we often sang a chorus when we gathered that had this verse in it, there is no peace. No joy, no thrill, like walking in his will. For me to live is Christ, to die is gain. My friend, those words are true. There is no peace, no joy, no thrill, like walking in his will. Do you know what that feels like? Do you know the joy of yielding to God? Do you know the comfort that comes to your heart when you know that you're doing exactly what God has called you to do? You're right there. in the bullseye of his plan for your life. That's a wonderful thing. That's a wonderful thing, let me say, to look back over your life and see how God has led you all the way. Each step of the way. And as you look further back, you're able to see things more clearly and make connections and put things together and see that God has led me. And I'm right where he wants me to be. That's a wonderful feeling. But only comes, somebody says what young people often ask this question, how can I find God's will for my life? It's kind of like the old Chinese proverb of the journey of a thousand miles begins with one step. Each step of the way Do God's will. Submit to his leading. Ask him for guidance and say, not my will, but thine be done. And you know what you'll find out? At the end of the journey, you're exactly where God wants you to be. Now what would it sound like the prayer of someone who has fully yielded their will to God's? I think a prayer of surrender would sound something like this. Have thine own way, Lord. Have thine own way. Thou art the potter, I am the clay. Mold me and make me after thy will. While I am waiting, yielded and still. Have thine own way, Lord. Have thine own way. Search me and try me, Master today. Whiter than snow, Lord, wash me just now. As in thy presence, humbly I bow. Have thine own way, Lord, have thine own way. Wounded and weary, help me, I pray. Power, all power surely is thine. Touch me and heal me, Savior divine Have thine own way, Lord. Have thine own way. Hold o'er my being. Absolute sway. Filled with thy spirit. Till all shall see Christ only always living in me. I trust that that is your prayer this morning. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, how foolish we are to desire our own way. To insist on having our own wills. Help us, Father, to see once more from your word That to follow you and to do your will is the essence of being a Christian. That's the only way that we can effectively respond to our suffering in life. And it's the only path to joy. Oh Father, awaken us to this essential truth. And Father, for those who are here this morning that are yet lost in their sins and have not made you the Lord of their life, I pray that today they might be saved. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen