Several years ago I watched a BBC production where a reporter retraced the steps of Alexander the Great He began in Egypt and made his way through Turkey and to the Indus River Valley, the boundary of India. What was fascinating about this documentary were the different legends that the indigenous people had. of Alexander the Great and the route that he went and even though it was twenty-three centuries earlier yet the people still had all of these stories and many of which had been embellished over the centuries. Alexander was truly one of the most remarkable men who has ever lived. He was educated by the Greek philosopher Aristotle. He was the son of Philip II of Macedonia. And he had high ambitions. At the age of 20, he set out to do nothing less than to conquer the known world. He went up against a Persian army of 600,000 soldiers with 30,000 Macedonian troops, and somehow he was victorious. He had a great genius for rallying his men, inspiring them to go beyond their limits. and an incredible ability to make quick adjustments in his strategy and know how to take his enemy by surprise. After vanquishing the Persians, he destroyed the cities of Tyre and Sida, thus fulfilling biblical prophecy. He conquered Egypt and traveled thousands and thousands of miles through Asia. His forces were frequently outnumbered in their battles, but they were never defeated. And time his kingdom stretched for thousands of miles and included millions of people and was larger than any kingdom that had come before him. However, he could not control the passions of his own heart, and he died at the age of 32 after a night of hard drinking. His name was set apart and magnified through the advancement of his kingdom. And so is the name of our God. Last time we were together, we considered this fundamental petition, hallowed be thy name. And today we come to the second petition , the shortest of these petitions, Thy Kingdom Come. Let me remind you that these first three petitions deal with the glory of God. Before we come to God with our needs and our problems, we need to pray that God would be exalted, that his name would be hallowed throughout the world. These three opening requests are logically connected. They naturally flow one after another. The first request is, hallowed be thy name. Well, how is it that God's name is going to be hallowed or set apart? The answer is by the expansion of his kingdom. That brings us to the second petition. Well, how would a person know if God's kingdom has truly come, if it's truly been advanced? The answer is when God's will is accomplished on earth to the same degree that it's being obeyed in heaven. That brings us to the third petition. So what exactly are we praying for when we pray, thy kingdom come? Well, to answer that difficult question. We have to understand what is meant by the kingdom of God. This is a complex and comprehensive biblical concept. At the very root of this idea is that God is a great king who rules over all. The kingdom of God is not so much about the trappings of royalty like a flag or a palace, but about the reign of God, spelled R-E-I-G-N, of course. You could think of this concept, and it's helpful for me to think of it this way as like a three-legged stool There are three basic components to it. The first one is this. There is a sense in which God's kingdom has always been in existence because God is providentially in control of every event. that happens in the universe. He is King who rules over all. In Psalm 103 in verse 19 it says this, the Lord hath prepared his throne in the heavens. and his kingdom rules over all. And at the conclusion of this prayer, it says, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. And there the term kingdom is used of the fact that he reigns now. He always has reigned because he's always been a great king. But there is another sense in which the kingdom of God began when Jesus came to earth in his first advent. Do you remember what John the Baptist preached? He said, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand, or literally has drawn near. Something has changed. And the first recorded words of Jesus in a sermon are found in Mark chapter 1 and verse 15 where he says, The time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent ye and believe the gospel. And in Luke chapter 11 and verse 20, after Jesus cast out a demon, he said, No doubt the kingdom of God is come upon you. And there are many other references like this. So in one sense, the kingdom of God has always existed. In another sense, it began with the incarnation of Jesus Christ because the king had come to earth. But in another sense, it has yet to come. That's why we pray, thy kingdom come. The third leg of that stool is that God's kingdom or reign will culminate with the second coming of Christ. All the previous manifestations of God's kingdom are but shadows of the glorious kingdom to come. You see, although God is providentially in control right now, yet his perfect will is not being done on the earth as it is in heaven. That is why the world is such a mess. But the day is coming when our king will come and will reign with power and great glory. So how does this prayer practically make a difference in our lives and especially in our prayers? I want us to see in this second petition today that all Christians should pray that God's reign would be fully realized throughout the world. And there are three applications of that truth. First of all, we should pray that God would save those that are outside of His kingdom. That is the first application that I want to make from this. Now this morning, when we had our scripture reading, we read from Colossians chapter 1. I wonder if when we have our scripture reading you ever think to yourself, I wonder why we're reading this passage. Because it corresponds to the second petition. Notice with me what it says in Colossians chapter 1 and verse 13. Speaking of Jesus who hath delivered us from the power of darkness and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son. The Bible explains that people are naturally under the dominion of another kingdom. When you were lost, you were under the tyranny of Satan. But we see here that when you are saved, you are transferred from the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of light, the kingdom of God. But that should raise in your mind the obvious question, how is it that some person, one person is translated from the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of light? And to answer that question, I would like you to turn with me, please, to John chapter 3. John chapter 3, a very familiar chapter. A very familiar incident. I would like you to look with me at verse 1. There was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. The same came to Jesus by night and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God, for no man can do these miracles that thou doest except God be with him. Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus said unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born of water and of the spirit he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. That which is born of the spirit is spirit. Marvel not But I say unto thee, ye must be born again. Now we have read a couple times here about the kingdom of God. And we've also read this concept of being born again in verses 3 and 5 and 7. Jesus said to this religious man who came to him by night, you must be born again. And he says very clearly here that it's impossible for a person to enter into the kingdom of God unless they are born again. Why is that essential? The answer is because all of us are born spiritually deaf. What do you have to do to become a part of the kingdom of darkness? That is ruled over by Satan. The answer is absolutely nothing. You are born into that kingdom in Ephesians chapter 2. It says, you hath he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sin, wherein in time past Ye walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. The Bible says that we are naturally spiritually dead. We are insensitive to the things of God. Most people claim that they believe in God, but they live the life of a practical atheist And that is because they are spiritually dead. They hear God's truth around them. They encounter people who have truly been born again. But it doesn't register with them because they are insensitive. They are dead to that. There's another reason why we need to be born again to enter the kingdom, and that is because entering the kingdom of God is a matter of God changing a person from the inside out. I can't stress to you enough that becoming a Christian is not like joining a club It's not like somebody taking up a hobby and saying, you know, I need some new interest in my life. I need to meet some new friends. I need to make some more connections. My life's kind of dull, so I think I'll start going to church. I'll start adopting their lifestyle and using their vocabulary, and I'll become a Christian. Maybe there's people here this morning that think that way. I want you to know that is not at all what the Bible teaches. Becoming a Christian is not a matter of trying to live a better life. It's nothing less than being born again. And the scriptures are clear here in this passage that I've read in John chapter 3 that this is something that must be done by the Spirit of God. It's not something that you can do. The Spirit of God has to do a work of regeneration in the hearts. So let me ask you this morning, have you truly been born again? Do you have spiritual life? Didn't ask you if you go to church. I didn't ask you if you occasionally read your Bible or if you ever feel convicted about doing wrong things. I ask you, have you been born again? Now if you're paying attention to me right now Hopefully you're thinking, well, how would a person know if they've been born again? What is the essential revelation that goes along with being born again? This very passage will answer it. Turn with me to verse 14. of John 3, just a few verses later. The Lord Jesus is going to say this. And as Moses lifted up the serp serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. And now the most famous verse in the Bible, for God so loved the world. that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. He that believeth on him is not condemned. But he that believeth not is condemned already because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. Now, within those verses, again and again and again, it says that you must do what? That you must believe. Because if you've been born again, you will believe, and if you believe, you've been born again. Those two things always go together. You can't have one without the other. They're not people walking around that say, you know, I've been born again, but I've never put my trust in Christ. That person doesn't exist. Have you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ? We see in verses 15 and 16 it talks about the idea of believing in him. This is John's way of expressing the fact that this is more than mental ascent. It's not you nodding your head to the fact and saying, yeah, I guess there was this guy. that 2,000 years ago died on a Roman cross, you know, and I I guess that's what happened. And so yeah, yeah, you want me to join your group? I I 'll say I agree with that. I don't know why I wouldn't It's a nice story. No, it means that you have come to see That apart from Christ's death on the cross, you will perish eternally. This is not a casual matter. This is not an exchange of information, although there is essential information that must be there, but your heart has been gripped. This is true. This is a matter of life and death. And you recognize that apart from putting your dependence, your trust in Christ alone, you will perish eternally. That's what that word perish is a reference to, not just death. It means that your eyes have been opened and you've come to see that Jesus is in fact who he claimed to be the Son of God. God in flesh, and that he came and lived a perfect life, and he died for sinners, and he rose again the third day. described in verse 16 as the only begotten son. He is the only son of God. He's the only savior that God has provided. He is the only road to salvation. And those who have been born again are those who recognize that Jesus took their place on the cross and died for them and rose again. And this is the only way that you can really with meaning pray, thy kingdom come. When you recognize that you are a part of that kingdom because Jesus Christ is your king. And this brings me to where I began, and that is that we, as an application of this wonderful truth , must pray that God would save sinners. Recently on a Sunday evening, I passed out ten different ways for you to be a better witness in 2016. And right up there at the top of that list was praying. that God would save sinners. Do you have a prayer list? Do you pray on a regular basis that people would be saved? People that you know, relatives, friends, co-workers, individuals that you've run into, individuals going through a crisis, do you pray that God would open their eyes and that they would be saved? I encourage you at that meeting as well that you would pray specifically that God would bring people along your path in your life on a daily basis. that are seeking answers. One of the most amazing things to me is that when I do pray that I invariably see the Lord answer that prayer. I saw the Lord answer that prayer this week. People came along my path who were looking for answers. Prayer does make a difference. This is something we need to pray. Do you pray for people, for relatives? faithfully, who have rejected the gospel, but you pray incessantly that God would work and move in their hearts. That they would enter the kingdom, that they would be translated from darkness to light into the kingdom of his dear son. I remember as a boy, my family, when we would have our family prayer time at nights. At their dinner table, we would invariably pray that my father's mother, my grandmother, that she would be saved. She had rejected the gospel, and I can't go into the whole story of why that was. But she had no interest in religious things. She'd had some very bad experiences. She didn't go to church and she didn't want to talk about it. You know people like that. And I remember we would pray for her that she would be saved. Day after day and month after month and year after year throughout my growing up years, my high school years, my college years, we were always praying on a daily basis that my grandmother would be saved. And three days before she died, she trusted in Jesus Christ. You see, the Lord answers prayer. We need to pray that sinners would be saved. But there's another aspect that I want to look at of this prayer, and that was when we pray thy kingdom come. We should pray that God would increase his reign in our own hearts. Now the Bible teaches that when we are saved, we acknowledge that Jesus Christ is both our Savior and Lord. Some very well-meaning preachers have mistakenly taught that a person can get saved by accepting Jesus as their Savior, and that in a later time they can acknowledge him as their Lord or their king. This is both illogical and unbiblical. You cannot choose to accept only one aspect of a person. When you are saved, you're not accepting just several truths, but you're accepting a person as he truly is, as he's been revealed in the pages of Scripture. You can't say, you know, I like the idea of Jesus dying for my sins and keeping me from going to hell, but I'm not excited about him being the Lord of my life, so I'm going to put that on a shelf and maybe I'll visit that at another time. It doesn't work that way. And Romans chapter 10 and verse 9, familiar verses. It says, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, or literally Jesus as Lord, and believe in thy heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. But you have to acknowledge him as Lord, as master, as king. This is what the Bible teaches again and again. Now how could a person tell if Jesus is truly reigning in their hearts? The Bible gives many answers to this. One obvious answer is that things are different once you have put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Your lifestyle will change, your heart will change. I want you to turn with me back to the book of 1 John. I want to show you just one of many examples of this. Would you turn with me to 1 John chapter 2, almost at the end of your Bibles? John wrote this book so that believers could have the assurance of their salvation. And he presents a number of tests. To verify the authenticity of our faith. In 1 John chapter 2, I want to look at verse 8. John writes again a new commandment. I write unto you, which is true in him and in you, because the darkness is past and the true light now shineth. He that saith he is in the light and hateth his brother is in darkness even until now. He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is none occasion of stumbling in him. But he that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walketh in darkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth, because that darkness hath blinded his eyes. Those under the power of darkness are filled with hatred and bitterness towards others In contrast, those under the control of the Spirit of God are described in Romans 14, verse 17, this way: For the kingdom of God is not meat and drink, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Ghost. Our attitude is different. Our disposition is different because we are under the reign of Christ. And this does not just affect the way we feel or how we treat other people, but it affects the choices that we make. And what we do with our bodies and how we view the world and sin and morality. I want you to turn with me to several passages, please. I hope I don't lose you. Turn with me to Ephesians chapter 5. Ephesians chapter 5, how counter-cultural this passage is. Listen to these words beginning at verse 1. Be ye therefore followers of God as dear children, and walk in love as Christ has also loved us and given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling savor. But fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not be once named among you as becometh saints, neither filthiness. nor foolish talking nor jesting which are not convenient, but rather giving of thanks for this ye know that no whoremonger nor unclean person nor covetous man Man who is an idolater hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Let no man deceive you with vain words, for because of these things cometh the wrath of God. upon the children of disobedience. Be not ye therefore partakers with them, for ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord walk as children of light. Children of light have come out of the darkness. They no longer live in the immorality of the world. They no longer live in the idolatry of the world. Because we've been translated from the kingdom of darkness , the kingdom of Christ. We see Very similar language. You don't need to turn there, but let me read to you from 1 Corinthians chapter 6. I want to begin reading at verse 9. It says, Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind, nor thieves, nor covetousness, nor drunkards. nor revilers nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you. But ye are washed, ye are sanctified, ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus, and by the Spirit of our God. He doesn't say, and such are some of you. He says, and such were some of you, there has been a change in the lifestyle, in the very identity of the person. And then I want to read to you from 1 Peter chapter 2, which incorporates language. From the Old Testament. First Peter chapter 2. I'll begin reading at verse 9. Peter writes, But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priest, and a holy nation, a peculiar people that he should Show forth the praises of him that hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light, which in time past were not a people, but now are the people of God. which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lust which war against the soul. We are a different kind of people because we're in a different kingdom. So are you walking as a child of light or as a child of darkness? I've discovered over the years of ministry that many Christians like to think of their lives, life as various compartments, or you might think of it as rooms of a house. They have the compartment of their finances, the compartment of their career, the compartment of their marriage, the apartment of their children, the compartment of their entertainment, and the compartment of God 's. And they keep all of these things neatly divided in their own little space And they will want to tell everyone, yes, I am a Christian, yes, I go to church, yes, I am a child of God, but they want to keep God in his own little room But I want you to know that that will never work. Because the Lord cannot be put into a compartment. He is not your servant. He is the master of the house. And you try to put him in a closet, and he will come out and he will clean your house, and he will put things in order. If you're his child, he will chasten you. He is not your servant. He is the master and he wants to control everything in your life And he wants to control you, not like a dictator, not like someone who gets his followers to follow them because they They're so fearful that he will bring utter destruction into their lives unless they say yes to his will. He wants you to follow him because you love him. This is what we read when Christ instructed his disciples in the upper room. In John chapter 14, he says the same thing. in several different ways. In John chapter 14, verse 15, he says this, if you love me, keep my commandments. And then in verse 21 he says, he that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me And he that loveth me shall be loved of my father, and I will love him and will manifest myself unto him. And then verse 23, if any man love me, he will keep my words, and my father will love him and will make our abode with him. And verse 24, he that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings, and the word which he heareth not mine, but the Father which sent me. So let me ask you, are you obeying Christ's commandments? Is your love for the Lord increasing? Are you growing in your love and in your closeness with Him? Is it obvious to others that Jesus is your King? We sang together this morning Francis Ridley Havergal's great hymn, Take My Life and Let It Be. I wonder if you recognize how beautiful those words are. We read things like, Take my life and let it be consecrated, Lord, to thee. Take my moments and my days. Let them flow with ceaseless praise. Take my hands and let them move at the impulse of thy love. Take my feet and let them be swift and beautiful for thee. Take my voice and let me sing always only for my king. Take my lips and let them be filled with messages from thee. Take my silver and my gold. Not a might would I withhold. Take my intellect and use every power as thou shalt choose. Take my will and make it thine. It shall be no longer mine. Take my heart, it is thy own, it shall be thy royal throne. Take my love, my lord, I pour. At thy feet its treasure store. Take myself And I will be ever only all for thee. That's what it sounds like when a heart is striving to have Christ reign in the heart. That should be the prayer of every one of us, that Christ would possess all that we have, that he would reign in our hearts. But there's a third aspect, a third thing that we are praying, I believe, when we pray, thy kingdom come. And that is that we should pray that Christ would return and set up his glorious kingdom. Now some of the finest Christians, some of the greatest theologians that I have ever read of or met. have either rejected or minimized this teaching. And I am sympathetic to their perspective. Sometimes when I read of various prophecies in the Old and New Testaments, and I read how things are described, I scratch my head. And I say, how does that all work? How can this be when we know that this is true? How can all of that take place and how exactly will that take place? And what is the timetable in which that will take place? I know that there are many wonderful Christians, and I do not argue with them about this, who have all various charts and they have everything very neatly laid out and categorized and they know how everything is going to transpire in the very moment when everything will happen. The Lord has never given me that kind of revelation. I find myself scratching my head. I'm not saying that to cast aspersions at them at all. But those who would minimize a coming kingdom in a literal sense Use as their proof text John chapter 18 and verse 36. This is when Jesus is being tried by Pilate And he says these words, my kingdom is not of this world. Pilate asked him, are you a king? And when Pilate asked that, he was thinking in his mind of the kind of kingdom like the Roman Empire. with their soldiers and their palaces and their might and their political hierarchy And Jesus says to him, my kingdom's not like that. It's not of this world's. But I think that when Jesus said this, I don't think he was denying a future fulfillment of the coming kingdom of God. And there are many reasons I feel this way. And I want to show you one of them. Turn with me if you would please to Acts chapter 1. Acts is the history book. Of the New Testament in Acts chapter one In verse 6, we have a question given to the Lord by the disciples. Acts 1, verse 6, when they therefore were come together, they asked of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power. And then the famous verse 8, but ye shall receive power after that. The Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and in Judea, and in Samaria and unto the uttermost part of the earth. Now, I bring this text before you because it's very significantly significant theologically And that is in this way, if the kingdom of God were only a spiritual concept, as some people have claimed. This would have been the perfect opportunity for the Lord to correct his disciples. He could have said, don't you guys get it? The kingdom of God is just a reference to my reign spiritually in the hearts of my followers It's simply a reference to spreading the gospel around the world. That's what I've been saying all along about the kingdom of God. Don't you get it, guys? This is it But that's not what he says. He says it's not for you to know when this kingdom will come. Don't you worry about when that will occur. You serve me now. Now the clear implication of his words to his disciples is that a kingdom is coming. A kingdom in which Christ will reign on the earth as King of kings and Lord of Lords. And we have many such references in Scripture to this. I want to read one of them from 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Verses 24 and 25, it says, Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom of God, even the Father, when he shall put down all rule and all authority and power. For he must reign till we have put all enemies under his feet. In second Peter chapter three We have a reference more to the judgment aspect of the coming kingdom. The fact that God will come and bring judgment upon those who have rejected him and who have persecuted his people. In 2 Peter 3, he uses this expression of the day of the Lord, a time when God will intervene in a spectacular way into the affairs of men. And that term is usually implies a time of judgment. Peter writes In verse 8, but beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing, that one day is with the Lord as is a thousand years, and a thousand years is one day. The Lord is not slack concerning his promises. Some men count slackness. But as long-suffering to us were not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night in which The heaven shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, and the earth also and the works that are therein shall be burned up. Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation and godliness? Looking for and hastening unto the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved and the elements shall melt with fervid heat. Nevertheless, we according to his promise look for new heavens and a new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness. Wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for such things, be diligent, that ye may be found of him in peace without spot and blameless. Now what are the applications that are implicit within this passage? There are several I want to draw your attention to very briefly. Number one We should not be people obsessed with laying up treasures on earth. In verse 11 he says, seeing that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought ye to be? If our whole lives are consumed with getting ahead financially and laying up treasures on earth and making sure that we have the house that we want and the vehicles that we want. and the insurance that we want and everything that the American dream says that we must possess, then we're living like lost people. Because the Word of God says that eventually all these things are going to be burned up. They're going to be dissolved. They're going to decay and be destroyed. This is why Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount, lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal. He's saying it's a poor investment. It's a poor thing to pour your life into something that is going to decay and rot and be stolen and be ultimately burned up. What a waste of a life. And yet how many Americans, educated Americans, pour every moment of the day into trying to accumulate more stuff and achieve some kind of status so that people will think they have arrived. This is no way to live. We need to live in light of the coming of Christ. And of the judgment that will come. Notice that because the Lord is returning, we should be serious about living for Christ. He says, what manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation and godliness? Oh, how serious would we be about living for the Lord if we thought he was going to return in fiery judgments? How serious would you be for Christ if you knew he was going to come this week? What changes would you make? What would you do to get your house in order? What things would you repent of? What sins would you turn from? Well, you need to do that now because he might return. And I think we also see the natural application here that we should be aggressively seeking to win the lost. In verse 9, we have this wonderful explanation of why Jesus has not returned and the answer is because he is long-suffering. He's patient with sinners. He's given them extra time to repent and to flee from the wrath to come. And that means that we should be cognizant of the lost around us. We should be thinking and strategizing about how to reach them. We should be praying for them. We should be looking for an opportunity to share the gospel with them or invite them to a service or do something. Verse 12 says something that's amazing. It says, looking for and hastening unto the coming of the day of God. Now this Greek term hastening usually means to accelerate. Now the Lord knows exactly the day and which he is going to come. But you know what? There is a sense, because he knows what we're going to do too. There's a sense in which we can accelerate the coming of the day of the Lord by bringing the lost to Christ. Because when the number of the redeemed is complete, he will come. But we must not delay. We must be faithful in sharing the good news of the gospel. And we also see here that we should eagerly be waiting and watching for Christ's return. Verse 12 says that we're looking for and hastening unto. Verse 13 says that we are looking for again. And verse 14 it says, wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for such things The attitude of the believer or vision should be that of looking for the coming of Christ. But you know what? I think that the vast majority of us never give that even a second thought. We're so busy in our lives and trying to do what you have to do to make it in the world that we don't think about the coming of Christ. And about his coming kingdom. It's the furthest thing from our mind. It seems so fantastic and so remote and so distant. That we never think about it, let alone look for it. And I want to suggest to you that one reason why we don't look for it is because we are not facing severe persecution. You know what has been the testimony of the church When the Church of Jesus Christ has been experiencing intense persecution and people are being rounded up and imprisoned, and they're being sent into exile and they're being killed and tortured. You know what? The Church of Jesus Christ cries out. Come quickly, Lord Jesus. Because we're so comfortable with the here and now in our own lives. If we were brutally honest in many cases, we're not eager for the Lord to come. But the mindset of the people of God should be, oh Lord, would you come? And establish your kingdom. Would you show the world that indeed you are King of Kings and Lord of Lords? Have you ever noticed what the effectively last verse of the Bible is? We have a benediction, of course, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. But the last body of this epistle, the last part of the apocalypse, the last, very last message of the Bible is this. He which testifieth these things saith, Surely I come quickly. And the response of the people of God is this, even so come, Lord Jesus. That's not a coincidence. That is a fitting way for the scriptures to end. Because that is to be our abiding attitude as the people of God as we live in the here and now in the wilderness of this world where Christ is not acknowledged as king. We cry out, even so come Lord Jesus. So let me ask you, is that the cry of your heart? Is Jesus Christ your King? Have you entered into His kingdom by faith? Have you been born again and you have come to put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ? Has there been a time when you have passed from death? unto life. Is there evidence that Jesus is reigning in your heart, that he is your king, that he is your master? Does your life give evidence that you're not what you used to be? You're not what you ought to be, but you're not what you used to be because you've been changed by his grace. And can those around you see that his reign is increasing in your heart, that you're yielding more to him. That as you go through and you clean out the cobwebs and the selfish sins of your life, the Lord then reveals other things that are yet remained untouched. And you continue to progress in this work of sanctification. And are you ready for the Lord's return? Are you ready for him to come? Is your heart steadfast, trusting in him? Do you have that assurance that you're a child of God's? And the cry of your heart is, even so come, Lord Jesus. A trust that is where you are, and if not I would exhort you to seek the Lord. Let's close in prayer. Father Our prayer is that you would come. That you would come into the hearts of those who are yet lost and in the dark. That you would come to reign more completely in the hearts of your children And that you would come again to this earth and show yourself to be a great king, that your name may be hallowed through all the earth O Father, help us to long for the reign of our King. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.