If you would, I'd ask you to turn your Bibles with me to Psalm 115. Psalm 115 this evening. It's good to be here this evening with you all and to open the Word of God together On October twenty fifth , fourteen fifteen To my kids' shock, I was not alive then. There was a decisive battle between the English and the French in the 100 Years' War, known as the Battle of Agincourt And it pitted the much smaller English army of Henry V against the numerically superior French forces of Charles VI And in that battle, while the French or the British forces lost 600 soldiers, up to 600 soldiers in that battle, the French army lost over 6,000 many of whom were the nobility in France. And so not only did it decimate the army, it decimated the nobility and the power of the country. Many hundreds more were captured, and of those that were captured, many were executed. It is said in the aftermath of the fighting that King Henry V ordered his soldiers to kneel in the mud of that battlefield. And to repeat the lines that are found at the very beginning of this psalm. Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name be glory. Those lines are famous in church history and in history in general. They've been recounted by many at times of significant victory. William Wilberforce was said to have meditated on this verse when he was finally, after many years of struggle, able to see the bill to abolish slavery pass through Parliament. This psalm has a personal significance to me when Nicole and I were dating and she was praying about whether to marry me or not. She was reading in her devotions, which should have been a very easy decision, but she was reading this Psalm and came across verses 10 through 14, which say, O house of Aaron. Trust in the Lord. He is their help and their shield. You who fear the Lord, trust in the Lord. He is their help and their shield The Lord has remembered us. He will bless us. He will bless the house of Israel. He will bless the house of Aaron. He will bless those who fear the Lord, both small and great. And I've wondered about that line there. May the Lord give you increase, you and your children. And she knew that was not a proper hermeneutical understanding of this passage of scripture, but she had to laugh and Thankfully, that she did more than laugh and she agreed to be my wife and I'm so blessed and thankful for her and that decision that came somewhat through this passage of scripture, and who am I to argue with the Word of God? So But seriously. I do always smile when I read Psalm 115. It is a psalm that is near to my heart because of that. But as we have noted in our last few Lord's Supper services, when our Lord instituted the first Lord's Supper, the first communion, he did so at a Passover feast. The backdrop of the Passover is a perfect backdrop and is an intentional backdrop for the Lord's Supper since Jesus Christ. is the ultimate Passover lamb that was provided for the world by our God. And as was the custom for the Passover feasts, The Psalms called here, the Egyptian Hallel, Psalm 113 through 118, were sung Psalm 115 would have been sung after Jesus and his disciples had finished the Passover meal, after they had eaten the lamb. Matthew 26, verse 30 recounts that event simply saying, and when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. One of those hymns that they sung would have been this hymn, Psalm 115. The last, of course, would have been Psalm 118, as they were processing out of the upper room to the Mount of Olives. Just before Judas would betray our Lord. And so our Lord would have sung this psalm, Psalm 115, with a deep poignancy and a strong realization. as he was considering about how what is revealed in this psalm he would fulfill through his death. This psalm urges us to praise the Lord, who is our help and our shield. You'll notice in verses 9 Through eleven, there is this consistent refrain, O Israel, trust in the Lord. He is their help and their shield O house of Aaron, trust in the Lord. He is their help and their shield. You who fear the Lord, trust in the Lord, He is their help. And their shield. And I would encourage you if you write in your Bibles, underline those phrases. Trust in the Lord. He is their help and their shield that are repeated there three times. But at the end of this psalm, it says, but we will bless the Lord from this time forth and forevermore. Praise the Lord. The phrase halel, we said this is the Egyptian halels, it comes from that phrase, praise the Lord. Hallelujah means to praise Yahweh. And so we find in this psalm, along with the other hillels that are Psalm 113 through 18, reasons Why we ought to praise the Lord. And here we see that we ought to praise or urge us to praise the Lord, who is our help and our shield. On the cross, Christ embodied all of these words, and he embodied the reality of being our help and our shield. And so as we come through this passage, We will see that He is our help and shield, and we ought to praise Him because He is that. The first thing we see this evening in this passage is that we ought to praise the Lord because He is worthy. of all glory because of his steadfast love and his faithfulness. He says, Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name give glory for the sake of your steadfast love and your In order for us to see the true glory of God, there must first be a repudiation of our own glory. There must be a repudiation of our own worthiness, of our own personal glory. The first thing that strikes us as we enter into this song is the repetition of this repudiation, not to us. Not to us, O Lord, but to your name give glory. And that repetition is designed by the author to express his utter unworthiness. But not just his own utter unworthiness, but our utter unworthiness, the utter unworthiness of all mankind to receive glory and praise. in any way, shape, or form, and the overwhelming reality that God alone is worthy of glory and praise. The way into the presence of God is always through this same door of repudiation. This was, if you think about it, the tax collector's cry. When he stood a great way off and he wouldn't even look up, but he looked down and he beat on his chest and he cried out, Lord, be merciful to me, a sinner. He was repudiating all worthiness to be in the presence of God. He didn't even enter in and come close. He didn't even look up to the heavens, but he beat upon his chest and he cried out for mercy. It was this reality that Jesus was seeking to impress upon Nicodemus in John chapter 3 when he told him that he must be born again. Jesus was expressing to Nicodemus that all of his religious fervor, all of his religious discipline, all of his righteousness would have to be repudiated in order for him to put his trust in Jesus Christ alone, that he might be born again. And it was in this same sense that Paul discerned in Philippians chapter 3 that he must repudiate all of his righteousness, so that he might receive a righteousness which is by faith in Christ alone. And he said, but whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ. Indeed, I count everything as loss. Because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For His sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ, and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ. The righteousness from God that depends on faith. Paul and Nicodemus, the tax collector, all of us. must first come to God through repudiation, repudiating our own worthiness and acknowledging His worthiness, His glory alone. And as we do this, we will rejoice in our God of steadfast love and faith. He says in this remainder of this verse. for the sake of your steadfast love. So not to us be glory, but to your name give glory for the sake of your steadfast love and your faithfulness. All glory belongs to God because of his steadfast love and faithfulness. These two words here in English are I guess there are more than two words in English, but there are two in Hebrew. Steadfast love and faithfulness are the Hebrew words Hesed and Emmet. They're commonly put together throughout the Old Testament. It's intentional for us to see these together. In Psalm 85, verse 10, he says, steadfast love and faithfulness meet. Righteousness and peace kiss each other. And the psalmist is writing in Psalm 85 about salvation. And in the salvation that God provides, steadfast love and faithfulness meet together. The word Hesed that is translated steadfast love is one of those words that is rich in Hebrew, and it's richer than any one English word can carry. So translators of the Bible struggle with the right word to translate or even the right combinations of words to translate to bring out the fullness of this word. That's why we have it translated here in two words, steadfast love. It's translated loving kindness in other places, or mercies, or covenant love, or even by the word grace. The word that is translated here, faithfulness, in the Old Testament, is the same word that is most frequently translated, truth. Truth, because God is faithful to his promises. So when we come to the New Testament, we're greeted in the first chapter of John with these words in John 1. 14. And the word, Jesus, became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full. Of grace and truth. Full of grace and truth. And I believe that John is referencing back to Psalm 85, verse 10, and Psalm 115, verse 1, to this combination of words. Steadfast love and faithfulness. Grace and truth. Grace and truth. They come to a culmination at the cross. It's not surprising that Jesus Christ is the embodiment of the Father. Colossians 1 tells us that Jesus is the very image of the invisible God, and if the Father is grace and truth. He is steadfast love and faithfulness. We should not be surprised to find that the image of the invisible God is the fullness of grace and truth as well. And at the cross we see this all brought together. The truth of God's holiness and of his justice. of his hatred of sin is brought to bear or is satisfied by the perfect substitute who is Jesus Christ. And so now he can offer grace to guilty sinners like you and I, who trust in Jesus. It is because he was faithful to his promises to provide a lamb that he can offer grace to guilty sinners like you and I. It is only because of Jesus' work on the cross that God could in truth call us righteous. That God could in truth say that you and I who are sinners are righteous because we have been granted righteousness. And thereby have grace upon us. It is only in this way that righteousness and peace, as he says at the end of Psalm 85, could kiss each other. And we are in this regard to remember, as he says at the beginning of this psalm, not to us. Not to us, O Lord, but to your name be glory. Because of your steadfast love. Because of your faithfulness. Because of your grace and truth. We are unworthy of even the least of his grace. We are unworthy of even the least of his blessings to us. But in Christ Jesus, the promises of righteousness And the promises of everlasting life and of being heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ. In Christ Jesus, they are, yes, and amen. They are complete. So we ought to praise the Lord because he is worthy of all glory because of his steadfast love and faithfulness. Secondly, as we continue on in this Psalm, we see that we ought to praise the Lord because our God is in the heavens, but he came down to earth for us. Notice in verse 2 it says, Why should the nation say, Where is their God? Our God is in the heavens. He does all that he pleases. Their idols are silver and gold, the work of human hands. They have mouths, but they do not speak, eyes, but they do not see. They have ears, but they do not hear, noses, but do not smell. They have hands but do not feel. feet but do not walk, and they do not make a sound in their throat. Those who make them become like them. So do all who trust in them The amazing thing that we see here is that our God is in the heavens. He's transcendent. He is exalted. But yet he is a personal God. Unlike the idols of this world. The psalmist is repeating the taunts that he has doubtlessly heard about Yahweh. Where is your God? How can you worship an invisible God? What do you mean you don't have an idol? What do you mean you don't have idols in your house to worship to? Scoffers today will mockingly call our God your imaginary friend. You may have heard that at work, or with family members who are lost. Are you going to worship your imaginary friend? Are you going to pray to your imaginary friend now? Not much has changed in the world. The very fact of God's existence is innate in mankind. But when the knowledge of the one true and living God is suppressed, man must worship something. And so man will make idols. And they will turn to false gods. It could be literal idols of stone and silver and gold that people bow down to and worship. It could be demonic activities of shamanism that is growing in our world, especially in the Western world today. We think of that as more pagan and it is. But the Western world is adopting paganism rapidly. It could be the worship of Mother Nature and the universe that is growing in our day. It could be the worship of self. Or the idolatry of health, which is a major idolatry today. It could be the vain idols of wealth or prestige or sports or hobbies or cars or motorcycles. or shopping or clothing or anything that we want to put up above our God. But all people worship something All people worship something. The surprising thing is not that our God is invisible, but that we should expect God to be visible and part of our creation. The surprising thing should be that the creator of all that we know should be part, we should think that he should be part of creation. In verse 3, it describes God as being in the heavens. This doesn't mean the atmospheric or the interstellar heavens, but it's referring to the spiritual abode of God. But although he is vast and exalted far above creation, it says in verse 15 that he is the maker of heaven and earth. He is transcendent, far above all creation, but he is the creator of all that we see. He is not a prisoner to this creation. He is not a prisoner to circumstance. He is not tied down to this earth because he is exalted far above. God is sovereign over all the affairs of this world. He says, our God is in the heavens. He does all that he pleases. I'm reminded of what we read in Isaiah 40 when we went through the book of Isaiah and came to Isaiah 40. Why don't you turn with me there briefly? But this truth is is brought out again in Isaiah chapter 40, verses 21 and following. In Isaiah 40 In verse 21 it says, Do you not know? Do you not hear? Has it not been told you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth? It is he who sits above the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers, who stretches out the heavens like a curtain, and spreads them like a tent to dwell in Who brings princes to nothing, and makes the rulers of the earth as emptiness. Scarcely are they planted, scarcely sown, scarcely has their stem taken root in the earth When he blows on them and they wither, and the tempest carries them off like stubble. To whom then will you compare me that I should be like him , says the Holy One? Who is to be compared to our God? Who makes princes to rise and he blows on them and they disappear? Who makes the heavens and the earth. He is transcendent above all things. And he is sovereign over all events. Nothing happens apart from his sovereign will. He is never forced to do anything. He is not manipulated into doing anything. He is sovereign and he does whatever he pleases. Amazingly, God even uses the wicked acts of men to accomplish his perfect will, as we see in the cross. Nothing more wicked than the cross has ever happened on this earth, but it is in his cross that steadfast love and faithfulness met together. That righteousness and peace kissed each other. The English reformer John Bradford said, God uses the wicked to work his will. in working their own, and yet God is not the author and cause of sin. There is much mystery in this But we see here that our God is in the heavens and he does whatever he wills. And then he can contrast this with the idols that the world makes. Verses 4 through 8 describe the folly of idolatry. It's very similar, again, to what we find in the book of Isaiah, in Isaiah 42. that we're not going to look at this evening. But we like to imagine that our enlightened generation is beyond idolatry. But the fact is that this very evening There are billions of people that are involved in the actual bowing down and praying to and worshiping of idols. Paul tells us in 1 Corinthians 8. 4 that an idol has no real existence, that there is no God but one. So all false religions are worshiping Nothing. Although behind them there are demonic powers at work with the purpose of deceiving and destroying. He describes these idols as the works of men's hands. Even false religions like Islam and Mormonism that eschew idolatry are the works of men's minds. While the one true God is not fashioned by men's hands or fashioned by man's mind , It is the one true God who has fashioned men's hands and fashioned men's minds. He is the creator He describes them here as having mouths, but they cannot speak. No matter how beautifully fashioned they are, they are mute. But praise God, not our God. He is not mute. The one true God speaks to us in his word and through his incarnate Son. Who is God's final word to mankind? The Son of God speaks the words of God to us. He says they have eyes but cannot see. They're powerless to see the needs of their worshipers. They may have eyes that are formed out of precious jewels. But they're blind to the suffering of this world. But not so our God. Psalm 94, verse 9 reminds us of this saying, He who planted the ear. Does he not hear? He who formed the eye? Does he not see? These are rhetorical questions to say, of course! The creator of the ear hears everything you say. The one who formed your eye sees everything. He is the all-seeing one. They have ears, but they do not hear. They cannot hear the prayers of their worshipers, but not so our God. Not only does our God hear, but the truth is that our Savior Jesus Christ intercedes for us and can sympathize with us. In our weakness, because he became a man and took on human flesh, and he was tempted in all points like we are, yet without sin. They have noses, but they do not smell. And that may seem like an insignificant thing, but the point is being made that sacrifices are being offered and incense is being offered to these false gods, but their noses are incapable of evening. Smelling what is being done. We know that our God receives worship. We are told that Jesus Christ himself gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering and a sacrifice to God. Our Savior Jesus Christ offered himself as a sacrifice that was received in the nostrils of our God They have hands, but they do not feel. They cannot heal. They cannot help in any way. But our Lord took on human flesh, and it is with his hands that he touched the leper and healed him. It is with his hands that he touched the eyes of the blind and he healed them. And those very hands were nailed to the cross for us. It's our God took on flesh to feel for us. They have feet, but they cannot walk. The ironic, sadly humorous thing is that they are stationary. And they're often chained or strapped to the ground or bolted to the ground so they do not fall over in windstorms. But our God is omnipresent. Jesus Himself said, I am with you always to the end of the age. When we think of the idols of the world, even a dead person surpasses a deity who never lives and who has never lived. But our God is in the heavens. What is so sad is that the idol makers and the idol worshipers actually come to resemble their gods. It says here in verse 8, those who make them become like them, so do all who trust in them. They become ignorant and foolish and blind. and lifeless. This sad reality ought to stir within us a righteous indignation. Acts chapter 17 describes Paul being in Athens, surrounded by the idolatry that was there in Athens, and it says that his spirit was provoked within him as he saw that the city was full of idols. Our nation is full of idols. Our world is full of idols. There are people seeking after hopeless, helpless idols. But is your spirit ever provoked by that helplessness, by that hopelessness of our condition, by the lost masses who are worshiping sports? And career and health and fitness and sex and drugs and alcohol and are dying more and more each day and becoming more and more children of wrath. And are storing up for themselves wrath against the day of wrath, do we see them as they are and have pity on them? Are we stirred to share the gospel with them? Are we stirred to tell them about the one true God who became a man to die for them, that they might have life? We are called to do this. Graciously, our Savior became like those dead idols. So that we would not have to die, but have eternal life. Jesus' eyes closed in death, and he could no longer see His ears could no longer hear, his hands could no longer feel, and his mouth could no longer speak, so that we might have life. But do we have the compassion on those who are dying to tell them of a Savior who tasted death for them? Do we worship him for what he has done for us? He is worthy of praise because he alone is worthy of all glory, because of his steadfast love and faithfulness. He is worthy of praise because our God is in the heavens and yet he came to earth. He is worthy of praise because he is our help. and our shield. In verses 9 and following, we see this reference to him being our help and our shield. We are called to put our trust in the Lord. for he is our help and our shield. Notice the repetition beginning in verse 9. O Israel, trust in the Lord. He is their help and their shield. O house of Aaron, trust in the Lord. He is their help and their shield. You who fear the Lord, trust in the Lord, He is their help and their shield. And that repetition is continued on in verses 12 and 13. We see here three classes of people who are called to put their trust in the Lord. The reference, first of all, to Israel refers to the entire nation of Israel. The reference to Aaron refers to the priestly class because Aaron was the first high priest, and the high priests were descended from Aaron. The reference to you who fear the Lord could be a general summarization of what we've read earlier, Israel and Aaron, but I think most likely it's referring to the Gentiles. Who have come to know the Lord. This phrase, fearing the Lord or God fearers, is a technical reference to Gentiles who have put their trust In the Lord. We see this in the New Testament. In Acts chapter 10, Cornelius is described as a centurion, an upright and God-fearing man. And then when Peter describes the lessons he learned from the salvation of Cornelius in verses 34 and 35, he said Truly I understand that God shows no partiality, but in every nation, anyone who fears him and does what is right is acceptable to him. And later in Acts chapter 13, when Paul preached in the synagogue at Antioch, he said, Brothers, sons of the family of Abraham, and those among you who fear God. To us has been sent the message of this salvation. So he describes two separate groups of people, those of you who are of the family of Abraham and those who are not, but who fear God. So God fears would be a description of Gentiles who have put their trust in the Lord. So the fact is no matter who you are, you are called to put your trust in the Lord instead of trusting in lifeless, helpless, hopeless idols. We are called to put our trust in the one true God who is our help and our shield to all who will put their trust in Him. To trust in is more than merely to believe in the existence of God or that Jesus Christ died on a cross. It is to put your faith in, it is to depend upon What he has done. It is to put all of our weight upon what he has accomplished for us. I remember a story when I was in Tanzania of a I didn't know this man personally, but I heard about him. He was an elderly Tanzanian man who his family wanted him to come and visit them down in the capital city, and so they uh purchased plane tickets for him. to fly down from the northern part to the southern part of the country. And it was the first time he had ever flown in a plane. And he was very apprehensive about it, but they reassured him that he would be just fine and that the plane was Able to take him safely to his destination. And when he arrived in his destination safely, he was greeted by his children, and they asked him how he was doing, and he said, I'm fine, I'm doing just fine. He said, wasn't that playing great? And he said, well, it was fine, but I never put all of my weight down on the seat. God calls us to put all of our weight down on Him, to trust Him completely To trust in Jesus Christ, not in our own goodness, not in our own righteousness, because he is fully able to carry the weight of all of our souls' needs. Because on the cross, Christ became our help and our shield. A help is one who gives assistance or provides And a shield is one who gives protection. And Jesus Christ is the fullest expression of both being our help and our shield. As our shield, his sacrificial death is where he took the wrath of God that our sins justly deserve. Christ willingly received the wrath of God poured out upon himself, and he shielded us from the death and the wrath that our sins justly deserved. And Jesus Christ became our help by providing for us a righteousness that we could never have earned. by giving us what we could never have purchased ourselves. And he rescued us from the kingdom of darkness and he gave us eternal life. It's this reality that Christ is our shield, he is our help, that we celebrate when we come to the Lord's Supper. We are testifying by our actions this evening. That by his shed blood and by his broken body, he has become our help and our shield, and that we have put our trust in in him, that in his death and in his sinless life, that he has become the sacrifice that we are able to put all of our trust in, that he is able to carry the weight of our souls upon himself. And that all who put their trust in him receive the blessing of the Lord. He continues on in verses 12 and following. He says, the Lord has remembered us. He will bless us. He will bless the house of Israel. He will bless the house of Aaron. He will bless those who fear the Lord, both the small and And the great. And we see this repetition of blessing again for all parties, the nation of Israel, the tribe, the the tribe of Levi. And for all Gentiles who will fear the Lord, who will put their trust in the Lord That he will bring blessing to us. God promises to bless all regardless of status. He will bless those who fear the Lord, both small and great. In Christ Jesus, there is no distinction between Jew and Gentile. All are saved in Jesus Christ alone. In Christ Jesus, there is no distinction between rich and poor, between powerful and powerless. Between well-connected and those who have no one. All who put their trust in him receive the same blessing The word blessing here points back to the Abrahamic covenant where God promised not only to bless Abraham, but to bless all the families of the earth through Abraham and through his seed. Christ Jesus. Martin Luther said that this promise should be written in golden letters and should be extolled in the languages of all people, for who else has dispensed this blessing among all nations? Except the Son of God, our Lord Jesus Christ. The blessing that we find here for all who put their trust in the Lord is a blessing that is only found and made possible in Christ Jesus. God's blessing is described here as a blessing that is to all generations. He says, may the Lord give you increase, you and your children. May you be blessed by the Lord who made heaven and earth. As we continue on in this beautiful psalm, we see that we are to praise the Lord. Because the time to praise the Lord is now. And forevermore. He says in verses 16 and following, the heavens are the Lord's heavens. But the earth he has given to the children of man. The dead do not praise the Lord, nor do any who go down into silence But we will bless the Lord from this time forth and forevermore. Praise the Lord. We were created to give glory to God. The emphasis in verse 16 points us back to verse 3, which tells us that our God is in the heavens. But we are on the earth. Our God is in the heavens, but we are on the earth. And in creation, God gave man dominion over the earth. He says the heavens are the Lord's heavens. But the earth he has given to the children of men. This is the place where God has given us dominion. In Genesis one twenty six and twenty seven, the Lord says, Let us make man and our image after our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over the livestock, and over all the earth And over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his image. In the image of God created he him. Male and female he created them. The dominion that we were given in creation is a dominion over the earth for the glory of our God. Clearly, as we read our Bibles, we find out that the first Adam failed, and generation after generation after generation has failed to give God the glory due to his name. But is those of us who have come to put our trust in Christ, who have repudiated all of our own glory That are able to recognize our responsibility to bring praise and glory to our God. We are called to recognize our responsibility as image-bearers of God As the catechism says, the chief end of man is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. We glorify God by exercising proper stewardship over creation. He says the heavens are the Lord's heavens. but the earth he has given to the children of man. So we glorify God when we have wise, responsible stewardship over his creation. But we glorify God by praising him with our lives, living for his glory. We are created for his glory. We are created to worship and to glorify God and to enjoy him. And we do that when we give our lives to him. We glorify God by praising him with our lips and by proclaiming his matchless worth. We are creatures who have been given this responsibility. But he says here in verse 17, the dead do not praise the Lord, nor do any who go down into silence. But we will bless the Lord from this time forth and forevermore. Verse 17 has often been very confusing to readers of the Bible It is thought that this may be referring to soul sleep, that when we die, we cease to exist and there is no longer any existence. He says the dead do not praise the Lord. But that is not the case at all. The fact is that we are body and soul. When we are born, or maybe should we say when we are conceived, our bodies come alive. And in regeneration, when we put our trust in the Lord, our souls become alive. But the dead who are described here are the dead who are dead spiritually, and when they die physically, their opportunity to praise the Lord ceases to be. Their opportunity on this earth and forevermore ceases to exist. He says the dead do not praise the Lord. nor do any who go down into silence. The opportunity to put your trust in the Lord is now. But for those who do know Christ, death is not the end. He says, but we We will bless the Lord from this time forth and forevermore. The grave is not the end for those who have trusted in Jesus, who has their help and their shield, because he has conquered. The grave. He has shielded them from death. Jesus said, I am the resurrection, the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. And the opportunity to praise the Lord continues beyond the grave. Because he died for us and rose again, we will bless the Lord from this time forth and forevermore As we read this psalm, I think it's important for us to remember the upper room. As Christ sang with his disciples, After the Passover, meal had been eaten, the lamb had been consumed, and as he looked as the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world, That he would be the second Adam who would make praise to continue forever. As he sang this song with his disciples, Clueless though they may have been, he knew that in the day ahead that he would bring about the fulfillment of this so that we might bless the Lord from this time forth and forevermore. G. Campbell Morgan said, Again the thoughts revert to the upper room And the singer whose deepest passion was ever the will of God and the glory of his name, to the one who was soon going into the silence where no note of praise would be heard And yet to the one who would turn the silence into songs forevermore. It is because of what our Savior has done Because he is our help and our shield. And that when we put our trust in him, we receive the blessing of the Abrahamic covenant. That we live again. And we can praise the Lord from this time forth and forevermore. Let us pray. Father, we thank you that you are in the heavens and you do whatsoever you desire. We thank you that you are transcendent, and yet you are a personal God. That you did not stay distant, but you sent your only Son. To take on human flesh, to become a man, to live a righteous life, and to die for us. That we might know you, and that he might be our help and our shield. And that we might praise you forever. Lord, we confess so often we fail to praise you as we ought. We fail to recognize the glory that is due to your name And often, Lord, we desire to steal that glory to ourselves. And so we confess this evening not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name be glory. For you are our help and our shield. We thank you for Jesus Christ, our Savior. And Lord, we desire to worship you. And to give glory to you as we ought with our lives. Help us, Father, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.