Would you join me please in John chapter eight? John chapter eight. In 2014, the Fine Art Expert Institute in Switzerland made a disturbing declaration. They declare that from their extensive study that about 50% of the fine art that was in circulation was actually Frauds. They were copies. This hit the art world like a bombshell, and it raises the obvious question of how can you tell If art is real or a fraud. And so they listed several tests. Number one, does the art match the style of the painter? Number two, is the artist's signature consistent with his or her other works? Number three, are the materials in the painting available at the time it was painted? Number four, does the painting show natural signs of age? They call this patina And number five, is their provenance, a record of previous owners going back for centuries? This morning, as we continue our study of the Gospel of John, we're going to consider how Jesus describes real Christians or true disciples. But before we get to our passage, I want to remind you a little bit of the context. John chapter 8 primarily records a tense discussion between Jesus and the religious leaders in Jerusalem. The issue of contention was all about the identity of Jesus And in John chapter 8 and verse 12, Jesus says, I am the light of the world. And his knowledgeable hearers understood this to be nothing less than a claim to deity. But Jesus does not back away from that. In fact, he doubles down and he makes claims like this throughout this discourse. If you look with me At verse 24, he says, I told you that you would die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am he You will die in your sins. And then again in verse 28, so Jesus said to them, when you have lifted up the Son of Man , Then you will know that I am he and that I do nothing on my own authority, but speak just as the Father taught me. And in verse 24 and 28, he uses that expression, I am Which is to remind the reader of how God revealed himself to Moses at the burning bush when he said, I am, have sent you. And then we have a completely unexpected response. In verse 30, it says, as he was saying these things, many believed in him. And it says that many believed in him. Now our first reaction is to rejoice at this, but the rest of this conversation doesn't seem like the response of those who are trusting in Jesus. In fact They speak of killing him later in this very chapter. So Bible scholars have puzzled for centuries over this disconnect. And so some have come up with ingenious solutions. Some have suggested that verses 30 and 31 somehow got misplaced. and that they belong somewhere else in this gospel, but there's no manuscript evidence to support this theory. And we have very, very early copies of John. Other scholars say that these are Judaizing Christians who accepted Jesus as the Messiah, but still felt obligated to obey the law and to put that over him. But this views is not convincing because these so-called followers of Jesus will attempt to kill him at the end of this chapter. Other students of Scripture say that Jesus is addressing the religious leaders in this paragraph, not those who believed The problem with that theory is that verse 31 says that Jesus said these words to those who had believed. So none of these explanations seems very helpful or to solve the problem. I tend to be a big proponent of what's called Occam's razor, which is a method of interpretation, a rule that says this. The simplest interpretation is usually the right one. And the simplest interpretation is that these individuals had a type of faith, an intellectual faith, perhaps a political faith, that maybe this man could lead us against Rome, but they did not have a saving faith. This is what we have seen earlier in the Gospel of John in chapter 2. We read that many believed in his name when he when they saw the signs that he was doing. But then in verse 24, we read, but Jesus on his part did not entrust himself to them because he knew all people. Literally it says they believed in Jesus, but he didn't believe in them. He didn't accept their claims to follow him. And then after the feeding of the 5,000, We read that great multitudes were following him. They claimed to be his disciples, but then after he spoke to them , Very, very pointedly, we read that they turned back and no longer walked with him. And this is consistent with what we find elsewhere in Scripture. We discover that not all faith is saving faith in the parable of the sower. We read about some who responded in faith, but that faith did not last. It was not faith that brought forth fruit. It was not genuine faith. Then James chapter 2, we read that the demons also believe and shudder That is, that demons know that Jesus is the Son of God. They know that he died on the cross. They know that he rose from the grave, but they're not Christians. They have not bowed the knee of obedience to him. So the Bible does speak of a spurious faith, a faith that is not real or authentic. But this, of course, raises the question of how can we tell if a person has truly been born again? How can we tell if we are genuine disciples of Jesus? Let me just say the Bible addresses this very important question many times in many places. The book of James, for instance, talks about the test of a living faith, and there are a number of tests in that book. I think of the book of 1 John that has five different tests so that a person can know that they have eternal life. In our text today, in this brief paragraph, we'll be examining, there are two ways that are mentioned We're going to look today at Jesus distinguishes true disciples from false disciples. And the first point I want to make this morning is this. True disciples Continue to abide in the word of Christ. Look with me at verse 31. So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed him , If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples. Jesus addresses these people who have to some degree and in some way become convinced that he is the promised Messiah. But I want you to notice that he doesn't welcome them as his followers. He doesn't rejoice that they have come from the darkness to light. Instead, he issues this warning, if you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples. This verb abide is a favorite word of John, most famously found in John chapter 15, where it speaks of abiding in Christ. It means to remain or stay, and here it has the idea of perseverance. This verb is in the present tense. The saving faith is a faith that never dies, it never goes away. True disciples continue to follow Christ. And the essence of what he's talking about here is Exactly what we sang together this morning. And that is trusting and obeying. I love that hymn. Because it really summarizes in many ways the essence of the Christian life. It's not that at one point in our life we trusted in Christ. No, the Christian life in its entirety is a walk of faith. Of trusting in Him, and that trusting will demonstrate itself in obedience. Not perfect obedience, but obedience. Now, I want you, and I understand that this term obey bothers some people. I've noticed over the years whenever I talk about the Christians obey that there are sometimes people that are troubled by this because they say, Pastor, remember we're not saved by works And I'm very well aware of that. I believe that we are justified by faith alone, without any works, without any obedience on our parts. But the same Bible that clearly teaches this great truth that we do not save ourselves also tells us That if we've truly been born again, things will change in our life. And we will obey more and more as we grow in the knowledge of Christ. I want you to notice that Jesus doesn't say if you abide in my word, you will become my disciples He says, if you abide, you are my disciples. That is, you demonstrate or prove that you are my disciples. We don't earn our salvation by obeying his words, but we give evidence that we have truly believed by our obedience. Faith and obedience always go together. This is a point that Jesus will emphasize in the upper room. before the day before his crucifixion. He says, if you love me, you will keep my commandments. He goes on to say, he who has my commandments and keeps them is the one who loves me. He says, if you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love. John never forgot those words, and so we find them reflected in his first epistle, the book of 1 John. He says in 1 John 2, verses 4 and 5, the one who says, I have come to know him and does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But whoever keeps his word in him, the love of God has truly been perfected. 1 John 3. 24, the one who keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in him 1 John chapter 5 and verse 1. This is the love of God that we keep his commandments. So you see what John records here in his gospel is exactly, precisely in sync with what we find elsewhere in Scripture. He says that we are truly disciples. This speaks of being genuine and authentic, and it implies That some people who may claim to believe may prove not to be genuine or authentic disciples. And that certainly seems to be the case in this passage because in a very short time They are going to be demonstrating that they are not abiding in his word. They're not obeying him. They're not following him But we see here the importance of knowing and obeying the word of Christ. And I think the term word here is suggestive because of course this is often a title used for Christ Himself. There's a sense in which we can't separate the word of Christ and Christ Himself because He is Christ the Word. We see here the importance of knowing the word. This is why everything that we do here at Calvary. In our services is to be reflective of the word and to remind us of God's truth. This is why the hymns we sing are filled with scriptural truths and language. This is why our prayers are filled with references and language of Scripture. This is why We have the reading of Scripture in our services. And this is why the bulk of our service is someone explaining to you what the scriptures mean. Because the Christian life is a word -saturated life. A Christian disciple is a lifelong learner of the word of God. We must constantly be reminding ourselves and refreshing our minds with the truth of God's word. And that brings me to my second point. True disciples are no longer slaves to sin. Look with me at verse 32. Jesus says, and you will know the truth. And the truth will set you free. This is a very famous verse. It's made its way, become sort of part of our culture. And it's often used to express the idea that a person can't move beyond a problem until they acknowledge the truth. Jews and interventions and things like this. And this is true enough, but that's not the emphasis of what Jesus is saying here. He is referring to the spiritual freedom that salvation brings. I will say more about this in a few moments. But what exactly does Jesus mean by the truth? He says, we will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. Does he mean that the truth of the gospel, the truth of the word of Christ, or does he mean Christ Himself will set us free? And the answer is both. John often likes to use terms that have like a dual meaning, that are both true. He says this about being born again, which could also be rendered to be born above. And we find this again as well, because to truly know the gospel and to embrace the gospel is to know Christ. Jesus not only spoke the truth, but he proclaimed that he is the way, the truth, and the life. But these people didn't understand what Jesus was saying. By suggesting that they needed to be set free was implying that they were yet in captivity. And they got the right meaning in that. Look at verse 33. They answered him, We are offspring of Abraham and have never been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say you will become free? Now many times Well, at least I should say, several times over the years, I have heard preachers talk about the fact that these Jewish leaders must have been either ignorant or in denial or delusional. Because they say we've never been enslaved. And I think that that is a wrong take on what they're saying These men were not ignorant of their national history. They were well aware of it. And they were not unaware of their current situation as being under the control of Rome. What they're talking about is that in a spiritual sense, they had the heart of freedom. Though they were often oppressed. by foreign powers. Yet in their hearts they were free because they were the people of God. They were the children of Abraham. They had the covenants and the promises. And they had this privilege that no other people, no other nation in the world possessed. And therefore, in their hearts they were free. Yes, they were well aware that for 400 years they were slaves in Egypt, and that during the period of the judges there were seven different regional powers that exercised control over them. They were aware of the Babylonian captivity and the Assyrian invasion, and they were painfully aware that right at this moment when they spoke these words, Rome had control of them. But they in their hearts would proclaim loudly and emphatically that they were still free men. But Jesus is going to question this claim of spiritual freedom. He's going to challenge this. There's going to be This this great emphasis. Notice they say we are offspring of Abraham. They were very, very proud of this. And this theme is going to run through the rest of this chapter. This is going to come up again and again. But Jesus is going to challenge this and he says in verse 34, notice this, Jesus answered them. Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who practices sin is a slave to sin. Notice he makes this statement with the words truly, truly, which is unique to the Gospel of John, and it's his way of saying that Jesus is going to say something very significant. And what he emphasizes is this: everyone who practices sin is a slave to sin. Jesus is clearly implying that they are still slaves to sin because they still practice sin and the truth has not set them free. This is a very important thing for us to consider, and it's going to require some careful thinking and For us to understand this because this is something that Christians often wrestle with. But I want you to know, first of all, that this is the consistent teaching of the Word of God. If you are here this morning and you are truly a born-again believer, whatever you might be, you are not a slave to sin. This is what the Word of God consistently teaches. In Romans chapter 6, in verse 6, Paul writes, We know that a Our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. He goes on to say in the same chapter, let no sin therefore reign in your mortal body to make you obey its passions. He's saying, stop living like a slave to sin. And verse fourteen, for sin will have no dominion over you since you are not under the law, but under grace. What Jesus says in John chapter 8 is what Paul says in Romans chapter 6. And John, the man who recorded these words of Jesus, is going to expand on the same thoughts. In his first epistle, the book of 1 John. I would invite you to turn with me to the book of 1 John, which is found at the very end of your Bible, just a little bit before Revelation. First John chapter three. First John chapter three. I want to begin reading. At verse 4, I want you to notice the same truth and the same language that's being used here. 1 John chapter 3 and verse 4. John writes, everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices lawlessness. Sin is lawlessless. You know that he appeared in order to take away sins. And in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on sinning. No one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him. Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness, is righteous as he is righteous. Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. No one born of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed abides in him, and he cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of God. By this it is evident who are the children of God and who are the children of the devil. Whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother. Now what do you think of that passage? I want you to know that this would definitely be in the top five of passages that people have asked me about in my last 25 years as pastor. And they've always been troubled by this passage. Talks about everyone who makes a practice of sinning is not a child of God. The one who keeps on sinning. Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil. And people will think, I still sin every day. I still fall short of God's glory every day. I find myself falling into the same traps, into the same sins again and again. That sort of sounds like I'm practicing sinning, which means I must not be a child of God. This is one of the most frightful passages that sensitive Christian people encounter. The fact is that every believer does continue to sin. I wish it were not true, but the Bible tells us otherwise. Every one of us here has besetting sense. It might be anger or lust or lying or bitter spirit or pride. The list goes on and on. And we might fall into these sins on a somewhat regular basis. Isn't this passage therefore teaching that if that is the case, that we are not believers? Well, I want to say several things to this. First of all, in 1 John chapter 1, the same John who writes these words about practicing sin also says, if we say that we have no sin, we lie, and the truth is not in us. So the Bible is not teaching sinless perfection. It's saying that we do still sin. We still fall short of the glory of God. And because of the way we are put together and because of our experiences, we tend to sin in specific ways, in predictable ways. So, how do we make sense of all of this? I think That we must also understand what is said in 1 John chapter 1 and verse 9, this wonderful verse where it says, if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. I think that John is implying that those who make a practice of sin, that is, it's a way of life for them , are not confessing and repenting of their sins because they are either blind to their sins Or they're not bothered by their sins. They've come to embrace, accept, and defend their sinful way of life. And they live as slaves to sin. Let me remind you that Jesus here is not addressing true believers. And that became so obvious later in this passage. This is a very important and powerful warning that I want to bring out more distinctions later in our message. But for now, I would like to invite you to turn back with me, please, to John chapter 8. John chapter eight. Jesus says the slave does not remain, verse 35, in the house forever. The son remains forever. Jesus now uses a very brief analogy to make his point. A Hebrew slave generally remained as a slave in a household for only six years. In contrast, the son had a permanent status. As the son in that household. So what is Jesus saying to these Jewish people? He's warning them that they must not assume that because they are the descendants of Abraham, they are therefore the children of God. The reality is that if they are still slaves to sin, they will be cast out of the household. And if they want to live as the children of God, they must turn in faith and repentance to the Son of God. who will set them free. Look at verse 36. So if the son, notice capital S-O-N, referring to Jesus, Sets you free, you will be free indeed. You see, only Jesus The only begotten Son of God has the authority to set captives free from sin. This is why he came to earth. He didn't come to set a great example for us, although he did that, or to be the world's greatest teacher, which is certainly true. He came to save his people from their sins. In Luke chapter 4, we read the account of when Jesus went to his home synagogue in Nazareth and he took up the scroll and he turned to Isaiah 61. And he read these words, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to proclaim the good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives. Jesus came to save people from sin. And not just the penalty of sin, which is eternal death and hell, but the power of sin. True disciples are those who have been set free by the Son of God. You see, our salvation, our justification will always naturally lead to sanctification. True disciples are free to follow the Lord because they are no longer slaves to sin. So let me ask you a question this morning. Does your life give evidence that you are no longer a slave to sin? Was there a time in your past when you turned from your sin and turned to faith in Christ? And that began a new era in your life where you are not perfect, but you're no longer a slave to sin. Because if the Son has set you free, you will be free indeed. Now I want to take some time to make some application because these are weighty matters that we have covered here this morning The first application I want to make is this. We must beware of what is commonly known as easy believism. Now perhaps you're not familiar with that terminology and what that means. As simple as I can make it, it's this. It's the common misconception that a profession of faith Is the same as a possession of faith. In other words, if a person at some time walks an aisle or says a prayer and says, I believe in Jesus, I believe he died on the cross. then that person is truly a believer. That's it. No ands, ifs, or buts. It is true, don't misunderstand me, it is true that we are saved by faith alone when it's a true, genuine faith And the problem is, and this is a problem that has been very widespread in all of evangelicalism, including in many Perhaps in most Baptist churches, that if a person at some time in the past claims to believe That means that they're good for the rest of their life, regardless of how they live the rest of their life. How many times have I encountered situations where people in their childhood coming to a Christian church and hearing the gospel and they make a profession of faith, but then when they come of age, They abandon everything, and for the rest of their lives, they live as if there is no God. They may even profess that there is no God. But there are Christians in their family, in their church that will say, Yeah, he's not living for the Lord, but I think he's a Christian because I remember when he was seven years old. And at a vacation Bible school, he he said a prayer. This is a very, very, very common thing. I want you to know the Bible does not teach that. The Bible does not teach that if you check this box, then you're good for the rest of your life. It does teach that if you're saved by faith, that that faith will result in obedience that will continue for the rest of your life. Not perfectly, not always in a straight line, not always consistently, but it will continue, and it will reveal itself that you will have a heart for God and you will hate your sin. And so we must preach repentance and we must not give people false assurance and s and and think that somehow their apathy And their rejection of the gospel and everything the Bible teaches is not a big deal. It is a big deal. We have to move away from thinking that saying a prayer is somehow magical words that save a person. No, it's faith in Christ that saves And that may be reflected in a prayer, but it also a person might just be mouthing words that They don't believe and they're trying to please some worker or their parents or someone else Number two, if we wish to live as true disciples, we must saturate our lives with the Word of God. We see here the disciples must abide in the Word. This is the only way we can grow in grace. So I would encourage you that every day of your Christian life, you are to expose your mind and your heart to the Word of God. That might mean reading your scriptures every morning. That might mean listening to a recording. Maybe you say, I'm not a good reader. All right, listen to a recording of the scriptures. Very easy in our technological age to find that and to do that very easily. You can do that on your way to work. Maybe listening to sermons on the way to work. Maybe listening to a good Christian podcast on your commutes. in your travels, maybe memorizing Scripture with someone else and you guys hold each other accountable. Maybe meditating on Scripture, attending church services where you hear the Word of God preached. Expositionally, sequentially, week after week after week. These are all vital ways of getting the word of God into our hearts because faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. If we do not continually replenish our hearts with God's truth, We will quickly begin to respond in unbelief. We will continue to listen to the message of the world instead of the message of God's word. And so every Christian must saturate their hearts and minds with the Word of God. The third application Christians must never think that they are slaves to sin. This passage tells us that Christians are not slaves to sin. We are free to follow God. But that doesn't mean that there aren't Christians who think they're slaves to sin. And they they they think that there's some area in their life That has such a stronghold and such a grip over them that they cannot possibly overcome it by God's grace. And so they no longer struggle, they no longer fight, they no longer pray, they just yield to it. This is wrong. You must take God's word as truth, and it must interpret your experience, not the other way around. And you must say, I am not a slave to sin. I don't need to continue to live in this way anymore. I don't need to be addicted to the substance anymore. I am free through the blood of Christ. You know, in 1863, Abraham Lincoln proclaimed the Emancipation Proclamation freeing the slaves, and it was to be proclaimed all over the nation and every plantation and every place. But there were many slaves on plantations in other locations Who didn't think it was true. They thought it was a conspiracy, that it was a trap so that they could be eradicated Some of them didn't think that was even possible. And some of them were also just plain fearful and didn't know how to live as freemen. And so there were many thousands of slaves. who did not leave the plantations for years, but continued to work just as if they were slaves, even though their legal status had changed, and they could legally walk out of that gate at any time. They didn't do it because they didn't believe it. And there are many Christians who don't really believe that they are free from the bondage of iniquity. This is a very important part of your sanctification. You must stop living with the mindset of a slave. And that brings me to my next point. Christians must never stop fighting against their sin. We must never tolerate sin in our lives. We must not think that there are certain sins that we can allow. And we can just overlook, and it's no big deal as long as we don't commit the big ones. That's not how we must live our lives. We must wage a lifelong war against our sin. We have an enemy within the flesh. And we have enemies without the world and the devil. We are surrounded by bad influences, and we have a traitor within. Now, over the years there have been different ideas and different emphasis in this great doctrine of sanctification. And over a century ago, there were many fine, conservative, strong Christian people who went too far, I think, in one emphasis. They wanted to emphasize the power of the spirit-filled life. And they taught that Christians really didn't need to struggle against sin anymore. They just needed to yield to God and rely on the Spirit, and they would say, let go and let God And if you did that, you would live the victorious Christian life, which meant that you were sort of on spiritual autopilots. And you were like a plane that was above the storm clouds. You were undisturbed by temptation and other problems. Other people, they might be like in planes below the clouds, and they're they're getting pummeled and being battered around. But it's not like that with those who are controlled by the spirits. And it is absolutely true that the Spirit of God gives us strength and enablement to fight against sin. But I don't think That it's true that we ever get to the place where we don't have to fight against sin anymore. I think it's a lifelong struggle. I don't think we should ever think that we've arrived. And I don't think you should ever think that there's some Christian people that you know, some preacher, some pastor, or somebody somewhere that they're probably You know, they probably never ever struggle with sin. They probably never are are tempted the way I'm tempted. And maybe if I had a better background and come to Christ earlier, I wouldn't be like this. But certainly they're never tempted. That is not true. How many times I've had people come into my office and they would say something about some temptation they're facing and they'd say, Now I'm sure you don't understand this, Pastor, because you would never be tempted in any way like this. And I would say to them, Are you kidding me? I'm flesh and blood just like you. Of course I've been tempted like that. Don't ever think in your mind That you can reach a level where there's no sin issues that you ever have to worry about. I like the perspective of John Owen, who wrote about sanctification, this old Puritan. He wrote a great book on indwelling sin and mortification, and he says, be killing sin or sin will be killing you. That's the perspective we need to have. We have a zero tolerance policy for sin in our lives. We don't say, well, that's just kind of the way I am, or that's the way I was brought up, or yeah, that's the way I, you know, I've got my vices and I got a few of them, and I just kind of leave them there. No. We continue to fight and pray and struggle earnestly with the Spirit of God to gain victory over our sin. And that brings me to this point. The Christian life must be filled from beginning to end with repentance. Repentance is not just something you do when you're converted. It continues throughout your life. Every day, a part of our prayer, that model prayer that Christ gave us is that we are to confess our sins. We are to repent of our sins. We are to turn from our sins. And if you're here and you would say, Pastor, to be honest with you, you know, I Most days I can't think of any sins that I've ever committed or you know I'll go weeks and months without anything coming to mind. Then my friend, you're either ignorant of your heart or of the word of God or both. Because I assure you that if you look carefully, there's plenty to confess. And then finally, I want to say that the first step in coming to Christ is to recognize that you are helpless to save yourself. Most lost people don't think they're slaves to sin. They would scoff at that idea. These people certainly did. They were religious people. And Jesus says they're slaves to sin. Now there would be some lost people that would admit that, maybe people who are in the grip of addiction, alcohol or drugs or pornography. Yes, I'm an addict, they will say, and I need help. But most people do not think of themselves in that way. But apart from Christ, everyone is a slave to sin. And ironically, the first step to freedom is to recognize that you're a slave. The first step to deliverance is to recognize that you can't deliver yourself, that you need a savior. And the only one who can save you is the Son, the Son of God, who died and paid the penalty for your sin. And I want to say one more thing, because I know that this sermon could very easily cause many of the Lord's people to doubt their salvation. This idea of examining your heart and seeing if you practice sin or not Could very well point out that you're not a saved person, but that approach will never bring you full assurance that you are a child of God. Because if you have an honest view and you look at your hearts, there's plenty of indwelling sin and remaining corruption there to make you despair. The only way you can find assurance is by continually turning your attention to the cross. And to Jesus who died in your place. Instead of looking at your own righteousness, looking at his righteousness that was imputed to you. And remember that he died for your sins. And as it says earlier in the book of 1 John, he died for all of your sins. The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us, it says in verse 7, from all sins. That is where we find our assurance in Christ at the cross. May God help us to live in light of this truth. Father, we thank you so much for your word that warns us and instructs us. And reminds us of who we are and what you've called us to do. I pray that you would use your word today to bring conviction to those who are lost. And to bring joy to those who are saved, that we have been delivered by Christ and we are no longer slaves to sin. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.