Leave your Bible, please, would you turn with me to Genesis chapter 39? Genesis chapter 39 There was once a giant tree that stood in a national park and was admired by visitors every day. But one night a fierce storm came through, and in the morning everyone saw that that ancient tree had come down. And people could also see why it had come down because the inside of it was virtually hollow, because insects had been eating the inside of that tree for many years. You see, the storm didn't destroy the tree. It only revealed that the tree was dying from the inside out. This morning we're going to consider a spiritual giant who did not fall, even though he was assaulted with a great storm of temptation. If you're joining us this morning, we're going through the life of Joseph, and let me remind us of where we are in this narrative. Joseph. has been sold into slavery by his brothers and taken down into Egypt, where he was purchased by an important man named Potiphar There in Potiphar's household, Joseph begins his new life as a slave in Egypt. He works his way up from the most menial task to becoming the manager of the entire estate. And it's all because the Lord was with him. Notice how this is repeated and emphasized in Genesis 39 and verse 2, it says, And the Lord was with Joseph. And he was a prosperous man, and he was in the house of his master, the Egyptian, and his master saw that the Lord was with him, and that the Lord made all that he did to prosper in his hand. Looked down in verse five, and it came to pass From the time that he made him overseer in his house, over all that he had, the Lord blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake And the blessing of the Lord was upon all that he had in the house and in the field. Joseph's life has gone from really, really bad to much better. God is with him. God is blessing him. And those around him. But Joseph is soon confronted with a new problem. Potiphar's wife begins to make unwanted advances toward him. But despite her repeated attempts to seduce Joseph, he stands strong and remains pure. The hero in our biblical narrative does not, as Hollywood would say, get the girl, but he does remain loyal to God. I was thinking about this this week, how that almost every movie, every show that you've ever seen, the hero is immoral. Or at least it's implied, or it's suggested, or it's hinted at, at least in former years. In modern times it's not hinted at, it's very explicitly shown to be the case. It's really nonsense if you think about it. How much hero power and courage does it take to be immoral? Absolutely none. But to stand up against temptation day after day and yet remain pure, now that is a heroic stance. The fact is that Hollywood has for many years been tacking the immoral, the moral fiber of our Christian heritage. It has consistently advanced the narrative that sexual relationships out of outside of marriage are exciting, natural, and inevitable. The entertainment industry has played a key part in the sexual revolution in our nation. Unless you've been sleeping under a rock, you have seen in a very short time a huge shift in public opinion about issues of morality. Premarital sex is, of course, the norm today. In fact, if you don't engage in this, you're considered odd or strange. Adultery is common. Homosexuality is championed and abortion is regarded as a sacred right. And those who believe what the Bible teaches about human sexuality and marriage are attacked as bigots, haters, and dangers to society. The world may call evil good and good evil, but God's opinions have not changed. And we need to notice that. In the story of Joseph, we see the beauty of holiness. It's dangerous sometime to speculate, but what would have happened to Joseph if he had not stood strong and remained pure in this story? Would God have used him the way he did? I don't know. I suspect not. I know it would taint the entire story, the whole picture. uh what God is doing, the way we regard him as a hero, all of that would be changed. Many commentators say that that he was being tested, that his medal was really being tried here. And that if he had fallen, he would not have been the man that was exalted to that place of leadership and become the savior of his people In the story of Joseph, we see the beauty of holiness. He reminds us of our Savior, who was tempted at all points, like as we are, yet without sin. Here we read of a man of character and integrity who remains pure in a pagan environment. Now before we get into this paragraph, I'm going to remind you of the larger narrative. Joseph's life story is all about the providence of God. The Lord used the hatred of his brothers. to get him to Egypt. And the Lord will providentially use the lust and false accusation of Potiphar's wife to move him into a prison. Because it's from prison that Joseph will be promoted to the second highest in the land of Egypt, and he will be able to save his people from the coming famine. Now the passage that we're looking at this morning reminds us that the Bible is a very realistic book. It doesn't sugarcoat things. It doesn't live in a fantasy world. It addresses issues the way they are in the world. And let me remind you That human sexuality was God's idea. Sometimes people think that because of the the Bible's emphasis on purity, that somehow the Bible is against sexuality. That's nonsense. This was God's idea. He's the one that made us the way we are. And let me just say, do you have any idea how much more simple life is when it's just a man and a woman who love each other and stay together for life. Removes from our lives if we simply do things God's way. I don't know what I would do with all my free time It's absolutely true. When we get off of God's plan and we lean to our own understanding, it makes life very difficult and complicated. The fact is, Satan doesn't create anything. He only distorts, degrades, and distorts what God has made. The paragraph that we're looking at today should fill us with hope It should inspire us because it's not the record of a great fall like we read of David who fell to Bathsheba. But it's a story of a man who, despite all odds, despite all the temptation that he would face, stood strong. And so I want to preach to you this morning on this truth. A child of God can remain sexually pure even in a pagan world. My sermon will have two main points this morning and then the applications. The first main point is I want us to consider the intense temptation that Joseph faced in Egypt. And under this, I have three headings. I'm going to talk about Joseph, where he was in his life, and where Potiphar's wife was, and then the types of temptation that he resisted. I want to mention, first of all, five factors that would make it difficult for Joseph to resist temptation. First of all, Joseph was a handsome young man. You may not have picked up on this, but look with me at the last phrase in verse 6. It says, And Joseph was a goodly person and well favored. This is not a reference to his character, but to his appearance. It means that Joseph was pleasing to the eyes both in face and form. Today we would say he was well built and handsome. These two words that are used here are only found together one other time in the Bible. And that is to describe Joseph's mother, Rachel. Rachel was stunningly beautiful. That's why Jacob worked seven years for her, and then another seven years after that. And Joseph looked just like his mom. He was a handsome man. We often think today of having good looks as an incredible advantage, right? People are often promoted, put in positions of leadership because they look the part. Our entertainment industry, you don't have any ugly people on our screens. Even the villains are attractive. I remember years ago when my kids were watching a TV show and Uh it was the Waltons and uh on this one particular show they they were going to bring out the real people that were behind uh the different characters and they brought them out. And my kids were really little and my son Andrew turned to me and says, Dad, they don't look nearly as nice as the actors and actresses And I said, yes, son, that's the way it is. That's the way it is. This is the way people look in real life. But the fact is that being extremely good looking is often a spiritual hazard It will bring a lot of temptation, a lot of people into your lives who are there for the wrong reasons. So we should not focus. We should not give our lives to trying to desperately improve our appearance. Joseph had all of that, and it put him in a difficult situation. Secondly, Joseph was young The events recorded in chapter 39, here in this first paragraph, you may have thought they took over a few days or weeks. No, it's probably about a decade of his rise to positions of importance and authority. So most scholars would say that when this time of temptation occurred, Joseph was probably between the ages of 25 and 27. He was in the prime of his life. And we should not assume that Joseph wasn't tempted at all. Sometimes people think that godly people, you know, they're just like Teflon, you know, everything just bounces off. They're not tempted at all. Not true. He had red blood. He was a human being. He was healthy. Vibrant. Of course he was tempted. So we should not just think that this was nothing for him to resist at all. Let me remind you thirdly that Joseph was in a pagan land. Egypt was a wicked place. Sensuality and immorality permeated the culture. This was certainly the case in Potiphar's household, as revealed in this paragraph Joseph could have reasoned, went in Egypt, do as the Egyptians, but he didn't. He remained pure. Fourthly, Joseph was away from home. He had no support from his family. He couldn't ask his father for advice. He had no church that he could turn to for prayer and counseling. He had no accountability partner. He didn't even own a Bible. But he stood strong. Men who travel away from home on a regular basis And spend many weeks of the year in hotel rooms face a great deal of temptation. I've heard them come and talk to me. When you are away from home, away from everybody in your town knows who you are, it serves as a sort of accountability. It keeps you in check. But when you have the anonymity of being in a far country where nobody knows who you are, you're an absolute stranger, there is much more temptation This is the origin of such sayings like, what happens in Vegas stays in Vegas. By the way, it doesn't stay in Vegas. Your sinful actions are seen by others, and they're more importantly seen by the God who created you and will judge you someday. Joseph was all alone in a pagan land, but he did not fall. Fifthly, Joseph's family had a legacy of immorality. Joseph did not come from a perfect home. His family was dysfunctional, as I mentioned in our opening lesson There was division, deception, and immorality. His father was essentially married to four women. He didn't have a great model of marriage before him. His oldest brother Reuben was immoral, having an incestuous relationship with one of Jacob's servant wives. And Joseph's brothers, Judah, was an immoral man who sought the company of prostitutes. Sometimes I've heard people say to me, well, Pastor, you know the reason why I live the way I live and why I've made the moral choices I have, you should have seen the family I come from. I didn't have really a mom and dad who were together and my my siblings were all wild and crazy and lived lives of immorality. You've got to understand the culture I'm coming from. And there is no doubt that that is an incredible disadvantage, but I want you to know that Joseph had a similar culture, but he stood strong What an incredible example he sets for us. Just think about this. Joseph was young, good-looking, alone, away from home, and a pagan. land that was permeated with immorality, and yet he resisted temptation and remained pure. I want to talk for a second about Mrs. Potifer. We don't know her name, so I'll call her that Sometimes people think that maybe the reason why Joseph was so able to resist her is because she was a very ugly woman. I don't think that's the case at all. I think she was probably a very beautiful woman. Why do I say that? Because Egyptian society put a premium on appearance. More than any other people of the ancient world, they were really into cosmetics and all kinds of elaborate garments They put a premium on appearance. Potiphar was a very powerful man. We would say today, don't like this term, but we would say today that she was a trophy wife. He took her to show her off at state functions when Pharaoh would be there and others, and everyone admired the beautiful wife that Potiphar possessed. It's always been that way in the world. Powerful men tend to have beautiful wives. She was probably a lonely woman. We know from Egyptian culture that an important wealthy man like Potiphar probably had a harem in the palace. It was likely the case with Potiphar. He probably spent very little time with his wife. She was just like one of his many decorations. He never talked to her, showed any concern for her. And thirdly, she was certainly an immoral woman. In the ancient world, Egyptian women were notorious for their immodest attire and immoral behavior. Her shocking proposal to Joseph would indicate that she had done this before. Ironically, she was a slave to her own lust, but the slave Joseph was a free man. I want you to consider the tactics that Mrs. Potiphar used to tempt Joseph. First of all, she tempted him flirtatiously. It says she cast Verse 7, her eye upon Joseph. And I think it means more than just she noticed that he was handsome. I think that she began to make eye contact with him and try to seduce him. And this probably went on for some time. Secondly, she propositioned him directly and authoritatively. We see that in verse 7 where she says, lie with me I'm sure she had made the suggestion to other slaves in her household, because slavery often leads to sexual abuse. And although Joseph was the manager of the house, he was still a slave and under her authority. He could have reasoned that he must obey her request, but instead he obeyed God. Thirdly, she tempted him continually. Look with me at verse 10. It says that she spake to him day by day. Joseph had to face her propositions on a regular basis, and every time he said no. Now if you came to me and said that this was happening to you at work, you know what I would tell you? Quit your job, get out of there! He couldn't do that. He was a slave. He couldn't turn in his notice. He had no option. He had to stay under that pressure and that difficult situation day after day. Fourthly, we read that she tempted him in various ways. We see that she tried the direct approach in verse 7, but in verse 10 She takes a more indirect approach. Notice it says to that she told him, asked him to lie by her and to be with her. The idea is that she said, just sit down next to me and talk to me, Joseph. I want to know you better But Joseph didn't go for her ploy. And then finally she tempted him strategically and aggressively. We see this in verses eleven and twelve. And it came to pass about this time that Joseph went into the house to do his business. And there was none of the men in the house there within, and she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me, and he left his garment in her hand and fled and got him out It seems that she set a trap for Joseph. She told the other man, hey, take the day off. Just take the day off. She set a trap so that he would be all alone. And she knew his routine about where he would be in the house at a certain time because he was a faithful kind of man. And so now she grabs him and propositions him again. And he fled from the scene. Joseph lost his coat, but he didn't lose his character. Matthew Henry says, it's better to lose a good coat than to lose a good conscience. And that was true of Joseph. Now, this example for us is intended to be an extreme example for us. I don't think there's any man in this room that has faced that kind of temptation. No one can look at this and say, well, you know, Joseph may have been victorious, but I mean what I'm saying , oh man, it is so much more difficult. Nobody can say that this is an extreme example. But what we are to learn from this is that if Joseph could remain pure with all of those disadvantages, with all of that intense pressure put uh upon him in a pagan land, so can you and I But how was Joseph able to remain pure? That brings me to my second point. I want us to consider how Joseph was able to resist this intense temptation. I'm going to mention a couple things at the outset here that are not specifically mentioned in our text, and then we'll look carefully at the text. Number one, Joseph knew the Lord. Joseph truly knew the Lord. I've mentioned earlier in this series that when a young person comes of age, it is then that you find out if they have a leftover faith, a hand-me-down from their parents that will not withstand the challenges of life or whether or not they have a faith of their own. Joseph had a faith of his own. He was able to stand up To this incredible temptation because he knew the true and living God So why is it that so many young people come from Christian homes, grow up to live immoral lifestyles that often they vigorously defend? The most common reason is because they are lost and have never been born again. They may be nominal Christians. They may have said a prayer sometime in their childhood, but they don't have a true and living faith. I'm not talking about young people who fall and grieve over it. I'm talking about people who live in a moral lifestyle and they're up on your face. They say, hey, this is the way I live. Get used to it. And you need to support me and accept me. The Bible says they went out from us, for they were not of us. Secondly Joseph walked with God. Mention this refrain we find in the opening paragraph, the Lord Was with him. Not only was the Lord with Joseph, but Joseph was aware that the Lord was with him. There's a difference I mentioned at our afternoon service last week phrase of practicing the presence of God, walking in the presence of the Lord, being aware that every moment of every hour you are under his holy gaze. Joseph lived in that reality. But I want you to look at Joseph's response to Mrs. Potiphar in verses 8 and 9. It's very instructive. Look at verse 8. But he refused and said unto his master's wife, Behold, my master knoweth not what is with me in the house, and hath committed all that he hath into my hands. There is none greater in this house than I, neither hath it kept back anything from me but thee Joseph is going to give two specific reasons why he cannot engage in immoral activity. And the first reason is because of the trust that Potiphar has placed in him. Joseph sees his position of leadership as a reason why he must not sin, not an excuse for him to sin. Often people in powerful positions, sometimes even pastors. Will fall into scandalous sin, sexual sins, because they think that the rules don't really apply to them Joseph sees it the other way around. Because I'm in a position of leadership, because my master has trusted me. And has given me this opportunity and has put everything into my care, I am all the more obligated not to fail him. That's the way we should look at it. If you're in a position of authority at work, that's all the more reason why you must be pure. If you're in a position of leadership in this church, deacon or Sunday school teacher, all the more reason why you must be careful because people are watching you. If you are a parent And you have little eyes that are watching you that will be forever touched by your example, it's all the more important for you to live a life of purity. But Joseph's going to argue from the lesser important to the most important, the ultimate reason that he gives is at the end of verse 9 when he asked her this question, how then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? Notice how Joseph describes this sexual sin. He describes it as great wickedness. You know, I've often heard from preachers, and I've heard from many people conversations I've discovered there's a real misunderstanding that people have. And that is there's a lot of people that have told me, you know, Pastor, all sin 's the same. All sins just as evil and wicked in the eyes of God. It doesn't matter if you're gossip or if you're a serial killer. They're both equally wrong in the eyes of God. That's not what the Bible teaches. All sin makes you guilty and will send you to an eternal hell. But the Bible doesn't say that all sin is on the same level. A lot of times people will use this to excuse or equivocate and say, well, you know, you're a sinner too, and I'm doing horrible wicked things, but so are you, so you can't judge me. Not true. You may say, how do you know that? Well, for instance, in the Old Testament, there were some sins that were to be punished by execution. Others were not. The Bible describes some sins as an abomination to God, and others are not called an abomination before God. So you can't put everything on the same level. It's all wicked, it's all wrong, it's all evil, it will all send people to hell. There's no such thing as a respectable sin. Don't get me wrong. But the Bible says a person who sins in sexual immorality sins against their own body. There are special consequences that often come as a result of those choices. We don't only scar our bodies, we often scar our souls. Have you ever seen someone Who has lived a lifestyle of immorality, there is a hardness, a roughness that comes to their very appearance over time. Because they have scarred their souls. What we're talking about here is something that sounds so strange to us today. But the word of God is crystal clear. Joseph here describes the sin that Mrs. Potiphar wanted to engage in as great wickedness. It would have been adultery for her. And God says, thou shalt not commit adultery. It's still in the Bible. For Potiphar's wife, this was adultery. For Joseph, it would have been sex before marriage. Both are described here as great wickedness. Of course, everything has changed from what is considered acceptable today. Most babies born in America in the year 2019 will be born out of wedlock. The vast majority of people live together before they get married, but our God says that it's great wickedness. The ultimate reason that Joseph was able to triumph over this intense season of temptation is because he lived in the fear of the Lord. He lived with the sense that God was watching him, that God was over him, and he wanted to please the Lord. Proverbs chapter 5, verses 20 and 21 says, And why wilt thou, my son, be ravished with a strange woman and embrace the bosom of a stranger? For the ways of a man are before the eyes of the Lord, and he pondereth all his goings. People are concerned that everywhere you look now there are cameras everywhere. By the way, you're on camera right now. We have security cameras in here. There's very few places you can go in public where you're not under cameras, and people don't like that. And I understand the idea of people watching because it's kind of creepy, but I want you to know something: God sees everything. Proverbs chapter eight and verse thirteen says, The fear of the Lord is to hate evil. Proverbs sixteen, verse six says By the fear of the Lord men depart from evil. The Bible says that those who engage in sexually immoral activities will come under the judgment of God. I think many contemporary preachers have so emphasized the love of God. and the grace of God that we have obscured the wrath of God, but it's in there. In fact, it's mentioned hundreds of times One of the greatest problems the church faces today is pornography. This is the number one thing that pastors counsel about. Two recent inventions have made it a pervasive part of our culture. The internet and the smartphone. And if you're my age, you were born in a time when those things didn't exist. But guess what? They're here to stay. And in many ways, they've made our lives easier. But they've also brought out the worst in humanity. The fact of the matter is the statistics that I read are accurate A good percentage, a high percentage, more than half of individuals under sound of my voice are struggling with this right now. One of the things that preachers get together and talk about is why is it there's so few young men who are eager to go into the ministry right now? Why is it in our Bible colleges there's very few people young men who are training for the ministry. And you want to know one of the number one reasons is because so many of them have felt themselves to be disqualified because they're in bondage to pornography. And we don't know the long-term consequences of this because the smartphone's only been around for a few years. It's a huge problem. What's the answer to this epidemic? Well, we can put security devices on our phones and We can have accountability partners. We do that, encourage that. But let me just say this: unless we live in the fear of God with the awareness that He sees all We will never be victorious. Because you can always find a way to get around that security advice. You can always lie to your accountability partner, but you cannot hide from God's holy gaze. And until his opinion becomes more important than anybody else's opinion or your own desires, you will fall. I want to make some concluding applications. First of all, parents. Teach your children about the importance of sexual purity. Most Christian parents never talk to their children about this awkward subject. I know because for years when I talked to young people I asked them that question and almost always the answer is no, they never said a word to me about it Dad, you should talk to your sons. Moms, you should talk to your daughters. You might say, well, it's awkward. Yeah, it is awkward, but that's what you need to do. The first nine chapters of Proverbs are record of a father speaking to his son. And the most common topic that he discusses is the strange woman. I strongly suspect that Joseph had committed to a life of purity before he had ever gone down into Egypt. Perhaps his grandfather Isaac spoke to him about this delicate subject, or even his father Jacob, who is not a great example Parents, you need to talk to your children about this important issue. The stakes are too high. You should not assume that they'll figure it out on their own. In the pornographic age in which we live, the stakes are even higher, and your silence will be replaced with the advice of wicked people. Secondly, every Christian should realize that you can live a life of purity even In an increasingly pagan culture. People all the time tell me things are getting worse. You're right, they are. But you know what? It was really bad in Egypt. Where Joseph was. Can I say this? It was far worse than what we have today in the United States of America. And you know the first century, the church, when it left Jerusalem and spread out through the Greco-Roman world. Can you believe this? The moral atmosphere of the first century, what's much worse than it is today. The places where the Apostle Paul was planting churches, it was part of the fabric of their culture, rampant immorality and perversion. So you should not think, well, you know, the Bible, those things may have worked, you know, centuries ago when when people were moral, but they don't work today. No, no, nonsense. It worked when Joseph was in Egypt. It worked with the early church in that very pagan world that they lived in. And it can work today in 21st century America. You see, Joseph provides an incredibly encouraging example for us. If Joseph could remain pure in Potiphar's palace You can certainly remain pure with all the advantages that you have at your disposal. You have a Bible, you have a church community, you have a fuller understanding of the gospel and sanctification than Joseph ever had. He didn't have a Bible. to read and to study. If he can stand in Potiphar's Palace, you can stand at work, you can stand at home, you can stand in this increasingly wicked world in which we live. Let me mention three guidelines for purity under this heading. Number one, memorize and meditate on Scripture. Psalm 119, 9 through 11, wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? Literally, how can a young man keep his way pure? By taking heed thereto according to thy word, with my whole heart have I sought thee. Oh, let me not wonder from my commandments. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. Number two, make yourself accountable to others. One of the reasons why people fall is because they're proud. They don't want anybody to know that they struggle with these embarrassing sins. They never talk about it. But you need the help of your brothers and sisters in Christ to defeat these life-dominating sins. Thirdly, take radical steps to defeat the sin. You can't take half measures I only watch a little bit. I only text her a little bit. Only have a little bit of contact. That'll never work. In Mark chapter 9, Jesus said, If thy hand offend thee, cut it off. If thy eye offend thee, pluck it out. He, of course, was not calling for self-mutilation. He was calling for Christians to take drastic action You might need to get rid of your cell phone. You might need to get a new job. You might need to give your password All of your passwords to your spouse. You have to do whatever you need to do, no matter how inconvenient it may be, no matter how embarrassing it may be, you have to do the drastic, the radical thing in order to have victory. And that's exactly what Joseph did at the end of this passage, right? It says he fled and he got him out. I like the way it puts that. He left the coat in her arms. He got out of that situation. There are some sins that you can stand against, and there are some sins that you've got to flee from. That's why in 2 Timothy 2. 22 it says, flee, youthful lusts. This is what we must do. May God help us. Now, every Christian, thirdly. should remember that God forgives even sexual sinners. It's been quiet in here at times this morning I told someone this morning that's the way it would be. I said, listen for moments of awkward silence. It's a delicate matter. And the fact is there are many people who are guilty. The reality is that if you've passed into the age of adolescence in some way You are a sexual sinner. We all are. To some degree. Perhaps this morning you've sat here and you say, you know, I really feel guilty and condemned Well, let me remind you that David was a man after God's own heart, and yet he fell into the sin of adultery. But David repented and was forgiven. David would write in Psalm 32, Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven. whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile. How can a holy God forgive our horrible sexual sins? He does this through the sacrifice of his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus was tempted in all points, yet as we are yet without sin. He lived a perfect life of purity and died on a cross to save us from our sins. For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him When we repent and believe the gospel, we are imputed with his perfect righteousness When the Apostle Paul went around planting churches in Asia Minor, he was going to places that were absolutely dominated by idolatry and sexual immorality, which both went together. He went to places like Corinth, which would be kind of like the Las Vegas of that ancient part of the world. And many of those who came to Christ came out of very wicked relationships. And yet Paul would say to them, And such were some of you, but you are washed You are sanctified. You are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. God can take those whose lives have been horribly stained and Scarred by sins, by sexual sins, and he can wash them and make them pure in his sight. That is the beauty of the gospel. The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. What a wonderful thing that is. My friend, has the blood of Christ washed away your sins? Can you stand before him with confidence and say that there is no condemnation because you are in Christ? And dear child of God, who has fallen and failed God repeatedly and various ways in this matter. There is forgiveness that he may be feared, the Bible says. But you must repent, you must turn from your sin. You must take every effort by the power of God's grace to resist it and stand strong. And you can by the grace of God because Joseph did. And so can you. Let's close in prayer. Father. Thank you for your word. Thank you for the examples that it sets before us. I pray that you would help us to take heed to your word, not to allow the spirit of the age to control our thinking. on this matter. Help us, Father, to let your word be our guide. Help us, Father, to consider sexual sins to be great wickedness. Help us to flee them, Father, and to seek to be pure and holy in your sight, that we might be a vessel meat for the Master's use. Lord, it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.