John chapter 6. John chapter 6, we're looking at verses 60 through 71, the conclusion of this chapter this morning. Many years ago, there was a beginning art student who went to a very lavish art exhibition that was filled with abstract and cubist art. And he desperately wanted to purchase a painting, but every painting that he saw was just too expensive. Finally he saw a small painting over on the side that had a small rectangular shape in the middle and it was surrounded with a a white, plain white background and it was framed in brass. Certainly this small painting, he thought, would be within his budget. And so he went to the attendant and asked him, how much for that painting? And the man replied, That, sir, is not a painting, it's a light switch. We live in a world where finding the real thing is often difficult. This is true in the physical realm. It's also true in the spiritual realm. This morning in our study of the Gospel of John, we are considering the response of the people to our Lord's Bread of Life Discourse. This is kind of like an appendix to the sermon. It's at the very end of chapter 6. And I want to submit to you that the key term And this section of Scripture is the word disciple. Look with me at verses 60 and 61. When many of his disciples heard it, they said, this is a hard saying, who can listen to it? But Jesus, knowing in himself that his disciples were grumbling about this, said to them, Do you take offense at this? Then you can look down at verse 66. After this, many of his disciples turned back. and no longer walked with him. And then we find what is a virtual synonym in this paragraph that is a reference to the twelve He says in verse 67. So Jesus said to the 12, do you want to go away as well? And then again in verse 70, Jesus answered them, did not I choose you the 12? and yet one of you is a devil. So I have you look at these facts because I want you to know That the themes that I derive from passages of scripture are not some whimsy that comes to my mind, but I'm trying to find out exactly what the focus of that passage is and what its message is for us. This passage is all about defining what it means to be a disciple of Christ, a true disciple. But before we consider that, we need to understand what a disciple is. A disciple is a follower who is also a student. In the ancient world If you wanted to study some area, whether it be like the law or whether it be some philosophy, you did not sign up for online classes on your computer. No, you went and you followed a rabbi or a philosopher, and you did listen to their lectures. You also listened to their informal comments throughout the day, but you ate with them and you lived with them and you traveled with them And the idea was that you could learn as much, if not more, from observing their life as from hearing their words. And so when Jesus walked around Galilee with his twelve disciples, people would not think it was odd. This was a normal part of their culture. This is what rabbis did, this is what philosophers did. Now what we find throughout this final paragraph of this chapter is an intended contrast Between true disciples and false disciples. Because not everyone who says they are a Christian or a follower of Christ is truly a disciple of Jesus Christ. This was true when Jesus ministered in Capernaum. It's still true today. Now let me briefly remind you of what comes previously in this chapter. We have our Lord at the beginning of this chapter performing one of his great miracles, the feeding of the 5,000. This is the only miracle recorded in all four Gospels. It was spectacular. He took a little boy's lunch and he miraculously multiplied it to feed A multitude of people, probably numbering somewhere between 10 and 15,000 people, because remember, the 5,000 was just the men or heads of household. And the people who experienced that miracle, who ate that bread and that fish Many of them followed him over to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, to their home region of Capernaum, and They heard the bread of life discourse, at least part of which was delivered in the synagogue of that city. The main point that Jesus is making in this message is that just as Moses sent manna from heaven to sustain the physical life of his people in the wilderness, So God sent his son into the world to give spiritual life to all who would believe. But the people grumbled and objected to his teaching. They would not come to him in saving faith. And although these superficial followers are called disciples in verse 60 and in verse 66, it is obvious from this passage that they are not true followers of Jesus Christ. So the natural question that all of us should be asking as we look at this passage of Scripture is twofold. Number one, what are the marks or the characteristics of a true disciple of Christ? And secondly, more personally, am I a disciple of Jesus Christ? I suspect that everyone here this morning would to some degree or another say that you're a follower of Jesus Christ. I could be wrong, but I suspect that almost everyone, if not everyone, would say that. But the question is, are you a true follower in the sense in which Jesus describes here? Genuine disciples believe in Christ and continue to follow him. Now the message this morning is going to have like two points. That are contrast. First of all, we're going to look at the marks of false disciples. And what I want you to see, the overwhelming message, is that false disciples failed to truly follow the Lord. Now, before we get to verses 60 and 71, I want to bring up just very briefly a few characteristics of false disciples that we find earlier in this address. The first thing I want you to see is that false disciples fail to truly follow the Lord because they seek him primarily for material advantages. Jesus knew the hearts of these people. And so he says in verse 26, Truly, truly I say to you, you are seeking me not because you saw signs, but because you ate your fill of the loaves. He is saying that the reason why this multitude were still following him is not because They wanted to be with Christ, and they learned from this miracle that indeed he was the Son of God. But because, to be honest with you, they wanted free food. And they wanted to see something spectacular. People love to see the spectacular that defies explanation. They didn't want a savior, however. They wanted a never-ending supply of food We see also that false disciples fail to truly follow the Lord because they think they can earn God's favor. Look with me at verses 26 and 27. Jesus says, do not work for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures. to eternal life which the Son of Man will give to you. For in him God the Father has set his seal. Then they said to him, What must we do to be doing the works of God? Jesus answered them, this is the work of God that you believe in him whom he has sent. Lost people think naturally that by doing certain things they can accrue favor with God. That they can make it, as it were, that God is in debt to them, that He owes them one. I'm sure that there are people all over the world that have gone to some church service somewhere today who think that way. I'm a really good person because I went to church. And now God's more likely to answer my prayers because I went to church. I gave up my Sunday morning. This is the way lost people think. It's not that they really want to be with the Lord's people or they want to worship God in spirit and in truth. It's that they want to make God their debtor, which is impossible to do, because they think that by doing certain religious things that God will be obligated to them. This is often the way false disciples think. But I want you also to notice now as we turn down to the paragraph that we read together earlier that false disciples fail to truly follow Christ because they are offended by the word of God. Look with me at verse 60. When many of his disciples heard it, they said, This is a hard saying, who can listen to it? But Jesus, knowing in himself that his disciples were grumbling about this, said to them, Do you take offense at this? The Greek word that's translated hard in this passage where it says this is a hard saying has the idea of being harsh, offensive, disturbing, intolerable. What did these people find so offensive about our Lord's teaching? Well, in this chapter we find two times where they grumble or complain. One is in verse 41. Look at this. So the Jews grumbled about him because he said, I'm the bread that came down from heaven. They said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph? whose father and mother we know, how does he now say, I have come down from heaven? Of course they got it wrong. Joseph wasn't his father But what they were grumbling about is they knew that in this description of himself, which he gives, which is mentioned seven times in this address. That he was claiming nothing less than pre-existence and to being God. And they had a real problem with that. But certainly primarily what they're thinking about what really upset them and what really offended them was his teaching right before these comments. Beginning in verses 52 and following. Look with me at verse 53. Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man. and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. For my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink. And when we covered those verses, I said, no one has that on a plaque on their refrigerator. It sounds strange even to us, and it was even more offensive to the people that heard it that day. I don't think these people were so dense that they thought he was being literal, but the language that he used in and of itself was offensive. It seemed to encourage cannibalism and the drinking of blood which was prohibited by the law of Moses. So that raises the question, why did Jesus use this offensive imagery? I mean, Jesus knew that they would be offended by this, so why did he use this kind of language? And by the way, I I must hasten to add that Jesus here is using this figurative language language to talk about what it means to trust in him in a personal way and to rely on him for eternal life. Just like what a person eats, they need to nourish them so that they can live. But why did he speak this way to them? I think it's for the same reason he spoke to people in parables. I'm not going to take the time to go back to Matthew chapter 13 and look at that. Perhaps you've thought all your life and you've heard that the reason why Jesus spoke to people in parables And so that everyone could enjoy the story and have a fuller understanding of what he was saying. But that's not what the scripture says specifically. It says that he spoke in parables so that those who were his superficial followers would say, I don't get what he's saying. This is really confusing. And they would walk away. But his true disciples would come to him and say, what did you mean by this? Could you explain that further to me? And he would explain to them what the story meant, and then they would learn and grow. These people had only a superficial interest in him. They were hoping that he would be a king that would overthrow Rome. and restore the glory of Israel, and they were hoping that he would provide a never-ending supply of food And so Jesus is going to use language that's intentionally offensive to them so that they will go away. This is his judgment on them because he has given them the truth again and again and again and again. And they have turned away in unbelief Now he says in verse 61, do you take offense at this? The word offense has the idea of to stumble or to be tripped up. I want you to notice these people, they were offended, but they didn't come to him and say, Lord, we really want to know what you mean when you say that we are to Eat your flesh and drink your blood. Would you please explain this to us? Because we want to know this truth. It's so important to us. No. They just said this is this is hard to understand. We're going to leave. Their response indicated that their motives in following him were superficial. And they had no spiritual life in them. And so in verse 62, Jesus essentially rebukes them. Verse 62 is kind of a strange verse. He says, then what if you were to see the Son of Man referring to himself ascending to where he was before? And it seems to most commentators and scholars it's like he doesn't fully complete his thought there. So let me give you my best understanding of this. You might first of all think that he's just talking about his ascension, but in the Gospel of John, he uses the language of ascension and exaltation. to refer to the entirety of our Lord's redemptive work, which includes his crucifixion, his resurrection, and his ascension. Those three things are like three parts of one work, one event. They're sort of like an antenna. That you pull out, and then another segment comes out, and then another segment comes out. One leads to another, which leads to another. They're all connected. And the gospel writers often describe these events this way. Jesus is essentially saying, if you find my words about eating my flesh and drinking my blood to be offensive, how offended would you be to accept a crucified Messiah? We know that in 1 Corinthians 1. 23 that Paul says that Christ crucified was a stumbling block to the Jews. Why is that? Because the law of Moses said that anyone who dies hanging on a tree is cursed of God 's. And so how could their Messiah be cursed of God? That seems like a contradiction. So they had a real problem with that And the idea that this man that stood before them that day and gave them the bread of life discourse would someday die and then rise from the dead That seemed preposterous. And then he says, if you have trouble with me saying that I'm the one who came down from heaven, what would you do if you saw me go up into heaven at my ascension into the clouds? How Scandalized, how shocked would you be at that? You see, these people balked at the idea of coming to Jesus down from heaven. And so further revelation was virtually impossible to them. It'd be sort of like someone On the beginning of World War II, signed up for the Army, and they went into basic training. And they were really struggling. And their drill instructor says in a very kind way If you can't handle this, what are you going to do when you're in war? What are you going to do when you're really in battle? And so Jesus is saying is if you can't handle this level of revelation, what would you do when the full glory of the gospel is revealed to you? I want you to notice that how you respond to the word is a very good indication of who you are. These people heard the words of our Savior audibly given to them. And they said, I don't want that. This doesn't make sense to me. I don't want any part of this. And though we do not hear his audible voice today, how we respond to the word of God is still a very good indication. Of if we are disciple of Christ or not. Sometimes people get angry at the preaching of the word because it convicts them and they leave. Sometimes they might hear it on the radio or they might hear it in a Bible study, and they just get up and they walk out Because it's offensive to them. It strikes them. It convicts them. And rather than saying, oh, I'm wrong, I'm sinful, I need to repent, they say, no, that is wrong. That's the problem, not me. And they walk away. And that brings me to the next characteristic of a false disciple. They truly follow the Lord because they refuse to believe despite abundant evidence. In this invitation, Jesus continually exhorts them to believe. Look with me at verse 29, Jesus answered them, this is the work of God that you believe in him. whom he has sent. And then verse 35, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger. Whoever believes in me shall never thirst. And then again in verse 40, for this is the will of my Father that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. And then again in verse 47. Truly, truly I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life. And verse 51, I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. You see, he continually gives them the truth. He continually points to himself. He continually calls on them to believe. And though these people, these very privileged people, experienced his miracles and heard his teaching, They responded in unbelief. And so we come to verse 63. It is the Spirit Jesus says who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirits And life. The reference to Spirit is a reference to the Holy Spirit. But this phrase is very interesting. The flesh is no help at all. What does that mean? It means that these superficial followers were seeing and hearing only from a human perspective Do you recall what Jesus said to Nicodemus in chapter 3? He said, that which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirits. The idea is this, this is the passage where he said, you must be born again. Human reason, unaided by the Spirit of God, is unable to discern what is truly spiritual. And although they had incredible privileges, they still responded in unbelief. That leads us to verse 64. But there are some of you who do not believe. For Jesus knew from the beginning, those who were and who did not believe and who it was who would betray him, which of course is a reference to Judas. Jesus was not surprised at their response of unbelief because he knew what was in their hearts. That brings us now to verse 65 This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless this is granted him by the Father. Jesus says this is What I told you. What is that? When did he tell them this? Back in verse 44. Look at verse 44. He says, No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him and I will raise him up on the last day. This is a difficult truth for people to receive, but in this chapter, in this discourse, we find two equally true propositions. That we must hold on to both of them. Number one, everyone who is saved has been drawn by the Father and has come to graciously trust in Christ. And all are responsible to believe, and they are guilty for their unbelief. You might say, I don't understand how all of that works. That's all right. It is beyond our understanding. But the Bible teaches both. So often people want to cling to one of those poles of truth. Or the other, but they don't want to hold on to both of them. But they're both equally taught in the Word of God and in this teaching from Jesus. But I want you to see also that false disciples fail to follow the Lord and they often eventually abandon the Savior. Look at verse 66. After this, many of his disciples, a reference not to the twelve, but to those folks in the synagogue, turned back and no longer walked With him. John is indicating that this was a turning point in the ministry of our Lord He had multitudes of people, remember, who were following him wherever he went. But now, after these words, the idea is that they permanently walked away. They abandoned him and they said, I'm done following this man. I don't understand everything he's saying. He disappoints me. I'm going to go back to my old way of life. This is the type of person that Jesus described in the parable of the sower and Matthew chapter 13, verses 20 and 21. He says the rocky soil represents the person who hears the word and receives it with joy. He endures for a while, but when tribulation or persecution arise, immediately he falls away. This is an individual who has no spiritual root or foundation in their life. They may appear to be a Christian. They may claim to be a Christian. But when difficult times come They show their true colors. When it becomes costly, when it becomes difficult, when there's suffering and disappointment in their life They will abandon Christ and go live life on their own terms. This often happens when a person comes of age. Maybe they're brought up in a Christian home, and they're going to Sunday school and vacation in Bible school, and they grow up in the life of the church, and they hear these things, and maybe they make a profession of faith And they seem to be compliant and they seem to be going along, but someday they're going to have to go outside of that little safe place that they've lived in. And they're going to go out into the world and they're going to be surrounded by lost people with different values, with different questions, and there's going to be this pressure placed on them, immense pressure, to abandon their life. and to abandon the beliefs that they profess to hold to as a child. And many of them, some of them, will walk away. It's not that they lost their faith. It's that they never really were truly a disciple of Christ. They may call it deconstructing. They might say that their upbringing was hard and harsh and strict. They might use all kinds of language to explain and perhaps to excuse the decision that they're making, but they walk away. Because they love the world and the things that are in the world. And that's what happened with these superficial disciples. They walked away from the Lord. that day, never to return. And the same man who wrote this book of John also wrote the book of 1 John, and he says this. They went out from us, but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, they no doubt would have continued with us, but they went out that they might be made manifest that they were not all of us. Do you understand what he's saying there? The reason why they abandoned the community of faith is because they never really were a part of that community of faith. They may have seemed to have been a part of it, but they never really were true disciples. Now we must turn to the marks of a true disciple of Christ. How could you tell if you're truly a disciple of Christ? Look with me at verse 66. We read after this, many of the disciples turned back and no longer walked with him. Verse 67. So Jesus said to the twelve , Do you want to go away as well? This is one of the most dramatic events in the Gospels. Just picture this. They're in this synagogue, the stone synagogue, you can go to the site today. The ruins are still there. Jesus has just taught this. The people filed out. They've left and now it's just Jesus and the 12 I think the disciples were a little disappointed. I think they thought that this was great that they had thousands of people following them. I think they thought this was the beginning, that they were very close to when Jesus would set up his kingdom and cast off the yoke of Rome. And now Jesus says some harsh things and all these people leave. And Jesus turns to them and he says, will you also go away? Now he knew the answer to that question, but he wanted to challenge them. What's emphatic in this question is the word you, which is plural. Will you, my hand-picked followers, abandon me? And he looked them, I believe, right in the eyes. Are you going to go away just like these people? And Peter who often puts his foot in his mouth and is famous for misspeaking, says something remarkable. He says, To whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life. This is one of his finest hours. What he is saying is, what real alternative is there in the world? To following Jesus. Are you going to go out and follow one of the other major religions in the world? Are you going to turn to Islam or Buddhism or Hinduism or Judaism? Can you find a better teacher, a better savior? Are you going to follow a works-based religion where you never know if you've done enough to make it into heaven? Or perhaps you're more eager to go out into the secular world? To go out and live life as if there is no God. But where will you find the big questions of life, the answers to them, like Who am I? Where did I come from? Why am I here? And where am I going? These are questions that the human heart craves to have answered. And I want to say to you that by far and away, the best answers are found in Christianity. So are you just going to go out into the world and live for possessions and pleasure and prestige and power That's the way many people live. That plan never works out very well because the party ends and the possessions tarnish and the power ebbs away. John would put it this way, the world passes away and the desires thereof. You see, true disciples realize that the world really has nothing to offer, that it's all a lie. That there isn't real satisfaction and real joy found in going out into the world. I like the great hymn writer John Newton, who wrote Amazing Grace. He also wrote this verse, fading is the world's best treasure, all its boasted pomp and show, solid joys and lasting treasures, none but Zion's children know. So we don't go to the world because there's no other alternative. We don't turn from Christ And true disciples continue to follow the Lord because he has the words of life. Notice what Peter says. You have the words of eternal life. And he's recalling what Jesus just said as recorded up in verse 63. Notice that it is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. And Peter is saying Lord, those words may not have resonated with those superficial disciples, but I want you to know they really resonated with me Because the words of Christ give life. His beautiful words here of describing himself as the bread of life And all whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. No one's ever spoken like that before or made those kind of claims. The Bible says that faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of Christ. Every person who has ever truly been born again has been saved through the message found in the words of Scripture. I don't mean they had a Bible in front of them. But that truth that's revealed in the Bible, they heard from someone, or they heard on the radio, or somehow they received that truth. 1 Peter 1. 23 says, we have all been born again by the living and abiding word of God. And in John 8 31, Jesus says, if you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples. This is one of the marks of a disciple. They love the word of God and they seek by God's grace to obey it. It is the words of life, it is the promises of Scripture that they cling to. And that brings me to the third characteristic of true disciples. True disciples continue to follow Christ because they have a settled conviction that Jesus is the Son of God. Look at verse 69. Peter goes on to say, and we have believed and have come to know that you are the Holy One of God. The Gospel of John, more than any of the other Gospels, is famous for its confessions of faith that are found by different individuals. This is one of the great ones. You are the Holy One. This is a messianic title. In Psalm 16 and verse 10, it says, You will not let your Holy One see corruption, a reference to the Messiah, but it's also a title for deity. Because one of the great titles in the Old Testament, especially in the book of Isaiah, is that Yahweh is the Holy One of Israel. And so Peter is making a profound declaration of faith here. And notice he uses these two verbs, we have come to believe and know. This is something that has been at work in their hearts through their observation, through their hearing of our Lord's teaching. This has been reinforced and affirmed again and again. And these two verbs are being used. To express one idea. And that is that we have a personal settled conviction. That your identity is the Son of God. This is true of all true disciples. John, the author of this gospel, also wrote 1 John chapter 5, and he says, this is one of the evidences of being born again that we believe that Jesus is the Son of God. If you don't believe that he is truly God in flesh, then you are not truly a disciple. Now let me ask you, this is a great declaration of faith. How would you expect Jesus to respond? I think you would expect him to be euphoric and to be praising and commending Peter. And Peter says a great confession in Matthew chapter 16. And Jesus says to him, Flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father which is in heaven. I think you would expect him to say something like that again. But he doesn't do that here. Instead, he responds with an ominous prediction. Look at verse 70. Jesus answered them, Did I not choose you the twelve, and yet one of you is a devil? This must have hit the disciples like a sledgehammer. Alright? They've had the disappointment of what they thought they had a great following. All their hard work for the last two years are finally paying off. Now they've got thousands of people following them And then they all go away. And they're thinking to themselves, well, at least we still got our band of 12, and Jesus is actually one of you. is being controlled by the devil. And he's not really a disciple. Wow. Even within the inner circle, there's someone who's going to go away. Why did Jesus say this? This is the first time in the gospel record we read of him warning Judas. Because when he said that, there's only one person who knew what he was talking about. And that was Judas Iscariot. This was our Lord's warning to him. I think it was also a warning to the disciples. You must never think that because you have a certain office or certain privileges That you don't have to ever worry about going away. Now let me be clear I believe in the perseverance of the saints. I believe that once a person is truly born again by God's grace, they will never ultimately fall away. I don't believe that Judas lost his faith. He was never truly a follower of Christ in the depths of his being. Let's get that clear. But we have to be careful that you never think that you've attained a certain level. And you never have to be concerned about anything ever again. You should never think that because you're a pastor or missionary, that of course you're a disciple of Christ. I mean, look at the position that you're in. I reluctantly say to you that I have known several pastors over the years, men that I went to seminary with, men that I served with at times before, who today are atheists. And live wicked lives and have nothing to do with the Lord. They were spiritual leaders But they demonstrated that they were not truly followers of Jesus Christ. So let me ask you this morning as we conclude Are you a true disciple of Jesus Christ? How could you tell? Well Have you abandoned Christ to go back to your old life? Have you Fail to believe, or do you abide in his word? Have you come to the settled conviction that no matter how crazy the world says it is And how delusionary you are. You have come to the subtle conviction that Jesus is who he claimed to be, the Son of God. And by his grace, you will never abandon him. You will cling to him. You will trust in him. You will follow him all of your days. This is true of all genuine disciples of Christ. Yes, they will fall at times. Yes, they will not be everything they should be at certain seasons in their life, but they never stop following the Lord. They keep clinging to him and trusting in him. May God help you to do that. And if you're not like that, if you're more like these superficial followers, would you not seek him today? The door is still open. God 's gospel is still going forth. You have come to a place where you have heard the preaching of the word. Would you respond in faith? to the instruction of God's word and trust in Christ as your only Lord and Savior. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that indeed it is spirit and life, that there is something powerful in the Word of God that touches the hearts of your people. I pray, Lord, for those who might be here this morning, who are not your followers, who are superficial disciples I pray, Lord, that they would discover who they are and that they would come and they would flee to Christ and repent of their sins and trust in Him. And Father, for your people that are here, that are following Christ imperfectly, but yes, they are following him. And they do trust in him and they are clinging to him. I pray that the message today would encourage them and strengthen them and give them assurance. That they are followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. I pray that you would do this for your glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.