If you have your Bibles, please would you join me in John chapter 10? John chapter 10. Several years ago, a man in Long Beach, California went to pick up some chicken for a picnic he had planned with his date. After placing his order, he was given a bag that he assumed was full of chicken, traveled some distance to a picnic location, and when he opened the bag with his date, he found over $800 in cash. The cashier had given him the proceeds for the day instead of his chicken. This man knew the right thing to do, so he made the long trip back to the restaurant. And when he drove up there and came inside, he saw the manager was frantically looking for this bag of cash. And he was so relieved when he handed it to him. And the man was very, very excited. He said, you are a hero, sir. I am going to call the paper and have them send a photographer to take your picture. I want people to know that there are still honest moral people in the world. And the man whispered in his ear and said, please don't do that. You see, the woman I'm with is not my wife. Not everyone who appears to be a hero is a hero. That was true in Jesus' day as well. The religious leaders set themselves up as the paragons of virtue, and most people admired them and thought that they were almost perfect. But when Jesus came, he exposed the wickedness of their hearts and showed them to actually be false shepherds of the people. Today we begin John chapter 10, which is a favorite chapter with many people. It has this beloved imagery of Jesus as the Good Shepherd. But before Jesus reveals himself as the good shepherd, he reveals himself as the true shepherd. This opening section, this first ten verses Of chapter 10, there is a clear contrast between the true shepherd and false shepherds. Now, in the culture in which we live, Sheep and shepherds, not we lived, but with Jesus lived, excuse me, sheep and shepherds were everywhere. Everyone, when they would travel out of their home, you would see sheep. And you would see shepherds. And everyone either at some time in their life had been a shepherd, or they had a family member who was a shepherd, or they had a neighbor who was a shepherd, or a friend who was a shepherd. My point is that it's this very, very common imagery that the people of Jesus' day instinctively understood. But in our 21st century culture, not as much. So I will be giving some words of explanation this morning. We find shepherds all throughout the Old Testament, two of the great Old Testament heroes, Moses and David We're shepherds. God ri uh compares himself to be the shepherd of his people. And of course we have the 23rd Psalm The Lord is my shepherd, which points to us ultimately to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, the term shepherd was often used in the ancient world to describe any leader who had the care of others. And so kings were often called shepherds. Priests were called shepherds. Prophets were called shepherds. And this was true in the time of Christ as well. But one of the things that we find in Scripture Especially in the Old Testament, is that the prophets denounced the false shepherds of their day. In fact, there are two entire chapters. in the Old Testament that are given to the condemnation of false shepherds. One is Jeremiah chapter 23 and the other is Ezekiel chapter 34. And both of these chapters also reveal that there's coming a day when the ultimate shepherd will come and will lead his people in righteousness. Now in these chapters in the Old Testament we find some timeless traits of false shepherds. We read that false shepherds fleece the flock. rather than serve them. They use people, they take advantage of people, they get money from people to uh to enrich themselves, but they don't help people. We read that false shepherds live wicked lives, and their example emboldens the people who watch them to also live wicked lives. We find that false shepherds do not protect the flock from predators because they're not really concerned about the sheep. And we find that false shepherds don't communicate God's message, but tell people what they want to hear. They don't call sinners to repentance. They simply ignore or excuse their sin. And they do all this according to Jeremiah and Ezekiel because they are not called of God They were imposters. With this Old Testament background, and speaking to an audience who would have understood this and knew this, Jesus sets himself up as the true shepherds in contrast to the false shepherds. Now, one of the natural questions that should come to your mind is, how can you tell the difference between a true shepherd and a false shepherd? I believe we find two important lessons in Christ's imagery of the shepherd that's mentioned here this morning. And I want you to know that this is no archaic lesson. This is no irrelevant doctrine. I've said this to you before, and I'm going to say it again this morning. Most people in the world who are lost, who will perish eternally, would describe themselves as religious. But they're following a false shepherd who teaches a false gospel. So it's really important. That you are following the true shepherd In this passage, Jesus makes this contrast. He describes false shepherds as thieves, robbers, and strangers to the sheep. The idea of a thief is that they're deceptive, they're sneaky. The idea of a robber is that they're violent and aggressive and demanding in what they take from people. And the idea of stranger is that the sheep do not recognize them and will not follow them. And he teaches here that these false pastors come ultimately to steal and kill and destroy because they are animated and motivated. by the wicked one himself who has come to destroy both bodies and souls. Now this morning I want to talk not so much about the false teachers as about the true shepherd. Because Jesus is the true shepherd. In the first six verses in our passage this morning, we see that Jesus is the true shepherd of his sheep. Look with me now at verse 1, please. Jesus says, truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door but climbs in another way, that man is a thief and a robber. Notice Jesus begins with truly, truly, or verily, verily, literally, amen, amen. This is one of 24 times that you find this formula in John's Gospel. It's his way of highlighting what Jesus says and saying what follows is really important. He says a person who enters the sheepfold not by the door but by some other way is a thief. and a robber. Now the picture in view here is of a sheepfold that is in a village where the residents of that little village will keep their flocks in that sheepfold. It had high walls and it had a door and it had a gatekeeper whose job was to be there all night and make sure that none of the sheep got out and no one came in to steal the sheep. And that is the picture that we have here. Now, if you saw someone climbing up over the wall, you could probably safely assume that they're up to no good. That they're there to steal the sheep or to attack the sheep. I think we can understand this. I remember many years ago when I was a young man And I came home with my dad and we realized that the doors were all locked and we had left keys inside the house. And you know, this is before the days of electronic stuff and everything. So what were you going to do in a situation like that? Well my dad remembered that there was a little attic window way, way up high, that opened about this high, and he said, Tim, I'm gonna get a ladder, put on the roof, you climb up there and you go through the window and open the door. So That's exactly what I did. Now the the opening was only about that wide. I was a little smaller then. And I just barely fit through, but I fit through and I went. But I can remember When I was climbing up in there and trying to squeeze through that narrow opening, I felt funny because I'm thinking, are neighbors thinking that I'm a burglar, right? They see someone climbing through a window, it's not a good look. It makes you look guilty. And that's the idea here The person who comes to the door is a person who's doing things in a right and proper way because they have ownership of the sheep. Therefore, they use the door. They don't climb up over the wall. Now, the question that we must settle first of all is who are these false shepherds, these robbers and thieves that Jesus speaks of in this passage? In answer to that question, I want to remind you of a few things. I want to remind you that the chapter and verse divisions are not original. They were not placed there When John was writing the Gospel of John, he didn't have chapter and verse divisions. They were added hundreds of years later to make it easier for us to find passages of Scripture So we should not think that because there is a break between two chapters, it means that there's actually a break in the discussion here. Now We know in chapter 9, chapter 9 is all about the healing of the blind man and the events that follow after that. In fact, we know that this discussion continues because if you look with me at John chapter 10 and verse 21, we have the reaction of the people to what Jesus says here. Others said, These are not the words of one who is oppressed by demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind? Which is a reference to the miracle in chapter 9. Now often when John signals that there's been an elapse of time between one event and another, he will say, and after this But you'll notice that chapter 10 does not begin that way. And so I want to read from chapter 9, verse 40, right into chapter 10. Because there's really no division there. Notice, verse 40, chapter 9. Some of the Pharisees near him heard these things and said to him, Are we also blind? Jesus said to them, if you were blind, you would have no guilt, but now that you say we see, your guilt remains. Truly, truly, I say to you, He who does not enter the sheepfold by the door but climbs in another way, that man is a thief and a robber. Do you see who he's referring to? He's referring to these people, these Pharisees, these religious leaders, probably members of the Sanhedrin, the ruling council of Israel. That are doing everything they can to discredit Jesus' miracle of healing this blind man, and then they're so frustrated with this man that they cast him out of the synagogue. Jesus here is saying, you are the false shepherds, the kind of false shepherds that Jeremiah and Ezekiel warned about and condemned. Now, in the remainder of this passage, of this first section, verses 1 through 5, we have five characteristics of the true shepherd of the sheep that is Jesus. But before we look at these traits, I want to remind you that we should avoid the common tendency of trying to interpret every detail of the story. This is technically not a parable. Now I know if you have a King James Version of the Bible, in verse 6 it says that this is a parable. But the Greek word that's used here is never ever elsewhere translated parable. It's a word that's more general than the term parable. It's a word that speaks simply to a figure of speech And so technically there are no parables in John's Gospel. They are found in Matthew, Mark, and Luke, but not in the Gospel of John. Some people thought of this as an allegory. In an allegory, every detail does represent something. This is not an allegory. This does not have the characteristics of an allegory. This is a figure of speech, a general story. that's intended to teach one lesson. And so we have to be careful that we don't misinterpret it. So And I also want to say one thing further. You cannot read the first five verses with this imagery of the shepherd and the sheep. into the second section we're going to look at verses 7 through 10, because as we'll see, you find yourself twisted in knots especially in identifying the door. So with that, let's talk about the characteristics of a true shepherd. Number one. The shepherd enters by the door. We find this in verse 2. But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. So when we ask what is the door, I know the answer that many of you want to give. You want to skip ahead to verse 7. Do you see in verse 7? Jesus said to them, truly, truly I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. And you say, there it is, Pastor, he's the door. This is why I say you have to keep these two sections a little bit separate Alright? The idea that Jesus enters by the door and he is the door, and that the gatekeeper opens the door and lets Jesus in and yet Jesus is the door, you can see how that imagery is very confusing and it doesn't make sense because You're conflating these two things together that are meant to be separated. All right? So hopefully you will understand that So what it's simply saying here is that Jesus is the owner of the sheep. He comes through the door and he calls them and they follow him. He doesn't climb up over the wall because he's not a thief. He's not a robber. He has been given the authority by his father to call these sheep. That is the point that is being made here. He has the right to do this. And then we have the porter opens the gate to the shepherd, or the gatekeeper opens the gates. Now everyone wants to know who this gatekeeper is. Remember what I told you a moment ago? You should avoid trying to find out the meaning of every detail. Alright? This is not, one of my uh professors used to say Interpreting the Bible is not an exercise where you are to use your imagination. Imagination is good for a lot of things. It's not good for interpreting the Bible. All right? Because we could canvas you all here and we can come up with 50 different suggestions. So let me just say this. Some people say it's Moses or the prophets. Some people say it's the Holy Spirit. Some people say it's John the Baptist. Can I let you know this? If Jesus wanted us to know who it was, he would have told us. It would have been clear and apparent. The Bible is not a riddle that we try to decipher and figure out what God is really trying to say to us. God has not communicated that way to us. The point is not who is the gatekeeper. The point is that he opens it to Jesus. And that's what we need to understand. Now I want you to notice that the sheep recognize the voice of the shepherd. This is a very important part here. Notice at the end of verse 3. The sheep hear his voice. He calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. Now I mentioned to you a moment ago that the picture here is of a sheepfold in a village It has high walls, it has a door, it has someone responsible for guarding the door, not letting thieves in, not letting predators in, not letting the sheep out. In this large general enclosure, there would be many different flux. These the flocks in the ancient Near East tended to be about 20 or 30 sheep. They weren't like today commercial operations that have hundreds and hundreds of sheep. Just 20 or 30. And so the people that live in this village, the shepherds that live in this village, they would they would put in, so there might be four or five different flocks in this one pen. But when the shepherd would come, he would call his sheep, and the sheep that were his would come, they would respond to his voice, and they would follow him. The other sheep would remain. That is the picture here. This is a picture. The sheepfold is a picture of first century Judaism. where there were different people who claimed to be the Messiah, there were the religious leaders, and they had their different flocks, their different followers, but Jesus is calling out his own people to himself. This is calling is a frequent theme in John 's Gospel. This is the effectual call In John 6. 37, all that the Father gives me will come to me. John 6. 44, no one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And then most importantly, John 10, 27, in this very chapter, my sheep hear my voice, I know them, and they follow me. And it's because the sheep know the shepherd's voice that they will not only follow the true shepherd, but notice they will also not follow false shepherds. Look with me. At verse 5, a stranger they will not follow, but they will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers. Now the stranger in this voice is another reference to the thieves and the robbers, the false shepherds who deceive the lost. This is an amazing thing. He's going to mention this trait again in verse 8. Notice, all who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. What this teaches us is that true Christian people have an instinctive discernment of false teachers who preach a false gospel. Not every Christian is a theologian. At least not a good theologian. And you don't have to have read a number of systematic theologies and know the arguments for all the different positions throughout the history of the church. To be able to discern false teaching. And there are two reasons for this, because every Christian, first of all, should have a Bible. And should know their Bible. And by the way, the more that your mind is saturated with the Word of God, the more you will be able to discern false teaching when you hear it. But the other thing is that every believer is indwelt by the Holy Spirit. And I've encountered many times where Christians have maybe listen to someone on the radio or watch someone on TV or went to a church for a time and they say something just wasn't right. I don't know what it was, I can't explain it, I can't define it, I can't argue against them, but I something just wasn't right, and so I had to leave, and I had to stop listening to that person. That's because ultimately a true believer will not be ultimately deceived by a false teacher. They may for a time listen and be entranced by someone who does not really preach the gospel. But if they're truly a child of God, they will come to their senses and they will not continue in that So if you know someone who claims to be a Christian and maybe they were brought up in a Christian home, but later they they follow some cultic leader. who denies basic doctrines of Scripture concerning salvation, the deity of Christ, then guess what? That person was never truly born again. Because a true believer will not ultimately be deceived. And then number four. The shepherd, I love this, knows his sheep. This comforting truth is brought out at the end of verse 3 into verse 4. It says the sheep hear his voice. He calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. When he has brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. He calls us sheep by name. This speaks of a personal relationship. This means that the Lord knows us individually. Isn't that a wonderful thing? God knows all about you. Now, there's very much a sense In which, of course, not there's a sense. God is omniscient. He knows everything, which means he knows everything about everybody. But when the Bible speaks about God knowing his people, it's speaking about in a relational way that he has a personal relationship with them. Just like It's an accommodation to our human ignorance. The people that are close to us in our lives, we know many things about them. People that we just see passing as strangers, we don't know anything about them. So it speaks of a personal relationship. God knows your past and your present and your future. He knows your fears, your worries, and your guilt. He knows every sin you have ever committed. I think most human beings live with uh depending on the person either a a facade that's larger or smaller depending on that individual. Where that they they have a a person that they want people in public to see who they are But they're very guarded and letting people know everything about themselves. Because we all have this instinctive fear that if everybody knew everything about me, they probably wouldn't like me very much. They probably would keep their distance from me. I want you to know that God knows everything about you. And if you are his child, he loves you with an everlasting love. That should give you a great sense of security. He knows you, and he loves you. And we see here, fifthly, the shepherd leads his sheep. He leads them out of the fold. Now in many parts of the Western world and other parts in Australia and Scotland where there's a uh a great tradition of sheep herding they've often used like uh uh dogs to do the sheep herders to to and and uh in modern days I think sometimes they might use equipment and there'll be huge flocks of thousands of sheep and the shepherds behind but that's not how it was done in the ancient world In the ancient world, the flocks were much smaller, and the shepherd wasn't behind. He was in front, and he was whistling and talking to them, and they could hear his voice, and they would follow him. Our shepherd leads us. We have this, of course, in the 23rd Psalm. He leads me beside still waters, David says, and he leads me in the paths of righteousness. The entirety of the Christian life is a lifestyle of trusting and obeying our good shepherd who leads us through our lives. This requires trust and it's very important. Because as we remember in the 23rd Psalm, sometimes he leads us into dark valleys, into difficult and dangerous places. And it's so easy for us as Christians to think that when God takes us through one of those dark valleys that somehow he's he's he's he's not really helping us. He's not uh protecting us. He's not watching over us. He's not leading us as he should, but his desire is not For our comfort and our ease, but for our growth. And this is the path to our heavenly home. And so when we feel afraid and distant, we should do what sheep do, and that is we draw close to the shepherd, not further away. I think far too many Christians, when they can't understand what God is doing, they drop back and they become more distant and they And the Lord seems far, far away from them when what they need to do is not drop back, but go closer to the Lord and experience his rod and his staff that will comfort them. The Christian life is a lifestyle of trusting and following the shepherd. And then verse 6 is a transitional verse. It says this figure of speech Jesus used with them. But they did not understand what he was saying to them. And now Jesus is going to use similar imagery But with a different point and with a little different understanding in verses 7 through 10, we see here that Jesus is not only the shepherd of the sheep, but he is the true door of the sheep. Sometimes people are tempted to think that now he's going to explain what he just said in verses 1 through 5, but that is not the best way of understanding this. This imagery of the sheep and shepherd is going to be making a different point in verses 7 through 10. Now look with me at verse 7. So again Jesus said to them, truly, truly I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. This is the third of seven metaphoric I am statements in the Gospel of John. We've already encountered John 6. 35, I am the bread of life. And then John 8. 12, I am the light of the world. And now he says here in verse 7 and again in verse 9, I am the door, I am the gate, as some translations would have it. It's likely that Jesus is envisioning a different type of sheepfold. We talked about the sheepfold in the village where different residents in that little village would house their sheep in one general pen. But out in the country where the shepherds would be grazing time for some length of time, they would build a stone enclosure That was not nearly as elaborate or as secure, and the walls were not as high, but there was an entrance, but there was no door. Because when all the sheep had come in from grazing for the night and they would enter into that stone enclosure, then the shepherd would lay down over the entrance, and he would effectively be the door of the sheep. And that is undoubtedly the picture that Jesus has in mind, and his audience would have instantly have recognized and known what he was talking about. That shepherd was protecting his sheep from predators. They would have to go through him to get to the sheep. We still have this expression over my dead body, right? You're not going to do that. You're going to have to come through me. That was the picture of the shepherd. Now our shepherd Is the great I am. And we read at the end of this chapter that no one is able to snatch his sheep out of his hand. And so once again, this gives great comfort and assurance to the people of God. Now, verse 8 also requires a little comment here. It says, all who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. This is a good example of you have to always interpret scripture with scripture and in context. This is not a categorical statement. Jesus is not saying that every leader who has ever come before him was just a thief and a robber. We know this because we have many faithful shepherds mentioned to us in Scripture. In context here, he's talking about the false shepherds. Because he goes on to say that the sheep did not follow them. Now, in this metaphor of the door , We find some wonderful truths that I want to bring out to you in closing this morning. The first and perhaps the most obvious one is this Jesus is the only way to salvation. Jesus doesn't say that he is a door. He says he is the door. He is the only way to God. Perhaps the most famous verse on this doctrine is found in the upper room discourse where Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. Jesus is the only Savior of the world. the only mediator between God and man, the only land who takes away the sin of the world. This position is not religious bigotry. or cultural insensitivity. It is the plain truth that's revealed in the Word of God. And this is why Christians can never back down and accept pluralism. And give the impression that there are other ways to God, that other religions know God, that other ways to go to heaven and be right with God and have your sins forgiven, to do so is denial of the clear teaching of the Word of God. And so I want you to understand that if you're here this morning and you desire to be saved from your sins , And from the just wrath of God, you must enter the only door that God has provided And that is the door of his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the only way. That's the only door. That's the only entrance. And you must come in if you would be saved. Secondly, Jesus makes this offer to all who would come. This open invitation is something that is an important theme in the Gospel of John. Let me remind you of the ground that we've covered. John 3. 15, whoever believes in him may have eternal life. John 3. 16, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. John 3. 36 Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. John 4. 14, whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. John 5, 24, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life John 6. 35, whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall not thirst. John 6. 40, everyone who looks in the Son and believes in him shall shall have eternal life. John 6. 47. Whoever believes has eternal life. And now John 10. 9, if anyone enters by me, he will be saved. This is the call to the world. Believe. Enter, and you will be saved. But there's another blessing that's mentioned here in verse 6. Notice it says, he will go in and out and find pasture. What does that mean? Well, thirdly, it means that Jesus promises. that they will be blessed by him. In the Old Testament, this language of coming in and out and finding pasture is used several times. For instance, in Deuteronomy 28 and verse 6 It says, blessed shall you be when you come in, and blessed shall you be when you go out. The idea is that the covenant people of God will experience the blessing of the Lord. And the pasture means that he will meet their needs. He will watch over his sheep. Number four, Jesus promises that those who come to him will enjoy abundant life. Look with me at verse 10. The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they might have life and have it abundantly. This is a clear contrast between false shepherds who come not to help, but to destroy and to kill. But Jesus has come to give abundant life. Abundant life is another way of expressing eternal life. It refers to a life that's overflowing with the blessings of God. And let me ask you this. Do you think, do you think of your life as overflowing with the blessings of God? This is an important thing because I know that at times this is something that Christians struggle with. Because through times of trial and suffering and difficulty and dark valleys, sometimes we don't feel blessed. And we lose sight of the big picture of what God is doing. So let me talk to you about the abundant life for a second. The abundant life does not mean An abundance of things. Remember what Jesus says? A man's life does not consist of the abundance of things that he possesses. This is the problem with the health and wealth gospel. A lot of people think that if they trust in Christ and follow him, he will shower them with material blessings and they will be wealthy and rich and they'll never be in need again. The Bible does not teach that. The Bible does not teach that if you come to Christ, you will experience the American dream. And you will have a big, beautiful home and beautiful cars, and beautiful children, and everything will just be idyllic. That is not why Jesus came. The abundant life does not mean the absence of problems. We have this sense that if we follow God, some people do, that somehow the bargain is that He is going to give us a life that's free of difficulty. This is why so many people, their first reaction is, why? Why, Lord, have you brought this? This is a very natural thing that comes from our hearts. And I'm not here to condemn anyone who's going through a deep trial and you keep thinking, why, Lord? I want you to know that you're barking up the wrong tree when you keep asking that question. That's not going to help you. What you need to remember is the Lord is your good shepherd. And he's leading you in the path that he wants you to take. And that includes dark valleys. That's the only way. to your heavenly home through that dark valley. When I sometimes visit people And they start asking questions. They start talking about how hard life is. I will remind them that the Bible tells us that it will be that way. In Psalm 34, verse 19, it says, many are the afflictions of the righteous. Many are the afflictions of the righteous. Nowhere does the Bible say that if you become a Christian, you will have less trials and less suffering than if you were lost. That's not found anywhere. The Christian life is not easy. It's not pain-free, but it is the best life that a human being can live on this fallen planet. Because we have the Good Shepherd with us leading us all the way. We have this wonderful hymn, Greatest, Thy Faithfulness, and it has this verse in it. It speaks of the spiritual blessings of the believer, pardon for sin, and a peace that endureth. Thine own dear presence to cheer and to guide, strength for today, and bright hope for tomorrow. Blessings all mine with 10,000 beside. And I want you to know when I have been by the bedside of many elderly saints who were about to pass into glory. Many of them have been overwhelmed with the expression of how good God has been to them. And they can look back over their life and the paths they have taken. And they start to understand what God was doing and how God has been faithful to them and how He has been a good shepherd to them. This is what we must trust in. I mentioned in my prayer this morning that none of those who trust in them will be put to shame or sometimes rendered disappointed. No one's going to go to heaven someday and said, you know, if it all if I had to do all over again, I think I would just have been a lost person. That's never going to happen. They're all going to be able to confess, my God has been so good to me So I have one point of application I want to bring to your attention before we close, and that is, have you entered the door which is Christ? I didn't ask you if you know people who have entered the door. I didn't ask you if you believe that the door is the path to life. I didn't ask you if you admire the door. The question is, have you entered the door by faith? Can you say, the Lord is my shepherd? Everyone loves the 23rd Psalm and those wonderful pictures of all that the shepherd does for us, but I want you to know all of those promises are only true if you can say the Lord is my shepherd. You ever notice that people tend to congregate and mill around entrances? We see that the door over here and the door here. People be standing around, talking I was thinking this morning as I was meditating on this text that there are, I fear, people in our church here this morning that are like milling around the door, but they haven't walked through. You like to hear about the door, you're interested in the door. You think about the door, but you haven't come into the door. You haven't entrusted your care to the Good Shepherd. My friend, you must enter that door, or you will perish eternally. It's not enough that you got close to the door or that you looked at the door or you knew people who went through the door. You must go through that door yourself. This is why we have all of these promises, all of these invitations, like this promise that we encountered this morning, if anyone enters by me, he will be saved. May God help you by His grace to enter into that door this morning. Let's close in prayer. Father. We thank you that you have given us a wonderful shepherd, not like the false shepherds that fleece the flock and lead people astray. But a shepherd who watches over us, a shepherd who goes before us. And a shepherd father who has given his life for the sheep. I pray, Lord, that you would use these beautiful pictures, these images To comfort your people, to bring peace to our hearts, and to invite Those who are hanging around the door but have not come in. I pray, Lord, that they might come to trust in Christ today. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.