We are in Isaiah 66, and the verses that we just read are the verses that we will be looking at all the way through verse 6 this evening. Remember the theme for the book of Isaiah is return and rest. In Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. And as we go into this passage of Scripture this evening, we'll see that the Lord is calling the nation of Israel to turn away from syncretistic and hypocritical religion and false religious observances and to return and rest in Yahweh alone, for he alone is Salvation. He alone is the way to salvation. Let's read through these verses here just so we have them in our mind fresh. Verses 1 through 6. He says, Thus says the Lord, Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What is the house that you would build for me? And what is the place of my rest? All these things my hand has made, and so all these things came to be, declares the Lord. But this is the one to whom I will look. He who is humble and contrite in spirit and trembles at my word. He who slaughters an ox is like one who kills a man, he who sacrifices a lamb, like one who breaks a dog's neck. He who presents a grain offering, like one who offers pig's blood. He who makes a memorial offering of frankincense, like one who blesses an idol. These have chosen their own ways, and their soul delights in their abominations. I also will choose harsh treatment for them, and bring their fears upon them, because when I called No one answered. When I spoke, they did not listen, but they did what was evil in my eyes, and chose that in which I did not delight. Hear the word of the Lord. You who tremble at his word, your brothers who hate you and cast you out for my namesake have said, Let the Lord be glorified, that we may see your joy. But it is they who shall be put to shame, the sound of an uproar from the city, a sound from the temple, the sound of the Lord rendering recompense to his enemies. If you remember when we began this last section last week, we mentioned that there were five subdivisions in this final section of the book of Isaiah. And these these five subdivisions rotate between the message of hope and And the message of judgment. And the first one we looked at spoke about the hope of the new heavens and the new earth, as well as the millennial kingdom. And there was a message of hope. Because God was saying, look and rejoice in what I'm going to do as I bring in the new heavens and the new earth, and as I bring in the millennial kingdom, rejoice for the transformation that is going to take place. Now we come to the first six verses of chapter 66, and instead of a message of hope, we've now pivoted to a message of judgment. It's a judgment section. And although it is a judgment section where the Lord is condemning hypocritical worshipers, it's actually addressed To those who are identified as those who tremble at God's word. So it's a judgment section. It's a pronouncing pronouncing of judgment against the hypocritical worshippers. But it's really addressed at those who tremble at God's word. And it's again, even though there's judgment, there is within that a message of comfort. There is a message of hope. for the true followers of the Lord, for those who are truly following the Lord in times of persecution, in times of ostracization, they can find comfort and hope. in these promises from the Lord. So the theme here is God's call for humility and sincerity in worship. as he warns of judgment on false religion and promises vindication for his faithful remnant. We begin here by the declaration, God declares his infinite nature and his independent nature. And the question that kind of comes as we look at this first section is how can an infinite, eternal God be contained in a house built by man? How can the infinite, eternal God ever be contained in a house built by man? And he begins with that very question. Thus says the Lord, heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What is the house that you would build for me? And what is the place of my rest. All these things my hands have made. And so all these things came to be, declares the Lord. So we have the Lord directly speaking, and he declares that he is the sovereign creator of the heavens and the earth. Now remember as we were talking about the new heavens and the new earth. He now is talking about the current heaven and the current earth. And he says, these things I myself have created, and that he is the sovereign creator over all things. And as we've been going through the book of Isaiah, the awesome infinitude and independence of God has been a repeated theme of the book of Isaiah. Remember even when Isaiah was commissioned as a prophet, and he saw the Lord high and lifted up, and sitting upon a throne, and the seraphim around his throne. crying out, Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord of hosts, the whole earth is full of his glory. God's transcendence, his majesty, his infinitude, his independence were all on display in that image that the Lord allowed Isaiah to see. And when we came to Isaiah chapter 40, we had that beautiful passage of scripture. that we we looked at in Isaiah chapter 40 where the Lord asks, do you not know? Do you not hear? Has it not been told you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundation of the earth? It is he who sits above the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers, who stretches out the heaven like a curtain, and spreads them like a tent to dwell in. Who brings princes to nothing and makes the rulers of the earth as emptiness. It's interesting in this past week we've seen a display of majesty and grandeur you might say as our president was welcomed in Saudi Arabia and I'm not getting into politics at all by this discussion, but there was a display of majesty and grandeur as he was greeted. in Saudi Arabia. But what was interesting is this verse says here, he makes the rulers of the earth as emptiness. All that pomp, all that grandeur, no matter your politics, no matter who you like, they are men. And the grandeur is simply the grandeur of a man and man's ideas. God looks at men and they are like grasshoppers to us. They're insignificant because he is the awesome creator of the heavens and the earth. And he describes here, he says, heaven is my throne. Heaven is my throne. And the earth is his footstool. It's important when we think of God, and really the message of this passage of Scripture is kind of twofold. And John Flavel summarizes it in this little quote that he has. They that know God will be humble, and they that know themselves cannot be proud. When we know God When we see God for who he is in his majesty and his glory and his infinitude and his transcendence and his independence , We will be humble. We can't help but be humble. And then when we know ourselves for who we are, which comes in light of God and for who He is, we cannot be proud. We cannot be proud. That's really what Isaiah learned when he stood before the Lord. And he said, Woe is me, for I am undone. And he realized his own sinfulness. But God declares himself to be the infinite, eternal, incomprehensible creator of all things. In these verses, he's describing himself with that. When God says that heaven is his throne, he's not talking about Well sometimes we think of when I die I'm going to go to heaven, the the abode of God. He's talking about the interstellar heavens, the talking about the new heavens and the new earth. that heavens referring to space and the earth referring to the dwelling place of man, the the heavens and the earth refers to space, interstellar heavens. And the earth refers to terra firma that we live on. He doesn't say that he is enthroned in heaven, but that heaven or outer space itself is his throne. And again, this is an analogy. It's not it's not to be understood with with great literalness, because you could say, well then how can the earth be his footstool? That just doesn't seem like it because that is part of space when we understand everything. It's an analogy. It's a metaphor for us to understand God's incomprehensible infinitude. When we try to grasp the size of the universe, we quickly come to the end of our man-made abilities and our human mind, our puny mind's abilities. Scientists tell us that if you could pave a road from Earth to the Sun, if you just pave a road, we it's not possible, I know. But let's say there's a bridge from here to the sun, and you want to get on that road. How long would it take you to drive at highway speeds to get to the sun? Just the sun. It's not that far away. It would take 170 years at highway speeds just to reach the sun. If you were to fly in an airplane, it would take you roughly 17 years if you could fly. You want to make sure you have a good air conditioner if you're going to fly to the sun. But if you could do it, you'd need 17 years in an airplane So based on that same idea to expand that to the nearest star beyond our solar system, to Alpha Centauri, how long would that take? The nearest star It would take 276,000 times longer than to get to the sun. 276,000 times longer, or 4,692,000 years in a jet plane. 4,692,000 years. You better hope they have good lunch services on that plane. That's that's just the nearest star in our in our universe. Wow. And God says, the heavens are my throne. The heavens are my throne. What is God trying to express here? I am greater than you can imagine. I am more awesome than your mind can understand. And then he speaks of the earth as his footstool. The footstool is something that a king would rest his feet on. You might see a picture of a king with his exalted throne, and then he has a footstool in front of him, just a little thing. to put his feet on. It speaks of something that is insignificant. I flew back from Florida this yester last night and was looking at the the cities, Sarasota, Bradenton, and all the cities that Charlotte, as we're coming into Charlotte and looking at these massive buildings that look tiny and puny from 35,000 feet. And it's amazing when you stand underneath one of those buildings and you look up, you think, wow, that's impressive. And you fly overhead and you go, Wow, that's tiny. How little that is. And God says, the earth Is my footstool. David prophetically says that the Father says to the Son in Psalm 110 The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. The idea of that in that case is that the footstool is something that has been subjugated. You can think of the book of James, where the rich man comes in and they give him a prominent seat, and the poor man comes in and they say, Sit here beneath my footstool. It's a place of insignificance. And God says, the earth. Is my footstool. And again, the imagery is, I am greater and more glorious and more majestic than you can understand. And he says, All these things my hand has made. And so all these things came to be, declares the Lord. Anything you see, I made it. Even those things you cannot see, I made it. And then he asked the question , What is the house that you would build for me? And what is the place of my rest? And I think the idea is a bit intended to say, do you really think I need to rest? Do you really think I, the God who created all these things, actually needs a place to rest? Do you think I who created all these things could be contained in a place that you could build by any of your abilities? Now God is not against the building of a temple, but he is opposed to anything that attempts to turn the infinite into the finite. He is opposed to anything that takes the eternal and tries to make him temporal or the creator and make him a creature. God created all things, and he is not in need of man's offerings. We know as we read through the rest of this passage of scripture that God is not saying don't build a temple. He's not saying temples are bad and you shouldn't have temples. In fact, in verse 6, when we come to this later on this evening, there is the sound of judgment coming from the temple. God's voice comes from the temple there And if we go on to verse 20 of this same chapter, as we near the end, this is a description of what happens during the millennium. It says, and they shall bring all your brothers from all the nations as an offering to the Lord, on horses and in chariots and in litters and on mules and on dromedaries to my holy mountain Jerusalem. says the Lord, just as the Israelites bring their grain offering in a clean vessel to the house of the Lord. And so the holy mountain, of course, is Jerusalem. It is where the temple is. He's saying there will be temple worship. We looked at that even last week. In the millennial kingdom, there will be temple worship. In the new heavens and the new earth, we're told there is no temple. So God's not saying that don't make a temple. He's saying have a proper understanding of who I am. and what your temple actually is and what it is not. If you remember in Haggai chapter 1, the Israelites are have come back from Babylonian captivity. And they laid the foundation and they built the altar, but they were stopped. From building any further the temple of the Lord. And sixteen years go by. And the Lord raises up Haggai to speak to the nation of Israel and to challenge them. Again, for what purpose? To build a temple. And he tells them in chapter 1, thus says the Lord of hosts, these people say the time has not yet come to rebuild the house of the Lord. Then the word of the Lord came by the hand of Haggai the prophet. Is it time for you yourselves to dwell in your paneled houses why while this house Lies in ruin? And he asked them the question, you're living comfortably in comfortable houses, and my house is in desolation. Is this right Is this not the time for you to build me a house? And we know that they are encouraged by that, and God works a mighty work, and they rebuild the temple, and even Secular nations fund the rebuilding of the temple for the glory of the Lord as God said would happen. And we are told that that takes place. But the point that God is making here is: no temple made by man will ever contain me. No temple made by man will ever is my resting place. I am greater than all that man can do. As we come to the rest of of the study of prophecy. We see that God is is going to want a temple. There will be a temple built During the tribulation. We know that in numerous passages of scripture that describe the abomination of desolations, which is an event that takes place in the temple. We found that in Daniel 12 and in Matthew 24 in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2 and Revelation 13 describing a future event that will take place in the temple. So God's not saying I'm opposed to a temple, but I'm saying no temple. Will contain me. And we should not think that God is somehow impressed by the works of our hands. God is not impressed with religious buildings. He's not impressed with our religious trappings, with our services that we render to him, if they are divorced from a humble faith. If our worship of God is ritual and ceremony and tradition divorced from humble faith, it is not pleasing to God. This is really essentially the same thing that God has been addressing through Isaiah since the first chapter. If you remember back to chapter 1, we said If you can remember back to first the first chapter, the beginning of this study, we said all of the issues of the book of Isaiah are encapsulated in the first chapter. It's like the first chapter is kind of like a table of contents, and then the rest of the book is fleshed out, and it's all those things that we saw there. But in Isaiah chapter 1. In verses eleven and following, he says, What to me is the multitude of your sacrifices, says the Lord. I have had enough of burnt offerings, of rams, and the fat of well-fed beasts. I do not delight in the blood of bulls or of lambs or of goats. When you come to appear before me, who has required of you this trampling of my quartz? Bring no more vain offerings. Incense is an abomination to me. New moon and Sabbaths and the calling of convocations. I cannot endure iniquity. and solemn assembly. Your new moons and your appointed feast my soul hates. They have become a burden to me. I am weary of bearing them And we went through this when we talked about this in chapter one. We said, well, who did command these things? That's the question that when you come before me, who has required you of this trampling on my courts? Well, who was it? It was God. God Himself had required it. But why did God require it? And in what spirit did God require it? He required it in a spirit of humble devotion. and worshiped with an acknowledgement of the glory and the majesty and the worthiness of God. But instead they had they had They were living lives of iniquity all the while there, worshiping and bringing sacrifices. God is not impressed with that, and he is not in need of our offerings. That's the first point that he's making here is I don't need your offerings. I am not waiting here. I hope they bring me something because I just don't have anything. I need a bull. I need a lamb. I need goats. I need these things. This past week I was reading in my devotions in Numbers. And I was just tabulating how many sacrifices were required on a regular basis. And over the course of an average year, Just the daily sacrifices that were required would have been well over a thousand lambs would have had to be offered. It's a rather large amount. A thousand lambs had to be offered, just the daily sacrifices. That's not a sin offering, not because you've sinned or you lied and you got caught or you cheated on the test or you got caught. And you have to bring a sin offering. These are just the daily morning and evening sacrifices. A thousand lambs, hundreds of bulls were to be offered in the daily sacrifices. But God says, you misunderstand, I am not in need of these things. These things are really for you, so that you will be rightly related with me. God had appointed the ritual of the temple worship not to give to God, but for the worshiper to show his own humble dependence upon God. So that he could come to God with humble dependence. It was never to be offered with a hypocritical heart or with an attempt to manipulate God. If I offer this, then God must do this for me. If I do this, then God will be pleased and he will prosper me in this business. Because God needs my sacrifice. God says, you you misunderstand. Who I am, my majesty and glory. In Psalm 50, we have this beautiful verse where God says, if I were hungry. I would not tell you. For the world and its fullness are mine. Do I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats? And the implied answer is, no. No, I don't need bulls and goats. Offer to God a sacrifice of thanksgiving, and perform your vows to the Most High, and call upon me in the day of trouble. I will deliver you, and you shall glorify me. But to the wicked, God says, What right have you to recite my statutes or take my covenant on your lips? And he's describing those who with a wicked heart come in and they continue their regular worship, but with no heart. to worship God. No humility. Empty, false worship does not please God. God actually is disgusted By empty worship that thinks it can live any way it wants to, and God will be manipulated. God will be pleased because I came to church. God will be pleased because I offered a big offering this Sunday. That view has a low view of God that assumes God needs our sacrifices. The idea that I can live Any way I want to live, and I'm going to put a check in the offering plate that somehow is going to cover my sins. And God will be pleased because God really needed my check in the offering plate. That's going to that's going to make all things right. God is not bought by our sacrifices. God is not impressed. The emphasis must be on God's sufficiency and man 's dependency. He says here, what type of person does God favor? What is the heart that God honors? Notice he says at the end of verse 2. But this is the one to whom I will look, he who is humble and contrite in spirit and trembles at my word. The Lord prefers the humble heart to the magnificent temple. The Lord prefers the humble heart to the magnificent temple. He says here, this is the one to whom I will look. Meaning God's look of favor, of approval is on the one who has these characteristics. He lists three characteristics that are here. The type of person that receives the approving gaze of the Father is not the one who comes with a bull or an or a many lambs, but is the person who has this heart. He describes him as one who is humble in spirit. The word humble means to be poor or needy or afflicted It's very similar to what Jesus said on the first of the Beatitudes in the Sermon on the Mount. Blessed are the poor, the humble in spirit. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. It's those who recognize that they are bankrupt, that they they really can offer nothing to God. What can we offer to the God whose throne is in heaven and whose earth the earth is his footstool? What can we all really offer to God? And the point is, everything that we have that we can offer to God, He gave us. It's His That's why the hymn says, Nothing in my hands I bring. Simply to thy cross I cling. When we come to God, we come empty-handed. Lord, I have nothing to commend myself to you. Father, be merciful to me. The next word is an interesting word. It's the word, he says, contrite in heart. And when I looked it up, I was actually kind of surprised by what I learned. It's not the word I thought it was going to be. I'm going to see if you can find it. I'm going to read you this this verse and tell me if you can find the word that is contrite. It's not translated contrite. And the king said, Is there not still someone of the house of Saul? This is David speaking. Well, I won't give that away. Is there not someone still of the house of Saul that I may show the kindness of God to him? Zeba said to the king, There is still a son of Jonathan. He is crippled in his feet. The word contrite is in there. The same word contrite that's translated contrite in Isaiah 66 is in that verse. Anyone know what it is? Crippled. Crippled. God says, this is the person I look to. The poor, afflicted, bankrupt in spirit, and the crippled in heart. Mephibosheth was the one who was crippled in his feet. And when he came before the king, he hobbled. Because his feet were powerless to carry him. And Mephibosheth came to King David and he said, What is your servant that you should show regard for a dead dog such as I? David, I have no right to come into your presence. I'm a dead dog. My feet don't even work. What is the point that God is saying here? We're powerless to make ourselves approved of God. We have nothing within ourselves that would make us right before God This is the one who is aware of the damage that sin has caused in his life, of personal inability to stand before God, and who comes before God with genuine humility. I am bankrupt and I am crippled spiritually. And all I'm asking for is mercy. And then he says, and trembles at God's word. To tremble at God's word is to recognize the awesome majesty and the authority of God. It refers to being sensitive and fearful with a longing to obey God. It's an interesting phrase. It's actually used in the book of Ezra in Ezra chapter 9. When Ezra realized that the people had been intermarrying with pagan women, and he c he is so angry at the fact that after they've returned from Babylonian exile, they've begun again to do those same things that led them into exile. that they began to marry pagan wives and bring pagan idolatry into their homes and he rebukes them. The Bible says that Ezra pulled out his hair and he pulled the beard hair out of his face. He was so angry and he sat down appalled until evening. Nehemiah, when this happened in Nehemiah's time, he pulled the hair out of other people's hair. head. Maybe he was bald already. And he pulled the the the hair out of their head and out of their beard. Ezra did it on his own. He was so appalled by by the what's going on here that that's what happened. Then he says this then all who trembled at the words of the God of Israel because of the faithlessness of the returned exiles gathered around me while I sat appalled until the evening sacrifice. The people trembled at the word of God. They realized the seriousness of their sin against the infinite God. The question for you and I is: when we read the Bible, do we tremble at the Word of God? When we see the Word of God convicting us? Contradicting our lives. How do we respond? Do we start justifying ourselves? Seeking ways to wiggle around it, looking like a lawyer for a loophole in the Word of God? Or do we tremble because we recognize God's majesty and his infinitude? When you hear preaching, do you tremble or do you say, Well, that's his opinion? That's what they would say. God says, I look to the humble in spirit, the lame in heart. And the one who trembles at my word. I look with approval at that one. Not the one who comes with a big offering, but the one who comes with humility before me because he knows who I am. And he knows who he is. This third thing we see beginning in verse 3 is the judgment of false religion. And we get a picture of how God views hypocritical worship. We think a lot of times that, you know, God's probably pretty pleased, even when it's half-hearted, hypocritical worship, he's probably pretty pleased with it. That's not at all what God says here We have these sayings that come here, four different comparisons that are made in verse 3, where he says, he who slaughters an ox Is like one who kills a man. He who sacrifices a lamb, like one who breaks a dog's neck, He who presents a grain offering like one who offers pig's blood, and he who makes a memorial offering of frankincense like one who blesses an idol. Now these words are given by God, and they're intended to shock They're intended to go, what? That's ridiculous. That's serious language. God intended to shock to really show them how he viewed their sacrifices. Does God really mean that sacrifices, which are commanded by God, are no better than murder? They're no better than pagan sacrifices, they're no better than idolatry, no better than breaking a dog's neck and trying to offer a dog as a sacrifice? Is he saying, is that really what God is saying? Yes, when done in pride and with hypocrisy, without that spirit that he mentions, the humble, contrite Spirit that trembles at the word of God, God says it's as offensive to him as murder. Because it fails to acknowledge God for who he is. In his majesty and his infinitude. And it says, I can manipulate God with the things I'm doing. I go to Sunday school, so God will have to look favorably on me. It's like the person who says. I tithe because I'm afraid if I stop tithing, what will God do to me? Is God really pleased with that tithing? Does that really worship God for his glory and grandeur and majesty? Or is it simply It's simply trying to manipulate God to get something out of him. It's interesting Amos brings this up in Amos chapter 5. Verses 21 and following says, I hate, I despise your feasts, and I take no delight in your solemn assemblies. I don't think we ever think of God this way. At least they're going to church. God says if it is out of pride and hypocrisy and with the syncretistic spirit I hate it. I despise it. I take no delight in it. Even though you offer me your burnt offerings and grain offerings. I will not accept them, and the peace offerings of your fatted animals, I will not look upon them. Take away from me the noise of your songs to the melody of your harps. I will not listen But let justice roll down like waters and righteousness like an ever-flowing stream. What do I want? I want a transformed life that trembles at my word. That humbly receives my word. Apostate Israel practiced religious rituals with a rebellious heart. And God said, I am not pleased with that. I view that. The same way I would view pagan idolatry and murder. How many Christians know what God's Word says about sin, about witchcraft, about adultery? about divorce, about pornography, about lying, about drunkenness, about loving this world. And instead of repenting they pursue their sins all the while they go through the motions of ritual worship. Thinking God will be pleased by this. God is not pleased by Sunday attendance that is not fueled by a humble heart that trembles at his word God says, tremble, because I am the one whose throne is heaven and the earth is my footstool. God responds, because they have chosen their own way, then I will do some choosing of my own. In verses, end of verse 3 and into verse 4 we have the word choose or chosen three times. He says, They have chosen their own way, and their soul delights in their abomination. God then says, I also will choose. Harsh treatment for them, and bring their fears upon them. Because when I called, no one answered. When I spoke, they did not listen, but they did what was evil in my eyes, and chose that in which I did not delight. You notice the three times. There's choose, chosen, and chose. God says you can choose. But I also have a prerogative to choose. You can choose your own way, but I will choose. I remember as a youth, I was told you can choose your sin, but you can't choose the consequences. You can choose your sin, but you can't choose the consequences of your sin. God chooses that And that's essentially what God is saying here. They made a choice. They chose. They didn't fall into sin. They didn't unknowingly do what they did, they chose and they delighted in their abominations. And God says, as a result of that, I will also choose harsh treatment for you. This is the same word that's used in Joshua 24, 15, when Joshua says, And if it's evil in your eyes to serve the Lord, choose this day whom you will serve. Choose this day. Make a choice. Determine whether you're going to follow the Lord, or you're going to follow the idols of the Amorites, or you're going to follow the idols of the Egyptians, but choose who you will serve. And the nation of Israel chose to continue doing their worship of the Lord and to worship Baal and Ashtaroth and the pagan gods all around them, and to live a life of wickedness and depravity and say God will be pleased because I offered a lamb to him. But because the nation of Israel loved their sin and chose their own way They face punishment. It's interesting, this also fits with what we what the Lord says here. I will choose, he says, harsh treatment for them and bring their fears upon them. And when I was reading this, I thought instantly of John chapter 11. I want you to just think through these verses here in John chapter 11, where the where the this is when the Jesus has healed, he's raised Lazarus from the dead. And the Pharisees and the religious leaders are going, what are we going to do? Everyone knows that this is a great miracle. And how do they respond? If we let him go on like this, like what? Raising people from the dead. If we let him continue to do miracles, everyone will believe in him. Now, wouldn't that be terrible? That everyone will believe in the person who can raise the dead And the Romans, aha, will come and take away both our place and our nation. If we follow Jesus, we'll lose our authority and our good relationship with Rome. But one of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, said to them, You know nothing at all, nor do you understand that it is better for you that one man should die for the people, not that the whole nation should perish. But what happened with their choice? What was their fear? We're going to lose our authority and we're going to lose our nation to Rome. That good relationship we have with Rome. It's kind of ironic when you think of it. What happened? What they feared came upon them. Because they chose to reject the Messiah, and they chose their own abominations, what they feared happened They lost their authority and they lost their good relationship with Rome. And the temple was destroyed, and over a million Jews were killed, and Jerusalem was plundered. That which they feared came upon them. We need to be careful to recognize that God is not mocked, and He is not He is not fooled by hypocritical worship. God delights in true-hearted, humble worship. And we see here lastly the vindication of the remnant. What will come of the faithful remnant who tremble at God's word? What will come of those who are? walking faithfully before the Lord. And God speaks a message of comfort directly to the suffering, persecuted, faithful remnant in verses 5 and 6. And he says, Hear the word of the Lord, you who tremble at his word, your brothers who hate you and cast you out for my name's sake, have said, Let the Lord be glorified, that we may see your joy. But it is they who shall be put to shame. The faithful remnant are those again described as those who tremble at the word of God. They serve the Lord by faith, but as a result, they're hated by their brothers. They're hated by their fellow Israelites. We can picture Those in Isaiah's time, Isaiah was hated by his fellow Israelites. We know that that history tells us that he was killed by the king Manasseh. He was thrown in half. Because of his faith. But this is a description of with a sarcastic mockery that they have, this the persecution, the animosity they have towards them. They say, Let the Lord be glorified, that we may see your joy. And they kick him out onto the streets. The idea is something like this. We'll see about the joy of the Lord being your strength. When you're living on the streets and you're kicked out of the synagogue, then we'll know what the joy of the Lord really is in your life Likely, this is a reference to unbelieving Jews mocking believers about the coming of Christ. And notice four things about the way of false religion that mocks the faithful remnant. First, there's False religion hates genuine faith. They hate them. He says, your brothers who hate you. They may be brothers of the same nation. but they hate them because they are opposed to them. Secondly, false religion rejects true faith. It casts them out. Casts them out of the synagogue and out of the society. And false religion acts in the name of the Lord. It's interesting here, it says, he says, your brothers who hate you and cast you out for my name's sake. They are casting them out thinking that they're doing the will of God, but ultimately they're not. And fourth, false religion mocks with spiritual sounding words. Let the Lord be glorified that we may see your joy. Let God be glorified. But they have no true true uh relationship with God. Jesus said something very much like this in John 16. He said to his disciples, they will put you out of the synagogues. And indeed, the hour is coming when whoever kills you will think he is offering a service to God. And he says, those will do this, but it is they who shall be put to shame. God will have the last word. In verse 6, the word sound is found three times And it's almost like this abruptness. There's a suddenness to the sound that comes. It's a decisive sound of judgment that comes. It says, the sound of an uproar from the city, a sound from the temple. The sound of the Lord rendering recompense to his enemies. And speaks of the fact that God's judgment will come suddenly and decisively. And when it does, he will bring certain judgment. Revelation 19, 15 speaks of the sudden and decisive judgment that will come when Christ comes with a sharp sword coming out of his mouth. To strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron, and he will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God, the Almighty When the Lord returns, it will be a day of great anguish, a day of great shame for the enemies, but for those who are the faithful remnant, it will be a day of great joy. And rejoicing because of what God has done. Really briefly here, just in conclusion, what is God saying in this? God is saying that true worship is not about buildings. It's not about traditions. It's not about rituals, but about a humble, obedient heart that trembles at his word, that recognizes who God is. And who they are. God is glorious, and I am broken. I am lame. I am powerless apart from God's mercy. And faithful believers may suffer now, but God will vindicate them in his time. Let's close this in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. Thank you that you are sovereignly guiding all the events. of this world, but we thank you, Lord, that you see the hearts of men. And Lord, we pray that we would be humble in spirit. Lord, we pray that we would be contrite, that we would recognize our own powerlessness before you. And Lord, would you help us to tremble at your word? When you convict us, when you show us that which is wrong in our lives, may we not argue with you, but may we respond with humility. And obedience. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.