If you have your Bibles, please, this evening, would you turn with me to John chapter 4? John chapter 4. We're going to be looking at verses 20 through 24. A. W. Tozer begins his classic book, The Knowledge of the Holy, with these words. What comes into our minds when we think about God is the most important thing about us. The history of mankind will show that no people has ever risen above its religion And man's spiritual history will positively demonstrate that no religion has ever been greater than its idea of God. Worship is pure or base as the worshiper entertains high or low thoughts of God. The point that Tozer is making and that our text makes is how you think about God will determine how we worship God And contrary to popular opinion, how we worship God is very significant. I think probably the vast preponderance of Christians, if they were polled. And ask this question, does it matter how a person worships God? I think most of them would say, no, it really doesn't matter, as long as you're sincere. Kind of like the idea of the gift that you're given but from a little child doesn't really matter the quality of it because it's the thought that counts. And I think the idea is that God is happy to get whatever He can from us. And in even our worship, which may be less than ideal, he gladly receives because He's just happy that we thought of him. The only problem is that's not what the Bible teaches at all. In fact, the Bible is filled with examples of false worship. You don't have to go very far in Genesis chapter 4. We read of Cain and Abel and their two different approaches to God. In Exodus 20, essentially the first four commandments deal with our worship of God. And they're very specific about how we should worship. In Exodus 32, we read of the golden calf incident. And there the Israelites were seeking to worship the one true God, Jehovah, in the way that people worshiped their gods in Egypt. And God, of course, responded in judgment. And in Leviticus chapter 10, we read of Nadab and Abihu offering strange fire before the Lord, and the Lord judged them. With that fire. The examples could be multiplied, but I think you get the idea that the Bible is clear that how we worship God is deadly serious. This whole pause in our public worship, I think, I hope has brought to our minds the importance of gathering for worship. And it's really perhaps revealed how significant, how essential we find it to be. Now, if someone were to ask you what is the most important text in the Bible on worship, I wonder what you would say. I can't prove this, but I think. That if you were to poll all of the theologians, pastors, missionaries, spiritual leaders in the history of the world, I think that probably the number one answer would be John 424. Which says, God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship in spirit and in truth. Stephen Charnuck 's famous tome entitled The Existence and Attributes of God has a very long chapter on this verse because it's one of the, if not the most significant verse in the Bible on worship. God is the spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. And if I were to boil the essence of that verse down, if you look at the two parts of it, it makes this equation. How you think about God will determine how you worship God. Now what's truly amazing about this foundational expression of truth Is that it was given not to a theologian, not to the Pharisees, not to a rabbi, not even to our Lord's disciples, but it was given to an immoral Samaritan woman who didn't know God. You remember the story of the woman at the well. The fourth chapter of John is mainly devoted to that encounter. We read of our Lord in verse 4. It says of this chapter that he would was determined to go through Samaria. He didn't go the normal route the Jews would take, which was around Samaria, but he went right through it because he had a providential meeting with this woman. Samaria was a region about 40 miles north of Jerusalem. The Jews refused to travel through this area because they hated the Samaritans. So who were the Samaritans? Well, we don't know that much about the Samaritans in the ancient world except from their adversaries, the Jews. And so when you realize that, you have to look at the information carefully. The Jews considered the Samaritans to be racially and religiously inferior. They were a despised minority who were descendants of the tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh. The Jews claimed that they were impure because they had intermarried with pagan peoples around them. Indeed, that did occur to some degree, no doubt, but There's no evidence that more of that took place than it did in other places within Israel. But there were regional differences, and over time religious differences surfaced. Christ begins his discussion with this woman by offering her living water. And then in verses 16 through 18, he begins to probe her heart with the problem of sin. And this woman rightly perceives that she's not speaking to any ordinary man. She calls him a prophet. Of course, she was right, but he was more than a prophet. Now perhaps she was trying to divert the conversation away from her sinful past, and so she mentions the major theological problem between the Jews and the Samaritans, which was where a person should worship. In this response in verses 20 through 24, we have on ten occasions a mention of the word worship. And I want you to notice in verse 23, Jesus says, the hour cometh, and now is when true worshipers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father seeketh such to worship him. Did you know that you were saved so that you can worship God? I don't agree with everything that he says, but John Piper is right when he says that missions exist because worship doesn't. That's why we send missionaries out to the ends of the earth so that people would come to know the one true God and to worship him with their hearts. Now I want you to see in verse 24 that there's only one way to authentically worship God. God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship in spirit and in truth. You notice it says they must worship him. The idea is this is the only way they can truly worship him. John uses this expression. this form must three times. He uses it in John 3. 8 when Jesus said to Nicodemus, you must be born again. And then he says the Son of Man must be lifted up. And now in John 4, 24, he says that Believers must worship in spirit and in truth. So I want to speak to you tonight briefly on this truth that Christians must to seek to worship God in spirit and in truth. As we gather here tonight for the first time for corporate worship indoors on a Sunday evening in a long time. My question to you is, are we truly going to worship God in the way that He requires? I want us first of all to look at the false worship that God rejects. The way this woman thinks about God and worship. Is the way that most lost people tend to think of religion even today. She thinks of work as something that you do at a particular time in a particular place. And in a particular way. I want you to notice three aspects of false worship that God rejects in our discussion with our Lord. First of all, God rejects formalism. She says in verse 20, our fathers worship in this mountain. Ye say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. Even though this woman's life was a train wreck, she's ready to argue about theology. She has been married five times in the past, and now she is living with the man to whom she is not married. Even by Samaritan standards, she was a wicked woman. In fact, she was an outcast. This is undoubtedly the reason that she comes to the well at noon. In verse 6 of this chapter, it says that it was the sixth hour. And their culture of the day began at 6 a. m. And so the sixth hour would be 12 noon. This is not the normal time when women gathered to collect water for the day. It probably points to the fact that she sometime in the past had come in the morning when the women always gathered there, and it was not just a task that they did, it was a time of social interaction. To catch up on the news of the day, to greet your friends, to talk. But when she would come up to the well, all the talking stopped, and there was an awkward silence. People would turn their backs to her. They would shun her. And so she determined that she didn't want to feel that shame and she didn't want to make them uncomfortable and so it was better for all concerned if she just came at noon when it was warm and no one wanted to go out, that's when she would go. Now what we see here is a very common thing, and that is that this woman was ready to argue about her religion. But in her mind, it really had nothing to do with her real life. There are so many people today who are very good at compartmentalizing. They have their religious life over here in this small little container, but it has nothing to do with what they do the rest of the week. or how they live or the choices they make or how they spend their money or or their sense of ethics of right and wrong. It has nothing to do with that. It's just one more small aspect of their lives. They don't feel hypocritical because in their mind religion is something you do for a particular period of time once a week, and that's it. And they live the rest of the week the life of a practical atheist. I want you to know that God rejects that kind of worship. Because when true worship occurs, it will influence every aspect of your life. Secondly, God rejects traditionalism. Look with me again at verse 12. She's talking about how, 20, excuse me. She's talking about how our fathers worship. She's very proud of her heritage. One thing I learned as a missionary kid is it doesn't matter how poor or how unimpressive a country may be, people are very proud of their country. When I was a little boy, I have to confess to you, I was an ugly American. I was in the third world country where they had very, very limited resources and the uh the local boys would be arguing with me and saying their country was great and it was powerful and everything and I would say your country's nothing. Not a good thing for missionaries to do, but I was six years old, you know. This woman is from a little tiny piece of land that are despised and hated Group, but she's proud of her heritage. She speaks of her fathers here in verse 20. And this is often what religion means to people. It's what my fathers did. It's what my grandmother believed. It's what we have traditionally done. And it has deep roots in their sense of identity. And how many people there are in the world that are trusting in their religious or even their Christian heritage to get them to heaven. They find tradition to be comforting Going to ancient buildings and hearing some ancient hymn or ancient prayers that have been read and recited for centuries. And they think that so many people believing something for so long, it must be true, it must be right, this is the way things are supposed to be This is the trap of traditionalism. Now, there's nothing wrong with traditions They must never replace biblical truth. The Bible speaks in positive ways of traditions. So often young people are ready to cast aside all traditions, but I often say to folks, you know, there's a reason why people have done that that way for a really long time. And often it's because it works well that way. And so maybe you should think about it before jettisoning everything for something radically new. Having said that We need to realize that tradition is not a proper basis for how we are to worship God. Because tradition involves so many other external elements like culture and everything else that may be off, that may be wrong. This was one of the great problems with Jewish worship in the time of Christ, the way the Pharisees and the rabbis approached it. In Mark chapter 7, the Lord confronts his adversaries about this. He says in verse 6, this is when they were criticizing his disciples for for eating grain, eating food without washing their hands in the very uh ritualistic and uh prescribed way by the rabbis. And he answered and said unto them, Well hath Isaiah prophesied of you hypocrites, as it is written, This people honoreth me with their lips But their heart is far from me. Howbeit in vain do they worship me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men. For laying aside the commandments of God, ye hold the tradition of men. as the washing of pots and cups and many other such things ye do. And he said unto them, Full well ye reject the commandment of God that ye may keep your own traditions. It's very easy for even people who have received biblical revelation to entry and drift away from that revelation to traditions of men that in some cases can be in contradiction of what God has revealed. God rejects worship that is formalism and traditionalism. And this is another third aspect is externalism. Externalism, of course, is all about the externals. The Jews were fixated on this. Sabbath observance, tithing, determining what is clean and what is unclean. The Samaritans were the same way. This poor woman is hung up on the place of worship as if that is the really important thing. When she said this mountain in verse 20, she was probably looking at or pointing to Mount Gerizim. Mount Gerizim was the holy mountain of the Samaritans. The Bible does reveal that this is the area where Abraham built his first altar to the one true God, Genesis 12, verses 6 and 7. Moses called this the Mount of Blessing in Deuteronomy 11, 29. But to this biblical significance, the Samaritans added many fanciful legends. They claim that this mountain was the location of the Garden of Eden. They said that this is where Noah offered his sacrifice after the flood. They believe that this is where Abraham met Melchizedek. And they said that this is where Abraham was preparing prepared to offer his son Isaac as a sacrifice. To them this mountain was sacred. This is the only place in the world where you could worship gods. And there are billions of people who still think that way today. Not about Mount Gerizim. But of so-called holy sites like Mecca or Jerusalem or Rome or Salt Lake City, if you really want to get close to God, you have to go to this locale. Because somehow that area is just has a stronger connection with God I saw this on my trip to Israel. You see the religious fervor at the wailing wall in Jerusalem. But real worship is not confined to a place. God is not some local deity. He is the creator of heavens, heaven, and earth God rejects all worship that is man-centered and a distortion of his being. And now I want to move to the second half. of this message and look at the true worship that God desires. In verse 21, our Lord begins to correct her false notions concerning worship. And Jesus saith unto her, Woman, believe me, the hour cometh when ye shall neither in this mountain nor yet at Jerusalem worship the Father. He says essentially that the place of worship is not the main thing. In fact, there's about to be a real reversal, a real change. Verse 22 is very blunt. Just think of how offensive this must have sounded to her. Ye worship you know not what. We know what we worship for salvation is of the Jews Here having this very partisan discussion, Jesus says something that could have been taken in a very offensive way. We see here That Jesus was not seeking to uphold the common virtue today of tolerance or pluralism. Now, what did he mean? When he says that salvation is of the Jews, and that she did not fully know what she was talking about concerning God and worship. Well, he may be alluding to the fact that the Samaritans only accepted the first five books of the Bible as the Word of God, the Pentateuch. The rest of the Old Testament, they reject it. We have some very ancient documents known as the Samaritan Pentateuch, and there are still, believe it or not, Samaritans today who live in this region of the world, and they have great reverence for the scroll of the Pentateuch. So he he I think one of the things he's saying to this woman, and he may be alluding to this, is that you haven't received all of God's revelation, and so you don't have a complete understanding of who God is. When he speaks of salvation as of the Jews, there's a definite article there. The salvation is of the Jews. He's saying that there isn't a Jewish way to heaven and a Samaritan way to heaven. There's only one way to heaven. And I think what he's saying that it was to the Jews that God made a covenant. It was to the Jews that were committed the oracles of God. But ultimately I think what he is saying is what is brought out towards the end of this encounter when in verse 42 this Samaritan woman who comes to believe in Jesus as the Messiah says, To everyone who would listen, that he is the Savior of the world. It is from the Jews that the Savior of the world would come, and that is why salvation is of the Jews. But now we move really to the heart of this message, which is found in verses 23 and 24. And it's found in this expression. Notice in verse 23, the hour cometh and now is when true worshipers Those who truly know God will worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father seeketh such to worship him. This is what he desires. He wants worshipers who will worship him in this prescribed way. And then he goes on further to explain God is a spirit, or literally God is spirit. This is one of the essential descriptions of God. And they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. So twice we find this expression in spirit and in truth. And it's important for us to know what that means because that is how he describes authentic worship. So let me get technical for a moment. The Greek text does not have the second N in this phrase. Notice it says, worship him in spirit and in truth. What it reads in the Greek text is they are to worship him in spirit and truth. So what difference does that make? It means that there's one preposition that is governing both terms. In other words, Jesus isn't talking about two elements, you might say, of worship that are distinct from one another. I've often heard preachers interpret this phrase to mean that we must be balanced in our worship. It must engage both our hearts and our heads. And they would say the spirit is our heart and the heads is our truth. And so they would say, you know, some churches really emphasize the heart and some churches really emphasize the head, but what Jesus wants What God desires is worship that includes both elements. That may be true, but I don't think that's what Jesus is conveying here. He's talking about one complex idea that these are two segments that are related to one another. He is saying that you can't worship the one true God who exists with your heart unless it is based on God's revelation of himself. And secondly, if you really give your mind and your heart to taking in God's revelation of Himself, And you really receive that, you know what's going to happen? You're going to worship him from your heart. These two things are connected. It's not disjointed. It's not this and this container over here. No, they're connected together. It's sort of like the two sides of one coin. If you have one, truly have one, you will have the other. So let me make some application from this. The authentic worship, first of all, that God requires must come from our hearts. I believe that this is essentially what it means when it says we're to worship him in spirit. Now there are few scholars that are in the minority, but there's some people who think this is a reference to the Holy Spirits And indeed, the Holy Spirit is essential for our worship. We can't worship God without the Holy Spirit. We have other scriptures for that, but that's not what Jesus is saying here. Why don't I think that's what he's saying? Because he is contrasting the way the Samaritan woman thinks about worship from the way God reveals worship. She's thinking about worship as something that you do as a ritual that you go to a place to a certain temple on a certain mountain on a certain day and you worship this way. And he says your thinking about worship is all wrong It has to be based. God is spirit. He's essentially a spirit. It's part of his nature. And therefore, the only worship he receives is spiritual worship. This is how Jesus diagnosed the problem. He says in Matthew 15 and verse 8, This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth and honoreth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. You see, worshiping in spirit is the opposite of formalism and traditionalism and externalism He is saying that real authentic worship engages the inner man. And so this is important for us to notice. This is how he puts it together in verse 24. Since God is spirit, our worship must be spiritual. That's what verse 24 is saying in a nutshell. Because of who God is, this is how we must worship. You see, the idea is that if if God was an idol, if God was as it were a physical being, essentially and fundamentally, if that's the way the Father was, then perhaps our worship would be primarily physical and ritualistic as well, but that's not the case. Now what does it mean that God is spirit? The Bible says several things about the essential nature of God. It says that he is spirit, it says that he is fire, it says that he is love. When it says that he is spirit, it means, of course, that he has no body, that he is, as it says in many places in Scripture, invisible. Now that may raise a question in your mind If God is essentially a spirit, and a spirit has no body, what do you say then about Jesus, our Savior? Who came and took on flesh and has a body, a glorified body in heaven today I would say two things about it. Number one, if you look in verse 23, Jesus is particularly speaking about his father. And number two, in John chapter 1, we have an answer to this question. John chapter 1, verse 14, and the word was made flesh. In other words, the second person of the Trinity, the Son of God, did not originally exist in bodily form, but as a spiritual being. The word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Now skip to verse 18. No man has seen God at any time. The only begotten Son which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him. You see, it's because God is invisible that God is a spirit. That mankind found it difficult to understand and to fully comprehend and to trust in God. So he sent his son, who was the exact representation of his father. And how much better do we understand who God is because of his son? So you see, this is no contradiction here at all. This matter of worshiping God with our hearts, as the psalmist puts it, with our whole hearts. I find to be very convicting. I mentioned a moment ago that the the Jews, the religious leaders in Jesus' day, they were the only people on the face of the earth who had received the revelation. Of God. They had the word of God. They were his covenant people. And yet their worship had degenerated Until it was really in most cases no better than pagan worship. And one of the ra problems with it was that there was no heart in it. They were just going through the It's very easy to attend a gospel preaching church that believes the Bible is the Word of God. that gives great attention to studying it, memorizing it, and preaching it, and go there week after week, and yet get into a habit where you never truly worship God with your heart. You're just going through the motion. And when you leave, your heart is not really reflect refreshed, you haven't really reflected, you haven't really engaged. in worship with God. You've gone through the motions. Your mind was a million miles away during the whole service. You couldn't even explain or give an answer to someone what the sermon was about because you weren't really there. We've all done that. It's very easy to get into that habit We have to prepare our hearts before we come to worship. We have to pray and ask God to help us. Worship involves purpose and determination. You have to be intentional if you truly want to worship God in spirit and in truth. Because how you worship God is very important. And the whole Worst thing you can do is get into the habit of coming Sunday after Sunday and thinking that you are really pleasing God. I mean, you're not like those people, those slackers who don't come to church. I mean, you're there right as rain. You're always there on Sunday. You're there in your place But but the question is, are you worshiping God? He is not satisfied with your prompt attendance. He requires worship in spirit, worship from the core of your being. That's what he wants. That means you give heed to the word. That means that you listen carefully when the word is preached It means that you sing from your heart praises to God, and they're not just words on a page or on a screen, but they come from your heart. It means that when We 're leading in public prayers that you're engaging as prayer and well. And throughout the service, you're communing with God. You're talking with God. You're reflecting on his truth. It takes efforts. And Satan will do everything he can to keep you from truly worshiping him. Secondly, the authentic worship that God desires must be based on God's Truth. What does it mean to worship in truth? Well, first of all, it means in accordance with God's word. That is what God has revealed about Himself. This is why God prohibited the making of any image. The second commandment, because he's a spirit, and you can't make an image of the spirit. All idolatry is blasphemous. It's a distortion of the nature of God. And so our worship Must be focused on God and not on man. A worship service that is in spirit and in truth will be intentionally saturated with scripture. I think if this means two things. I think it means that our worship will be in accordance with what the Bible teaches about worship, and the Bible does teach certain things about proper Christian worship. But I think it also means that within the content of that service, the Word of God will have the primary place. So I think this means that the atmosphere of a church service should reflect the nature and attributes of God. It's hard to maintain this balance. I think it means that our worship should be joyful, but it should not be frivolous. It means that there should be order in our service and structure, but not ritualism. It means that our services should be serious-minded, but not boring. Because the God that we worship is great and glorious. He is a God in whom we can delight and rejoice. He is a God in whom we should fear and give great reverence. He is a God that we must take seriously And the only way to maintain a balanced approach to God is by constantly keeping it anchored to the word. What does this book say about God? What does it reveal about who He is? That's how we must approach him. And I think that that means more specifically that the primary content of a church service where the people of God gather together should be the exposition of Scripture. This is becoming increasingly rare in evangelical churches today. In many evangelical churches that purport to preach the gospel Preaching is not the main event, it's the music. The sermon has become a brief motivational speech, almost like a TED talk. I'm going to read an extended quote by a man named John Stott, which I think he hits this point right on the bullseye. He says, word and worship belong indissolvably to each other. All worship is an intelligent and loving response to the revelation of God, because it is the adoration of his name. Therefore, acceptable worship is impossible without preaching. For preaching is making known the name of the Lord, and worship is praising the name of the Lord made known, far from being an alien intrusion into worship. The reading and preaching of the word are actually indispensable to it. The two cannot be divorced. Indeed, it is their unnatural divorce which accounts for the low level of so much contemporary worship. Our worship is poor because our knowledge of God is poor, and our knowledge of God is poor because our preaching is poor But when the Word of God is expounded in its fullness and the congregation begins to glimpse the glory of the living God, they bow down in solemn awe and joyful wonder before his throne. It is preaching which accomplishes this, the proclamation of the Word of God and the power of the Spirit of God. That is why preaching is unique and irreplaceable. And the third thing I think that this phrase in spirit and in truth means is that authentic worship requires us to be focused on Christ. It says in spirit and in truth. And let me remind you that a little later in this book, Jesus would say, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. You see, you can't really worship the Father without coming through his Son. This is exactly what we find in the book of Hebrews. It says in Hebrews chapter 10, beginning at verse 19, having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest , by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, which he hath consecrated for us through the veil that is to say his flesh, and having a high priest over the house of God. Let us draw near with a true heart and full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. You see, when we worship the Son, we are worshiping our Father in spirit and in truth, because the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the Father, full of grace and truth. So genuine worship is focused on Christ. That is why in all of our preaching and all of our sermons we find Christ in the text. And we speak of our great Savior. This is the kind of worship that God requires and that God desires from his people. I'm going to close with this analogy. A preacher once told me many years ago, and I'm so thankful for those men that are in the back here. He said, you know when you know you have a really good sound system? And I said, how? He says, when no one even knows it's taking place. He says, if people are conscious of the sound system, you've got a problem. Because they're not focused on what's being said, but on whatever distraction might be going on. There's a sense in which when we worship, there are a hundred different things that can take our focus off the main thing. We might focus on the music. We might focus on the preacher of the gospel. We might focus on the clothing that someone is wearing or something that irritates us. There are a hundred different things that can come into our minds, or perhaps tonight you might be thinking about your mask. There are a hundred different things that can distract your thinking from the main thing. But when we truly worship God with all of our hearts, We're not thinking of those things. We're thinking of God. We're not saying what a great sermon that was or what a great preacher he is, but we're thinking, what a great God I have that I know. That should be our goal. That is the worship that is pleasing to the Lord. Let's close in prayer this evening. Our Father, how easy it is for us, even as your people to be so distracted and so man-centered that we do not give our hearts to you That we go through one Lord's day after another without truly worshiping you. I pray, Father, that you would help us to be a people who worship you in a way that is delightful to you. Because it's in spirit and truth. I pray that you would help us to meditate on these words and to walk with you this week, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.