It's good to have you with us. If you have your Bibles, would you turn with me to Hebrews 11? If you're visiting, we have been going through the book of Hebrews now for a while. And we continue. continue today with verse twenty-nine. Many years ago The senior engineers at General Electric decided to play a joke on a brand new engineer that had joined the LAMP division. They gave this young man the seemingly impossible task of frosting a light bulb from the inside. They thought it was hilarious. However, Marvin Pipkin didn't know it was a joke. And he set about to answer the challenge. And after some time he developed an acid that frosted the inside of the light bulb. He accomplished what many engineers thought was impossible. This morning, as we come continue our study of Hebrews, we come to a verse where the people of God find themselves in an impossible situation. The children of Israel just celebrated the Passover. The final plague, of course, the firstborn in Egypt perished. And finally, that proud and arrogant monarch of Egypt relented and let the people go. The people left Egypt triumphantly. But soon Pharaoh would change his mind and send his military to attack the people. And so this multitude of vulnerable people found themselves trapped between the approaching army and the Red Sea. Their survival seemed unlikely But God delivered his people and destroyed their enemies. This is one of the great pictures of redemption that we find. In the Old Testament. It's mentioned repeatedly in the rest of Scripture. In Exodus 15, in Moses ' song , which reflects on this event, we read that God is the salvation of his people, and that in mercy he has redeemed In Psalm 106, it says that God saved them from the hand of him that hated them, referring to Pharaoh. And in Isaiah 51 and verse 10, we read that God made in the depths of the sea a way for the ransom to pass over. But our text this morning is Hebrews 11, 29, one brief verse that summarizes this very significant event. It says, by faith They passed through the Red Sea as by dry land, which the Egyptians, as saying to do, were drowned. This verse makes two brief statements. It mentions that by faith the people of Israel passed through the Red Sea on dry land And the second statement is that the Egyptian army which attempted the same crossing were destroyed. Now let me just very quickly at the outset of this message mentioned that I dismiss entirely all naturalistic explanations for this event. There have been numerous Books and theories proposed over the years. Some scholars suggest this was just a matter of the people crossing The section of the sea at low tide. Others suggest that it was due to a volcanic eruption which temporarily blocked the flow of water. Others say that there was a hidden rock path That that God showed them and they were able to walk across. But all such conjecture is nonsense because the Bible says that God used a strong evil when to create a pathway for his people to escape to safety. This was nothing less than a spectacular miracle, and that's the way we need to Receive it. Now, our text this morning essentially concludes the section on the life of Moses. We read This summary just a moment ago. In verse 24, we read, by faith, Moses refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Verse 27, by faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king. Verse 28, through faith he kept the Passover. And now in verse 29, it says, By faith they passed through the Red Sea. And though it says they make no mistake, it was Moses ' faithful leadership that encouraged the people to step forward and trust in God's deliverance. Now I would describe the situation that the Israelites faced that day as an impossible situation. Apart from God's miraculous intervention, they all would have perished. The Bible often speaks Of God doing the impossible and empowering his people to do the impossible. In Jeremiah 32 and verse 27, it says, Is there anything too hard for me? Matthew 19, 26, with God all things are possible. Mark 9, 23, all things are possible to him that believeth. Luke 1. 37, for with God nothing shall be impossible. And Matthew 17, 20, and nothing shall be impossible unto you. These verses are not referring to the power of positive thinking or the claims of the prosperity gospel. No, it is saying that God delights to do the impossible when his people step out by faith and rely on him. So what impossible situation are you facing this morning? Are you looking to God and trusting Him To deliver you. I'm going to preach to you this morning on this truth. God delights to deliver his people from impossible situations. And there are four points that I want to make this morning. And most of my points really do not come from Hebrews 11. 29. but from the broader narrative that it's found in the book of Exodus. So I would encourage you if If you would, keep a finger here in Hebrews and turn with me to Exodus chapter 13 to begin with. Exodus chapter 13. Verses seventeen and eighteen. Exodus thirteen verse seventeen It says, and it came to pass when Pharaoh had let the people go, that God led them not through the way of the land of the Philistines, although that was near. For God said, lest paradure the people repents, and when they see war, they return to Egypt. But God led the people about through the way of the wilderness of the Red Sea, and the children of Israel went up, harnessed out of the land of Egypt. It's saying here that God did not lead them in the obvious direct routes. We know that there was something known in this region of the world as a coastal highway. Now of course they didn't have cars and it wasn't six lanes. But it was a well-worn path that tradesmen used, and it was a direct route for them. But God knew that they were weak. And that they would be fearful of the Philistines and other warring peoples, and so he didn't take them that route. We see in Exodus chapter 14 and verse 2, it says, Speak unto the children of Israel, that they turn and encamp before Pirhathiroth, before Migdal. The sea over against Baal Zephon, before it ye shall encamp by the sea. We cannot locate with any precision these ancient locations It's likely that they were on a peninsula. Most scholars believe that They were trapped with a mountain range on one side, the Red Sea behind them, and the Egyptian army blocking their only way of escape. Now I read these verses in Exodus 13 and then Exodus 14 verse 2 because I wanted you to notice, this is the point I'm making, that they were exactly where God wanted them to be. This was all part of God's plan. They went down the path that He led them, and they camped at the place where He told them to camp. They were obeying the will of God. The crisis of the Red Sea did not come about because of their disobedience. They were exactly where God wanted them to be Because he wanted them to experience this crisis. So we should not assume When we face a very traumatic, frightful circumstance in our lives, that this has occurred because I must have done something wrong. God must be chastening me. Now, in just a few weeks, we're going to be in Hebrews chapter 12. Which happens to be the key text in the New Testament on the chastening of the Lord. That does happen sometimes. God does sometimes do that But we should not always assume, when a difficulty comes into our lives, that this is God's chastening hand. Now I want you to notice that often God is testing And refining our faith. If he's not going it to chasten us, to correct us, then why does he do it? He does it because he wants us to grow in grace He wants us to come to trust him more. He wants to refine our faith. We are all a work in progress. I want you to also know that it was God's will that the Egyptian army pursue after them. If you look with me at Exodus 14, verse 4, God tells Moses what he's about to do. I will harden Pharaoh's heart. That he shall follow after them, and I will be honored upon Pharaoh and upon all his hosts, the Egyptians may know that I am the Lord. And they did so And it was told the king of Egypt that the people fled, and the heart of Pharaoh and of his servants was turned against the people. And they said, Why have we done this? That we have let Israel go from serving us? And he made ready his chariot and took his people with him. And he took six hundred chosen chariots and all the chariots of Egypt and captains over every one of them. And the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and he pursued after the children of Israel, and the children of Israel went out with a high hand. Now, when we read that God hardened Pharaoh's heart, we should not think that God forced him to do something that he didn't want to do. We know that Pharaoh was a very arrogant man. And he had just lost a great deal of slave labor. He had been beaten by God. And now his heart was filled with revenge. And God removed From his thinking, any sense of caution or any sense that maybe I should not fight this great God any further And he did exactly what his wicked heart desired to do. The king's heart Is in the hand of the Lord, and as the rivers of water, he turns it wherever he wills. We read about this. In Romans chapter 9 and verse 17 it says, Even for the same purpose have I raised thee up, that is Pharaoh, that I might show my power in thee, and that my name may be declared through all the earth. Now the point I'm making from this is that in this Red Sea incident, God was not just delivering his people. He was also humbling this arrogant man so that everyone in Egypt would know that he is the one true God. Now I'm making this point for this purpose. Often when a crisis comes into our lives, we have tunnel vision And we think only about how it is affecting us. We don't think about the big picture We don't think that God is doing more than one thing in this event. Yes, he's working in your heart. Yes, he is refining you. But he's also using this to work in your spouse's life And to work in the hearts of your children because they are observing this. They are seeing how mom and dad handle this crisis He's working perhaps even in your unsaved neighbor who knows that you're going through something My point is that we need to step back when we are facing a very painful and fearful circumstance and see that this is not just about me. This is not just about the path that I'm going through, but it's about everyone else around me who are part of this and witnesses. to this. In this instant, God was not just delivering his people. He was destroying his enemies. And he's working all things for his glory. God uses impossible circumstances to test us and to teach us. The second thing I want to bring out of our text this morning is that the people of God may initially fail to respond in faith. to their impossible circumstance. Look with me at Exodus chapter 14 and verse 10. And when Pharaoh drew nigh, the children of Israel lifted up their eyes, and behold, the Egyptians marched after them. And they were sore afraid, and the children of Israel cried out unto the Lord, and they said unto Moses , Because there were no graves in Egypt, hast thou taken us away to die in the wilderness? Wherefore hast thou dealt thus with us to carry us forth out of Egypt? Isn't not this the word that we did tell thee in Egypt, saying, Let us alone that we may serve the Egyptians For it had been better for us to serve the Egyptians than that we should die in the wilderness They didn't respond in great faith when they saw the Egyptians after them I will say more about this at the close of the sermon, but I want you to notice their panic. When they saw those 600 chariots coming after them, it says in the King James They were sore afraid. Other versions would say they were greatly afraid, or perhaps best, they were terrified. You know, there's some times when you are afraid, and then there are other times when you absolutely are panicking, and like your whole body is shaking. And you don't feel like you're in control of yourself. That's where the people were at this moment. We know from ancient records that these chariots had two warriors apiece. They were the ancient equivalent of modern tanks. The Israelites have been slaves for 430 years. They didn't have a bunch of weapons. They were not trained to fight, but to serve. They were no match for the Egyptian army, which was probably the most powerful military force in the world at this time. And so they panic. And I think that this tends to be the natural first response of most of us, right? we face a horrible situation. They assumed that they were moments away from slaughter And in the verses that follow, we see some horrible demonstrations of unbelief on their part. We see this biting sarcasm. To Moses. Because there were no graves in Egypt, hast thou taken us away to die in the wilderness? Egypt has probably the most famous graves and tombs in the world. That was true in ancient times, and those tombs and those graves are still famous today. Moses is the man God had called to lead them forth. Remember how reluctant Moses was to do this. And this may be one of the reasons why. And the first difficulty they encounter, they turn on him and blame him. And in verse 12, they have revisionist history. They say, didn't we tell you we didn't want to come out? We loved it back in Egypt. It's great. Of course, that was not the truth So often, even in our own lives, we rewrite the past in light of some present distress. Not a great example of faith. So let me ask you, why did they fail God so miserably? And why do we fail God so miserably? miserably, so often initially when we face a trial. First of all, I want to suggest could be termed spiritual amnesia. You ever get this disease where you don't think at all about anything that God promises to do for us are what he has ever done for you in the past. They forgot What the Lord promised to Abraham back in Genesis 15 that after a period of slavery, his people would return to the promised land. That was divine revelation. They forgot How they cried to the Lord for deliverance. The Lord heard their cry and sent them Moses. They forgot how the Lord brought them out of Egypt with ten mighty demonstrations of his power. And how could they ever forget the water turned to blood or the infestation of frogs or the thick darkness? How could they forget when the death angel passed over and yet their children were graciously spared? But instead of remembering all the incredible things that God had done in the very recent past, they focused on that Egyptian army. They didn't remember God or what he had done. They only looked at their present distress. You ever do that? Sort of like taking out a dime. And if you hold it up close to your eye, you can block out the sun. Your little problem can seem bigger than the sun. And this is what we do so often when we encounter a difficulty We allow that problem to be morphed way, way, way, way out of proportion. And it blocks out All the promises of God and all that we have learned over the years. So often our problems seem very real And God seems very distant. It's so easy and so natural for us to walk by sight and not by faith. And here we see the people of Israel failing to respond by faith when a crisis comes. Then we come to my third point I want to make today, and that is the people of God should obey God's word when facing impossible circumstances. So we've just seen that initially they were not a great example of faith. So why is this recorded in this great chapter of faith? Well, the answer, the short answer is because they obeyed and walked through that dry land when God commanded them. Look with me now at Exodus chapter 14 and verse 13. And Moses said unto the people, Fear ye not. Stand still and see the salvation of the Lord, which he will show to you today. For the Egyptians whom ye have seen today, ye shall see them again no more forever. And the Lord shall fight for you, and ye shall hold your peace. The Lord said unto Moses , Wherefore criest thou unto me, speak unto the children of Israel that they go forward. But lift thou up thy rod and stretch out thy hand over the sea and divide it, and the children of Israel shall go on dry ground through the midst of the sea. And then look with me at verse 21. And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and the Lord caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind, and all that night made the sea dry land, and the waters were divided. And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon the dry ground, and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand and on their left. This was the example of faith when they stepped forward with those walls of water on either side. That must have Have seemed a little imposing, a little uncomfortable. But they did at the word of Moses. Have you ever noticed that God often waits Until the situation seems hopeless before he delivers us. Think about this. The Lord could have destroyed the Egyptians long before the last minute. The Lord could have wiped out this great army before the Israelites ever saw them. The Lord could have armed the children of Israel and had them go to war and defeat their enemies. But the Lord wanted to receive all the glory. It says in verse 17, and behold, I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians. And they shall follow them, and I will get me honor unto upon Pharaoh and upon all his hosts, upon his chariots and upon his horsemen. And the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord when I have gotten me honor upon Pharaoh, upon his chariots, and upon his horsemen Now this deliverance and this destruction is the main point of our text in Hebrews 11. 29. At that critical moment, the people walked forward onto that dry seabed by faith. The Lord said, move forward, and they did. And the Lord destroyed their enemies forever. The same God who walled up those waters released them to their destruction. And therefore, our text says, by faith they passed through the Red Sea as by dry land, which the Egyptians is saying to do were drowned. Now perhaps if you're a thinking person you would say, I don't really think this is such a great illustration of faith. I mean, what other options did the children of Israel have in this situation? Were they going to fight against the most powerful army in the world? Probably not. Were they going to plunge into the Red Sea and swim for their lives? Absolutely not. They were terrified of water. I don't know if you realize this or not. But in the Western world, in the United States of America, we're very unusual in that most people know how to swim. That you know if you go to a third world country, the vast, vast majority of people are terrified of water and they do not know how to swim. It was this way when I was a child in Papua New Guinea, and I've encountered this all over the world. In the ancient world. Unless you lived in a coastal region and you were a seafaring person and you were always in the water from the time you were a child, you did not know how to swim. The Israelites were not a seafaring people, and they were terrified of the Mediterranean Sea. They were terrified of water. And I say all that to say this. The people didn't say, hey, you know, it's not that far we have to swim. Let's just all get together and swim. That would be incomprehensible to them. They were terrified of water. So they didn't have many options. They had no escape route. They couldn't run. They couldn't swim. They couldn't fight. And God says, go this way. And they did. So I would agree with you. This is not so much a great demonstration of faith. But a great demonstration of the power and grace of God. This is confirmed in a divine commentary upon this event, And Psalm 106, I'm going to read this for you. Listen to these words. Notice the emphasis. Psalm 106, verses 7 through 10. It says. Our fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt. They remembered not the multitude of thy mercies, remembered spiritual amnesia. But provoked him at the sea, even at the Red Sea. Nevertheless, he saved them for his namesake. That he might make his mighty power to be known. He rebuked the Red Sea also, and it was dried up. So he led them through the depths. as through the wilderness. He saved them from the hand of him that hated them and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy. If you listen carefully, you'll notice that God did everything. The crossing of the Red Sea is one of the great pictures of salvation in the Old Testament. And I want to make this point. It is true that we are saved through faith, but we must never for a moment think that we are saved because of our faith. That somehow our faith is meritorious and it's earned favor with God, and God is impressed with our faith. And therefore he saves us. No, we are saved by grace through faith. Salvation is of the Lord. Now, one of the fears that I have in preaching this text is that it could give you the impression that if you just trust God , All of your difficult situations will go away. And God will deliver you in a miraculous way, just like He did the children of Israel in their moment of crisis. But the fact is that God sometimes does not deliver his people, at least not in this life. Let me remind you of the first people who read the epistle to the Hebrews. They were people who were being severely persecuted for their faith. And some of them, therefore, were tempted to go back to Judaism and escape the severity of the coming persecution. This was a natural response of fear. But the author of Hebrews is calling these first century believers to respond not in fear, but in faith. But he's not saying to them by using this example that if you just trust in the Lord, none of you will come to any harm because of persecution. The reality is we cannot prove this either way, but the reality is it is likely that some of the people who received that book of Hebrews Suffered greatly for their faith. They may have been exiled. They may have been imprisoned, and some of them may have died. We're going to come to this in a few weeks. I'm going to ask you now to turn with me back to Hebrews, please, Hebrews 11. I don't want to preach the message in a couple weeks, but I do want you to know, notice this in the end of Hebrews that maybe you have not noticed before. Look with me at Hebrews chapter 11. in verse 33. So he's been going person by person, and then like preachers sometimes do, remember this is a sermon. He realizes about 31. Alright, if I keep going through all his examples, this is going to be a really long book And so he starts to condense things. And in verse 32, he just mentions these people without saying anything about them: Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, Samuel, the prophets. And then he goes on this triumphant declaration. Look at verse 33. Who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises. Stop the mouth of lions, quench the violence of the fire, escape the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, wax valiant in fight, turn to fight the armies of the aliens Women received their dead, raised to life again. I 'm going to stop there. All of these are triumphant, miraculous demonstrations that came about because of people's faith that we read in the Old Testament. But then he says, and others, and others were tortured, not accepting deliverance. that they might obtain a better resurrection, and others at trial of cruel mocking and scourgings, yea, moreover, of bonds and imprisonments. They were stoned, they were sawn asunder, they were tempted, they were slain with the sword, they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented, of whom the world was not worthy They wandered in deserts and in mountains and in dens and in caves of the earth. These all having obtained a good report through faith, look at this, received not the promise that is in this life. God having provided some better thing for us, that they without us should not be made perfect I think we would much prefer, and it would sound more natural to us, if in verse 39 the word not was not there. They received the promise, but it says they didn't receive the promise in this life. My point is the author of Hebrews is very clear to these suffering believers, God's word does not promise that you will be delivered from this coming persecution. Just as in your Old Testament, some people were miraculously delivered and others were not, the same will be true. of this congregation of believers. This really fights against the prosperity gospel that says that God's will for you is that you would would never suffer any pain or discomfort, that you would never be poor, that you would never have disease. God just wants you to have a wonderful, wonderful life. And if you just trust him and walk him, and by the way, give me some contributions, the speaker says, then all these things will happen. It's not what the Bible teaches or ever has taught. And it's a distortion of God's word to give that Message to suffering people. But all the people of God who trust in Christ will experience that ultimate deliverance in the eternal presence of God. Now I want to make one final point about our text this morning, and I'm going to invite you please If you would be willing to turn back with me to Hebrews chapter 14, because I want to bring up one more thing that's found at the end of chapter 14. This whole incident of them at the Red Sea raises the question of why God sometimes places his people in impossible circumstances. Remember, they were right where God wanted them to be. and yet they experience a very traumatic event. Now as parents, we tend to try to remove any trauma, any fearful circumstance, any difficulty From our children, and modern parents far more than ever for in the history of the world. For the Lord often puts his children in distressing situations. Why does the Lord do this? Look with me at the last verse in Exodus 14. 1431. We have a reflection on this event. And Israel saw that great work which the Lord did upon the Egyptians. And the people feared the Lord and believed the Lord and his servant Moses. God brings circumstances into our lives that are difficult because he wants us to fear him more. Way back at verse 10, we read about them trusting and calling out to God. So often it comes down to this: are we going to fear God or are we going to fear man? How often the opinions of others keep us From really living by faith. Not their persecution, but just Their attitude towards us, their look towards us of like, really? You believe that? You're that primitive, and you're thinking that you trust in God? And that's enough for us to cower and to not witness and to not live out our faith We need to fear the Lord more. And of course, when it says fear here, it's not talking about a fear that shrinks back and that runs from God, but it's talking about that respects. That admiration that causes us to trust in him more. And this brings us to verse 31 when it says we need to trust the Lord more. Every time we are delivered from what seems to us to be an impossible situation, it should strengthen our faith. So that the next time we face a great crisis , we remember, ah, I felt this way before. I have faced a situation where I thought to myself, it's just all over. My whole life's coming to an end, basically. And yet God delivered me. Always think of David when he went up against Goliath. That was an impossible situation. And it says in 1 Samuel 17, 37, David reflects this way. He says, The Lord that delivered me out of the paw of the lion and out of the paw of the bear will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. He says, God has enabled me to get out of some pretty dangerous situations in the past, and I believe he's going to do it again. That is the way we should think. When we face an insurmountable obstacle, we should reflect back and say, wait a minute, has God delivered me in the past? Has God brought me through great difficulties before? Has he heard my cry? Has he answered my prayer? Yes, and is he going to bring me through all of that to fail me now? The answer is no. So I am going to trust in him. One of the most effective spiritual strategies you can use to settle your heart in a time of crisis is to recall how God has delivered you in the past. And this points to the fact that we are to be growing in our Christian lives so that we continue to trust Him more and rely on Him more. As we go through life. There was once a man who got lost in the desert. And after roaming around for some time and recognizing that he was becoming dangerously thirsty, completely dehydrated. He saw this shack in the distance. And he went over there, and he saw outside the shack a water pump. And there was a small jug of water in a note. And it said, pour all the water into the top of the pump to prime it. And if you do this, you will get all the water you need. Now this man had a choice to make Was he going to trust the words of a stranger who left this note and indeed pour that water into the pump, or should he just drink the water? And hope that it will sustain him until he's able to find his way out. After some reflection He decided to follow the notes and to pour all the water water into that pump. And he began to work the handle. And at first nothing happened. It became a little frightened But finally the water started coming out, and so much water came out, he drank all that he wanted, he took a shower, he filled up all these other containers with water. And then there was also a note that said, Be sure to refill the jug for the next person. And so he did. And he wrote in his own hand Please prime the pump. Believe me, it really works. And there's a sense in Hebrews 11. And this great example of heroes of the faith that they are testifying to us. Walk by faith. Believe me, it really works. Now I want to conclude with just a couple points of application. And this may have come to your thinking if you know your Bible well. It is this, you should not assume that because you're with the people of God, that you are truly a child of God. It's good to be with the people of God. It's good to be in church. It's good to be a member of a local assembly. But you should not think or assume That is the ground or the basis of your faith. Many of you know the rest of the story. What happened to those people? Who went through the Red Sea on dry land. You know the rest of the story, don't you? Well, they wandered around in the wilderness For a long time, they continually complained to Moses and longed to go back to Egypt. And this generation of people, but for a few, would die under the wrath of God. Remember, they were used in Hebrews chapters 3 and 4 as a cautionary tale of apostasy. So that raises the question, how can they be used as an example of faith? Because everyone in this chapter is exhibiting the examples of a living faith, not a false faith, but a living faith. Well, I'm going to suggest to you that the they in Hebrews 1129 refers to Moses and the faithful remnant who followed him, men like Aaron and Joshua and Caleb. Those that came out of Egypt were indeed a mixed multitude in more ways than one. It seems clear that the majority of them were not truly regenerated. Their hearts had never really been changed. That's why they were still idolaters at hearts. But the spiritual leaders of Israel did respond with a living faith. Moses said to the people, Stand still and see the salvation of the Lord. He lifted up his rod, and God brought a mighty east wind to divide the waters. He encouraged the people to step forward, and they did, and God graciously spared them. First Corinthians chapter 10 makes a similar admonition. These people are presented as a warning to us. They passed through the sea, it says, but with many of them God was not well pleased. Even though they saw great miracles and experienced God's deliverance repeatedly in the wilderness, yet in the end they perished in unbelief. They had all these advantages, but advantages do not necessarily indicate salvation. You must never trust in the fact that you are a church member or that you've been baptized. Or that you have known some famous preachers in your day, or that you've heard great preaching, or that you've seen God do amazing things, these must not be the basis of your salvation. You must have a faith in your own that is rooted in the person and work of Jesus Christ I think one of the most common ways that people have a false faith is that they are relying, as it were, on the faith of another. Maybe a parent, or maybe a spouse , or some godly person or family. Who would try to help them and try to minister to them. But really, whenever they were left on their own, they exhibited a heart of unbelief. Let me ask you, especially you young people, do you have a faith of your own? You can't borrow your parents' faith. That's not going to get you through life. That's not going to get you to heaven. You have to have a faith of your own that is rooted in what Christ has done for you. And finally, we're reminded by this historic incident that all of humanity is divided into two vast groups of people. We don't like this. But it's true. We see here there were those who were delivered and those who were destroyed. There are those who are saved and those who are condemned. Everyone here today and everyone else in the world is represented by these two groups of humanity. Either you're represented by the Israelites who walk through and dry. ground and were graciously delivered, or you're like the Egyptian army that was destroyed under the wrath of God. Think about it, this is amazing. The same path that was a way of life for the Hebrews of the Red Sea was a way of death for the Egyptians. This reminds me of 1 Corinthians 1. 18, for the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness, but unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. The gospel that is proclaimed never leaves its hears the same. For some of you today, your heart is harder than it was when you came in. Because you've heard the gospel and you've scoffed at it. That's nonsense. That's not true. I don't believe that. And your heart is harder. But for some of you, your heart is softer. It's been broken. There's concern. There's desire to seek after the Lord. There's a desire to have a peace in your hearts. Romans 1. 16 says, for the gospel is the power of God unto salvation to everyone who believes. So let me ask you this morning: have you responded in faith to what you have heard, or have you responded in unbelief? The only path of safety. Is the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the way, the truth, and the life. You must come to him by faith. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father. We are all sinners. We are all unable to come to you on our own. We are all weak And defiled, and under your just condemnation. But Father, you have made a way whereby sinful people like us Can be saved. And so I pray, Father, that if there's any here this morning, under the sound of my voice that indeed is lost, that today they would seek you. They would not rest until their hearts are at rest in the assurance that they are a child of God. And Father, for your dear people who are facing difficult circumstances, life-altering events That have shaken them up. I pray that their faith would be renewed and they would trust in your promises. And remember that you delight to deliver your people. Oh Father, help us to trust in your word and these wonderful promises you have given to us. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.