Give your Bibles, please. You can turn to the passage that we read a moment ago, Judges chapter 6. We have had a lot of foggy and dismal days this week. According to scientists, a dense fog covering seven city blocks is composed of only about a glass of water But that amount of water is divided into 60 billion tiny droplets. But when those minute particles settle over a city or a countryside , They can blot out just about everything from your sight. And our problems are often like the fog. They will blot out our view of God. But it's also true that often our problems From God's perspective, are as trivial as a glass of water. As a pastor, I'm very aware that many people Perhaps most people enter the new year not with great enthusiasm and joy, but with a fearful sense of uneasiness. Most people bring with them many problems into the new year. You know, it would be great if you could press a reset button at the beginning of the year and all your problems that you had last year just evaporated. And you started fresh. It doesn't work that way. The future is filled with question marks Will I lose my job this year? Will my marriage fall apart? Will I go bankrupt? Will my spouse die? Will my parents die? Will I die? These questions are not the invention of my imagination. But the rec recollection of conversations that I've had with real people about their real problems. This morning I thought it would be appropriate, as I, in a sense, begin a new year of preaching with you, to look at the book of Judges and examine the call. Of a very interesting man named Gideon. During the life of Gideon, Israel was being raided by some folks known as the Midianites. The Midianites were a nomadic desert people. They were always on the move, and so they were very difficult to defeat. And they didn't come and fight like many other armies did with massive forces arrayed in rows and come. No, they came stealthily and quickly. And they would make raids and then move on. And at this time in Gideon's life, Israel was being oppressed. by the Midianites. They had no desire to occupy Israel. That wasn't their style. But instead they would come at harvest time and they would pillage the land. And all the hard work that the Jewish people had put into Growing their crops and harvesting their fruit, all of it would be gone because the Midianites would attack at just the right time. It was in this bleak backdrop that we read of the angel of the Lord coming to a very unlikely man and calling on him to deliver his people. The man's name is Gideon. He is the son of a prominent man by the name of Joash. And he's thrusting wheat, but not up on a ridge as you would normally do to catch the breezes, but down in the valley. by a wine press in a hidden area so that he would not be detected by the Midianites. He's probably looking nervously in every direction. Because he doesn't want his hard-earned labor to be taken away by these foreign oppressors. And so he must have been startled when all of a sudden a man appeared and said, The Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of valor. Perhaps he thought that this man was mocking him. Here he is, towering down by this wine press, looking in every direction, and the man addresses him as a mighty man of valor, the title of a warrior. It must have seemed like a bad joke. And what I want you to focus in on is his response there in verse 11. Or actually verse 13, where he says, if the Lord be with us, why then is all this befallen us? This is a timeless question. I wonder how many people in the history of the world have said something similar to this. How many people have said to me on occasion, if God is real, why is there so much suffering in the world? If God loves me, why do I have such a difficult life? If God is with me, why do I have so many problems? I wonder if this morning you can identify with Gideon. I wonder if you've ever said something like this. Maybe you said something like this even this week, or at least thought it. Perhaps this is how you feel even as you come into the new year. One thing I know for certain Is that virtually everyone here has some problem that is on your mind? It may be in the forefront of your mind, it may be in the back of your mind, it may be A crisis that you're in. It may not be so much a crisis right now, but it's a long-standing problem. But everyone has a problem. And it's impossible to live on this fallen planet without experiencing difficulty, pain, and multiple challenges. The question is not will you face problems this year, but how will you deal with your problems when they come? I would have preached to you this morning from this passage in Judges, and I want us to see that trusting in God is the only way to triumph over your problems. I want to make several observations from this commission of Gideon. I want you to notice, first of all, that our problems often seem to indicate that God is not involved in our lives. Isn't that the case? So often when we have problems, we think, God is not with me. God is not paying attention. He's not involved That's why I have all of these problems. That's often the way we interpret our circumstances. We tend to assume that our problems and God's presence are incompatible. This is the way Gideon thought about things. He says, if the Lord be with us, then why is all this befallen us? People tend to think that when they come to Christ and are saved, their problems will be eliminated or at least reduced. But I want you to know the Bible never teaches that. Jesus said to his disciples shortly before he died, In the world you will have tribulation. That's a promise. That's not one of the promises of God that we like to cling to. But the Lord said it. In the world you will have tribulation. Peter said, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial that is to try you. Don't say, what is this? How? Where did this come from? The Lord told you that's what would happen. So don't be shocked and dismayed when difficulty comes your way. Why do we think this way? Why do we think, why are we so shocked and surprised when problems come into our lives? Let me give you several reasons. Number one, because we're fallen people, and we tend to reverse things in our mind. We tend to think, even Christian people, that God is here to serve us. That he is kind of looking out for us and watching over us, and he's there to try to remove all the difficulties and problems that we would ever face. That's the way we think. But the Bible tells us that he's not here to serve us. We're here to serve him. The fact is that we're often blind to the fact that our sins have brought on many of our problems. Maybe directly, maybe indirectly. And certainly if you go all the way back to the fall in the way Our creation has been twisted and broken and distorted, and our wills and our emotions and our behavior have all been tainted by this. All of our problems to one degree or another are related to sin that's in the world. Another reason that we have problems is that we often blame God. We think that God is the I want you to notice that before God called Gideon, he sent a prophet to answer the complaints of the Hebrew people. Look with me at verse 8 in this chapter, chapter 6. It says, then the Lord sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, which said unto them, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, I brought you up from Egypt and brought you forth out of the house of bondage, and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians and out of the hand of all that oppressed you. and drave them out from before you and gave you this land. And I said unto you, I am the Lord your God, fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell, but ye have not obeyed my voice. Why was Gideon and his fellow Israelites in such a bad situation? Because of their sin. Because they had turned to idolatry of the pagan peoples that surrounded them because they weren't trusting in the Lord. So so often we point the finger at God and we say, you have failed me. But he hasn't failed us, we failed him. Another reason we think this way is because there are so many false teachers in the world who have equated the blessings of God with health and wealth, and that they say Falsely, that if you follow God and you obey God and you send money to some fellow evangelist, that God's just going to open up the heavens and pour out a blessing and all your problems will go away. That is a false gospel. They wrest scriptures out of their context and they put them together to teach something that is the opposite of what the Word of God teaches. Another reason is because we tend to believe that if God loves us and cares for us, he will keep all difficulties out of our lives. Because what we do is we think of him as our Heavenly Father, which of course is true, but we equate the way we parent with the way he parents. What do parents do? Most parents today, and I'm not going to get off on a diatribe about parenthood But most parents try to remove every obstacle, every difficulty, every hardship, every problem that the children could ever face, and not just when they're little either, even when they're adults. I want you to know that God doesn't parent that way. That's not the kind of father that we have. He knows That what is best for us often is to face hardship and pain and suffering so that the sinful desires are burned out of our lives. and we become stronger and more dependent on Him. God 's plan for us is not that we would have a life that is fun, exciting, and pain-free. No, his plan for us, as stated in his word, is that we would become more like his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And that can only happen as we learn to trust Him more. And the only way we really learn to trust God the way we should is when we face what seem to be insurmountable problems. You see, so often we're not doing nearly as well as we think we are spiritually. If you ever notice this, we think we're trusting in the Lord. Things are running smooth. We say I'm going to church every Sunday. I read my Bible occasionally. I mean, I'm doing really, really well. And then God sends a problem into our life, and you can picture it this way. He knocks out a crutch that we're leaning on, a prop, as it were, and we fall flat on our face. You see, we thought that we were resting in the Lord and trusting the Lord, but really we were trusting in something else. Some prop, some crutch that we have fashioned ourselves to rest in and find our comfort in. It might be a large bank account. It may be a healthy spouse, it may be a wonderful career, it could be any number of things, but God will take those crutches out from under us so that we learn to walk and rely on Him And he does that in love. So often like Gideon, we think that if God is with us, our problems will vanish. But in fact, it's usually in the midst of our suffering and our trials that we become most aware of the Lord's comforting presence. And it's in the valley that we see his face more clearly. We have another thing that Gideon says here in verse 13. Notice this next phrase. And where be all his miracles which our father told us of? Gideon, I think, is thinking back to his childhood, and every Jewish boy would have been taught the wonderful exploits of Moses. How God led them out of Egypt. He's saying, you know, I was taught about Moses and how God called him and how he performed all Brought those plagues down upon Pharaoh and upon the mighty land of Egypt and how they went out and they crossed the Red Sea and he fed them with manna and he brought them in and they defeated the Canaanites and came in to this promised land. But that doesn't seem real today. That seems like a fantasy. I don't see God working like that today, he says to this angel. You ever thought that way? Ever felt like the stories, the miracles , the wonderful interventions of God that you read of in Scripture were for another time and another place? but they're not really happening today. I want you to know that God is still active. God is still doing amazing things all around us if we have eyes to see it. We also tend to assume that God has given up on us. He says here. And verse 13, at the end of it, the Lord hath forsaken us. God's given up on us. That's the only way he was interpreting his circumstances. But if we look at the beginning of this chapter, it says the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord delivered them into the hands of the Midian. seven years. It wasn't that the Lord had forsaken his people. Again, I say it was the people that had forsaken the Lord. And God and his love and concern for them would not let them continue to drift away from him. So he sent this foreign oppressor. How often do we think that God has been unfair with us? When in fact we have been unfaithful to God. If God were to give us what we deserve exactly, no more, no less, we would all be doomed. You must not interpret your circumstances as evidence that God has abandoned you, given up on you, forsaken you, put you on the shelf, and he's never going to deal with you again. That is a wrong interpretation. of your situation in life. You see your problems are actually an indication that God is very active and at work in your life. God wants in every crisis and every difficulty and every problem that we face to refine us and bring something good out of that circumstance. That brings me to my second point. And this I want to look more at Gideon 's response, his emotional response to his circumstances, and that is that our problems are often compounded because we fail to trust in God. What I'm talking about here is what is evident in our text is Gideon's emotional response to his problems. There are two overwhelming emotions that come out of the text. One is fear. He's paralyzed with fear. And the other, he's discouraged, or we might say, depressed. And often those things of anxiety and depression come together as one large cloud in our lives. You see, our problems are often compounded by our response of unbelief. And I think often we are unaware of this. When we are in a crisis, when we face a problem, whether it be a brief problem or a severe problem We tend to think that our emotional responses are valid and cannot possibly be helped. I know this because I'm a human being and I felt this way many times before. And I've talked to many people in similar circumstances. Let me offer a disclaimer. I recognize that some people struggle with mental illness. I'm not one who believes that all of your psychological problems are in fact spiritual problems. I understand that some of the finest Christians that have ever walked the face of the earth struggled with depression and anxiety and a variety of other afflictions. However, it is true that the way you feel about a given situation is directly related to how you think about that situation. And the way you think about a situation is connected deep down to what you truly believe. What you truly believe. The last thing in the world I want to do today is make you feel bad about feeling bad. Okay? That's not what I'm trying to do. I'm trying to be helpful. And of course, often when something suddenly comes into our lives, we have this initial emotional response and I'm not certainly blaming anyone for that. That's natural, that's normal. God made us with emotions. If you hear of bad news, you should, and you rejoice instantly when you hear of some great catastrophe that happens. Something's wrong with you. But having said that, after that initial wave has washed over us, this bad news, something drastic has happened in our lives, whether it's the loss of a job or the loss of a loved one or something like that. We need to be able to regain our footing by resting in God and who he is and what he has said. What I'm talking about is learning to, as it were, settle yourself and quiet your heart because you're resting in God. So often our problems are compounded by our own reaction And the way we think is that the reason why I'm completely out of control is because of what has happened to me. And what I want you to think about today is it's not because of what happened to you. It's more correctly to say it's because of how you've interpreted what has happened to you. We often are unaware of the way we think and the way we interpret things. It's kind of background noise. We don't pay attention to it, but it changes the frame of everything. If something happens in your life and the first thing you think and then you just have this running loop in your mind of saying, my life is over, nothing good is ever going to happen to me again. And uh, you know, I might as well give up. There's never going to be any more joy or gladness or happiness or opportunities to serve the Lord. I have nothing to live for. If that loop runs through your mind every day, day after day, when you go to bed, when you wake up and everything else, you know what? You're going to be really depressed. Because your body's going to respond to what you're thinking. And have you ever had a situation in your life, I have , where there was something that happened and it seemed so incredibly important. But yet there were some facts that you did not know, but you filled in the blanks, and then when it all worked out, it really wasn't as huge a crisis as you thought it was. It wasn't the end of the world. And so often we magnify our problems. We take a problem and we get a huge magnifying glass and that problem becomes huge and it just dwarfs everything else in our universe. And then we have so many physical problems and emotional problems and relational problems, and we have compounded, we've multiplied our problem. And so often we get angry at God because of this huge problem that we have, and yet we have magnified it tenfold. From the real thing that God allowed into our life because of the way we've responded to it, the way we've thought about it and interpreted it. And it all goes down to what we really believe. Now, Gideon here, with this oppression of the Midianites, is fearful. That's why he's hiding in the valley. He's hiding from the Midianites. Later we'll read the same trait when he is reluctant to lead Israel and he has to keep putting out that fleece. He has to have confirmation that God is really with him. His fear was due to a lack of faith in God. He wasn't completely convinced that God was with him. And may I say that the reason why Gideon didn't trust God the way he should is because he didn't know God very well. I say this often from this pulpit because this was something that when I stumbled over it several years ago was like a eureka moment to me. Why is it that so many people have so much trouble trusting in God? You know why? Because they don't know him very well. The better you know God's the better you will trust him. And so when the crisis comes, you will say, listen, I've been through seven other difficulties like this. And God's been faithful every time. I can face this. I know God. I know He is my Father. He will not fail me. But if you have not been immersing your mind in the Word of God and you have not been expressing your dependence on God daily in prayer, and you have not been gathering with the people of God to worship, And you have not every day been filling your heart and your mind with God's truth and cultivating that relationship with Him, then when a crisis comes, He's going to seem like a stranger to you. Because you haven't been walking with him and you don't know him very well. This is why we so often respond with fear and with panic. Do we really believe that God is in control? Do we really believe that he has a plan and that he's working his plan? I mean, this is very practical, even the way you view the nightly news, if you happen to watch it. Do you go to bed every night upset and thinking that the world's, you know, just a horrible thing and and the forces of evil are are are overrunning the forces of righteousness and that our nation has done and everything in the world is done and Wait a minute. If I read this Bible correctly, uh, we know which side wins in the end. Okay? And we know that God is in control. He's still on the throne. And so if it seems like the church is weak and lethargic and worldly. We are saddened by that, but we do not give up in despair because we know that this has always happened throughout the history of the world, and God will revive his people. And he is working his plan. What is it that drives out fear? Did you know the Bible only has one answer to that question? And you find it from Genesis to Revelation. You know what it is? It's a renewed awareness of the presence of the Lord. Did you see what the angel says to him? This pre-incarnate manifestation of Jesus Christ, he says to Gideon, when he announces himself to him, the Lord is with thee. That's all Gideon needed to know. You know what we find again in verse 16? The Lord said unto him, surely I will be with thee. You find this all throughout Scripture. Moses, remember, was very reluctant to lead the children of Israel out of Egypt. You know what the Lord said to him? Certainly I will be with thee. Exodus 3. 12. Joshua took the lead after the death of Moses, and to put it bluntly, he didn't think he could even begin to feel the shoes of this legend. This man Moses, the great deliverer, the lawgiver. And God said repeatedly to Joshua in those early chapters of that book, I will be with thee. David, who lived as an exile for ten years, fought so many battles, so often it looked like he was going to lose his life He would reflect at the end of his life, and he would write these immortal words, Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. We could go on and on into the New Testament and see this. The Bible's answer to our fear is always the same one. The presence of the Lord. We have just come out of the Christmas season, and one of the titles of Jesus that is still fresh in our minds is Emmanuel God with Us. My question to you this morning is, is the Lord with you? Let me just say that if you do not know the Lord Jesus Christ, As your personal Lord and Savior, you cannot claim the promise that God is with you. You can't really trust in a God that you don't personally know through the Lord Jesus Christ. You may know God in some vague sense, but you can't trust in something that's vague when you're facing a crisis. And the only way you can really know God is through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. You see what we need when we face A great problem, a great difficulty is not a better plan or a better strategy, but a better sense of the presence of God. Gideon was fearful. He was also discouraged His words here sound like the words of a frustrated and disillusioned man. Keeps saying, if the Lord is with us, then why is this like this? And where are the miracles? And where is God's presence? There was a day when Gideon believed that God would protect his people, but now he's not so sure. Sometimes our faith and the presuppositions that we trust in don't seem to square with the facts of our life. But I want you to know that God's truth and our reality are never at odds with one another. The problem is that we have a little microscopic view of what's going on in our lives and in the world. We are the the facts of the situation, the future, the past, and everything that's going on in our hearts and the hearts of our loved ones are hidden from us so often. And so it is very foolish for us to draw conclusions and say God has failed me. God is not doing what's right. Nothing good can come out of this because we don't even know all of the facts. that we're facing at this time. We're not looking at the big picture like he is. A cynical Christian is a person who has chosen to live by sight rather than by faith A disgruntled believer is someone who has wrongly interpreted the events of their life. They have wrongly responded to it, and they have drawn some false conclusions. And that's why they feel the way they feel. So often our problems seem to disprove That God is involved in our lives. Our problems are compounded by our responsive unbelief. And finally, I want you to see that our problems can be overcome by trusting or resting in the Lord. I want you to see in our text that the presence of God will empower us to become the person that God wants us to believe. Verse 12, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him and said unto him, The Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of Bower. Why did he call Gideon by this name? Many people would say it's because he saw the incredible potential in this young man. He was intelligent. He was a leader. He had all the qualities that God was looking for, but I don't think that's what this text is indicating. The angels expressing what Gideon could become by the power of God. But apart from the power of God, Gideon was a very weak man. We see this phenomenon often in Scripture. God changed a very deceptive man named Jacob. Into a prince with God. He changed his name to Israel, and he would become the name of God's people. God called a boastful and unstable fisherman to be a disciple. And he gave him the name of Peter or Rock. And that weak man would preach at Pentecost and 3,000 souls would be saved. It's not that Peter had all this untapped potential. It's not that Jacob was a diamond in the rough. It's that God's spirit can transform a person and do amazing things through our weakness You see, God wants to change you by his presence. You never really experience the intimate presence of God and remain the same. In verse 14, the angel says, Go in this thy might, that is in the power that God would give to him. And in verse 34, later in this chapter, we read, the Spirit of the Lord came upon him. You see, God never calls you to do something without also giving you the power to do it. You may be facing right now what seems to be some insurmountable obstacles ahead of you. Just say to yourself and in your heart, there's no way. But I want you to know if you yield to the power of God and it is his will for your life, he will enable you to do it. He is the God who specializes in the impossible. And the fact of the matter is we see in this passage that God has a plan for our lives. In verse 14 we read, and the Lord looked upon him and said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel from the hand of the Midianites. Have not I sent thee Scholars like to debate about what was conveyed in that look that's mentioned here. Did Gideon see a glimpse of the glory of God in the face of the angel of the Lord? Did the angel express confidence or compassion in that gaze? Or did he simply look intently and get in to gain his attention? I don't know. But I know one thing for sure , that Gideon never forgot that look. And I suspect he never forgot those words, have not I sent thee? Do you believe that God has a plan for your life? Have you ever viewed your life from that perspective? I think that's very helpful. You know that I like to read a lot of older books, and it used to be that Christians often talked about God's plan for your life. God has a plan for every life. God has something for you to accomplish. I don't read so much about that today. But it is a life-changing truth God did not leave you on this planet. He did not fashion you in his image. He did not redeem you by his grace so that you could just fritter away your life on selfish pursuits. You were born, you were redeemed for a purpose. God has something significant for you to do, or else you wouldn't be here. He has other lives he wants you to touch. He has people he wants you to encourage. He has tasks he wants you to perform. And there are things set out in his sovereign plan for you to accomplish in this coming year, 2016. And by his grace you can do it. But you must trust in him. You might say, but I feel so inadequate for the task. Well, that's exactly the way Gideon felt. Gideon in verse 15 talks about the fact that his family is poor and that he's the least in his father's household. To say that Gideon didn't fill up to the challenge would be an understatement. He didn't feel at all qualified. His once proud family had been reduced to poverty by the Midianites. He was the youngest son. He says, I'm a nobody. He didn't have an inferiority complex. As the bad joke goes, in many ways he was inferior. He really did have some deficiencies, some weaknesses. But God delights to take weak, broken, frail individuals and do amazing things through them because then he gets the glory. When God called Moses, he felt very unqualified. He made every excuse he could find to get out of leading God 's people When God commissioned the prophet Jeremiah, he said, I cannot speak, for I am a child The list goes on and on. God chooses, the scriptures say, the foolish things of the world to confound the mighty that no flesh should glory in his presence. The angel's message was this: the Lord said unto him, I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man. I know there are many discouraged people here this morning, and I know I only know the tip of the iceberg. But this is a word for you for the new year. The Lord says, I will be with thee. And you can triumph over whatever insurmountable obstacles you face. with the presence and promises of God. My message for you this morning is very simple. Trust in the Lord. He is worthy of your trust. Hudson Taylor said, all God's giants have been weak men who did great things for God because they reckoned on God being with them. Is God with you? Do you know the Lord as your Savior? Are you walking with Him? Are you resting in Him? Are you trusting in Him? If you are, God is with you, and you can accomplish whatever it is God has set out for you in this coming year. Let's close in prayer. Father, we are weak people. We are fearful people We are discouraged people. We so often wrongly interpret our circumstances Our fallen flesh often draws the wrong conclusions, and we think that you have failed us, that you have forsaken us. But we know from the lens of Scripture that that is not true. That you have a plan and purpose behind every difficulty that we face. And so I pray that you would take the words that have been spoken this morning and that you would help us to trust in you more. And Father, if we find it difficult to trust in you, I pray that we would realize it's because we don't know you well enough. We have not been walking by faith. And so I pray that you would help us to seek you with all of our heart and to cling to you, for you are our life. Go with us now, we pray, into this new year For we follow you by faith. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.