If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Hebrews 11? Hebrews chapter 11. Many of you are familiar with the name Cori Tenboom. She was a Dutch Christian who became famous for the writing of her autobiographical book, The Hiding Place. In this book, she tells of her family who lived in Holland and her father was a watchmaker. And during World War II, they became part of the Dutch resistance. And so they began to help Jews escape and hide in their home. And everything was going well until an informant told the Germans of their hiding place in 1944. Corey and her family were sent to concentration camps and only Corey would survive. And so after this time, she began to talk of her experiences in churches and conferences and gatherings. About her experiences and the lessons that God taught her. And in 1971, she recorded her experiences and insight in this very influential book. Now, I say all that to give you this quote. Corey Kimboone said, never be afraid. To trust an unknown future to a known God. Never be afraid to trust an unknown future to a known God. Her words fit perfectly with our text and really the entirety of the book of Hebrews. In Hebrews chapter 11 in verse 1 it says, now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. And what we see in this description of biblical faith is that faith is future focused. It's not focused on the here and now, but it's focused on the future. But because of its focus on the future, it is able to help us in the here and now. The New Testament presents the Christian life as future -focused. We speak of the blessed hope of Christ's return. We possess a living hope. Someday we will have resurrected bodies. Your whole New Testament maintains this perspective. And this is true of our text this morning. We're looking at just one verse, Hebrews 11, 28. Speaking of Moses, through faith, he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of blood, lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch them. We've been away from the book of Hebrews for several weeks, so let me quickly remind you of where we are. The book of Hebrews is essentially a sermon written to a small Jewish house church that was probably located in the city of Rome. These early believers were beginning to experience a new wave of intense persecution under the Roman Emperor Nero. And some of these professing Christians were considering renouncing Christ and going back to their old Judaism Because Rome recognized Judaism as a legal religion, and thus they would be safe. To counteract this apostasy, this unknown pastor who was known to this congregation Reminds them that Jesus is far better than anything that Judaism has to offer. And he encourages them to spiritual Perseverance. One of the key texts that helps us to interpret the purpose of this book begins in Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 35 and following. Notice how it's future focus. Women received their dead, raised to life again, and others were tortured, not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection. And others had trial of crew mockings and scourging, yea, moreover, of bonds and imprisonments. They were stoned, they were sawn asunder They were tempted, they were slain with the sword, they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented, of whom the world was not worthy. They wandered in deserts and in mountains, and in dens and caves of the earth. These all having obtained a good report through faith, received, notice this, not the promise. God having provided some better thing for us, that they without us should not be made perfect. I will explain this in further detail. when we come to these verses, but you'll notice that the, if I can put it this way, the payoff was not in this life. They didn't see the full answering of God's promise to them in this world, but in the world to come. And therefore they are called to persevere. In chapter eleven, we have a beautiful Example of what a living faith looks like in all of these various Old Testament characters, culminating at the beginning of chapter 12 with our Lord Jesus Christ. Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. Now, there's two great heroes of faith mentioned in chapter 11 that give in much more space than anyone else. The first one is Abraham, that covers all the way from verse 8. to verse 22 essentially and then Moses ' section in the hall of faith really begins in verse 23 with his birth and the heroic faith of his parents. We read, by faith when he was born. In verse 24, by faith Moses when he was come to years Verse 27, by faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, and now through faith he kept the Passover and sprinkling of blood. Now I would suggest to you that most of us in reading through this section and reading through the life of Moses, we would be unimpressed with verse 25. In fact, we just pass right through it without thinking there's really anything significant there. By faith, Moses kept the Passover. That doesn't really Resonate with us as some incredible example of faith. And so I'm going to try to show you that it really is an incredible example of faith. Moses was trusting God for the future and the promises that God had given to him. This is something that is so significant for us to consider this morning. You know, most of our worry and most of our fear is rooted. And things that are in the future. Things that we worry about, things that we're anxious about, that are on the horizon, things that might come. In this next year, or in the next few months, or perhaps even this coming week. And we think about it and we mull over it and we worry about it. What if this happens? What if that occurs? How will it impact my life? So instead of looking at the future With joy and with gladness, which is to be our perspective, we we view the future with fear and trepidation. Because the future is always unknown. We don't know exactly what's going to happen tomorrow, or the next day, or the next day. But we do know who controls the future. I'm going to preach you this morning on this truth. People with a living faith trust God for the future. We should trust God for the future. And we see it in the example of Moses and those who followed him in our text this morning. My first point is this: people with a living faith can celebrate God's deliverance even before it occurs. This is amazing. Look with me at verse 28. Through faith, he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of blood. I'm not seeking to be technical, but the tense of the verb kept here indicates that Moses was instituting or establishing an ordinance. for Israel. In other words, this was not just a celebration or ceremony that they were to do this next night. The night of the Passover. No, it was to continue for generation after generation after generation. Now let me remind you that the Passover was the last of ten plagues that God sent to break the hard heart. Of Pharaoh, so that he would let God's people go out of Egypt. They were incredible demonstrations of the power of God. They also mocked and ridiculed the gods of Egypt. Now perhaps it's been a while since you've covered the plagues Maybe in Sunday school. So let me remind you of them quickly. We have, first of all, the water turned to blood. The Nile was their source of life, but God turned it for a time into a source of death. They had frogs. Because they lived by the river, there were many frogs, and the Egyptians worshiped frogs. God sent lice thirdly, and then beetles, and then moraine, which was a cattle disease, and then boils and hail and locusts and darkness, and finally, and ultimately the Passover. The Passover, which we sang about this morning, refers to The fact that a death angel would pass over the people on this night in every household that did not have blood on the doorpost. would experience the death of the firstborn son in that family and in their flocks and herds. But the Passover was much more than this. It involved the sacrifice of a lamb and a communal feast that was a celebration of God's deliverance. Now, what was so remarkable about this first celebration is that the people of Israel had not yet been delivered. This is before, this is on the eve of the Passover. That's why this was a great act of faith. Just think about it. You know, we we have a sports-obsessed culture, and we have when our teams win the championship. What do they do like three or four days after that? They have a parade through the city that they represent, and people show up and in their sports gear and and their jerseys and everything and they they they pray through there. Just imagine if a team is getting ready to play game seven of a series. And they announce the day of the parade to celebrate their victory. That that would be, first of all, be perceived as really, really arrogant. But it would reveal how confident they were that they were going to be victorious. This is Sort of what was happening here. God is telling them to celebrate. I wonder if if someone came up to Moses and said, Moses, don't you think, you know, I don't want to tell you to do your job, but But maybe let's wait until we're actually delivered and then let's celebrate it. How about that? That just seems a little safer to me. Seems a little more in keeping. But that's not what God wanted them to do. And it's not just that they were preparing to celebrate their deliver that they celebrated their deliverance that was yet to come. But that they instituted as something that was going to be celebrated every year at this time. This is an amazing thing. Moses ' inauguration of the Passover revealed the confidence that he had that God would indeed deliver his people. And it's not just that Moses kept this. But he gave this message to everyone else and led them in the celebration. Faith has a future focus. We've seen this throughout this chapter. Notice what it says in Hebrews 11, verse 7, about Noah. Noah being warned of God of things not yet, not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark. to the saving of his house by the which he condemned the world and became heir of righteousness which is by faith. Moses built an ark even though he had never seen a flood, and probably had never seen a boat this big. He was looking forward by faith. Chapter 11, verses 9 and 10, we read, By faith, he that is Abraham, sojourned in the land of promise as in a strange country, dwelling in Tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the promise, for he looked for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God. We read that Abraham went out into a place that he did not know, a place that he had never been to before. He trusted God for the unknown. In chapter 11 and verse 13, we read of the patriarchs, these all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off. and were persuaded of them and embraced them and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth You see, this is an example that we see again and again of that future focus of faith. Those who have a living faith can celebrate God's blessings even before they're here. This reminds us of a phenomenon that we see so often in Scripture that theologians sometimes describe as already and not yet. The Bible tells us that we possess certain things. And then it tells us in other passages that we will receive those things. When we are with the Lord in glory, and so we can scratch our heads and say, how can both of those be true? There's a sense in which we already have them. We already have the standing, but we won't fully understand or enjoy that standing, that blessing, until we're with the Lord. Go on and on about this. In Romans 8. 17, it says that we are heirs with God and joint heirs with Christ. And yet it doesn't really seem that way when we're living on this earth. Romans chapter 8, we have this great chain of redemption. That says whom he did for know he also did predestinate, whom he did predestinate, them he also called, and whom he called, then he also justified, and whom he justified, then he also glori Bite And the five links in that chain are all in the past tense as if they've already occurred. And yet they haven't already occurred, at least, certainly not some of them. In 1 John chapter 3, it says, Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. And we are. We are right now the sons of God, but yet we won't really fully grasp what that means until we're with the Lord someday in heaven. Let me put it this way. What percentage of the biblical description of your salvation Have you enjoyed up to this point in your life? Let's say you've been a Christian for 30 or 40 years. I want to submit to you that you have enjoyed less than 1% of your salvation. When you consider the eternity that is ahead and the fullness that is to come. But by faith right now, we can celebrate and anticipate The fulfillment of our great salvation. I like to quote from Great Is Thy Faithfulness. That last verse, pardon for sin, and a peace that endureth, thine own dear presence, to cheer and to guide, strength for today, and bright hope for tomorrow, blessings all mine, with ten thousand beside. These are some of the wonderful blessings that we have today, but it's just a tiny little taste of what is to come. And so this is a reminder of the forward focus of our faith. We can celebrate and anticipate this blessed assurance, but it all must be accepted by faith. And we can enjoy the benefits of our salvation before they have come because we have confidence that they are coming. Just like someone tells you, calls you, and tells you that you are going to receive a great inheritance. From someone who has passed away. And you rejoice at that news as you would expect, even though you haven't seen one dime of that money It still has changed your day and perhaps the rest of your life. We need to grasp the benefits and the blessings Blessings even before they have fully arrived. There was a chorus that we often used to sing in my church when I was a boy. Oh, it is wonderful to be a Christian. Oh, it is wonderful to be God's child. It's wonderful to have your sins forgiven. Oh, it is wonderful to be redeemed, justified, forever, reconciled. And then we have this famous hymn, Blessed Assurance, Jesus is mine. Oh, what a foretaste of glory divine! We get just a little taste of all that is to come. This future anticipation Of what God has promised us is one of the keys of enduring difficulty in this life. And especially in the book of Hebrews, of facing suffering and trials and persecution for following Christ. Again, put yourself in the shoes of these early Jewish believers. Who were going to experience profound oppression because they were followers of Christ. They had been rejected by their own community, the Jews, and now they were being persecuted by the Gentiles. What could compel them to continue to be faithful, to continue to acknowledge that Jesus is Lord, rather than saying Caesar is Lord? And the answer is Because they had their faith fixed on Christ and on all the promises that he would provide. Paul writes in Romans 8. 18, for I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us. How do we face hardship and trials and affliction in this life without giving in to despair and unbelief? The answer is by looking ahead to the glory that awaits us. And in Hebrews chapter 12. We have the supreme example of our Savior. It says, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame and the set down at the right hand of the throne of God. How did Jesus endure the reality that he would bear the sins of the world, that he would be forsaken by his Father? He looked beyond that suffering to the joy of what would be accomplished through his redemption, of him bringing many sons to glory. And this is how we must endure profound suffering and difficulty in life by looking beyond the here and the now. People with a living faith can celebrate God's deliverance even before it comes. And secondly, people with a living faith obey God even when they don't fully understand what God is doing. You ever have a situation in your life and you're like, I'm not sure what God is doing here. I don't know what He's trying to teach me. It doesn't make sense to me. Join the club. This is the way Christians throughout history have often felt and often recorded their thoughts. It says here that through faith Moses kept the Passover. He led these People to follow him. Just put yourself in the place of these ancient Hebrew slaves. They've been living in Egypt now for Over 400 years, Moses comes and performs a bunch of miracles that only seem to anger the king of Egypt. Pharaoh was the most powerful man in the world, and yet Moses was challenging him. In fact, during the plagues, Pharaoh has made the lives of these slaves more difficult. But now Moses has told the people that the final plague will secure their deliverance. He tells them the death angel will pass over the land at night. And he tells all the Egyptian firstborn will die. He informs them that what will protect them from the same demise is to place blood on the doorpost of their homes. But that was not all. They must celebrate their deliverance before it occurs. They had to follow an elaborate set of instructions. They had to offer a sacrifice of a lamb without spot or blemish and it had to be cooked in a particular way and they had to apply the blood of the lamb with hyssop on the doorpost. They couldn't just use any instrument to do that. And they had to eat ready to go with their shoes on their feet and the staff in their hand. And they were even told to eat in haste. I can just hear some Jewish mother telling her son not to eat so fast, and he protesting, but God told us to. And he would be right. Now let's reflect on the situation for a moment. They'd never heard of anything like this before. They had no ritual in their background like this. They'd never seen or perhaps heard of a death angel passing over. The idea that all the firstborn sons in Egypt would die in one night must have seemed preposterous. And certainly the full meaning of the blood being applied to the doorpost, they did not fully understand. And celebrating this feast seemed premature, costly, and unnecessary, particularly if they were going to leave the country very soon. And yet the Bible records in Exodus chapter 12 and verse 28: and the children of Israel went away and did as the Lord commanded Moses and Aaron. They obeyed because they believed. And Exodus chapter 11 and verse 7, it says that God would put a difference in the Passover. Between the Egyptians and Israel, he would show that they were two contrasting sets of people, one representing the world, and the other representing the people of God. And that is exactly what happened. The firstborn in Egypt died while the firstborn in Israel lived. Why? Because the Hebrews obeyed God's word by faith. They responded in faith the revelation he had given them. Now it's true that we are saved by grace through faith alone. You've heard me proclaim that many times from this pulpit But it's also true that those who are saved demonstrate their faith by obedience to God's word. Some people are troubled by this. They think it teaches a works-based salvation. They think a person can put their faith and trust in Christ, and yet there be no evidence in their life at all because we're saved by faith and not by works. We have a good illustration of the foolishness of this position right here. Let me give you a test. What if there was a Jewish father in his home? With a beautiful wife, the little daughter, and a six-year-old son. And he said, I don't know that I believe this message that Moses has sent to us from God. It seems a little far-fetched. I believe in Jehovah, and I believe that he is a good God, and I believe That my son will be fine, whether I do anything tonight, whether I put blood on the doorpost. And so he doesn't do that. What would happen to his firstborn son? His son would perish. Why would he perish? Because the father's response demonstrated that he didn't really believe what God had said through Moses. He didn't believe that warning. He didn't believe that this was the provision that God had made for the salvation of his son. He didn't believe it. And so you see that there is always a connection between what we truly believe and our actions. Indeed, trust and obey Sometimes when we obey God, it may not always make sense to others. In fact, often it will not make sense. Changing your lifestyle, going to church on Sunday May seem strange to your unsaved friends. Given the Lord's work , may seem like a foolish financial decision, particularly if you're in dire straits. Surrendering to follow the Lord in ministry or to the mission field may seem like nonsense when you have a good life. In this country. But those who walk by faith obey when God calls. And they obey despite the difficulties. And they obey even when they may not fully understand what God is doing. Thirdly and finally, people with a living faith depend on the atoning blood of Christ for their salvation. Notice in verse 28, It says that he not only verse ver kept the Passover, but it says, and the sprinkling of blood. And then a reason is given for this, lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch them. And of course this is a reference to their death. This phrase explains why the sprinkling of blood was an act of faith. Moses and the people's actions on this night revealed that they believed that without the application of the blood on the doorpost, death would come to their firstborn sons. And in Exodus chapter 12 and verse 7 It says, And they shall take of the blood and strike it on the two side posts and on the upper door post of the house. And then a few verses later we read this explanation. For I will pass through the land of Egypt this night. And will smite all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast, and against all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgment. And the blood Shall be to you for a token upon the house where you are, when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you. Now the blood applied on those doorposts in Egypt all those years ago Pointed unmistakably the blood of Christ that was shed at the cross. The book of Hebrews Emphasizes the blood of Christ. In Hebrews chapter nine and verse twelve We read these words: Neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood, he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. For if the blood of bulls and of goats and of ashes and of a heifer sprinkling the unclean sanctified to the purifying of the flesh, how much more shall the blood of Christ who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. A little bit later, in verse 18 of the same chapter, wherefore neither the first testament was dedicated without blood. For when Moses had spoken every precept to all the people according to the law, he took the blood of calves and of goats with water and scarlet wool and hyssoph and sprinkling both the book and all the people, saying, This is the blood of the testament which God hath enjoined unto you. Moreover, he sprinkled with blood both the tabernacle and all the vessels of the ministry, and almost all things are by the law purged with blood, and without shedding of blood is no remission. And then if you look with me at chapter 10, verses 18 And following. Now where remission of these is, there is no more offering for sin. Having therefore brethren boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, which He hath consecrated for us through the veil that is to say his flesh. And having obtained a high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart and full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. We have this passage also in 1 Peter chapter 1. He says, For as much as you know That you were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ. As of the lamb without blemish and without spots. I've covered this before, but I want to mention this again What are we to understand by the blood of Christ? Let me take a moment to address this. Blood is offensive to the modern sensibilities of most people. This is why some people don't like some of our hymns. Some of the scriptures that so often point to the blood of Christ. In Leviticus chapter 17 and verse 11, it says, the life of the flesh is in the blood. This has led some people to believe that the blood is a symbol of life. And there's a sense in which it is, except it would be better to say that it's a symbol of death If you were to carefully consider every reference to blood in the Bible, I think you would see that it is a symbol of death. This is not just my opinion, this is the opinion of the vast majority of Bible scholars. The numerous references to the blood of Christ in the New Testament are not suggesting that there is something magic about the composition of his blood. But I've seen books that Christians have. There are things on the internet that I've seen that are sensational And over the top, and you should avoid. Because they're not true and they're not something that the Bible teaches The blood of Christ, the shedding of his blood of the cross, is a vivid symbolic reminder of His redemptive death for us. The blood of Christ functions just like the cross of Christ does in your New Testament. When you read the cross of Christ, you do not think that there was something magical about that wood. On which he died. When Paul speaks of glorying in the cross, you're not picturing, I hope. That Paul like was bowing down before a wooden cross, and that this cross was somehow the sacred object, this relic That had magical powers. No, he's using that symbolically of Christ's vicarious death for us, which is at the very heart of the gospel. And this is true of the blood as well. They both, both the cross and the blood, powerfully depict the brutal death of Christ. That was the cost of our redemption. You see, the blood that was shed Was evidence of our Lord's sacrificial substitutionary death for us We don't like to see a large amount of blood poured out on the pavement somewhere. In fact, when there's a horrible accident or a brutal murder Often the fire department is called to wash that blood away because they know it's disturbing, it's distressing, it's disgusting for people to see. It means that something horrible has happened here. And this is how the Hebrew word for blood is used throughout the Old Testament. Genesis 4. 10 we read The situation with Cain and Abel, thy brother's blood, crieth unto me from the ground. Not that it was literally crying from the ground, but that this Spilt blood was evidence that murder had taken place, and it was calling to God for justice. In Hebrew The plural of blood is used to depict the shedding of blood and violence. Such as in Psalm 51 and verse 14, when David says, after his murder of Uriah Deliver me from blood guiltiness, the King James says, and it's literally just bloods. Deliver me from bloods plural The shedding of blood that I did, because I am a man who has committed murder. And all of the sacrifices, and all of the sprinkling, and all of those sacrifices, and on the Day of Atonement, and at the Passover, all of those things. Pointed to one solitary event: the death of Christ on the cross and his blood that was shed at that cross. And the shedding of his blood points to the fact that Jesus was not killed in a humane way He was not euthanized. He was murdered in a brutal way to cause the utmost pain, suffering, and degradation. His cap scalp was pierced by a crown of thorns. This undoubtedly produced much blood. He was flogged with a whip which would have cut open The flesh on his back. We know that some prisoners would die of this because of a loss of blood. And then, of course, at the cross, the spikes were driven into his wrist and ankles, causing a great loss of blood. And all of this pointed to and was evidenced toward his sacrificial death on our behalf. Now I say all that to say this: the blood that was placed on those ancient Hebrew doorposts in Egypt did not ultimately satisfy God. They were a picture of the Lamb of God who would someday come many years later. And die on an old rugged cross. And this is and always has been man's only hope of redemption So let me ask you this morning, what are you trusting in for your salvation? I want you to pay attention to this. This is the most important thing. What are you trusting in for your salvation? What's the first thought that comes into your mind? Is it, you know, I'm a pretty good person. I try to do my best. I think if most of my friends, if you were to interview them, would say that I'm a nice guy, or I'm a good girl, I'm thoughtful of others, I'm kind. I try to be a blessing to people. I try to be helpful. I'm a good person. My friend, if that's what pops into your mind, if that's where you naturally go in your thinking, then it means that Jesus' death is something that you're saying, no thanks to. I don't need this. I don't need his atoning sacrifice. I didn't need him to die on that old rugged cross. And it means that you are therefore under his condemnation. I mentioned earlier we have so many hymns that have a reference to the blood of Christ because it's such a vivid symbol that goes to the heart of what all Christians believe. We have the psalm written by William Cooper. There is a fountain filled with blood, drawn from Emmanuel's veins, and sinners plunge beneath that flood, lose all their guilty stains. And have you been to Jesus for the cleansing blood? Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb? And can you say, Jesus, thy blood and righteousness? Thy beauty are my glorious dress, or my hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. Do these truths resonate in your soul? Or do you find yourself offended and disgusted by this imagery? Your answer to that question says a great deal of your standing before God Everyone here and everyone in the world and everyone who has ever lived Is either under the wrath of God and under only a heartbeat away from eternal judgment, or you are covered by the blood of Christ. And only a breath away from your eternal rest. This is a great contrast. This is an incredible difference. Just like the difference between the families in Egypt that were under the judgment of God and lost their firstborn son. And the Hebrews who by faith offered up this blood, this sacrifice, and their children were saved, and they were delivered So are you going to trust in the gospel and put your faith and trust in Christ alone? I want to conclude with some brief applications. The first one is this God does not owe you an explanation for every curious event that occurs in your life. Sometimes people get all out of joint and all angry and distant from God because some difficulty that came into their life and they don't have any idea why it happened. And rather than drawing near to God and seeking his comfort and his presence and his suffering, they go further away and soul from God and say, I cannot believe that you allow that to occur in my life. And sometimes people think that they have a much better plan for their life than God does. We all have plans, don't we? We kind of envision All right, this is going to happen, then that's going to happen, then I'll be finished with this portion of my life and and then I can do go on to this and go on to this, and things gonna be really great. And God always seems to be disrupting your plans. I want you to know that you need to trust in God even when you don't understand what he's doing. And you can rejoice in the Lord and know that He makes no mistakes and that every trial and every difficulty and every suffering that he brings into your life. He is doing so for a good purpose. And part of that purpose is to draw you closer to him so that you will trust in him more and cling to him more and rely on him more. instead of to your own understanding. And then I want to mention this. If you can, as a Christian, trust God with your eternity, your eternal salvation, why are you so worried about the future problems that you envision in this life? This, of course, if you know your Bible well, you're thinking of a verse. He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? The God who has given us these wonderful promises and the provision for our sin in Jesus Christ. And has promised us all of these incomparable blessings. Can't we trust him for tomorrow? Can't we trust that He will watch over us and take care of us? Take hold of these precious promises, brothers and sisters. Rest in them, cling to them. And then finally, I want to say that this Passover, the mention of the Passover, should make you think of our Savior. Because in 1 Corinthians 5 7 we read that Christ, our Passover, is sacrificed for us. He was the fulfillment of that sacrificial lamb without blemish. without spot, whose blood was smeared on those doorposts. That was all pointing to Christ, our great Savior. And so Christians need not live our lives in fear and dread of the wrath of God. Because Christ has died in our place. He is our propitiation. He has absorbed all of God's wrath that we have ever earned. So we should walk in confidence and in joy because the death angel will not come back. for us. We will never be condemned. There is no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. One night John Wesley was returning home from a preaching engagement, and he was robbed. The thief was very discouraged because John Wesley didn't have much money. He only had some Christian literature. And as the bandit was leaving, making his escape, Wesley called out and said, Stop, I have something I want to give you. And the robber was surprised because victims don't usually offer up more things. And he said, sir, someday you may live to regrets this life that you're living. And if you ever do, I want you to remember one thing. The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. And the thief hurried away And Wesley prayed that his words would someday bear fruits. Many years later, Wesley was out traveling, was greeting people after a Sunday service when a man came up to him and identified himself as the man that had robbed Wesley all those years before. earlier. And he said that he couldn't get those words out of his head. And in time he came to faith in Christ and his entire life had changed. And he said to Wesley, I owe it all to you. And he said, No, no, my friend, not to me, but to the precious blood of Christ that cleanses us from all All sin. May God help us to have this blessed assurance, to have the joy of knowing that all of our sins have been cleansed. They have been paid for by the blood of our Savior. Let's close in prayer. Father, thank you for this time we've been able to spend This morning. Thank you for your word. Thank you for the hope, the promise, the instruction. The challenges, the admonitions that it provides for us, I pray that you would help us to respond in faith to what we have heard this morning. And Father, if there's anyone here who is yet lost in their sins , Who is still trusting foolishly in their own righteousness, I pray that today they would see their need of the Savior and they would come to trust in Christ. Christ in his atoning blood. For it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen