If you have your Bibles, please. You can turn with me to Luke chapter 22. Luke chapter 22. If you're visiting with us, we have this fall been studying the life of Peter and our Lord's interactions with him. Some of you have heard of the name of Charles Kettering before He's one of America's greatest inventors, having 186 patents to his name. From 1920 to 1947, he was the head of research at General Motors. And he's most famous for inventing the electric starter. However, most of his inventions failed miserably. He once said, we must learn to fail intelligently. Once you've failed, analyze the problem and find out why it failed. That is the first step to success. I wonder if you ever feel like a failure as a Christian. If you never do, I have to say, I wonder if you're really a Christian at all. Spiritual failure occurs to some degree. In the life of every disciple of Christ, we all are painfully aware that we do not live up to our high calling. None of us follow Christ without getting tripped up along the way. This is true of even spiritual leaders, even spiritual giants that we revere. Perhaps the greatest spiritual disaster in the Old Testament is what occurred in the life of David. That man the Bible describes as a man after God's own heart, the sweet psalmist of Israel. And yet this man of God committed adultery and murder. In the New Testament, the most prominent example of an individual who failed miserably is certainly the Apostle Peter. The scriptures record very carefully The incidents leading up to his threefold denial of the Lord Jesus Christ. Here he was the leader of the twelve. And around a little campfire, he denied three different times that he even knew the man. And what adds to Peter's guilt Is that the Lord on two occasions, just hours before his denial, warned him that this was coming and that he must be prepared? The first prediction took place in the upper room as they celebrated the Last Supper. The second prediction took place as they were walking to the Garden of Gethsemane where Jesus would be arrested. Now I want to focus this morning on the first of these predictions that took place in the upper room right after or perhaps right before they celebrated the Lord's Supper We have two complementary versions of this prediction, one by the Apostle John and the other by Luke. I want us to begin by looking at John 's account that is recorded in John chapter 13. If you turn with me if you if you can to John 13 Three weeks ago, if you were here, we examined our Lord teaching his disciples in a very powerful way by object lesson. When he washed the disciples' feet. Shortly after that, we read that he made this prediction He said in John chapter 13 and verse 33, little children, yet a little while I am with you. Ye shall seek me. And as I said unto the Jews, whither I go ye cannot come. So now I say unto you , He's telling them that he is about to depart from them. He's about to die on the cross the next day. And although he has warned them and mentioned this to them many times, they were slow to believe. And this prediction bothered Peter greatly. Look with me in verses 36 and following. Simon Peter said unto him, Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus answered him, Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now, but thou shalt follow me afterwards. Peter said unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thy sake. He gets the impression the Lord is saying that he is about to die. He is about to be put to death. And Peter says, Lord, I will follow you even into death. I'm willing to lay down my life for you. And then these solemn words from the Lord, verse 38, Jesus answered him, Wilt thou lay down thy life for my sake? Verily, verily I say unto thee, the cock shall not crow till thou hast denied me thrice. For several months we have been studying the life of Peter. And of course the reason that we are doing this is not because we are So interested in Peter as we are in the Lord's dealings with Peter and the way he made him a disciple. And I think we're coming to the passage in Peter's life that is most instructive for us. I'm referring to his fall and restoration. The scriptures. give a lot of information about this because they want the reader of the New Testament to understand how this happened. And how the Lord restores those of his disciples who fall into sin. Now, I want us now to turn to Luke chapter 22. The passage that we read from a little while ago, and our focus this morning will be on verses 31 and 32. These words also were spoken, we believe, in the upper room, very close in connection with what we just read in John chapter 13. And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desire to have you, that he may sift you as wheat, but I have prayed for thee that thy faith fail not. And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. Now, I wonder what you think of this brief conversation. Was the Lord simply telling Peter not to deny him? I think that's usually what we think of when we consider a warning. But I want you to notice exactly what the Lord says in verse 32. He says, when thou art converted, that is, when you have restored from your fall, and the implication is is that he knew for certain that Peter was going to fall that very night. It presupposes his failure. In one sense, this is a warning. And Peter was wrong in proudly rejecting this correction. However, the Lord knew that Peter would deny him, and he's preparing Peter for that coming spiritual disaster. I think the Lord knew that Peter would reflect on this conversation in the next twelve hours. And after the Denial actually occurred, and we read that Peter went out and wept bitterly. That then he would recall this warning. He would recall these words and the hope that is found in these words. So let me ask you this morning. Do you feel like a failure as a Christian? Have you failed as a disciple of Christ? Have you stumbled badly in your spiritual walk? Do you ever feel that the Lord has given up on you, that He's done with you, that He's no longer interested in using you because you have failed, you have messed up so many times, you fall on your face so often that certainly His patience has run out with you. I find that there are many Christians who have come to believe that. This is one of Satan's most effective lies. He is the one who entices us into sin, and then when we sin, he convinces us. That God won't really forgive us, that even if He does forgive us, He's He's never going to feel the same way about us. He will never really accept us. and receive us and so we're just going to kind of endure a miserable existence somewhere between the Christian world and the the unsaved world and we'll just kind of live a miserable life for the rest of our days. But the scriptures are a book all about forgiveness and second chances and restoration and hope. The book of Proverbs tells us that a just man falls seven times and rises up again. It's not that righteous people never fall, but when they fall, they get back up. I'm going to speak to you this morning on vital truths for disciples who fall. Excuse me. I want you to notice we have three things in our text. We have first of all prediction. The Lord says in verse 31, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheats. We have a warning here. And then we have a prayer, verse 32. But I have prayed for thee that thy faith fail not. What a wonderful prayer that is. And then we have a promise, an implicit promise, and when thou art converted In that little phrase, there is this wonderful hope that Peter, I know you're going to fall tonight, but you will by my grace be restored. And I think that Peter in future days would reflect often on that. And then this strengthen thy brother, and he gives him a commission, something to do. So these are all some important things that we need to remember if we are going to recover from a spiritual fall. First of all, we must remember that the Lord sovereignly controls Satan's attack upon us. He says in verse 31, Simon Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you. The Lord begins by doubling his name, calling him Simon Simon. There's two things that are curious here. Stand out to us. One is the doubling of the name. It's an expression in Scripture, and this is not unique to biblical languages, we do it today. And it's an expression of tender affection, like when David mourned for his son and he said, Absalom, Absalom. Or when Jesus mourned and wept over Jerusalem and he said, Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem. Or when the Lord looked at Martha, who was agitated. And bothered that her sister Mary wasn't helping, and he said, Martha, Martha. I think the Lord said with a sympathetic tone, Simon, Simon. But why didn't he call him Peter? Isn't Jesus the one that gave him that new name way back when we began this series in John chapter 1? You're no longer going to be Simon, but you are now Peter. And he says in Matthew 16, Upon this rock I will build my church. But here he doesn't call him Peter, like he normally does. He calls him Simon. Why is that? I think it's because he's indicating, Peter , you're reverting back to your old ways. You're thinking and sounding like that old rugged fisherman that I first met. on the shores of Galilee. You're not sounding so much or thinking like a disciple now. You've kind of lapsed back into your old ways. Now, what is it that the Lord wants Peter to know? He wants him to know that Satan is about to attack him. Satan was very active at the crucifixion. The Bible says that he entered into the heart of Judas Iscariots. And now he is going to set his sights on the leading disciple Peter. This does not mean that Peter's not responsible for his sin, but it does remind us of how watchful we must be for our adversary. Certainly this is why Peter would write at the end of his first epistle, be sober. Be vigilant because your adversary, the devil, walketh about as a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. Why did he use that picturesque language and so forth? Because he knew what it was to be attacked by Satan and to fall horribly. Now what is it that Satan wants? He says here in this text, hath desired to have you. This Greek term is only used here in the entire New Testament. In fact, it's not even found in the Greek translation of the Old Testament known as the Septuagint. It's a rare word indeed. It could be rendered. Satan hath obtained by asking. It's very suggestive. It reminds us that Satan had to ask permission from the Lord to attack Peter. This should not surprise us because we read the same sort of thing happening in the opening chapters of the book of Job. Do you remember? The devil appeared before the Lord. And he says, you know, this guy Job, he doesn't serve you out of pure motives. He only does it because you blessed him so much. If I touch him, take away his family, take away his health. He's going to curse you to your face because he doesn't really trust in you. He doesn't really love you. He only loves you because you've been so good to him. And that's the preface to the whole book of Job and the explanation for all the trials that he went through. It's very comforting to realize that Satan can bring nothing into your life without God 's permission. This is a very significant truth for us to reflect on in difficult times. 1 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 13. Reminds us the Lord will not bring trials into our lives that are more than we can endure by his grace. And knowing this makes all the difference in the world. So what trial are you facing right now? The Lord is in control of everything connected with that trial. He's in control of the nature of the trial. In other words, the variety of it. Is it a health thing? Is it a relational thing? Is that an employment thing? Is it a very personal matter? I don't know what it is, but whatever the nature of the trial, the Lord's in control of that. He's in control of the nature of the trial, the duration of the trial, the intensity of the trial, and the timing of the trial. That is, when it comes into your life, the scripture is real, he is in control of all of those things. We often think when something comes into our life that's very distasteful, that it's some rude intruder that somehow does not fit into any pattern or any plan, and it certainly couldn't come from God's. The scriptures tell us otherwise. God does not willingly afflict the children of men, the scriptures say. But he is in control of the affliction that comes into our lives. Well, how was Satan going to Attack Peter. Well, we have it in the suggestive imagery here. It says that he may sift you as wheat. This is a reference to the husking of a grain product where you separate the outer husk, the shell, from what's usable. And what this is a reference to is that Satan was trying to separate Peter from his faith. He was going to bring such a trial into his life, something so shocking and so disturbing that Peter's faith would disappear. Now This is something the Lord was going to use to refine his faith. What exactly was this big test? Well, it was the cross. To Peter and the other disciples, it's very clear that they expected the Lord to go to Jerusalem. To be accepted as a king, to set up his government there, that they would be at his right hand, that there would be a new glory that would come to Israel, and that The pagan oppressors, the Romans, would be beaten back and put in their place by the power of God. That's what they were longing for. And then the cross came. And the man that they had been had been following, that they had trusted in, that they had seen done mighty works, that they were putting all of their hopes in. died as a common criminal on an old rugged cross And so you see, Peter's denial was the symptom of a greater crisis of faith. It seemed to be the unraveling of Christ's claims of who he was and of what he would do, of everything that they had believed, everything they had invested their lives in. And yet this was God 's will for Peter to face. You see, it's only in situations of doubt that our faith can really be tested. That it can really be purified, that our unbelief and our self-love can be burned out in the crucible of affliction. You see, the Lord does not bring difficulties into our lives without a purpose. Just because things are not working out the way you thought they would does not mean the Lord has failed you. Or that somehow He doesn't have a plan for your life. It just means that your plan was not the same as the Lord's plan. The Lord wants to use even your failure of faith for his glory. And that brings us to the second truth. We must remember that the Lord Jesus earnestly prays for us. I love the way verse 32 begins, but I have prayed for thee. What a wonderful comfort I think that would be in days to come. I have prayed for thee. The only counterbalance to the devil's vicious attacks Are the prayers of the Savior. Remember, his name, Satan, means the accuser of the brethren. Yes, we have a very powerful accuser at work in the world and in our own lives, but we also have a mighty advocate. Who is far superior to him. In 1 John 2 and verse 1, we read : If any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. What a comforting reminder this is. Notice what it says further in verse 32. He says, I have prayed for thee. Jesus is highlighting the fact that he was personally praying for Peter. The pronoun thee is singular. But in verse 31, the you, when he talks about, I prayed for thee, that thy faith are um Behold, Satan hath desired to sift you. The you there is poor, referring to all of the disciples. All the disciples that night would have their faith. shaken to the core, just like a man who is shaking the chaff and the grain up and down to separate one from the other. Their faith would be shaken. But now he says, but I want you to know, Peter, I have prayed for you personally, individually. It's one thing when someone says, you know, like a little kid, a little child goes to bed at night and they say, Lord bless everyone and the whole world. Kind of a general prayer. But it's another thing when someone says to you, you know what, I'm going to be praying for you this week. And they say that to you personally. It means so much. That person is taking my problems to the Lord in prayer. This is a wonderful truth for us to consider, I think, something that we often do not consider. I think we need to realize that this was not just unique to Peter and the apostles. Have you ever thought in the time of trial, has it ever occurred to you that Jesus Christ is interceding on your behalf? For you personally. I think we would tend to think that I'm not important enough for the Lord ever to do that, to gain his attention or his concern. But the scriptures tell us otherwise. A few moments after the Lord made this comments to Peter in the upper room. He gave what is recorded in John 17, what we know is the great high priestly prayer. And in that prayer he prays this John 17, 20, neither pray I for these alone, that is, my disciples here in this upper room, but for them also which shall believe on me through their words. Who's that referring to us? Everyone after the apostles, including us. How did you become a Christian? You became a Christian through the truth of God's word, primarily the gospel that is explained and revealed in the epistles that were written by who? That were written by the apostles. We are those who believe on him through their word. And the Lord says he prays for those people. Isn't that a wonderful thing to consider? We find this elsewhere in Scripture. In John chapter, excuse me, Romans chapter 8 and verse 34, it says, Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea, rather that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us. Hebrews chapter 7 and verse 25, he ever liveth to make intercession for them. You know, sometimes people come to me. And they ask me, this happens nearly every Sunday, people ask me to pray with them about a special request. Maybe a personal matter, it may be a loved one, something that's really plaguing their hearts, and they want me to pray for them. And I am happy to do so. And it is appropriate for you to ask for your pastor to pray for a very important concern that you have. But you know what? How much better is it to think That the Lord Jesus Christ, your heavenly intercessor, who is at the right hand of the Father, is praying on your behalf. What a wonderful thing that is to consider. Now what was the contents of our Lord's intercession? It's in this little phrase, that thy faith fail not. Now what do you think of that? Perhaps you've always thought that that was simply a prayer that Peter wouldn't deny him. But that can't be because in the same conversation, he says, when thou art converted. When you are restored from your fall. He knows Peter's going to fall. The Lord's not praying, Peter, I'm praying that you don't fall, but I know you're going to fall. We sometimes pray that way. The Lord Jesus doesn't pray that way. His prayers were always heard, always answered, always given in faith, always given in accordance with the will of God. So what's he praying for here? The word fail there has the idea of just to disappear, to go away, to vanish, to be no more. You may say, wait a minute, Pastor, I thought, and I've always believed that the Bible teaches that a Christian can never, ever lose their salvation. I believe that's the case too. I'm not going to take the time to defend that from multiple passages. But why is it that a Christian cannot lose their salvation? Is it because we're so strong and faithful? Is it because you know our faith is just unassailable and we're just so strong? Is that why? What are the factors that preserve us? From losing our faith. You know what one of them is? The intercession of Christ. the intercession of Christ. And that's what we see exhibited here. The scriptures tell us this again and again, that it's God who preserves us. It says in John 10. 28, Jesus says, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my Father's hand. And 1 Peter 1 and verse 5, we read, We are kept by the power of God. And part of the power of God is revealed through the answers to the Savior's prayers for us. A wonderful, comforting passage for us to consider. One of my heroes of the faith was a Scottish preacher named Robert Murray McShane, who died. At the early age of 29, a man who preached the gospel in a very powerful way and was used of God in a tremendous way, even though his life was very brief. He once wrote in his journal, if I could hear Christ praying for me in the next room, I would not fear a million enemies. Yet distance makes no difference. He is praying for me. What a wonderful thought for us to consider We sang together this morning from this hymn. The Father hears him pray, his dear anointed one, he cannot turn away the presence of his son. The scriptures tell us that nothing can separate us from the love of Christ, and that love is exhibited in one way in his intercession for us. I love the verse of another hymn that says, though that soul, though all hell should endeavor to shake, I'll never, no, never, no, never forsake. On this night, Satan was shaking the soul of Peter. But Christ did not forsake him. He prayed for him. To have you fallen away from the Lord. You have only truly fallen if you fail to get up. Have you ever considered the Lord is in the control of your trials? That whatever Satan brings into your life has been allowed by him for a good purpose, and that he is praying for you? That brings me to my final point this morning. And that is that we must remember that the Lord providentially uses even our failures for good. In verse 32, we read this arresting phrase, when thou art converted. What hope is in this promise? The Lord did not cast him away. He did not abandon Peter. No, his plan was that he would restore Peter. One of my favorite passages in the Old Testament is Psalm 37, verses 23 and 24. It says the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down. Why? For the Lord upholdeth him with his hands. There's a sense in which there is always a safety net. It is the hand of God keeping us from falling finally. The term converted here should not lead you to assume that Peter wasn't saved at this time. We often use that word that way. But the word means to turn or return. In this case, it's talking about Peter's returning and being restoring to a place of usefulness and leadership and blessing. Christ is referring to his repentance and restoration which were soon to follow. He then gives him A commission to fulfill. He says, strengthen thy brethren. You see, the Lord is patient with us There are some people that perhaps you have met in your life where they say, if you fail me once, that's it. I'm done with you. I won't interact with you. I won't talk to you. I'll give you one chance. And then I'm writing you off. I'm finished with you. I want you to know the Lord's not like that. He is a God of second chances. He is a God who forgives. God still had something for Peter to do. And he tells him even in this prediction, giving him that hope and that assurance that Peter could reflect on. Earlier I mentioned to you that the Lord has given permission for Satan to test Peter, to shake up his faith. You may ask yourself, why in the world would the Lord allow that to happen? Wasn't a pleasant experience. It was traumatic. It was painful. It was difficult. Why would Jesus do such a thing? The answer is because it was only a broken Peter. That could truly preach the powerful message at Pentecost some 50 days later. Peter was still proud. He was still trusting in his own strength. Though all men deny thee, yet will not I, he said. The Lord had to break him of that pride and that self-sufficiency. Because it's only a broken Peter that could preach to the glory of God. And that's exactly what Peter would do in the days ahead. There was those bitter tears. that prepared the way for the bold words of the gospel. You see, the Lord uses even our foolish failures to ultimately advance his cause. This in no way makes God responsible or pleased with our sin, but it does indicate that God indeed works all things for good to them who love Him. But you know, Peter would do more than just preach at Pentecost, the greatest sermon probably in the history of the church, where thousands were saved at one time. But he would write. And we are edified by those writings still today. I want you to look with me at a passage that I feel certain is referring to this fall in 1 Peter chapter 5. This is towards the end of your New Testament. 1 Peter chapter 5. Notice the connections here and how they parallel what we're seeing here in this time in Peter's life. He writes likewise verse 5, 1 Peter 5, 5. Likewise, ye younger, submit yourselves. unto the elder. Yea, all of you be subject one to another, and be clothed with humility, for God resisteth the proud and giveth grace to the humble. Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time. Peter knew about this because he was proud, and God humbled him, but God also lifted him up. Verse 7, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. Verse 8, be sober. Be vigilant because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. whom resist steadfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world. But the God of all grace, look at verse 10, who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after ye have suffered a while, make you perfect, establish, strengthen. Settle you. Do you see that phrase there? Strengthen, that word strengthen. That's the same word, the same Greek word the Lord used to Peter when he said, When you are converted, strengthen your brethren. See, I think Peter never forgot that And several decades later, he recorded a portion of that phrase in the concluding admonition of this first epistle. This was a lifeline of hope after his devastating fall. You see, the Lord wants You to take your spiritual failure or your difficulty as a way that would enable you to strengthen others and to minister more effectively to others. This is a way that we can use Satan's aggression against us, the intensity of his of his animus towards us. And turn that energy, as it were, around so that it actually can be used to accomplish the work of Christ. I have seen people in this assembly Who were coasting along in their Christian life. They weren't living a horrible life, perhaps, but they weren't serving the Lord. They had no um Real fire in their heart for God, but then they fell horribly into sin. And they were shocked by how far they had fallen. And after that, after they recovered from that, they became much stronger Christians than they were before they fell. That must really frustrate the devil. And Peter would be a better man, a better disciple after this fall than before it. Sometimes people get the mistaken idea that the church is filled with nearly perfect people. They look and they see people that are nicely dressed and sing well and have beautiful families and they come to our church and they say, Pastor, I don't think that's a church for me. Everyone there, you know, they got their act together. Everything's great. And I say, oh, if only you knew. I don't say that as a slur at you folks, but we're human beings. We have problems. We have issues. Church in some ways is like a hospital. Everyone here is at different states of recovery. Some people are intensive care. They're in bad shape. No, seriously, they are. There are other people that aren't nearly as ill at that, but there's no one here that's perfect. There's no one here that's completely spiritually healthy that every day is doing absolutely everything they can do to live for God's glory. We all are sick to some degree and seeking to grow stronger in Christ Let me make this practical. Do you have a failed marriage in your past? You know what God can use your painful experience to strengthen others? Do you have a child that's walked away from the Lord? The Lord can use your pain to heal someone else who has had a similar experience. Were you once addicted to alcohol and drugs? God will bring along your path other similar individuals, and you will be able to minister to them in a way that others will not be able to. The Lord can use your testimony to help someone who is still in the bonds of iniquity. But how can God use your spiritual failure for his glory? Very quickly, three ways. First of all, you can help to warn them. I used to think just like you think. I used to think that this was going to work out great for me, but I'm here to tell you, I've been in your shoes, and it's not going to work out the way you think it will. It's going to bring a lot of sorrow and difficulty into your life. It also will enable you not just to warn them, but to sympathize with them when they have fallen and you can say, I know what you're feeling. I know what you're thinking right now. I know how isolated you feel. I know how difficult and how hopeless this seems because I used to think and feel exactly the same way. And thirdly, it means that you can show them the way out. I used to be where you are, but I'm not there anymore. And let me show you how by God's grace, step by step, I climbed out of that hole and how God restored me and healed me and strengthened me. Not only so that I could stand here by his grace, but I can minister to you and to others, and God can do the same thing with you. You see, the Lord doesn't just want this to be about you and restore you and bring you out of that hole. He wants you to help others out of similar pitfalls. You can use your failure for God's glory. One of the greatest examples of this in Scripture I've mentioned this to you before is this man named John Mark, who was the author of our second gospel, the Gospel of Mark. He was one of Paul's missionary companions, a very young man that went along with them. With Barnabas and Paul. Part of the way through their first missionary journeys, he faced some difficulties he wasn't prepared to face, and he abandoned them and went home. This became a subject of argument between Paul and Barnabas because Barnabas wanted to give him a second chance. Paul said, No way, he's not coming on. He's not coming back on this team. I'm not going to deal with that again. But at the end of Paul's writing, at the end of his ministry in 2 Timothy, he says, Bring Mark, for he is profitable to me for the ministry. He had seen that God had indeed restored John Mark to a place of usefulness, and now he wanted his own ministry to him. But in the closing of this first epistle, you might still be turned there. You will see that Peter makes reference to Marcus. My son in verse 13. That's a reference to John Mark. I'm speculating a little bit here, but I think that after John Mark failed miserably and left them in the lurch and went back home that Peter Took him under his wing and said, I know exactly how you feel. I know what it feels like to be a failure and to feel like I have failed my Lord And he mentored him and discipled him back to a place of usefulness. And church history tells us that it was Peter who gave John Mark the information and the eyewitness accounts to write his second gospel. And here he calls him Marcus, my son. Church history records that Peter, when he went to Jerusalem, he would stay in John Mark's house. He was a friend of the family. And I think that there was this connection that Peter used this this sympathy, this sense of failure that enabled him to truly reach in and connect with John Mark and bring him to a place where he would be greatly used of the Lord. That's what the Lord wants for all of us. Not just that we're concerned about our own spiritual well-being, but that we see the big picture. And we take our failures, our falls, and we use them to actually bring glory to God and increase our ability to minister to others May God help us to benefit from His Word. Let's close in prayer. Father, we pray that you would help us. To take this word, receive it by faith. I pray that you would use it specifically in the hearts of those here this morning Who feel that you have given up on them and that they can never serve you again. I pray, Lord, that they would see that this is not your spirit, this is not your word. I pray that they would come. To repent and to be fully restored. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.