If you would take your Bibles and turn to First Thessalonians. First Thessalonians, our verses for this week, are continuing out of 1 Thessalonians 5. I thought about adding two more verses for tonight, but I thought maybe one more week of review to make sure we have it solidified in our minds. From 1 Thessalonians 5 verses 1 and 2. Then next week, Lord willing, we will add two more verses, verses 3 and 4. First Thessalonians chapter 5, we'll do our first two verses. If you have your the back of your prayer sheet, it's on the back of that. You can also look up in your Bible. And it's also in your Bible in at 1 Thessalonians 5 in verses 1 and 2. So let's say the reference and then the verse will say through two times. 1 Thessalonians 5, 1 through 2. Now concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need to have anything written to you. For you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. First Thessalonians 5, 1 through 2 Now concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need to have anything written to you. For you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. So we are now in First Thessalonians chapter one. First Thessalonians chapter one. And by way of reminder, the book of 1 Thessalonians is a letter from the Apostle Paul. If not the earliest of Paul's writings, it is one of the f earliest pr perhaps Galatians is prior to this, but if not first Thessalonians is the earliest of Paul's writings. And in this he's writing to the Thessalonian believers, a young church that is going through times of severe persecution, and he's encouraging them to grow in faith. hope and love in light of Christ's return. And he begins, there's the the book really divides into has five chapters and divides The first three chapters are a look back, remembering their conversion, what God has done in their lives, remembering his ministry among them, or the missionary teams. ministry among them and how they lived and how they they set an example for them and what God has done as a result. And then in chapters four and five, it's looking forward to the return of Christ and how they are to live in anticipation of the return of Christ. That is something that should be filling our thoughts and challenging us in how we are to live on a consistent basis. And I'm guessing that that first oh that's weird. The first verse wasn't there, but this was here. So I'll take it. The theme is here. Continue to grow in faith, hope, and love in light of Christ's imminent return. Continue to grow in faith, hope, and love in light of Christ's imminent return. Except for the word imminent is misspelled, so you'll just Thank you, Alan, for that reminder. We'll correct that. We have some beautiful verses to look at this evening. We see again as Paul is beginning this letter to the Thessalonian believers, they're under severe persecution. They are facing significant difficulty because of the conversion that has taken place. They are facing a Pressure from the Jewish community, the pressure from the pagan community, pressure from family. There is severe affliction that has happened to them But they're remaining steadfast. And Paul has received word from Timothy, who came back after visiting them, saying they are steadfast in their faith. They are growing in the Lord. They have an eager remembrance of you. They long to see you again. And so Paul is rejoicing in that, and he's encouraging them. As he begins this letter, it's a letter that is designed to encourage the believers and strengthen them for the difficulties that they are facing. We saw several aspects. of encouragement in the previous weeks. We saw the Lord the Apostle Paul encouraging them by way of remembering what God has done, by way of thankfulness. By way of the fact that they are chosen and that the ev that is evidenced in their lives because the gospel came to them not only in word, but in power and in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction. And that the transformed lives that came as a result of the preaching is an encouragement to them that what has happened in their lives is genuine. What has happened in their midst is not something that's artificial that has been worked up by salesmanship, but it is a genuine work of the Holy Spirit. And he continues to encourage them as we read on. So beginning in, we'll just start in verse 6 to kind of pick things up here. He says, and you became imitators of us. and of the Lord, for you received the word in much affliction with the joy of the Holy Spirit, so that you became an example to all the believers in Macedonia and in Achaia For not only has the word of the Lord sounded forth from you in Macedonia and Achaia, but your faith in God has gone forth everywhere, so that we need not say anything. For they themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you, and how you turn to God from idols to serve the living and true God, and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath to come. So as we continue here, we see another encouragement that Paul gives, and that is the encouragement of their example. This is unique among Paul's letters. This is the only church that Paul calls an example. What he calls a model. They are an example or a model to the other churches. And we see here Really, the order of their salvation as they've received the gospel, the first thing is that they received the word. They heard the word, they received it with humble faith. In verse 6, it says that they received the word in much affliction with the joy of the Holy Spirit. So when the word came to them, They responded in faith. And secondly, they became imitators of the missionary team and of the Lord. So they observed the missionaries as they were preaching the gospel. They observed their lives, the way they carried themselves, the way they interacted with the lost, with the Jews, with the Gentiles. They became imitators then of their example. And then thirdly, they became an example. And this is really the beautiful pattern of Christian growth: that we go from receiving the word to following an example, then to becoming an extra. And these Thessalonian believers had become that. They became an example to the other believers of what the gospel does to transform lives. He describes them receiving the word in much affliction with the joy of the Holy Spirit. And in that they became an example to the other believers. He describes them as we'll see in a little bit that they they turned to God from idols. They rejected the idols. They turned their back on their previous false religion and they turned to God. And in that they became an example to the believers. The amazing thing is that the example is a powerful teaching tool. So often the Christian life is something that is caught. It's not something that is merely taught. It is more powerfully caught than taught. In 1 Peter chapter 5. Peter urges pastors not to be domineering over the flock, but to be an example to the flock. And he's telling them, you are going to teach more by the way you lead your people and by the attitude you have over them than you will even by the words you say. Not that words are not important. But the example is going to be heard loud and clear. This is what Jesus did when he washed the disciples' feet. He knelt down, he washed the disciples' feet, and he said, Do you see what I've done here tonight? I am your Lord and your master, and it's right that you say that. But I have washed your feet. Now you go and do likewise. And he set an example by his humility. And so Paul and Silas and Timothy They lived humbly and faithfully and holy lives before the Thessalonian believers, and they followed that example to the point where they became an example to the other believers in the region. When the Thessalonians came to believe the gospel, the reality is they became new creatures in Christ Jesus. And in a very short time, old patterns of sin were being put off, and new patterns of holy living were being put on. It wasn't just that I received this and now I can go on with my life and nothing's going to change, but the transformation was radical and it was conspicuous. It was obvious to all who were observing them. In fact, the example of the Thessalonians is actually cited by Paul in his letter to the Corinthians as a as an example of financial generosity. If you think of 2 Corinthians chapter 8 as one of the great chapters in the New Testament about our responsibility to give to the needy. And he says, now brothers and sisters, we make known to you the grace of God which has been given to the churches of Macedonia. You think of Macedonia What churches are we talking about? Philippi, Thessalonica, Berea. Those three churches are the primary churches we think of in Macedonia. He says, there's been a grace of God given to these churches that in great a great ordeal of affliction, their abundance of joy and their deep poverty overflowed in the wealth of their liberality. For I testify that according to their ability and beyond their ability, they gave voluntarily. And so Paul sets an example of the Thessalonians and the Philippians and the Bereans, of this is how they gave. And very likely he's thinking Specifically the Philippians who were generous, but the Thessalonians, because if you notice these words I highlighted, great affliction and joy. These are the exact words that are used here in our passage of scripture. When he says, in much affliction, the exact same word, great affliction, and with the joy of the Holy Spirit. So he's saying these believers had great affliction, and they had the joy of the Holy Spirit. They were also Deeply impoverished. Deeply impoverished. And yet they gave generously The amazing thing about this is they gave voluntarily, they gave generously, and they gave out of their deep poverty. The poverty probably has something to do with the fact, the affliction that they're experiencing. Loss of jobs, loss of homes, being thrown out on the streets. They're in deep affliction, but that didn't stop them from saying, the people from Jerusalem, the believers in Jerusalem need our help, and we will give even to those That are in need, even though we have great needs. And Paul describes the the believers there in Macedonia that they urged him to take this gift. And he felt almost guilty about taking the gift because he knew just how poor they were. But here they set an example for the Corinthian church. Look at how they are giving. He says, your faith is. is a living example for the churches in Macedonia and Achaia. He says, so that you became an example to all the believers in Macedonia and Achaia We see here the scope of their example. This is a large area. We think of the region of Macedonia is This yellow area up here, and Achaea is down here. And as as Paul is writing, he is in Achaea. And he's describing the fact that their example is well known They're in Achaia, even though they live some distance away in Macedonia. And what I think is so significant is that this reputational spread happened in such a short time. We know that the timing of this is probably within a year and a half to two years from the founding of this church. Two years is like the max. A year and a half to two years after the founding of the church in Thessalonica, people all throughout Macedonia, all throughout Achaia. Know about the face and the transformation that's taken place in the lives of these Thessalonian believers There's a couple things I think we see from this. One kind of highlights Paul's strategy and missions. Paul's strategy and missions is he goes to urban hubs And he brings the gospel to an urban hub where people are coming to and going from on a regular basis. He goes to key population centers. And this way the gospel would would come to that place. And then as people are traveling through, they would come in contact with believers. And they would hear about the transformation that has taken place. And as they return back to their homeland, to their village, they're bringing the gospel with them. Or as they travel along, they're bringing the gospel to the next city. And so Paul targeted key population centers. Because the gospel then would spread in a really uh dynamic way. It was also along the Ignatian way. We've talked about this. Thessalonica is right here, and it's central in the Ignatian way. This would connect the western coast of Greece all the way over to Istanbul in Turkey, modern-day Turkey. And it was a major thoroughfare of commerce. People were coming and going along this. We said that the town of Thessalonica at this time was probably a city of somewhere between a hundred thousand and two hundred thousand people. You can also see that it's it's a harbor. It was a major harbor. People would come in there doing trade merchants were coming in on ships and trading. And the word of the transformation that has happened in the lives of these few believers here is spreading then from there to other areas of the Roman world all the way into Achaea And he says, this has been heard abroad. And so he encourages them in this by just encouraging them with their example. Your example. is significant and it's known. I think it's an encouragement for young Christians to know that you don't have to be a Christian for 15 or 20 or 30 years before your life can be an example. Here they are a year and a half in their Christian faith, and the testimony of their example is being proclaimed by Paul to the Corinthians. It's being proclaimed all throughout Macedonia, it's being proclaimed all throughout Achaea in just a short time. Their lives have so radically been transformed that they're an example to other believers, and they're an example to the lost. This brings up the next point, the encouragement not only of their example, but the encouragement of their witness. Look in verse 8 He says, For not only has the word of the Lord sounded forth from you in Macedonia and Achaia, but your faith in God has gone forth everywhere, so that we need not say anything. That's a beautiful testimony. Wouldn't you love to have that said of you? That Paul Paul says here, I had no need to tell people about you. They had already heard. about the transformation that had taken place. They'd already also heard because you had been bold in your witness. The first thing we have here is that the the witness of their evangelism, the word of the Lord or the gospel Sounded forth everywhere. The word here sounded forth is the word that we get our English word echo from. And it's used to describe a trumpet blast that just penetrates reverberates or a clap of thunder that reverberates across the the countryside. He's describing their their witness as they are going around in their daily life They are proclaiming the gospel. The word of the Lord is coming from them, and it's reverberating around this region. The Thessalonian believers were not content to merely receive the Word of God. They became a vocal witness to the glory and power of the gospel. They became vocal witnesses to what Jesus Christ had done for them. When they refused To offer sacrifices to idols or to visit the temple prostitutes. I'm sure people said, why? What's going on? What's changed? I said, I became a follower of Jesus. You know that Jewish Messiah? I become a follower of him. I no longer worship idols. And then mockery would soon follow for sure, but then their lives were so transformed that that became a clear witnessing point. This is one of the clearest indications of a person truly being born again. You know, when you hear someone receive Christ, you want to see fruit in their lives. When you hear about someone receiving the gospel, it's always something that we can't know the true state of a person, but I always look to see, is there a change? Is there anything that's happened in their life that would indicate that truly the gospel has penetrated their heart and they are a new creature in Christ Jesus? And one of the clearest indications that a person has truly been born again. Is that he begins to proclaim the gospel. The good news he's received, he's not content to keep it to himself. He wants to tell other people about it. That's why we sang the song tonight, Channels Only, that we're not just to be a pool that receives. But that we are to be channels of the living water that we have received. Jesus said in John 7: If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. But it doesn't stop there. We drink, we receive. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. So we receive and we give. We receive the Word of God and we share the living waters of the Word of God to others. Spurgeon said, it's the vocation of faith to be a speaker. When the heart believes, the mouth follows suit and makes confession. He said, faith made Noah a preacher. Faith made Noah a preacher, and it caused it to be said of Abel that he being dead yet speaks. Then he said this: A silent faith is a questionable grace. A silent faith is a questionable grace. The natural result, what does what does Jesus say? Out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth If the gospel is so saturating our heart, and we are so in love with what Christ has done for us, it will naturally flow out of our hearts and out of our mouths, then. So the question is, are we an echo of the grace of God that has come to us? I'm not merely talking about lifestyle evangelism. The Thessalonians had lifestyle evangelism. when they turned to God from idols. That was a lifestyle evangelism. People saw the change in their lives, but it's not enough just to be different. There is the necessity of proclamation. There is the necessity of sharing the good news. What did Paul say in 2 Corinthians 5? If anyone is in Christ, he is a new creature. The old has passed away, behold, the new has come. All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself. And then it says this, and gave us the ministry. Of reconciliation. We are new creatures in Christ Jesus, not so we can glory in our newness, but so that we are To be men ministers of reconciliation. The next thing he says is that he's given us the message of reconciliation. A message requires proclamation. We are to be proclaiming the message of reconciliation. And he says that we are ambassadors for Christ and that God is making his appeal through us. So God is appealing through us. That means we have to appeal. That means we have to appeal to people, repent and believe the gospel. We have to talk to our neighbors. We have to talk to our coworkers. We have to talk to our family members. It requires a vocal proclamation. We're new creatures in Christ Jesus. We've been given the ministry of reconciliation. We have the message of reconciliation. God is appealing to them through us. We must be vocal in our witness. Another aspect here is the transformation of their lives was testified. He says here that for not only has the word of the Lord sounded forth from you in Macedonia and Achaea, But your faith in God has gone forth everywhere, so that we need not say anything. Their faith in God Indicates that what is being reported to Paul is that these Thessalonians have left their former idolatry, and they are now worshippers of the one true and living God. The transformed lives of the Thessalonians is so conspicuous that Paul when Paul and the missionary team are out in their community, it seems like it's not just believers that are sharing this, but that they're receiving unsolicited reports From travelers who have gone through Thessalonica, who maybe they're merchants, maybe, maybe they're sailors, maybe they're business people, maybe they're Romans that are that are traveling along the Ignatian way. But they're receiving unsolicited solicited reports. We've heard about what happened in Thessalonica. We've heard about these former idol worshippers who are now worshiping Jesus. We've seen the transformation in their lives. Everybody's asked, what has happened here? These people have broken their idols. They worship one God. They trust in Jesus. They're no longer going to the temple prostitutes. They're no longer drunken. They're no longer dishonest. They're not impure. They're not in arguments and fights. Something's happened. So Paul says, we don't even have to say anything. People are telling us about what's happened to you. Now Paul liked to tell people about the the Thessalonians. He liked to boast in them because he was proud of them. That's like a dad boasting in his in his son. He was proud of them. In 2 Thessalonians, he says, that we ourselves boast about you in the churches of God. He says, we blast about you in the churches of God for your steadfastness and faith in all your persecutions and the afflictions that you are enduring. Paul says, we we can't help ourselves. Everywhere we go, we meet other Christians, when we're in the fellowship of other believers, we are shamelessly boasting about you. You know, it's like a grandfather that Can't help but pull out the pictures. Well, they don't do that anymore. They don't pull out pictures like that. They show on their phone. Sorry. They show pictures of their grandson. Look what he's doing. Paul's like, let me tell you about the Thessalonians. They're facing terrible persecution. And yet they're full of joy. And they continue to give and they continue to love and they haven't turned back to the idols. They're remaining faithful. And what an encouragement that was to know not only that Paul was excited about them, but that this message is going out. Other people hear about it And he describes as well, he says, that they tell us, he says in verse 9, for they themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you. And how you turn to God from idols to serve the living and true God. Now this word reception, when we think of reception, some translations say welcome. The actual word has the idea of Our entering in, our entering in among you, our entrance into Thessalonica. It has less to do with how they were received and more to do with how they came in. Paul saying, when we when they they tell us about how we came to you, and then your response to that The idea here is that when Paul and the missionary team came to Thessalonica, they didn't come in like the traveling sophists would do. This is something that's that's different in maybe in our culture, but in in those days in the Greco-Roman world there were traveling sophists who would travel from city to city. and they would make their income by their oratory skills. They would they would show how they could argue and they could debate from any point of any argument. They would take they'd come into a crowd or into a city with much fanfare. There would be people coming before them, and they're they're almost like celebrities They they were celebrities. They're almost like what we we would see today with these these celebrity heroes that we have, these influencers. And as they come into an area, everyone's g wants to see what's going on with this new sophist that's come in And then they would ha gather a crowd and they'd say, Ask me anything on any topic, and I will instruct you on that topic And they would give a topic, and then they would begin to instruct with great oratorical skills, and they would show their ability, and people would be wowed, and then they would say, if you would like to have private instruction. I'll be meeting at such and such a place, and you can come for private instruction that is paid. And you will You will learn how to speak like I speak, and you'll learn the knowledge that I have, and you'll be able to learn from me. And that was something that was very coveted, especially in those those who wanted to have political office. The ability to be able to argue and speak and debate. was highly coveted. And so young men who thought I might have a career in politics would go and they would pay to learn under these traveling sophists so that they could better their oratorical skills. Paul and his team didn't come in like that. They didn't come in with fanfare. They came in after being beaten and imprisoned. In Philippi, and run out of town. Paul didn't come in saying, Ask me on any topic, and I will share with you my knowledge, and I'll debate from any side of this argument. That's why in 1 Corinthians, remember what we read this last week, in 1 Corinthians chapter 2, what does he say? For I decided to know nothing among you. What is he saying? I'm an ignorant fool? No. He's saying my goal isn't to show my wisdom and my ability to debate and hold stage with my oratorical skill. I only want to tell you about Jesus Christ and Him crucified. And he said, and I was with you not in Great oratorical skill, but in weakness and in fear and much trembling. And my speech and my message were not in plausible or reasonable words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power. So that your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. So that you're not swayed by my oratorical skills. But by the gospel and the power of God and the Holy Spirit bringing these truths to you. What was so remarkable was that Paul, people are telling people, we heard how you came to Thessalonica. You didn't come like those sophists. And yet they repented. And they believed. And they followed. And they turned from their idols. And they received the gospel. And they're serving the one true and living God. Something has happened in Thessalonica. And it wasn't because of oratory. And it wasn't because you were so wise. It's the power of God in the gospel. And he says, we hear this. People are telling us they know what has happened is not the result of my persuasiveness. So he encourages them. Your changed lives, your witness, your example are all things that are evident. And then he brings up this point, the encouragement of their repentance. In verse 9, he says, For they themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. This is the report people are bringing to him. They've turned. They're no longer following these idols. They're no longer sacrificing to these idols. When we began the study on Thessalonica, on the on 1 Thessalonians, we mentioned that in Thessalonica there were something like 25 different gods and goddesses that were being worshipped. There were temples to many, many gods in Thessalonica. And it was a part of the civic responsibility of citizens of Thessalonica to actually take part in these worship services, these cultic practices. But they turn their back on that because they turn to God. We see here the necessity of their repentance. The idea of turning to God from idols, this idea here is the really the essence of repentance. Repentance, a quick handy definition you probably heard before, is a change of mind that results in a change of action. And he's describing this change of action. They were serving the idols, but they've turned away from the idols and they've turned to God. So they have turned their back on what they were formerly serving. The Bible repeatedly stresses the necessity of repentance in genuine conversion. Remember, we studied the book of Isaiah. I'm tempted to ask, what's the theme of the book of Isaiah? Oh yes, return and rest in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. That's the message there. Repentance, returning, turning away. from what you were trusting in and resting in Yahweh. Remember we looked at Isaiah 30, verse 15, for thus says the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel, in returning and rest you shall be saved. In quietness and in trust shall be your strength. Then he says, but you were unwilling. This is the message of repentance. The Greek word here is found, this word epistrepho is found throughout the New Testament. And it illustrates the nature of saving faith. That saving faith isn't just mental ascent. I believe Jesus Was the Son of God and he died on the cross and he rose again. That's not enough. That is not saving faith. Even the demons believe that Jesus is the son of God and he died on the cross and he rose again. The faith that saves a person is turning to Jesus independence. Trusting in him what he did on the cross. No longer trusting in myself, no longer trusting in my old works, no longer trusting in my religion. I am trusting, I am depending in what Jesus Christ has done on the cross. It's important to know those truths about Jesus. But there must be a trust, a dependence in. Luke speaks of the ministry of John the Baptist. And Zechariah, his father, says that he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. This is the same word that we have here, turning the hearts of the people of Israel to their God. In Luke chapter 22. This is that famous passage. Before Peter betrays the Lord, he says, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan demanded to have you that he might sift you like wheat, but I have prayed for you. that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned again. That's this word here. Strengthen your brothers. Simon, when you turn, when you no longer trust in yourself, but you're trusting in me, strengthen your brothers This word is found all throughout the book of Acts. Acts chapter 3, verse 19. We have two words here that are interesting that illustrate repentance and they're really used in connection almost like Hebrew parallelism. He says, repent. Therefore, and turn back. That your sins may be blotted out. The idea of repent there is more the idea of a mental change of mind And turning back, which is the action. I no longer believe what I used to believe. My mind has changed, and so my actions are going to show that my mind has changed. In Acts chapter 11. We read, and the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number who believed turned to the Lord. You see the connection here? Faith And repentance. Faith and turning to the Lord. They're two sides of the same coin. You can't have faith in Jesus, saving faith in Jesus, and not turn to the Lord. It is a turning to Him, believing and depending on Him. Saving faith and belief are two sides of the same coin. In Acts chapter 14, verse 15 This is when um Paul and Silas are being worshipped as because they've done a miracle, they're they think they're gods Or Barnabas and Saul, I'm sorry, in Lyce in Lystra. And Paul tries to restrain the people, saying, Men, why are you doing these things We also are men of like nature with you, and we bring you good news that you should turn from these vain things to a living God who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and all that is in them. You see here the connection is very similar to what we have in our passage of scripture in 1 Thessalonians, that they're turning from these vain idols. To the living true God. To worship the one true God. Then Acts chapter 26. I'm not just piling verses together because I like to. This is significant. These all build the picture. In Acts chapter 26 Paul shares how the Lord met him on the road to Damascus. And Paul said, Who are you, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. But rise and stand upon your feet, for I have appeared to you for this purpose, to appoint you as a servant and witness to the things in which you have seen me and to those in which I will appear to you, delivering you from the people and from the Gentiles to whom I am sending you, to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to light. And from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me. Notice here, they are turning from darkness to light, from the power of Satan to God. This is the same word. He's saying you are going to be used as a witness to turn Jews and Gentiles from darkness. I think this helps us some people make a big point about the fact that you you turn to God and away from idols. You can't turn away from idols, you have to turn to God first. Well here he says you turn from darkness to light. The order isn't significant. If you turn to God, you are turning from. If you turn from, you are turning to. You can't th there's no difference. It's six of one, half a dozen of the other The order isn't significant. The fact is that when you turn to God, or when you turn from idols, you must be turning to the living God, or you must be turning from those idols. Again, they're two sides of the same coin. And this brings this truth out that repentance leaves no room for syncretism. Repentance leaves no room for syncretism. When they turned to God, they didn't merely add Jesus to their pantheon of gods. And say, yes, I am a follower of Jesus and Zeus and Apollos and all these other gods. No. They turned to God from idols, and they had to leave those behind. It demands that a hard break from idolatry. Syncretism is this idea of blending of distinct religious traditions, adding to a religion, other religious practices. Perhaps one of the greatest or clearest examples of this is in the fourth century when Constantine converted to Christianity. And what seemed like a wonderful thing, he made the official religion of the Roman Empire to be Christianity, it actually caused all sorts of problems. Because now in order to gain political prominence one had to convert to Christianity. So politically minded idolaters and worshippers of pagan deities came into the church and brought their paganism with them, and they brought their mystery religions with them. And so one such example is the blending of pagan practices like the queen worshiping of the Queen of Heaven and calling her now Mary. And now we we worship Mary as the Queen of Heaven, or we venerate Mary as the Queen of Heaven. And it's really syncretism, bringing paganism into the church. This is how the Catholic Church has done evangelism throughout much of Latin America. Is by syncretism. You can continue your worship of the day of the dead. We'll just call it all saints day. And it just is the blending of religious practices. But here he says you turned to God from. There was a turning away. Why does repentance leave no room for syncretism? Why does their repentance leave no room for it? Because idolatry is the worship of demons Idolatry is the worship of demons. Now, you you're probably thinking of well we'll get there in just a second. 1 Corinthians 8, where Paul says, Therefore as the as to the eating of food offered to idols We know that an idol has no real existence and that there is no God but one. So you would say, it doesn't really matter, you can worship these gods. They're not really gods. It's just metal, it's just silver, it's not a big deal. Paul said that, you know, they don't have any real existence. And what Paul is saying here is that that is not a God. There is no God. There is one God, the creator of the heavens and the earth and all things that exist. But that doesn't mean that there is not spiritual power behind it. And he goes on to explain that more in 1 Corinthians chapter 10, just two chapters later. He says, What do I imply then? That food offered to idols is anything, or that an idol is anything? No. I imply that what pagans sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God. I do not want you to be participants with demons. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons. He says, you can't mix these. You can't go and offer sacrifices to demons and then come to church and take communion. They are exclusive things. This is demon worship, and this is the worship of the one true and living God. These are mutually exclusive things. He says in Deuteronomy chapter 32, God says they stirred him to jealousy with strange gods. With abominations they provoked him to anger. They sacrificed to demons that were no gods. And here's the same reality that Paul brings out in 1 Corinthians 8 and 1 Corinthians 10. They're not actually gods, but there is demonic power behind it. They sacrificed to demons that were no gods, to gods they had never known, to new gods that had come recently, whom your fathers had never dreaded. In Psalm 106, he says, describes this syncretism that had taken place in Israel. Then they yoked themselves to the to Baal of Peor And eight sacrifices offered to the dead. And he's seeing this, sacrifices to the dead. Boy, this is an ancient practice, isn't it? The day of the dead. Venerating the dead, prayers to the dead. And then later on he says, But they mixed with the nations and learned to do as they did. They served their idols, which became a snare to them. They sacrificed their sons and their daughters to the demons. This was not a minor thing. The reality is that Hinduism and Buddhism and Islam and Mormonism and Jehovah's Witness And neo-paganism and animism and secular humanism is actually the worship of demons It is empowered by demons. These are not neutral religions. You can't say, well, you know, they're just, they're pretty good things. There's nothing really major that's wrong there. No, Paul says they are demonically inspired and demonically empowered, and they're leading people into the greater slavery of darkness. And when a person comes to Christ, he says, I am turning away from this. And I am turning to the one true and living God who sent his son to die for me. And I no longer want anything to do with that. That's why the Thessalonians, when they turned to God from idols, he says they were turning from darkness to light and from the power of Satan. This tells us as well why it is so important for us when we do evangelize to be prayerful Because Satan does not like to give up his territory easily. And there is a blindness that is a spiritually imposed blindness. And that apart from the Lord opening the eyes, We've told that Satan is the God of this age who has blinded the eyes of men. God must open their eyes. So they can see the reality of their false worship and they can see the truth of the one true and living God. This brings us to this last point we're going to have time for tonight. The repentance means gaining a new master. He says here. That they themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. That word serve comes from a Greek word that we get our the word slavery from. They are we are becoming serves servants or slaves of a new master When a person repents and put their faith in Christ, they are set free from the old bondage to sin and Satan. And they are brought into A new freedom, which is actually a new slavery. Or you might say a new slavery, which is actually a new freedom. The difference is the freedom that Satan promises is actually slavery. And the slavery that the Lord brings us into is actually freedom. There's a great passage of scripture that brings this reality out, and it's in Romans chapter 6. It's kind of a long passage. But I'd like us just to go through it briefly. He says, here, but thanks be to God, that you were once slaves of sin. This is our state before coming to Christ. We are not free before we come to know Christ. We are slaves. We are slaves of sin, which leads to death. We are in bondage. But, he says, you have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed and having been set free from sin. So we have been set free and have become slaves of righteousness. I'm speaking in human terms Because of your natural limitations. For just as you once presented your members as slaves to impurity and to lawlessness, leading to more lawlessness, so now present your members as slaves to righteousness, leading to sanctification. For when you were slaves of sin you were free in regard to righteousness. But what fruit were you getting at that time from the things of which you are now ashamed? For the end of those things is death. But now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end , eternal life. He said the most amazing thing here. When we think of slavery, I think sometimes we think of uh American Southern slavery that was full of oppression. And we think of the slave getting no benefit, only the slave master getting benefit. And he says, that's the wrong way to think about it. That's not the slavery that is being described here. Because you notice what he says here. You were already a slave, you gained a new master. In the past, what did you gain from those things? You only gained more bondage, more sin, and death. But then he says, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end eternal life. This new slavery has a loving and kind master. And the service that he demands for us is for our good. And it leads to freedom and eternal life A totally different idea of slavery than what we may normally think of, where the slave receives the benefit Of freedom, sanctification, and eternal life. And he says, you didn't gain anything from your old way of life, you got bondage But your new master causes you to gain sanctification. And he describes them here as those who serve the living and true God. So just very quickly, we're not going to have time to get into verse 10. A couple points of application. First of all, no matter how young you are in Christ, you're not only to be imitating, but you're also to be an example. We shouldn't think of ourselves as, well, when I get to be 15 years into my Christian faith, then I'll start being an example Begin imitating. Begin following the example of those that are around you that are following the Lord. And then by default, as you follow their example, you become an example. Because you're following in their footsteps. That doesn't you don't have to wait. You don't have to wait till you're young people here. You don't have to wait till you're forty years old to be an example. You can be an example at 18 and at 20 and 24. And you can be an example your entire life as you follow the Lord. The question is, do others see Christ in you? Secondly, are you sounding forth your faith in Christ? You've received the word. But now are you are streams of living water coming out of you? Or are you more like a pool that just receives the water? We're told to receive the living water and then have streams of living water coming from us. We've been made new creatures in Christ Jesus and given the ministry of reconciliation and God beseeches the lost world through us. It requires us to speak. Thirdly, the call to follow Christ demands that we turn from all idols. It's not sufficient to simply add Christ to our life. He must become our Lord. He must become our master. We must turn away from those things and follow him. And lastly, we do have a new master. He is good. And we are to become slaves of righteousness and delight in that because that is where true freedom is. Let's pray. Father, I thank you for your word. I thank you for the example of the Thessalonians, who, although young in Christ, were a vibrant example to all of Macedonia and Achaia. Father, I thank you that so many here in this church are like that, that they are examples that others hear about and talk about, and we rejoice in this. I pray that you would make us this more and more. That as a church and as individuals in Christ, that we would not only be living transformed lives, but the Father, we would be sounding forth the message from us. So that all throughout Carroll County and Maryland and the eastern seaboard, the word of God and its transforming work in our lives would be sounded abroad. Father, we thank you for these truths. Help us to take them in and apply them in our hearts. In Jesus' name. Amen.