Give your Bibles, please, would you join me in John chapter 2? Lord willing, we'll finish this chapter today. The center of Jewish religious life and society was the temple. The Jewish temple was first built by King Solomon about a thousand years before the time of Christ. But this temple would be destroyed by the Babyl Babylonians in 586 BC But after that exile, Zerubbabel and about 40,000 people returned to Jerusalem and rebuilt the temple despite much opposition. However, the temple was not nearly as beautiful as Solomon's, and so the elderly wept when they saw it for the first time, and they could remember the grandeur of Solomon's temple they saw in their childhood. Fast forward a few centuries, and Herod the Great comes to power, and he's a very ambitious man who likes to build things as monuments to himself. And what better edifice to build than the temple? And so in 19 BC, construction began on rebuilding the temple. He employed 10,000 skilled workers, and they worked for decades on this great temple. In our text today, we read that At this incident, it had been under construction for 46 years, and it was very usable, but there were still sections of it that were being constructed. In fact, it was not completed until the year 63 seven years before it would be destroyed again. This temple of Herod was nearly twice the size of the previous temples. and was very beautifully adorned with white marble. And some areas were plated with gold and so it would gleam in the sunlight and it was a dazzling sight that people could see for miles The temple was the pride of the nation of Israel. And it was in this magnificent temple that Jesus effectively began his public ministry. Here he observed the Passover. Here he cleansed the temple of the money changers and the animal merchants in his very first confrontation with the religious establishment. It was also probably here in the temple precincts that Jesus performed many miracles. This chapter, chapter 2, has a very interesting pattern. We see the Lord doing things or saying something and people responding to it. In the first paragraph, we have the miracle of the water turned to wine at the wedding feast at Cana. In verse 11, we read that his disciples believed in him. That is, they believed that he was the Messiah. And then we read of Jesus cleansing the temple. And here once again the disciples understand that he is fulfilling Scripture. But the Jewish leaders respond by questioning him as to his right to do this. And then in verse 22 we read. That when he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this, and they believed the scriptures And the word that Jesus had spoken. Here again, we see that there is a response of faith. And then in the very next incident, after these miracles that took place during this Passover season, we read that many believed in his name. There we have yet another response. Now we see here this very interesting phenomenon, and that is that people can view or hear the same thing and yet interpret it entirely differently. We have all of us interpretive glasses. That we view the incidents of our life through. And we hear and we interpret things differently. I've often said that in a church service everyone hears a slightly different sermon of certain things that stand out to them and certain things that they pass over, even though the same words are spoken. This is true of the gospel as well. People can hear the gospel clearly presented, but they will respond to it and interpret it differently. My question to you this morning is how do you respond to Jesus? What I want us to see here at the end of chapter two are some typical responses to Christ that people have in this day and they still have today. The first response is the response of skeptical antagonism, exemplified by the Jewish religious leaders. This is the type of person that says, prove it to me. And no matter what evidence you provide, it's never enough. Look with me at verse 18. And the Jews said to him, What sign do you show us for doing these things? When it says the Jews said unto him, We are not told exactly who these representatives are. Most scholars believe, and I think it's likely, that they were some members of the Sanhedrin. The Sanhedrin were 70 men who ruled the nation of Israel with the permission of the Roman government. They were religious scholars. They were political leaders. They were men who were admired and revered and were experts in the Old Testament law. And these men come and question him. What's fascinating is what they say to him after he cleanses the temple. Notice they don't accuse him of assault or of destruction of property. They don't ask him why he drove the animal merchants and the money changers out. No, they don't question the rightness of his actions. They question his authority. Who gave you, if you will, permission to do this? And they question him with these words, what sign do you show us for doing these things? So the word sign is John's word for miracle. They are asking Jesus to demonstrate that he is either a great prophet like John the Baptist or the promised Messiah. And I want you to notice that their question already reveals that Jesus' actions in the temple that day were consistent with what they would expect the Messiah to do. They have not viewed him as some rabble rouser or some insane man who's disturbed They know that this man must be making some claim to being the Messiah. So that's how they question him. And they knew from the Old Testament scriptures that the Messiah would perform miracles. Isaiah tells us of this, that he would open the eyes of the blind and the ears of the deaf. And so they want a sign, they want confirmation if indeed he is the Messiah. This is something that Jesus was asked repeatedly during this earthly ministry. For instance, in Mark 8. 11, we read, the Pharisees came and began to argue with him, seeking from him a sign from heaven to test him. They want proof that he is the Messiah, but Jesus doesn't give it to them He doesn't perform a miracle there. He could have, of course, but he doesn't. Have you ever wondered why Jesus didn't do that? What if he had performed a spectacular miracle and all of these religious leaders of the Sanhedrin came and said to everyone, hey guys, we think this is the Messiah. I mean everything would have gone great then, right? Let me suggest three reasons why Jesus did not perform a miracle for them. Number one, because God does not perform miracles on demand. This is often the way people think. In the 1800s, there was a man who was a household name that is nearly forgotten today. His name was Robert Ingersoll. He was the son of a preacher, but he came to reject the gospel and to hate Christians. And he made it his mission to do everything he could to destroy people's Christian faith. He was known as the great agnostic, and he would travel around the country and he would speak. in concert halls and other venues to crowds of people trying to convince them that following Christ and being a Christian was nonsense. And one of the things that he would often do is he would stand up on the platform before a crowd of people, and he would take out his pocket watch and he would say, I'm going to give five minutes to God to prove that he exists. by striking me dead. And he would look at his watch. And there would be this very awkward silence. And and and people would gasp. Sometimes people would faint, sometimes people would leave. And every time he did this, he never died. God never struck him down. And he would close up his watch after five minutes and he would say, ladies and gentlemen, I've just proved to you that there is no God. But of course he did no such thing because God cannot be compelled to perform a miracle or to do any action for anyone. He only demonstrated that God is patient with sinners. Another reason that Jesus did not perform a miracle that day is that even if he did perform a miracle, it would not have truly changed their hearts. At the end of Jesus' public ministry, which ends the first half of the Gospel of John in chapter 12, we read these words Though he had done so many signs before them, they still did not believe in him. Jesus performed miracle after miracle after miracle, but the majority of the people in Israel did not believe in him. And Jesus would say after his resurrection, blessed are they that see not and yet believe. I've met many people over the years who have suggested that if they could have lived at the time of Christ and they could have seen his miracles and the spectacular things that he did that they would have believed. But that is not what the scripture record indicates. Thirdly, Jesus did not perform a miracle because even though he would in the future perform miracles, yet they would reject his claim to be Messiah. I want you to notice that Jesus does in an indirect way give them a sign. Look with me at verse 19. He says, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up Jesus is not commanding them to destroy the temple. This is a conditional statement with the idea, if you destroy this temple in three days, I will raise it up. Now we know that this statement shook them up because they remembered it for years. A distorted version of these words is mentioned at his trial before the Sanhedrin. And when Jesus was hanging on the cross, we read that the crowds passing by mentioned this very statement as well. And notice their response to his enigmatic statement. They say in verse 20, the Jews said, It has taken 46 years to build this temple, and you will raise it up in three days? They dismiss his words with contempt. The emphasis in their statement is on the words The word you. You will destroy this temple and raise it up in three days. In their minds, that was preposterous. They no longer interact with him. They don't understand what he is saying. And so they go away. And in verse 21, John adds this footnote to help us understand this interaction. But he was speaking about the temple of his body. When therefore he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this, and they believed the scriptures and the word that Jesus had spoken. This is an amazing thing. Have you ever thought about this? Jesus, the Messiah, came right in the temple. Where the these religious leaders was the seat of their power. They saw him do incredible things. They heard his words, and yet They rejected their Messiah. There's a sense in which he does give them a sign. He's referring to his resurrection earlier in Luke, well later I should say in Luke 11, 29. He says this generation is an evil generation. It seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given it except for the sign of Jonah, which is a reference to the fact that he would be three days and three nights. and the belly of the fish and the third day he would rise again, a picture of the resurrection. So there's a sense in his words he did give them a sign, a reference that the resurrection was coming. But what happened to these leaders when Jesus did Rise from the dead on the third day. Did they all enforce common trust in him? No, they did not. They rejected him still. So why is it that these men who knew the Old Testament scriptures, who knew the prophecies of the Messiah, how did they miss him? The answer is that they didn't want the kind of Messiah that he was. They wanted a mighty king who would give them more political power and cast off the Romans, but they didn't want a suffering Savior. They wanted a Messiah who would enhance their power and prestige before the people. But they didn't want a messiah who would die on a Roman cross and call them to repentance. In fact, they were so angered by Jesus' ministry that in the end they would conspire to murder him. This is why skeptics still miss the Savior today. I've run into many skeptics who give you the impression the reason they don't believe is just because they're so smart. So intelligent. And that's why they can't trust. I've heard so many times people come up and see and they say, you're a man of faith, but I'm a man of science, you see. I'm a man of facts. Very condescending. But the reason that people reject the gospel and do not trust in Christ is not because they're so smart. Or because God has provided no evidence, it's because they don't want to believe. They don't want the God who has revealed himself in the pages of Scripture. They don't want the Savior that God has provided in His Son. They don't see themselves as needing a Savior, or perhaps they see themselves as their own Savior. In John chapter 3, in a few weeks we'll come to a passage where he says that men love darkness rather than light because their deeds are evil. And that they will not come to the lights, lest their deeds should be reproved It's really because of their hearts and their love for their sin that skeptics turn away from the gospel in unbelief. They want to live life on their own terms But now I want us to look at the response of true disciples in verse 22. When therefore he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this, and they believed the scriptures and the words that Jesus had spoken. Now on this day when Jesus spoke these words to these religious leaders, the disciples didn't understand what he was saying either. But after the resurrection, which would have been about three years later, it all made sense to them Why is that? Well, later in this book, John will answer that question. In John 14, 26 we read, but the comforter, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things. and bring to your remembrance all that I've said to you. After the resurrection came the day of Pentecost, and on that day the Holy Spirit came upon the Lord's people in a new way The Holy Spirit illuminated the minds of his followers so that they could better understand the scriptures. And so with the Holy Spirit's aid, they were come to see that Jesus' words that day were actually a reference not to the temple, but the temple of his body and his resurrection from the grave. Says that they believed both the scripture and the words that Jesus had spoken, because both of them predicted his resurrection. Now, there's some question about what scriptures were they thinking of. Perhaps they were thinking of the Old Testament analogy of Jonah. Or perhaps they were thinking of Psalm 16, verse 10, for you will not abandon my soul to Sheol, or let your holy ones see corruption. And says they also believed this word. We know that on at least ten occasions Jesus predicted to his disciples that he would die and he would rise again the third day. And often in those passages the Bible says the disciples didn't understand what he was saying. But in time after Pentecost, they would remember and understand that's what Jesus was talking about. He was talking about his resurrection. And I want you to see that their faith was rooted in Scripture It was rooted in the word of God, which helped them to interpret and understand what was happening in their lives. And I want you to notice that we have read in this chapter now several times of the disciples believing. It says in verse 11, after the wedding feast at Cana, and the disciples believed in him. You may say, well, I thought they already believed. They did, but now their faith is becoming deeper and stronger. And now we read after this that they believed the scriptures You see, trusting Christ is not something we do just at the moment of conversion and then we're done with that. No, the entirety of our Christian life we walk by faith. And as we go through difficulties and trials, and as we come to understand the scriptures better, we see how God is working in our lives and how his promises are true, our faith should become stronger and deeper, we come to a deeper level of trust and to a deeper level of obedience because those two things always go together. We read of the disciples praying, Lord, increase our faith, and often we feel that way. We are aware that our faith is weak and that unbelief assaults our thinking. So how can we strengthen our faith? The answer is we must turn again and again to the scriptures And we do this in several ways. We first of all put ourselves under the preaching of the word. We put ourselves reading scripture each day and memorizing scripture and meditating on scripture and going to Bible studies and talking to other script Christians about Scripture. We we put God's word in our minds in a variety of different ways. So that we will come to trust in Him more and obey Him more. So let me ask you: Are you growing in your faith? Do you trust the Lord more now than you did, say 10 years ago, or five years ago, or two years ago? Is your faith deepening? Is your trust level increasing? Or is your faith stagnant or even weaker than it used to be? Your problem, my friend, is that you have not been renewing your mind with Scripture. The entirety of the Christian life is a growth in grace and in faith. I like what Spurgeon said. All Christians are like reptiles. That sounds strange, doesn't it? And what he meant by that is we all, we never stop growing. You know, reptiles, the older they get, the bigger they become. And as Christians, we should continue to grow in faith. as we continue to trust in the Lord. But then we come to what is surely the most interesting and controversial part of our text. And that is this last little part beginning at verse 23, which gives us the response of what I'm calling superficial disciples. Look at verse 23. Now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover feast, many believed in his name because they saw the signs that he was doing. And let me pause there. Jesus was in Jerusalem for Passover. He apparently performed some amazing miracles. Remember, John's word sign is a word that refers to miracles. We're not told what these miracles were. We're not told if he cast out devils or opened the eyes of the blind or the ears of the deaf, but he performed miracles. And the response is that many believed in his name. This means that they saw his miracles and they believed that he was the promised Messiah. But let me ask you, I know we've read this together this morning, and most of you have read this before at some time in your life. if not many times. If you had never read this before, how would you expect Jesus to respond to this verse that many believed in his name? Well, you might expect him to say something like, he rejoiced in his spirit that many had come to the truth. Or perhaps you would expect him to read that Jesus stayed there and taught them the Word of God. But that's not what we read. That's not what our text says. Look at verse 24. But Jesus, on his part, did not entrust himself to them because he knew all people. Now there's an intentional play on words that John is doing in verses 23 and 24 that you do not see in your English Bible. The word believed in verse 23 is the same word that says he did not entrust himself. It's the the regular, the common word for belief or faith. You could render it this way, so that you would see this. Many trusted in his name, but Jesus did not entrust himself to them. And the answer that's given as to why this was the case it says, because he knew all And this thought is further amplified and explained in verse 25 and needed no one to bear witness about man, for he himself knew what was in man. The idea is that he didn't know anybody to come up and say to him, you know, Lord, I'm not sure these people really have a true faith. I think they're maybe here for the miracles. He didn't need anybody to give them that information. He knew what was in their hearts. Now this is an amazing thing that's going to lead us to a very important conclusion. The word for believe here, that's used nearly a hundred times in the Gospel of John. is the same word in verses 23 and 24. So you can't say, well, we can tell what kind of faith this is by the vocabulary word that was used. No, it's the same word. And the structure of this phrase, believed in his name, is a common way that John describes genuine conversion in this book because in John chapter 1 and verse 12 we read, all who believe in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. But having said that, these individuals are clearly not genuinely converted Because Jesus does not accept them or receive them. So what's the conclusion? It's simply this. It's a very disturbing truth, and that is not all faith Is saving faith. Not all faith is saving faith The Bible teaches this repeatedly. It is true that we are saved by faith alone, but not all faith is saving faith. In the parable of the sower. We read of the seed that fell on rocky soil. And Jesus compares it to a person who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy. Yet has no root in himself, but endures for a while, and when tribulation or persecution arise, he falls away. In Acts chapter 8 and verse 13, we read the story of a magician named Simon. And the Bible says that he believed and was baptized. And it's the same word that's used here for belief. But the rest of the story clearly reveals that he was not a born-again man. He is rebuked there by Peter. And in James chapter 2 and verse 19, we read that even the demons believe and shudder, but surely they are not Christian people. So that makes us ask this question, what was defective about the faith of these people, right? If not all faith is saving faith, what was wrong with their faith? I think the key to answering that question is to notice that this, it was the miracles that elicited their faith. In John 6 after the feeding of the 5,000, one of our Lord's most spectacular miracles, , the only miracle that's really recorded in all four Gospels. Jesus says these words, truly, truly I say to you, you are seeking me not because you saw signs, but because you ate your fill of the loaves. In other words, I would put it this way, the multitude liked the results of his miracles. Free food. But they didn't necessarily trust in the person who performed the miracles. They weren't committed to him. They didn't really want Jesus. What they wanted was what's called today food security People in 21st century America do not understand food security. No one here is worried about the fact, I suspect, that you are going to starve to death. Alright? There's more people worried about losing weight than they're going to starve to death. That's the blessed culture in which we live. Most people in the history of the world have not lived that way. One of the greatest fears that people had in just about every era of history was that there would be a famine or they would lose their money and their crops wouldn't come up and they would starve to death. And there was no Social safety net to save them. People by millions starved to death. They lived right on the edge of survival That was true of most people who lived in Israel at the time of Christ. They were peasants. They barely eat out of living. They barely had enough food to eat. And so when they saw this miracle worker come and he can feed like over 5,000 people, because that was just the men, right, not counting the women and children, thousands and thousands of people with all the food that they could eat. They were like, wow, this is like the greatest dream imaginable. Come true. We have all the food. Also we gotta do Stay around this guy, and he will perform miracle after miracle, and we will have food, and we will never have to worry that we will starve to death again That's what they wanted. They didn't want Jesus. And so when Jesus later in that chapter, John chapter 6, talks to them about what it means to be his disciple, it says that many of his disciples turned back. and no longer walked with them. They were like, this is not really what I signed up for. I signed up for the free food. I didn't sign up to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. You see, they never truly trusted in Jesus. They only wanted the earthly blessings that he provided. This is the great danger of all forms of the prosperity gospel. It teaches people that God is a means to an end, but not the end. He is a magic way to get what you really want, which is health and a good marriage and a big bank account. And if you do certain things and play by his rules and decipher the code and everything, then he'll just pour out his blessings on you, unmindful of the fact that you don't really care about him at all. You just want his blessings. It's completely insulting and blasphemous. But soft forms of the prosperity gospel are preached in thousands and thousands and thousands of pulpits in this country and around the world. Telling people, trying to lure people to come to Christ by all these goodies that we have to offer. He'll fix everything wrong with you. But that's not what Jesus wants. He's not trying to get as big of a crowd as he can. He wants people to come and have a genuine faith. Let me close with some words of application. Number one, religious respectability and knowledge of the Bible does not guarantee that you are a child of God. These religious leaders who questioned Jesus that day were experts in the Old Testament. Undoubtedly, some of them had memorized the entire Old Testament in Hebrew. But they missed the whole point of the Old Testament. They were unbelievers. They rejected the Messiah in their midst. They had the right look They had the right words, they had the right knowledge, but they didn't have a true faith. We need to realize that just because people think highly of us, or because we're a member of a church, or we've been baptized, Or we serve the Lord. Or we're even in ministry. None of those things should be the ground or the basis of our hope of salvation. It must be in Christ alone. Secondly, making a profession of faith does not guarantee that you're truly born again. This is one of the biggest problems that I have seen in our conservative churches that preach the gospel. And our church is one of those conservative churches. We're a fundamental church. But in many of these churches, they equate making a profession of faith equals genuine salvation. There's never any question about it. One equals the other. But that's not what the Bible teaches. We saw that today in our passage. Jesus didn't entrust himself to them. He knew that they weren't truly, sincerely trusting and following him. Just because you have walked an aisle or said a prayer or have a date written in your Bible, that something that you did long ago does not mean that you have been truly born again. Someone asks, well then how could anyone know? Don't get me wrong, you do have to trust in Christ. And there has been a change in your life. But true faith endures the trials and temptations of this world and keeps clinging to Christ and brings forth fruit, evidence. This is not to say that we are saved by works. We're not. But a faith that's saved works. These disciples who trusted in him that day. Of course, Judas was not a true disciple. But all of them would suffer greatly for his sake. In fact, all the rest of them would die for their faith except for John, the author of this book. They followed him to the end because a true faith is an enduring faith And number four, this passage is written so that the reader will believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. We see here that Jesus is the true temple. They built this magnificent building, but he was the true temple. He is the real place where God meets man He is the only way to God. And there's something else we see here in this passage. Jesus is the omniscient God who knows the heart of every person. God knows everything in your heart this morning. He knows your heart better than you do. He knows your ups and your downs. He knows your fears. He knows whether or not you are truly trusting in him. He is worthy of your trust because he is God in flesh. He is the true temple, and he is the omniscient God. So the big question is, do you have a superficial faith or do you have a saving faith I've mentioned this many times before, but theologians for many hundreds of years have described true faith, saving faith. This is having three components to it. All three must be there, like the three legs of a stool. If you only have two legs of a stool, it's not going to stand up What are those three legs? The first one is this. Saving faith, you have to understand the gospel. Someone has to give the gospel to you, or you have to read it in the scriptures. You understand the truths of the gospel, that you are a sinner, and the wages of sin is death. That Jesus died for your sins. He bore your iniquities, and by his death you can be saved. And then he rose again the third day, demonstrating that he is truly who he claimed to be the Son of God. You have to know some things. You have to know some basic theology in order to be saved. Secondly, what's the second leg of that stool? You have to agree to that. You have to say, yes, I ascended. That's true. That's what I believe. I think that's truth. I think that Jesus is the Son of God. I think he did die for my sins. I think there's no way that I can save myself. You have to believe those things. And this is where often superficial faith ends. But there's another step. And that is that you must rely and trust entirely on Christ alone. You must depend on Him. You must commit to Him. You're not trusting in yourself halfway, in the Lord halfway. You're not depending on yourself at all. You're trusting in Christ alone. You know, when we talk to another individual, we have membership interviews, I talk to people for baptism and everything. I can quiz them pretty well on the first two legs of that stool. Have you heard the gospel? Do you understand the gospel? Have you trusted in the gospel? Do you agree that these things are so? Do you know that modicum of Christian theology, the gospel? But the third part is more difficult to pin down. Are you truly trusting in him? Is that your only hope? Because unlike Jesus, I don't know what's in the hearts of every man. People can nod their head and say yes. And there's a sense in which when I talk to people to baptize them or to join our church, I can only go that far. I can't look into their hearts. If they're not involved in scandalous sins that would seem to argue against their claim, I'm obliged to take their claim. But please understand, because you've been baptized or joined a church does not mean That you should have assurance in that basis of your salvation. Now you can have assurance, but it shouldn't be based on the fact that you've been baptized or you're a church member. This is a difficult thing because I know that there are many Christians who struggle with the assurance of salvation. And this kind of message tends to sow doubts and disturb them and I did not want to do that. But the question is, do you have a real faith? Not did you make a decision long ago, but are you today trusting, walking with the Lord? And not that you're perfect, but there's fruit. There's evidence that you've been changed, that you've been transformed. All of us come short of what we should be. But all disciples of Christ bear some fruit. And so the Bible calls us to make your calling and election sure. It calls on us to examine ourselves whether we are of the faith. We are to do this. We are to make certain and to look into our hearts to make sure, do I really believe? And there's a sense in one sense that time will tell. Will you continue to follow or will you drop off and say, you know what, I'm just, I I don't believe this stuff anymore. I'm going to live life on my own terms. I'm going to walk away from the faith of my childhood. We've all seen that happen in loved ones and others many, many times. But if you have a true face, you will not walk away. Oh, you might backslide. There might be a period of time in your life When you're not what you should be, but you will never truly walk away. Not because you're a good person, but because you're kept by the power of God. And you are his child. And he will never let you go. It's debating whether or not to say this. Because I don't want people to come up and ask me about this. There are people in our roles that I pray for every week. And sometimes I pray, Lord, help them, if they don't truly know you, to come to know you and not to have just a superficial faith. Because I fear that I don't see overwhelming evidence that there is something alive there. And I don't want someday to be in the presence of the Lord. And find that all these people that I've been praying for and that I love are not there. And they came to church week after week after week after week. But they never really put their trust in Christ. There were other considerations to get along, to have friends, family pressures. But it never really was genuine conversion. I don't want that for anyone. Perhaps you would say, well, why don't you go up and talk to them? I do talk to people. And they say, sure I'm a Christian. Of course I'm a Christian. Remember, you baptized me. My friend, your hope must be in Christ alone. Trust in Him alone. Not in anything you've ever done. Not in any certificate you have somewhere, not in something written inside your Bible, but because you have put your eternal destiny, your life, into the hands of Christ, and you are only trusting in what He has done. That is our only hope of redemption. May God help you to trust in Him if you have not. Let's close in prayer. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you that it challenges us and says things that are uncomfortable to us. Father, I pray that you would not let anyone here that is present this morning perish in their sins. Because they only had a superficial faith. Oh Father, open eyes, convict by your Spirit, and draw sinners to yourself. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.