Turning your Bibles, please, to the book of First Peter. We are making our way through the book of First Peter. And this morning we come to verses eighteen and nineteen. It reads, For as much as you know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ. As of a lamb without blemish and without spot. This passage is all about redemption. We use the term redeem or redemption today primarily to refer to something that we do. We redeem something. We'll make a mistake and we'll say, let me redeem myself. But in the ancient world, the world that Peter was writing to, the word redemption Would have instantly put into the minds of his readers a connection with slavery. And the Greco-Roman world A great deal of their economy and their culture was based on slavery. Some historians reckon that about one out of every three people were actually a slave. Now they may have been school teachers, they may have been administrators, they may have had important and substantial positions, but yet they were owned by someone. And these individuals would often seek to buy their freedom. They would do so by saving money over a period of time Or by perhaps having a sponsor who would uh give them a great uh sum of money. And the way that transaction would normally take place is that they would go to a temple. temple of a god or goddess. And they would give the money for their redemption from slavery. to the officials there, and those officials would take that money, they would lay it before the God or goddess, some statue They would take that money then, and after taking out a handling fee, they would pay it to the owner, and that person would be set free. But in they were told that for the rest of their days now they were to serve the God or the goddess. that had redeemed them. It was a ridiculous thing and most people didn't take it very seriously, but it forms the backdrop of Peter's instructions here about our redemption. The great Puritan preacher Thomas Watson said, great was the work of creation. But greater still the work of redemption. It costs more to redeem us than to make us. In the one there was but the speaking of a word, in the other the shedding of blood. We have been making our way slowly through the book of 1 Peter. This new paragraph beginning in verse 13 calls us the holiness. Verse 15 says, But as he which hath called you is holy, so be you holy in all manner of conversation. Peter is going to provide reasons now why we should, as Christians, live holy lives. The first reason is given in verse 16 because it is written. Be ye holy, for I am holy. We are to imitate or reflect our Heavenly Father, who is absolutely holy. And then in verse 17, the passage we considered last Lord's Day, we have a second reason given why we should live holy lives. And if you call on the Father who without respect of persons judges according to every man's work, pass the time of your sojourning. Here we see that we should live with godly fear because our Father will someday judge us according to our works. I suspect you may have thought, well, isn't there a better motive than fear for us to live for Christ? And so in verses 18 and 19, we come to the third and final motive that Peter is going to offer his readers for living a holy life. And that is our redemption. Now, as I mentioned a moment ago, redemption involved the purchase of a slave. This reminds us that before we were saved, we were in the slave market of sin. The Bible is clear in many different passages that those who are yet unsaved are in bondage to sin. They may not be aware of it. They may dispute it. They might not think it's true, but it is, in fact, the reality. They are in bondage to sin. But when we have been redeemed, we have been purchased out of that slavery. And this particular word that's used here for redeem refers to purchase by the payment of a ransom. Now, what was the ransom for our redemption? Well, it's mentioned here as the precious blood of Christ. Peter's intent in mentioning this to us is that it would motivate us to live for Christ. It's a reminder that we have been bought with a price. There's a great Puritan commentator on the book of 1 Peter named Robert Lighton. He was born in 1611. He died in 1684, and I've been reading his very large commentary on 1 Peter as I've been going through this study. And the first comment that he makes on our text this morning Is very profound. He says it is impossible for a Christian to give himself to conform to the world's ungodliness unless He first forgets who he is, and by what means he attained to be what he is. He's saying that the reason why we fail to live a holy life is because we forget who we are and we forget the cross and the cost of our redemption. This is to be something that is to be kept before us as Christian people. The cost of our redemption. This is to motivate us to live for Christ. Does the love of Christ demonstrated at Calvary have any impact on your life? Does the cost of your redemption compel you to live for Him? I want to speak this you this morning on this truth that our redemption should motivate us to holy living. And I want us to consider two main thoughts from our text this morning. And the first one is this consider the lifestyle from which We have been redeemed. I want to take things in a slightly different order this morning from what they are found in our text. And I want us to consider the last phrase that we find in verse 18 first where it says, from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers. Our lifestyle before we came to Christ is described as vain conversation. Now the word conversation, as I mentioned in earlier sermons, refers not to our speech really but to our behavior or pattern of living. Peter is saying that before his readers were saved, they lived in vanity, and this doesn't mean that they looked in the mirror all the time and were proud of their appearance. This word is used specifically in our New Testament to refer to something else. Let me mention a few references in Acts chapter 14 and verse 15. Paul is at Lystra, and he's preaching that they should turn, he says, from vanity unto the living God who has made heaven and earth, and there it is used in reference to idols. Idols are vain things. They they are empty. In Romans chapter one Paul uses this term again to refer to the lifestyle of idolatry. Let me read from Romans chapter 1 for just a moment, please Verses 21 and following it says, Paul says, Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain, there's our word, and their imaginations. and their foolish heart was darkened, professing themselves to be wise, they became fools, and changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like to corruptible man and to birds and to four footed beasts and creeping things. He's saying here that man turned to vanity, he turned to idols, he began to bow down and worship. images of animals made of stone and precious metals, and these became his gods. There was a degradation that took place. And Paul uses the same word in Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 17, where he says that Christians are not to walk as the Gentiles walk in the vanity of their minds. The Greek and Roman world that Peter ministered in was saturated with pagan idolatry. There were two great draws to this wicked worship. One was sensuality. Their worship involved immoral acts. Their temples were nothing more than religious brothels. And their gods reflected their depraved values. The Greco-Roman world was filled with sexual immorality. In fact, it was much worse than what we have in our country today. Adultery was fully accepted. Abortion was a very common practice. Homosexuality was celebrated. Violence was the basis of public entertainment in the Colosseum. They lived in a very wicked world. And Peter is saying that we have been redeemed to his readers. You have been brought out. You have been purchased from that wicked lifestyle. Another draw besides sensuality was materialism. Nearly everyone believed that if you wanted to be prosperous and healthy, you needed to offer donations and sacrifices to the gods and the temples. It's not that they were necessarily so devoted to this pagan religion, but they had instilled in them from the time they were children this fear that if you didn't pay your proper dues To the gods, bad things would happen in life. And so they would bring their sacrifices and they would bring uh different offerings to the temple. hoping that it would give them good health and financial prosperity. And we still see that throughout the world today, don't we? It's a very sad thing that so many people who name the name of Christ have been deceived by the prosperity gospel. This is perhaps the most horrible and embarrassing export that's ever come from our shores. It started in this country. at least in its modern form, the idea that Jesus came and died so that his followers would be healthy and prosperous. That's what the gospel they say is all about. We still see it, of course, with many TV evangelists, but unfortunately this contagion of false doctrine has gone around the world and is very strong in some of the poorest regions in the world today. And preachers will get out and tell people if they just bring the very little resources that they have and put in the offering plate. then God will bless them and their children will be healthy and they will have money to educate them and to feed them and life will be good because God wants to give these things to them, but they must give him a sacrifice. And they greedily take the money from the poorest of the poor and live a lifestyle that's an absolute fraud. It happens all over the world. When I went to Hong Kong a couple years ago, was visiting our missionary Matt Conrad. I noticed that everywhere we went there were Buddhist temples. This is something we really don't see out in the open in this country where you would see people in these outdoor temples and you see them bowing down and burning incense and and banging on on drums to get the attention of the gods, and uh bowing down and praying before idols And what was fascinating to me is that most of these people were not the poorest of the poor. They were middle-class, college-educated people. And I said to Matt, I said, why are they so drawn to this? He says, because they believe it will give them prosperity. He believes that Buddha will bless their business and that the gods, the powers, the forces, whatever they may be, will make things turn out for good for them. This is one of the great lies that is pervasive in man-made religion. That if we just offer sacrifices or perhaps even using a term like bride to God, then he will give us good things. But this lifestyle, this way of thinking is empty and futile. That is the meaning of this word vanity. It leaves a person unfulfilled and unsatisfied. It also suggests that the lifestyle of lost people has no real meaning. or purpose. Man was made to glorify God and enjoy him forever. But the vanity of the world, the idols of the world, degrade humanity. and give him a lifestyle that is empty and meaningless and comes to nothing. But if this is indeed the case, if if idolatry, whether it be in a pagan form like we read of in the ancient world and in other parts of the world, or whether it be in its modern civilized forms in America, if idolatry has such bad results, why do so many people continue to follow in that path? And the answer is found in our text that says, received by tradition from your fathers. Tradition is a very powerful force in the world. This is one of the main reasons why people do what they do, why they believe the way they believe. If your parents and grandparents and brothers and sisters and friends and neighbors all care all share a common religion, and culture and lifestyle, the chances are very high that you will do so as well. We are all influenced by our environment and by the people closest to us. This can be really good or it can be really bad. Most of Peter's readers probably came from a Gentile background, and so they had kind of inherited a pagan view of life. a worldview that was a distortion of God's truth. This empty lifestyle is often passed on from generation to generation, sometimes Writers and preachers will speak of generational sense. Do you know what I mean by generational sense? I mean that some families have a legacy of sin in a certain area and it's passed on from one generation, as it were, to the next. It may be a legacy of alcoholism And they can look back and they can see that their grandparents and their parents and themselves and their brothers and their sisters that their lifestyle has been absolutely shattered and formed by alcoholism. Others it might be substance abuse. Others have a legacy of divorce and broken homes or legacy of illegitimacy. It 's a very sad thing. These cycles that happen in lives again and again. Let me give you one example, an all-too common scenario. A young teenage girl grows up in a broken home. She has no father. Her mother is never available for her. She has no sense of security or love. They're always moving around. Her mother has different men in her life periodically from time to time. This young woman is repulsed by her mother's immoral lifestyle. But in her quest to find love and security, she falls into the same trap. She has a child out of wedlock, and the young man who she thought loved her and would provide security for her, leaves her. Seems he really didn't care for her at all. So she desperately wants emotional and financial security and so she tries to find a good man to love and marry her, but all that she finds is a continuing cycle of degradation and disappointment. And that same cycle repeats itself one generation after another after another. And you see that very commonly in the world. What a horrible bondage. What an empty lifestyle. There's a sense of hopelessness and despair. You can think of many times as a church when we've tried to reach out to various families and we've tried to minister to young people and and uh it's so hard to fight against these generational cycles that are ingrained in their lifestyles. But the gospel can reverse that. The gospel can reverse that and can start a new tradition, a new legacy. of Christian homes and children coming from those Christian homes, not that there's a guarantee that they will be believers But so often they will carry on the faith of their parents into the next generation. And so that that cycle can be broken by the power of the gospel. And that's what happened in the lives of many of Peter's. first readers of this text. They were once in bondage and they could look back for generations and generations and generations of wicked idolatry, but now they had been turned to Christ. And the future was bright, and they wanted something better for their children and for their grandchildren. You see, our redemption is truly life-changing changing. This is why we must never look back. We must never return to our former lifestyle that was void of meaning and purpose. But I want us secondly this morning to consider the cost of our redemption. Our redemption is free, but it's not cheap. The danger is because we didn't pay the price, we tend not to appreciate what it costs. This is something that parents understand. If you just buy nice gifts for your teenage children, maybe buy them a car or something, will they appreciate it as much? If they have to save over a period of years and then get their own car, I don't think so. And because our salvation is a gift, And we didn't pay for it. Sometimes we take it for granted. I want you to notice a contrast that's in our text this morning. Peter begins by noting what was not the cost of our redemption. He says in verse 18, for as much as you know that you were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold. That's not what you were redeemed by. That was not the price of your redemption. And the reason he speaks of silver and gold is because this would be the coinage by which a person would purchase their freedom from slavery. They would have coins of silver and gold, and this was the price of their redemption. But he says, our redemption cost a different kind of currency, something much more precious. Now it's interesting. That Peter calls these precious metals corruptible. But the fact of the matter is that gold and silver are not corruptible. That's why one of the reasons they're valuable. They don't rust. Saw a documentary recently about this great treasure that was found, I believe it was in uh 2008. originally off the coast of Africa of an ancient vessel in the second century that uh had had uh capsized in a great storm and all these treasures were found by divers down there. And they showed these statues, very large solid gold statues of elephants and other things intricately made. And although they had been on the bottom of the ocean for over 1800 years, yet when they brought them up out of the water and they showed the footage, they were still bright and beautiful. There was no tarnishing on it. Because gold doesn't tarnish. It doesn't rust. So is Peter wrong when he says corruptible things like silver and gold. No, he's not being scientific here. He's talking about that in light of eternity, gold and silver are corruptible. They're not going to be something that you hold on for eternity. It does not have intrinsic value in the eyes of God. The fact is that no one's counting his money in hell. Now in contrast to this is the precious blood of Christ. The blood of Christ at the cross was the visible manifestation. of his life being poured out as a sacrifice. How is the blood of Christ precious? Let me mention several ways. First of all, blood is necessary for life. We can't live without blood. And in a spiritual sense, we cannot live apart from the blood of Christ. If your child was dying, and needed a blood transfusion and no blood of their type was available, how valuable does that blood become to you? Is that blood more valuable than your home, than your car, than your stock portfolio? It certainly is. Because without that blood, your child will die. The Bible says the life of the flesh is in the blood in Leviticus. And unless the blood of Christ is applied to us, we will perish eternally. The scripture says without the shedding of blood, there is no remission. That is, there is no forgiveness. There is no hope of eternal life. One of the ways that we measure the value of something is by what you can purchase with it, right? What's the purchasing power of that? Some of you have watched a PBS show called The Antiques Roadshow where people bring things and sometimes people bring junk and they think it's really a treasure and they find out it's absolutely worthless. But then sometimes people bring something that they suspect is not very valuable and it's incredibly valuable. Can't always tell by looking at it. Not many miles from here in Washington, D. C. is the Smithsonian Museum of Natural History. There they have the Hope Diamond, which is 52 carats. Its estimated value is $350 million. You can purchase a lot with $350 million. But consider the redemptive power of the blood of Christ. Every believer who has ever lived has been redeemed by that blood. Going back to Adam and Eve, who were clothed in the lambskins, and Abel going all the way through to those who have come to Christ today. What was the ransom? What was the purchase price of their redemption? The answer was the precious blood of Christ. All the diamonds in the world can never redeem one soul from the bondage of sin and eternal death, but the blood of Christ has brought many sons to glory. There's something else that makes the blood of Christ so precious, and that is that it's rare, it's utterly unique. We see this reflected in our text when it goes on to say in verse 19, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. In 2013, a 1909 Honus Wagner baseball card sold at auction for $2. 1 million. Why was there so much money paid for a tiny piece of cardboard? Well, they made only 200 of those cards And the vast majority of them have been lost or destroyed over time. And this one is special. It's the only one of its kind. It's slightly larger than the rest, and it's in perfect condition. It's the only one of its kind in the world. It's utterly unique. And therefore collectors consider it incredibly valuable. Jesus is the unique Son of God. He is the only Savior that God has provided. He is the Lamb without blemish and without spot. This is a reference to the Passover lamb. that we read of in Exodus chapter 12, that Passover lamb had to be without blemish. Why was that? I wonder if Some of the Israelites back then said, why does it have to be that kind of a lamb? And the answer is because it was a picture of the sinless Son of God. The only one who could die in place of sinners like us. Peter here is reminding his readers that Jesus was the ultimate fulfillment. of all the lambs who had been slain over the centuries. He is indeed the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. But there's another reason why this blood is so precious, and that is because it is the blood of our Savior. is the blood of our Savior. Sometimes we hold on to things and treasure them because we love the person who owned them. Isn't that the case? We say that this keepsake has no intrinsic value. That is, if you were to put it out on auction, you wouldn't get anything for it. But to a specific person, it has great value because it reminds them of this individual they loved. We say it has sentimental value. It's precious. Some of the most precious things in the world to us as human beings perhaps have no intrinsic value. That is, you can't sell them and make a lot of money. But because of what they represent and what they remind us of, they are precious to us as individuals. That is the way it is with us and the blood of our Savior. It is precious because it is his blood. In 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse 8, we read this description of Christians whom having not seen Ye love, and whom though now ye see him not, yet believing ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory. Who are Christians? We are people who love our Savior This is true of every Christian. If you don't love the Lord Jesus Christ, my friend, you are not a Christian. And then we read in 1 Peter 2 and verse 7, using the same terminology, Peter writes, Unto you therefore which believe. He is precious. He is precious. You see, the blood of Jesus reminds us of the high cost of our redemption. It reminds us that we are not our own, but that we have been bought with a price. Our salvation is free to us but costly to him. What did it cost our Lord and Savior for our redemption? Well, he left the glories of heaven. He left the glories of heaven, the place where he had from eternity past had unbroken fellowship with his Father. And he came and he was born on the sin-cursed earth. He was born in Bethlehem. He was laid in a manger. He grew up. In poverty, he grew up in obscurity. He was despised and rejected of men. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. Even his own townspeople wanted to stone him to death. This is what he came. This was part of the price of our redemption. And he was betrayed by one of his own. He was denied by the leading apostle. He was mocked. By the religious leaders, by the Roman soldiers, by the crowds. It's as if every representative of humanity mocked him at the cross. And he was beaten with thirty-nine stripes. He had a crown of thorns pounded into his brow. He carried his cross to Golgotha. And there he would be nailed to an old rugged cross. But all of this was nothing for what he was about to face. And that is that he would be abandoned by his father in the darkness of Calvary. And he would cry out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? As he was bearing our sin, as he was drinking the cup of God's holy wrath for us. And there he died. And he died for us. And his blood was shed. His blood was shed at the cross Picturing the high cost of our redemption, picturing all the sacrifices that had come before, signifying that he was indeed the Lamb of God who would take away the sin of the world. It was his blood. Not the blood of all those countless goats and lambs before him, but his blood that would save sinners like us. William Cooper. was the hymn writer and poet in England. And he got it right when he wrote his most famous hymn There is a fountain filled with blood. He says in that hymn, Dear dying Lamb, thy precious blood shall never lose its power to all the ransom church of God Be saved to sin no more. You see, there is a direct connection between the cost of our redemption and our call to holy living. Isaac Watts put it this way He said, love so amazing, so divine, demands my soul, my life, my all. When we remember who we are, when we remember the cost of our redemption, when we remember our Savior who died for us, it should motivate us To live for him. Let's close in prayer. Our Father Let us never forget the cross. Let us, Father, remember the high cost of our redemption. Think of those here today who may not know you as their Lord and Savior, who have never repented of their sins, who have never thought of themselves as a person who is dying and headed to hell. I pray that today they might consider that fact, that it might arrest their attention And Father, I pray that they would seek you today. And for those, Father, who are your children, who have been born again, who are walking in newness of life, Father, I pray that you would help us. To never forget the cross and never forget our Savior who died and shed his blood that we might live for him. Remind us, Father. That we are bought with a price. Help us therefore to glorify God in our body and in our spirit, which are God's. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.