Invite you to turn back where we left off in Hebrews chapter two. Hebrews chapter two On April the fifth, nineteen fifty-six, a newspaper columnist named Victor Rysel was brutally attacked by a gangster in midtown Manhattan. He'd come out of a restaurant late at night and walk into his car Someone threw acid in his face. You see, Rysel had written a series of articles on the infiltration of the mob in the labor unions. And the price for his courageous journalism was a lifetime of blindness. When Victor Rysel was told That despite all of the efforts of the doctors, he would never see again. His great reaction was not despair or anger, but shame. Because he was ashamed of the way his face had become disfigured. He could feel it And he feared that people would view him as some freak and avoid him or just feel sorry for him. Shame is one of the most powerful emotions that a human being can experience. We often have dreams. That involves us being found in an embarrassing situation. Or we compare shame to death. We say things like, I was so embarrassed, I just wanted to die. Although all of us instinctively understand what it is to be ashamed, in the West we tend to experience it in a different way. Than people in cultures of the East. And the East, your status in a community is far more important Than it is in our individualized West. Often people in the West will say, I want to live life my own way, on my own terms, and I really don't care what people think about me. Most people in the East cannot identify with that kind of statement Because their immediate response would be, but think of the shame that you're bringing on your family. In the Eastern cultures, being true to your family or community is much more important than being true to yourself, as we like to say in the West. And so when early Christians who lived in an Eastern context were cast out of their families and out of their communities, And disowned and cast out of the synagogue, it was an incredibly painful ordeal Often when a believer was cast out of their family, the other members of their family would not even acknowledge that they existed. For example, if one's Jewish brother converted to Christianity and someone asked them about their brother, they would simply say, I don't have a brother. Or perhaps my brother is dead. It was their way of expressing profound shame over the conversion of their loved one. This was very likely the experience of some first-century Jews who came to follow Christ. They were cast out of the Jewish community, the local synagogue, and were disowned by their own family. Let me remind you that the book of Hebrews was written to suffering believers who were paying a high price. were identifying themselves as Christians. Some of them were even contemplating going back to their old way of life. And so the unknown author of Hebrews exhorts them to persevere in their faith because Christ is better than anything that their old life had to offer. In this powerful exposition, the pastor who wrote Hebrews both warns and comforts the suffering people of God. This morning we come to one of those comforting exhortations. Look at the words of verse 11. I'm thinking specifically of the final words of this verse where it says, for which cause he is not ashamed. To call them brethren. What an incredible statement that is. Jesus says, your family might be ashamed of you. They may not acknowledge you as their brother, but I am not. I will acknowledge you as my brother. What a comforting expression of affection this must have been for these hurting Christians. But what was said for them is also true of us. Jesus is not ashamed to call us brothers and sisters Because he is one of us. I wonder what you think of that. I wonder if that strikes you In a little bit of an uncomfortable way. I think we all know At least I hope you know basic theology, and that is that Jesus is the God man. He's a hundred percent God and a hundred percent man. And although we acknowledge that, I think we have real difficulty really grasping both of those truths enthusiastically. And because liberals have tended to devote so much time and attention to the humanity of Christ I think conservative people who believe the Bible is the Word of God tend to shy away from that, and we hold to tenaciously the deity of Christ as we should. But both truths are taught in Scripture. And both truths are necessary for our salvation. And the passage we're going to look at this morning emphasizes the full humanity of Christ in a striking way that really no other passage in Scripture does. Now you notice the first word of verse 11 is the word for. This word is linking verse 11 with verse 10. Let me remind you that the writer of Hebrews has been explaining why it was fitting that Jesus suffered and died. Look at verse 10. For it became him, or it was fitting for him. For whom are all things, by whom are all things, and bringing many sons unto glory to make the captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings And now in verse 11, the author is going to explain why it was fitting that Jesus become a human being, one of us. And he begins by saying, both he that sanctifieth and they that are sanctified are of one. Now let's take this important phrase together, take it apart for a moment. First of all, who is the one who sanctifies? Well, often in the Old Testament we read that it is the Lord who sanctifies his people. If we had time, we could look at About a half dozen passages in the book of Leviticus, about three in the book of Exodus, and several in the book of Ezekiel, where it says, The Lord thy God sanctifieth thee. But here in context is the Lord Jesus Christ, who is our sanctifier. We have just read that Jesus is the captain of our salvation. Now we're going to look at the fact that he is the one who sanctifies us. I want you to see that this theme is revisited in the book of Hebrews. Turn with me to Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 10. It says in Hebrews ten ten, by the which Will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. Now skip down to verse 14. For by one offering he hath perfected forever them that are sanctified. And now look down to verse 29 of this chapter. It says, and this is in a warning passage, of how much sore punishment, suppose ye, shall he be though worthy, who hath trodden underfoot the Son of God, and counted the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified, an unholy thing. And hath done despot unto the spirit of grace. And then one more reference. Turn ahead to chapter 13, please, and verse 12. It says, wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered without the gates. The author of Hebrews tends to view sin primarily in terms of something that pollutes And therefore, he views salvation as that which is the remedy to our pollution, and that is that it sanctifies us. It brings about holiness. So Jesus is the one who sanctifies his people with his own blood. And those who are sanctified are all those who are truly born again. believers. Now turn with me back to our text in Hebrews chapter 2 and verse 11. Now more difficult question to answer. is who or what is being referred to when it says that both Jesus and his followers all are all of one. Notice how it says that In verse 11, they who are sanctified are all of one. Some of you may have A version that actually interprets that, but in the Greek text it is ambiguous This is something that Bible scholars and Christians have been thinking about and debating about for 2,000 years. So what are the leading suggestions? Number one, some suggest this could be a reference to Adam. Remember, the emphasis is on the humanity of Christ. And so it says that we all come from one common source that is speaking of Adam The problem with that view is that Adam is foreign to this context. It's not mentioned here, so you have to kind of read that into it. and interpret other passages, interpolate them into this passage. Others would suggest the answer is that we are both of Abraham And this, of course, would make sense because the writer is speaking to a Jewish audience. And indeed, Abraham is mentioned often in this book of Hebrews, especially in chapter 11. But that's not what the author's talking about here. And then the third option is that it's a reference to God the Father. And both modern and ancient commentators, most of them see this as the view, and that is the way I will take it. Not that the Lord Jesus Christ was created as we have been created But we both have a relationship to the Father, and this passage has been speaking of us as him as the son of God. Remember that great emphasis in chapter 1. He is the Son, the Sovereign Son. And just a few verses earlier, in verse 10, we read about him bringing many sons to glory. So he is the son. We are the sons. And therefore, we are all related to the Father. So both the eternal Son and the Sons are related to Him. This is why Jesus is not ashamed to call us brethren because we are all, in different senses, the sons of God. Now let me quickly add, this does not mean that Jesus is our peer, that he's on the same plane with us, because we've just read that he is the one who sanctifies us. And we are the ones who need to be sanctified. So there's a vast difference between us and the Lord. Nevertheless , This passage says, this incredible statement, that he is not ashamed to acknowledge us as his brothers. And this is found, this family connection is found earlier in the ministry of our Lord. Lord, turn with me, please, to the first book of our New Testament, Matthew chapter 12. We'll come back to Hebrews in a moment, but turn with me, if you would, to Matthew chapter 12. Verses 46 through 50. It says, while he yet talked to the people, referring to Jesus. Behold, his mother and his brethren, referring to his half-brothers, stood without desiring to speak with him. Then one said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren stand without desiring to speak with thee. And he answered and said unto them that told him, Who is my mother? And who are my brethren? And he stretched forth his hand toward his disciples and said, Behold, my mother and my brethren For whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same as my brother and sister and mother. He's saying that my followers are part of my family. And on two occasions after our Lord's resurrection in Matthew 28 :10 and John 20, 17, he refers to his disciples as brethren. So you see, it's not only fitting that Jesus calls brothers, but also essential that Jesus become a man That we might be saved. We are now in the time of the year when we celebrate the birth of Christ. And in the providence of God, we've come to a passage that highlights the beauty. and the necessity of our Lord's incarnation. And so it's very appropriate that we come to this passage. Now, I think all of us understand because it's so emphasized in Scripture that Jesus Christ took on flesh, that he was born to die. That he came to save his people from their sins. But this morning we are going to consider some additional reasons why the Son of God took on human flesh. This passage is all about the solidarity of Christ with his people. And this morning I want us to see some unexpected blessings. that come from Christ's incarnation. These are some things that you may have never thought of before. This is a passage that I've never really studied in depth before. And I feel like I learned some things this week, and I'm eager to convey those things to you as well. So, first of all, I want you to notice that because Jesus is one of us, he is able to lead us in worshiping the Father. The author of Hebrews is going to prove what he's just stated about Jesus being our brother. And he's going to ground this truth in three Old Testament quotations that are found in verses 12 and 13. Now I want you to notice two things about these quotations before we get into them. First of all, in each of them Jesus is speaking. Notice it says in verse 12, I will declare thy name unto my brother in the midst of the church will I sing praise unto thee. And then we also notice that in each of these quotations, they are personal declarations. He says, I will declare thy name, I will sing praise unto thee. I will put my trust in him. Behold, I and the children which God have given me. We have a lot of personal pronouns there. Because this passage is talking about these personal declarations of our Lord. Now let's look at the first quotation that is found in verse 12. You probably have somewhere in your Bible the reference of Psalm 2222, perhaps in the margin or at the bottom. That's because that's where this quotation comes from. So I want us now to turn in our Bibles to Psalm twenty-two, please. Psalm twenty-two Psalm 22 is traditionally known as the Psalm of the Cross. It's a great psalm. You'll notice in the inscription it's a psalm of David Here David is writing of his own persecution, of the enemies that he faced, of the emotional turmoil and drain that he was experiencing through all this. But the language the Spirit of God gave him to use was literally fulfilled in the suffering and death of Jesus. This psalm has more references to Christ's death at the cross than perhaps any other passage except for Isaiah 53. Look with me at verse 1. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Sound familiar to you? It should, because that is the fourth word from the cross. Now look with me down at verse 6. The psalmist writes, but I am a worm and no man. A reproach of men despised of the people All they that see me laugh me discord, they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying, He trusts in the Lord that he would deliver him. Let him deliver him, seeing he delighted. In him. This is what the crowd said in derision to Christ at the cross. Now look with me at verses 14 following. It says I am poured out like water. All my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax that is melted in the midst of my bowels. My strength is dried up like a pot shirt, and my tongue cleaveth to the root to my jaws, and thou hast brought me unto the dust of death, for dogs have compassed me, the assembly of the wicked have enclosed me, they pierced my hands and my feet, I may tell all my bones, they look and stare upon me. They part my garments among them and cast lots upon my vesture. Be not far from me, O Lord, all my strength. Haste thee to help me. Now I've taken time to cover all of these verses. Because I want you to know that the context of this psalm is obviously one of suffering. And so I believe that the author of Hebrews selected this quotation from this song because he expected his readers to make this connection. Oh yeah, that's the psalm that talks about our Savior's suffering and death at the cross. And I believe that the first Jewish audience would have known that this psalm was filled with predictions of Christ's suffering. And so they would have made the connection that Jesus, their brother, suffered just like they were suffering, but even to a greater degree. But verse 22 is quoted in Hebrews 2 because it marks a point of transition in the Psalm Everything up unto this point chronicles the suffering of Christ, but now it's going to transition and switch from suffering Look at verse 22. I will declare thy name unto my brethren. In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee. Now, perhaps the reason the author of Hebrews thought of this verse is because it has the word brethren. And he's just talked about the fact that Jesus is not ashamed to call us brethren. But there's more here than just that connection. Notice that Jesus will declare God's name to his people. Now let's not forget that in this culture the name represented the person and their character. And indeed, it is Jesus, the Son of God, who reveals the Father to us. Let me remind you that the book of Hebrews begins by saying that Jesus is the brightness of his father's glory and the express image of his person. You see, human beings cannot really know God apart from Jesus Christ. John chapter 1 and verse 18 says No man hath seen God at any time. The only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him. The only way anyone can know God the Father is through his beloved Son. The word declare in that verse means to explain or even to expound. It's a word for preachers when they explain a text. From the Word of God. If you want to know who God is, you must look to Jesus. He is the only mediator that God has provided. This is why Jesus said, He that has seen me hath seen the Father, and no man cometh unto the Father but by me. This is why every religion that rejects the revelation of Jesus Christ has a distorted view of God. Because you cannot fully know God except through His Son. Now notice how the next line of poetry is parallel. It says in the Hebrew text, in the book of Hebrews, in the midst of the church, here it says, in the congregation. Now a question that arises from this is, when does this worship take place? This is a reference to when We gather with all the saints in heaven and worship our great and glorious God. Now I want to ask you to turn back with me to the book of Hebrews, please. But now I want you to turn with me to chapter 12. Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 22 is where I want to begin reading. We have another scene of the assembly in heaven. Hebrews 12, 22. It says, But ye are come unto Mount Zion and unto the city of the living God. the heavenly Jerusalem to an innumerable company of angels, to the General Assembly and Church of the Firstborn. which are written in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant. And the blood of sprinkling that speaketh better things than that of Abel. So we are someday going to gather, and we have great descriptions of this in Revelation 4 and Revelation 5. We are going to gather. With that innumerable company of redeemed people in heaven someday. And this passage that we've looked at today in Hebrews chapter 12, quoted from Psalm 22, tells us. That the Lord Jesus Christ will lead us in our worship. Because He is the God man. He is that bridge that spans that great chasm between fallen humanity and our holy God. He is that bridge. And because he is the God man, we will someday be with the redeemed, and we will worship our Almighty Father in heaven. Now perhaps you would object and say, but I thought we were going to worship Jesus in heaven. We will. We will sing with the multitude, which no man can number, worthy is the lamb that was slain. But we will also sing praise to our Almighty Father and Jesus the God man because of his incarnation. Will be a part of that worship with us. Many scholars think that this is a reference to the fact that In the Old Testament and in the Hebrew tradition, the priest that led the people in worship would often lead them in singing or chanting. And here we have our Lord and Savior pictured as our great high priest who will lead us in singing praises to our Heavenly Father. As all the redeemed of all the ages lift up their voices in praise, he will blend his voice with ours. And we will worship our God and we will praise Him. But there is another unexpected blessing in the incarnation of Christ. And that is because Jesus is one with us. He is able to model for us how to trust The Father. Look with me now at the first part of verse 13. And again, I will put my trust in him. We'll look at just that first phrase right now. Now the next two quotations found in verse 13 are from the book of Isaiah. So I'm going to ask you to turn with me back, please, to Isaiah chapter 8. Would you do that with me, please? Isaiah chapter 8 Isaiah chapter 8 is sandwiched between two great chapters that speak of the incarnation of Christ. We often hear these verses this time of year. Isaiah 7. 14, behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son and shall call his name Emmanuel. Many sermons will be preached on that this month. And then the chapter after chapter 8, we have Isaiah chapter nine and verse six, for unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. And many sermons will be preached from that text this month. But right in between those great passages We have other references to the Messiah that are not as well known. I want you to notice Backing up a little bit before we get to our quotation, look with me Isaiah chapter 8 and verse 11. The Lord God spake thus to me with a strong hand and instructed me that I should not walk in the way of this people, saying, Say ye not A confederacy to all them to whom this people shall say, a confederacy, neither fear ye their fear, nor be afraid. But sanctify the Lord of hosts himself, and let him be your fear, let him be your dread. This is talking about a time of tumults and turmoil in the land. And everyone was talking about confederacies. You know what we would call it today? Conspiracies. All of Israel, all of Judah was filled with conspiracy theories that different nations were banding together and different horrible things were about to happen. And God says to Isaiah, don't fear the conspiracies of the nations, fear me. There are more things to be worried about than being taken over by a foreign power, he says. What you need to do is fear me. Verse 13, as some of you may have remembered, is quoted in 1 Peter 3 and verse 15 as referring to Christ. Now we come to verse 14. And he shall be for a sanctuary, but for a stone of stumbling and for a rock of offense to both the house of Israel, for a ginn, and for a snare, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And this verse is quoted in 1 Peter 2 and verse 8 and in Romans 9 and verse 33 as speaking of Christ as the cornerstone. And then in verse 15 we come to, and many among them shall stumble and fall and be broken and be snared and be taken. And Jesus himself quotes this verse in Matthew 21 and verse 44. Now I say all that to say this. This chapter is filled with messianic references, with clear references to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we should not be surprised to find that verses 17 and 18 are pointing to our Lord as well. Now, the historic context of this passage is that Isaiah's message from God was rejected by the nation's leaders and most of the people. Judgment was coming, but no one wanted to hear about it. And so God instructs Isaiah to preserve the testimony of his word among the faithful remnant who believed God. What I'm trying to show you is that the difficult and uncertain days that Isaiah ministered in matched the confusing and oppressive circumstances that these first century Jews were experiencing. And in some ways, they are like arts. Sometimes you might be thinking that The New Testament writers just ripped passages completely out of context and use them for their own purposes when there was no connection. With with what he's talking about in the New Testament. But actually, if you study the context of those passages carefully, you will see that there is a connection. Between what he's saying to the people in the first century and what God said in previous centuries to his people in the Old Testament. Now when I started out this point, I mentioned That the Lord Jesus Christ, through his incarnation, is able to provide for us a model of what it looks like to trust in God. Now again, I think that that statement may strike you as odd, right? Because Jesus is the God-man. So how why would he need to trust in God? Yes, but as a man, the Bible teaches he was dependent on his heavenly Father. The scripture confirms this in numerous places. A moment ago we read Psalm 22 and verse 8. Which records the mocking words of the crowd directed towards Jesus that says he trusted in the Lord that he would deliver him. Even the Lord's enemies knew that this was a man who trusted in God. Let me remind you That the Lord Jesus Christ was a man of prayer. When we read through the gospel record, we read about him going up onto a mountain to pray or going out into the wilderness to pray. We read of him spending entire nights in prayer. He was a man of prayer. Wherever you have prayer, you have a demonstration of faith and of dependence. If there was no reason for Christ to trust, for Jesus to depend upon his Father, there would be no need for him to prayer. We read about him going into the synagogue on a regular basis to worship. Was all of that a sham? Or was that a sincere expression? of his walk with God. And of course we read of his perfect obedience. In John 8. 29, he says, I'll always do those things that please my Father. I know he was the Son of God, and this is certainly one factor, not the most important factor in his perfection. But we must always remember that trusting and obeying go together, just like the hymn says. So I'm submitting to you something you may never have thought about before, but Jesus had a perfect walk of faith. And he walked by faith in his father. And if you think that it was just as simple and easy, and you know, we we like to think because he was the Son of God that there would never be any any issue with that at all, but go to the Garden of Gethsemane sometime and see his agonizing prayer, not my will but thine be done There was a sincere commitment there and trust in him, even though he was facing what was unthinkable to him the next day. And then what were Jesus' final words from the cross? Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. These are words of ultimate trust. You see, from his birth until his final breath, Jesus' life was a record of walking with God by faith. And we have this incredible record before us. But what the author of Hebrews really wants to convey to his suffering readers. is how Jesus trusted his father during his time of suffering and persecution. Peter mentions this in his book of 1 Peter. He says, for even hereunto were you called because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that ye should follow his steps, who did no sin. Neither was guile found in his mouth, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judges righteously. And the idea of committed literally means that he handed it over. He handed over that derision, that betrayal, the suffering that he faced. He handed that matter over to God. to his heavenly father, who was in control of all things, and of whom this was part, an essential part of his great plan of redemption. And so indirectly, by example, through quotation, the author of Hebrews is saying to his suffering readers. You must turn over your suffering and your fears and your anxieties about the circumstances that you're facing right now. You must hand them over to God's. And through the word of God, he's saying the same thing to us. When we suffer, we question. We reflect. We think. It really drives us to consider what do I really believe? What do I really trust in? Do I really believe that God has a plan for my life? That God is in control of every circumstance that I face, that God is even in control. Of COVID. We've had so many of our people the last few months who have become ill from this disease. And some of them Have had a prolonged time of suffering that has been very fearful and very painful and very humbling. And I want to say to those who perhaps are watching this service today or will in the future That you need to hand your situation over to God and trust in Him. Shall not the judge of all the earth do right? God is going to do what is right by you, and He is going to use this suffering, this pain, this great interruption in your life for good. And you need to trust in that. Jesus committed his suffering to his father, and so must you and I. You see, if the s second person of the Trinity, the Son of God, had never taken on human flesh, he would never be able to provide for us a model of how to trust in God, of how to face suffering. That would not be any instruction that we could receive. But because he became a man He is able for model for us how to face the most intense and unfair suffering that any individual has ever endured, and yet how to remain steadfast and trusting God. And thirdly, this morning, as we look at these unexpected blessings that stem from the incarnation of Christ, I'd invite you to turn back with me to Hebrews 2. And I want you to notice that because Jesus is one of us, he is able to model for us how to have confidence in the Father's plan. Now look at the last part of verse 13. It says, And again, behold I and the children which God hath given me. Now have you ever read a verse like this and thought, what does that mean? I certainly have. I mean, if you're just doing your Bible reading and you're reading, all right, so now he's going to show us, you know, how it is that uh he is one of us, his solidarity with humanity. And then you read, Behold I and the children which God hath given to me. I'm lost. This quotation is from the very next verse that we read. Just a moment ago in Isaiah chapter 8. This is Isaiah chapter 8 and verse 18. I don't want you to turn there. I just want you to listen to me. So why does the writer say, and again? This is this is, you know, the the way to study the Bible is by asking questions of the text. So he's just quoted a phrase from verse 17, and the very next phrase in verse 18, and yet he feels like he has to say, and again. Does that seem unnecessary, superfluous to us? The reason why he's included that in there is because he's signaling to the reader, I'm going to make another point. Not the same point that I just made. I'm going to make a different point from the next phrase. But what does that mean? Well the context provides the answer The remainder of this verse in Isaiah 8 says that both Isaiah and his children were given for signs and wonders in Israel. And scholars believe that this is likely a reference to the significance of their names. Isaiah's name means Yahweh is salvation. But Isaiah also had two sons. One of them was named Shir Jashab, which means a remnant will return. And the other is one of my favorite names in the Bible, Maharjaho Hashbaz. I haven't heard many people name a son by that name. It means quick to the plunder, quick to the spoil. These names were a testimony to unbelieving Israel that God would fulfill his promises. that Israel's enemies would be defeated and a remnant would return. Isaiah pointed to the sons that God had given him as evidence that God's people had a bright future despite the darkness of the present hour. This is a beautiful picture of the confidence that God's people can enjoy. But Hebrews uses these words to refer to Jesus. Early in our text, we read that Jesus Christ is not ashamed to call us brothers. But in another sense, he is like a father to us. This does not mean that his person is that of a father. It's talking about the way he often ministers to us and functions to us. Now let me defend this for seconds, because you might be thinking, our pastor's confused again. Remember Isaiah chapter 9 and verse 6. One of the titles for Jesus is Everlasting Father. The Eternal Father. It doesn't mean that the persons of the Godhead are confused here. This is expressing how the coming Messiah would care for his people. And we see this In the gospel record of our Lord as well, Jesus said to his disciples, Fear not, little flock. It is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. In John 13, 33, and in John 21 and verse 5, he addresses his disciples as children. And this is appropriate if you think about it. He lived with them, he taught them, he provided for them, he corrected them, he comforted them, and he loved them to the ends. And he left them the greatest inheritance that any father has ever left to his children. You see, Jesus is like a father to his disciples. And all of the Lord's children have been given to Christ from our heavenly Father. Notice what it says here. And again I will put my trust in him. And again, behold, I and the children which God hath given to me. Now, every Christian parent, I think, understands that your children have been given to you as a gift from God's. And that is what Isaiah meant when he originally wrote these words in Isaiah chapter 8 and verse 18. I and my two sons, Father, that you have given to me. But in the New Testament, we find an even greater significance to this. In John chapter 6 In verse 37, we read, all that the Father giveth me, Jesus says, shall come to me And him that cometh to me I will now wise cast out. And in the great high priestly prayer, Jesus makes these two statements. I have manifested thy name unto the men which thou gavest me out of the world. Thine they were, and thou gavest them me. And they have kept thy word. And then in verse 9 in that chapter, he says, I pray for them. I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me. For they are thine. What confidence that should give us as the people of God We have been given to the Son as a gift from the Father. And our Savior will take good care of his people. Our Savior will care for us, provide for us. And pray for us. And our loving Savior will never cast us out because we are intimately united with Him. We are as close as a brother and as dear as children. This should instill great confidence in the people of God, no matter what circumstances we face, no matter how crazy the world might seem. No matter when everything that we're familiar with and all the schedules and all the ways that things are done get turned upside down and disrupted. And you hear nothing but doom and gloom on the news and from your friends We must not be despondent. We must not be people who are gripped and controlled by fear because we have a great God. Who controls every event in our lives? We have been given as a gift, a gracious gift from the Father to the Son, and the Son will take care of us. He will be our good shepherd. He has given his life for us, and he will not lose any of his own. And so we must find great comfort in this truth. And let me make some concluding applications. Since our great Savior is not ashamed to identify with us , We should never be ashamed to testify for Him. Have you ever been ashamed or embarrassed? That someone might find out that you're a Christian and ridicule you. I have before, when I was 14 years old, I remember it vividly. I just gotten a Letterman jacket from my Christian high school, and I was very, very proud of it, and I wore it into the mall one day with some of my friends and other teenagers. were pointing at us and laughing and saying, ah, look at those. They go to that Christian school. And I remember just being red and embarrassed. And later my conscience rebuked me for that. Just think about this. As as as As messed up and as often as we fail, our Lord Jesus Christ is not ashamed to acknowledge that we are his brethren. And since he is willing to condescend and claim us as his own, should we ever blush to speak his name? And to testify for him and to proudly say, yes, I am a follower of Jesus Christ. Secondly, since our great Savior is not ashamed to claim us as his own, we must not be ashamed to find in him our identity. and security. I've mentioned this many times before, but I do so because it's a perennial problem with believers. So many Christians live on a spiritual roller coaster. The shame of repeated spiritual failure causes them to live in a state Of perpetual uncertainty. Some days they feel like a Christian, and other days not so much. And so they base their identity on how they feel and how they are performing on a given day. But that's no way to live In fact, it's a recipe for spiritual frustration and failure. What you need to focus on is that you belong to Christ. You have been given to him as a gift from the Father. And he says that those who come to him, he will never cast them out. It's only when you know that you belong to Christ on the basis of God's amazing grace that you can really live for Him. Doesn't mean that you don't acknowledge your failure. And you won't be frustrated that you're not making more progress in your Christian walk. That's actually, in some senses, a sign of spiritual health. But you must not constantly question yourself and living. I wonder if I'm a child of God. I wonder if God accepts me I wonder if he realized what a failure I would be when he saved me. Yes, he knew all of that. In fact, when Christ died on the cross, he died for all the sins that you've ever committed. Including the sins that will surprise you perhaps weeks or months from now. And that is not a license for you to continue in sin. But it is a wonderful reminder of his full acceptance. He doesn't withhold his affection and care for you based on how well you're doing today. You are his child, and he will never abandon you. And you need to rest in that truth. That's the only way to live the Christian life. But finally, I want to end with this. How could a person know If they belong to Christ, how could they know if they are indeed one with him? How could they know that he is not ashamed to call them his brother? Well, I quoted a verse a moment ago, all that the Father giveth me shall come to me. The question is, have you come? Have you come in repentance and faith Have you come saying, nothing in my hand I bring, simply to thy cross I cling? Have you come recognizing that you have no way of saving yourself? And have you come seeing that Christ is the only Savior, the only one who can provide atonement for your sin. Have you come? If you have not come, I would encourage you and I would exhort you and I would plead with you to come today, to come this morning. To common faith. The Bible is filled with invitations to come. Jesus said in his earthly ministry, Come unto me, all ye that are weak and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. And in the last chapter of the Bible in the book of Revelation, it says, come two times. The Bible is ending with this invitation to come and believe. And if you come and believe and repent of your sins , Then you will know that indeed you have been given as a gift from the Father to the Son in eternity past And what great confidence and assurance and boldness that gives to the people of God to face whatever suffering and confusion they might come to in this life May God help us all to trust in him. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you so much for your word We thank you for giving us a great Savior. We thank you that He took on human flesh, that He condescended to become one of us. That he has provided for us, provided for us as a great mediator between God and man and as a great model of trusting in God and having confidence in God. I pray that you would help us. To profit from the word that we have heard this morning. And for those who are yet lost in their sins, we pray that today would be their day of salvation. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.