Give your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to Colossians chapter 3? Colossians chapter 3 Looking at one verse tonight, verse 16. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. In all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. The Westminster Shorter Catechism says man's chief end is to glorify God. and enjoy him forever. God made human beings to worship and praise him John Scott says true worship is the highest and noblest activity of which man, by the grace of God, is capable. To worship is to assign supreme worth to God. And there are two primary aspects of worship. There's worship that occurs on an individual basis where we worship God. In fact, the Christian life is a life of worship. We don't worship God one day a week. We worship God seven days a week. We worship God every day. We worship Him in our homes. We worship Him in our commutes. We worship Him at the workplace. We worship him wherever we are because we are worshipers of God. But worship is not just an individual experience. It is intended by God to be a shared experience, the gathering of the people of God is intended to be a strengthening experience and a unifying experience for the people of God. This evening we come to verse 16. Colossians chapter 3. It says, Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. In all wisdom. I'm going to stop there for a moment. I want you to notice that this entire paragraph in which this is found is focused on the unity of the local assembly. Look with me, beginning at verse 12. Put on therefore as the elect of God, holy and beloved , Put on bowels of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering, forbearing one another, and forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against any Even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. And above all these things, put on charity or love, which is the bond of perfectness. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are called in one body, and be ye thankful. And then the word that is our text today. The idea is that when we put on the garments of grace, then we will be able to forbear one another and forgive one another when we allow love and peace to control our responses to one another. Then we will be truly one. Now in verse 16, we have another key to finding that loving fellowship that God desires for his people, and that is the corporate worship of the people of God. Sometimes when we hear the word corporate, it sounds very much like capitalism, like this is a business. I once spoke to a couple when I was visiting, I talked about the importance of corporate worship. And this lady said, that sounds so much like a business model that you have. And I said, no, corporate as in the body. That's the origin of that word. It's the worship of the body together Gathering together for worship on the Lord's Day should be something that we look forward to with keen anticipation. It's a time when we see our brother and sister in Christ and worship our Lord together. This is something important for us to consider because we live in a culture and in an age that emphasizes the individual. I say this a lot lately because I'm trying to help you to be able to discern that the currents that you're swimming in in our culture are and and and everyone's thinking the same way. are not in line with Scripture. You should not just be thinking about yourself. But our culture says, no, what an individual wants is more important than anything else. And this gravitates down to the church where people think that worship is something that's between me and God, and that's it. I don't need the church. There's an awful lot of young Christians today who say, you know, I love Jesus, but I can't stand the church. Well, Christ gave his life's blood for the church. It's like you can't come up to some guy and say, you know, I really like you, but I can't stand your wife. No, then he's probably not going to be very kindly disposed to you because he loves his wife. And so you can't-that that's just a completely unbiblical statement and way of thinking. The fact is that worship, the gathered worship of the people of God or the Lord's Day should be a unifying experience. But But what kind of worship would unify the body of Christ? So I'm going to speak to you tonight on the essential elements of unifying Christian I want you to notice with me first of all that Christian worship that unites must center on the preaching of Christ. It says, let the word of Christ Dwell in you richly. Now the question is, what is the word of Christ? It is the message, I believe, about Christ. It's a message that centers on Christ. In a very real sense, all of Scripture is about Christ. It all points To the Lord Jesus, just as all roads in the proverbs, proverbial saying, lead to Rome, so all passages of Scripture ultimately find their connection. in Christ. Jesus said in John 5. 39 that the scriptures testify of him. And so our preaching is to be concerning Christ. He mentions this earlier in this very book. If you look with me, At Colossians chapter 1 and verse 28, notice what Paul says here about his own philosophy of ministry. He says, whom we preach that is speaking of Christ. warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus This is presented as something that is to be continual in our midst. The word of Christ is to continually dwell in us. Every time we gather for worship, the word of Christ should find lodging in our hearts. The idea of dwell in you is to take up residence or to be at home. And it's important for me to point out that when it says in you, It's not speaking of you as the individual, but you as the body of Christ. We could say you all, all of you. We should all be gathered here to learn more about our Lord and Savior. It's this common quest that should unify us. But notice the text does not just say that the word of Christ should dwell in us, it says that it should dwell in us Richly. That is, it should be abundantly stored up. Our lives should be overflowing With truths about Christ. Not abstract doctrinal truths, but truths about the person and work of Christ. So often in our ministry, I fear that we want to take biblical truth and kind of divorce it. From any relation to a person. I'm leery of things that come up with principles to live by that have nothing to do with the Lord Jesus Christ. This is not just a book of wisdom. This is not a philosophy of life on how to avoid pain and suffering and how to get the most out of life. This is not a self-help book. It's a book about our Savior. Of course, it has much that will help us because what can be more helpful than to have a thriving relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ? But when we gather here in our services, it is not so that we find just a few key principles to help us improve our lifestyle, give us an edge, as it were, on people in the world who don't acknowledge God's truth. We are to have a personal, thriving relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. And therefore, we should in our study plumb the depths of the person and work of Christ. In many pulpits today, there is no teaching concerning union with Christ or the vicarious death of Christ or his high priestly intercession. I fear that in some respects the modern church has traded the treasures of Christ for the trinkets of man. We have sold our birthright for a mess of man-centered pottage. Well, how would you know if the Word of Christ is taking up residence in your hearts? Well, some of the effects of that are found in the rest of verse 16. You would be filled with songs of praise and thanksgiving to God, and you would live your life for the glory of God. Look at the next verse, verse 17. And whatsoever you do in word or deed, Do all in the name of the Lord Jesus giving thanks to God and the Father by Him You see, this truth is transformative. It doesn't end there. Look at verse 18. Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands as it is fit in the Lord. Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them. Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing unto the Lord. Fathers, provoke not your children to anger, lest they be discouraged. You see, when we truly understand Christ and we allow his word to dwell in our hearts richly, it changes the way we work, the way our family interacts. We often think that those doctrines about Christ are not very practical. It would be better if we just had, you know, ten rules for a happy home. You know, God could have laid out the scriptures that way, or seven ways to be a more effective employee. We could have had that laid out there, but that's not the way the Spirit of God brought forth this holy book. It is all about Christ, and our goal is not to be a better spouse or to have a happier marriage or to be a more effective employee. Those things are the byproducts of walking with Christ. So often do we want to take things that are relational and we don't want to make them in a way so that they're not really relational. But the scripture in both the Old and New Testaments say that all of our growth is involved in our growing knowledge of God. And we must understand this. Now I want you to turn to the twin epistle of Colossians. Turn with me, please, back to Ephesians chapter 5. Paul wrote Ephesians and Colossians at the same time, perhaps just days apart from one another. And they have a lot of parallels because he was thinking in a similar vein. Look with me at this famous verse, Ephesians 5. 18. And be not drunk with wine where it is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. What are the evidences of being filled with the Spirit? speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord, giving thanks always for all things unto the God and Father in the name of the Lord Jesus. Submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God. Sound familiar? Yes. It's almost identical to what we have in Colossians 3. I want you to notice this That what corresponds here to being filled with the Spirit is parallel to let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. I've had people come to me before and say, you know, your church, your church is like a word -filled church. You focus on the word, but in our church, we focus on the spirit. And of course, this is coming from a charismatic kind of perspective. And I would say to them, that is a false dichotomy. Because if you are truly focused on the Word and the Word of Christ is dwelling in you richly, you will be filled with the Spirit. And if you're filled with the Spirit, the Spirit of God is going to take you to the Word that testifies of Christ. They're not two different things No, they are like two sides of one coin. You can't have one really without the other. The Word of God and the Spirit of God are not in competition with one another. Because it's the Spirit of God that has given us the Word of God. So being filled with the Spirit is another way of saying, let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. To be controlled by the Spirit of God is the same as being controlled by the Word of God. And when the Word of God controls the conduct of the people of God, there will be unity And the Church of God. Secondly, would you notice with me that Christian worship that unites must provide thorough biblical instruction How does the Word of Christ take up residence in a local assembly? Look at the rest of this verse. What we have in the rest of this verse is governed by three participles. We have first of all teaching and admonishing one another. That is one way. And then singing is the other way. Let's look at the first of the ways that the Word of Christ can take up residence in our heart. Notice that there are two aspects to biblical instruction. There's a positive and there's a negative. The positive here is teaching. The negative is it is admonishing. Biblical teaching is the communication of biblical truth. When we gather to worship, it's not to observe a liturgical performance. It's not to hear a pep talk or to hear a preacher's funny stories. We are here to learn God's truth that will change our lives. And there is a positive and a negative aspect. Now we live in a society and a culture today that emphasizes the positive. And doesn't want to have anything to do with the negative. But in reality, you can't have one without the other. To say that you're for something means, if you're going to be logical, that you're also against something. You're against the opposite of what you're for. And so when we gather for worship, it is not a time just for us to have all of our pet doctrines and our political perspectives affirmed. It is a time for us to have our thinking adjusted and to say, I've been thinking wrong about that. I really haven't had the right perspective about that. I really didn't see that before, but now I see that my understanding of that was false. And notice it says that this is to be in all wisdom Now I need to let you know that many scholars believe that this phrase goes with the teaching and admonishing, not with the opening phrase of this verse. But regardless of which phrase this goes with, my point remains unchanged. expression is telling us that the better we know God's word, the better we will be able to apply His Word. I think for many Christians they think this way. If I know the plan of salvation, like say the Romans Road, and a few other famous verses, then I essentially know everything that I need to know for the Christian life. And that is false. You need to be so filled with Scripture that no matter what situation you encounter in life, you have verses available to you that apply to that situation. This is something that I'm afraid that we woefully fall short of. This is why Bible memory is important. This is why we have Bible verses that are set out and we memorize verses in our children's classes and in Sunday school. This is why we must never stop. hiding God's word in our hearts. You never come to the place where you say, you know, I don't really need any other. I read someplace once that there's about 200 verses. That are kind of familiar verses in the Bible. And like for most Christians, if you knew those 200 verses, you'd pretty much know just about every famous verse that someone would quote or refer to. But I want you to know that we need to hide much more than just 200 verses in our hearts. We need to digest the Word of God and store it up like a great treasure. I read a few years ago about a man who was born in Egypt to a Muslim family, and by the age of 12, he had memorized the Quran, which is about as long as our New Testament. And he says in that book that there are many young men in Muslim countries that memorize the Quran. And I started thinking, how many Christian people do I know that have memorized the New Testament? I can't think of very many, if any. What a shame that people who are in the darkness will give such attention To memorizing a book that is not the Word of God. And we who possess the Word of God are lazy about hiding it in our hearts. Now I'm going to say something that could be easily misunderstood. But this is an interesting thing that I've been thinking about this week. It says, teaching and admonishing one another. Now you may not realize this, but this is one of those one-another statements. And the one-another statements are talking about ministry that is reciprocal. In other words, you minister to me and I minister to you. It goes back and forth, back and forth. Now, this does not mean That the Bible does not give certain people the gifts, the calling, and the office of like a pastor-teacher. Where a person has been called of God to stand up and weakly proclaim the Word of God. And he is to study and delve in and dig into the Word and then bring out the results of his study for the people of God. That is something. And it would be easy to take this verse out of context and come up with a very popular egalitarian point of view that would say that everyone's Interpretation and understanding of Scripture is equal. Everything is valid. Your opinion is just as valid as my opinion. Who's to say what the truth is? And maybe there are many truths. to this. This is not at all what I am saying. The Bible does not lend itself to that. The Bible The Bible has one meaning. Every passage has one meaning, but several lines of application. Sometimes we come to a place where we're not certain which interpretation is correct. But rest assured, it only means one thing. It doesn't mean it's not a blank screen that you can project whatever you want onto it. Which is the way many people today think. This is something you have to be careful about. This is the danger, and I'm not against it. I'm not going to go off on a rabbit trail here about Bible studies when people gather around. There is a great strength in that, in that you have participation and interaction. And it causes people to think, and that's very important. But the danger is that everyone's opinion is equally valid. And the person who's been saved for two weeks and can't find the book of Genesis Their opinion is just as valid as someone who's been walking with the Lord all their life and knows the Word of God very, very well. So we have to be balanced in our thinking about this. But having said that, let me say this. We should all be ministering in a sense to one another, not Not in a confrontational and critical way, but in an edifying and helpful way. You know, many, many Sundays I have people come up to me and they 'll meet me out there in the lobby, and the passage that I'm preaching from, be able to say, Pastor, did you happen to see this? Did you did you make the connection with this over here? I was thinking about this and and and and so forth. And and usually I I Have heard that and I have thought about that and uh maybe it's true and valid. I just didn't have time to put in the message. You know, you can't say everything about every passage. But there have been many times where people have brought things out where I've said, that is really good. There are people here that have ministered the word of God to me. There is no Christian that is ever at the place where they say, you know what, I don't need the ministry of anyone else to me about teaching me the Word of God. We are all students of the word. We are all learning together. And there should be a sense in which we are sharing our findings with one another. So how do we humbly learn from one another? How does this work? Well, it's accomplished, of course, through the preaching from the pulpit. That's mentioned, I think, in chapter one and verse twenty-eight. I think this verse provides a biblical basis for Sunday school classes. You know, Sunday school classes are not found in the Bible and the fact is the earliest Sunday school classes in the seventeen hundreds were started uh in the wake of the Industrial Revolution because Kids were coming to church and they couldn't read. And so they started having classes sometimes in the afternoon, sometimes before church where where people in the church would teach them to read and also teach them age appropriate lessons about scripture because they couldn't understand what the preacher was saying because they couldn't even read their Bibles. They were completely ignorant. They were biblically illiterate. That was the beginning of the Sunday school movement, and then it became sort of in time incorporated into part of the church itself And some people have said, well, I don't think there should be a Sunday school because it's not mentioned in the Bible. There's a lot of things that aren't mentioned in the Bible that are very helpful. And I think we have to, and I've heard some people say that because the Sunday school is not being taught by perhaps the pastor or something, that that it shouldn't be done. But I think this verse tells us that there is a place for Christians to teach one another. And so I think that this is a helpful thing. This could include informal instruction when you encourage another brother or warn another Christian. This happens sometimes in their lobby. This happens out in the parking lots. I've seen people out there with their Bible open talking to somebody. And I hope that there's effective ministry going on. And this biblical instruction also includes the teaching that takes place through the text of psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. That brings us to our third point, Christian worship that unites It should include a vibrant musical ministry. The third and final participle that explains how it is that the Word of Christ can dwell in our hearts is this word singing. Notice, by the way, that singing in the church should be instructive. In the early church, many people would be illiterate, or they didn't own a Bible, and therefore singing was another avenue of learning biblical truth. Although few or any in our services are literate, still our song should be filled with solid theology. I'm afraid that many of our modern praise courses provide very little by way of instruction This is one reason why we tend to sing more hymns than contemporary songs, because the older songs contain more doctrine than do modern courses. Notice the three types of singing that are mentioned in this verse. You'll find the same terms as I read in Ephesians 5. First of all, there are psalms, and you must instantly think of the book of Psalms, which we must remember is a hymn book. But many scholars believe that this is a reference to songs that are accompanied by an instrument, because this is the way the Greeks used this word. And then we have hymns, which refers to songs of praise to God. There are hymns that these are hymns that focus on the attributes of God. It might be hard for us to imagine. But at one time there was a battle in the church over the use of hymns. Many conservative pastors argued that Christians should only use the inspired hymnal that is the book of Psalms. But there is evidence that this was not the position of the early church. In fact, there are several passages in the Epistles of Paul that seem to be quotations of early hymns that are placed right into the pages of Scripture. Certainly our worship is enriched by the singing of great hymns of the faith. And then thirdly, we have spiritual songs. There is some question about what is in view here, but the best explanation seems to be songs of testimony. Songs like Amazing Grace by John Newton or It Is Well With My Soul. And notice the last phrase of this verse. It speaks of grace. With grace in your hearts to the Lord. This is the grace of God saying should fill our hearts with gratitude. And it says in your hearts that is, these are not just words, but the words that we sing together should express and give a voice to what is truly in our hearts. This is why the people of God should sing out heartily. I'm very, very pleased when sometimes visitors come when they'll say, people in your church really sing out. That's the way it should be. You ever been to a church I have where you feel like you're the only one singing, everyone's just kind of looking down and mumbling into their hymnal? No one wants to stand out and it and it's horrible. It sounds horrible. God wants us to sing from our hearts, sing heartily unto the Lord. And the fact is that when a church is filled with the Word of God and the Spirit of God, there will be hearty singing. This is why so many of our finest hymns have come from periods of revival. Hymns like A Mighty Fortress is Our God, which comes from the Reformation, or And Can It Be, a song we love to sing by Charles Wesley. It was written during the Great Awakening. Or I Love Thy Kingdom, Lord, by Timothy Dwight, written during the Second Great Awakening, or the Gospel Songs from the Moody Sankey revivals. The fact is that a revived church has always been a singing church. And a singing church, by the way, is always a united church. You know, it's probably A good thing that you don't know the history behind all of our hymns. That might be a funny thing for me to say. You might wonder why I would say that, because most of these hymns were not written by people just like you. who believed exactly the way you do. Our hymn book is exceedingly broad. Most of our hymns were not written by Baptists Some of them were written by Arminians and some were written by Calvinists. And the interesting thing is that people of both theological stripes sing the other's best hymns. Why? Because they are centered on Christ and are filled with sound biblical instruction. There is perhaps no better expression of the unity of the local church. Then when they gather and they blend their voices together in song, in praise to God. In fact, this is a blessed foretaste of the unity and the joy that we will experience one day when we surround the throne of God and sing praise. To our Redeemer. May God help us to worship Him in a way that is pleasing to Him from our hearts. Let's go to the Lord in prayer this evening. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for all that it tells us of Christ. I pray that you would help us to be a church that keeps our focus on you and not ourselves May you be pleased with our worship, Father. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.