Give your Bibles, you can be turning to First Peter chapter five. An interesting map is on display in the British Museum in London. It's an old mariner 's chart drawn in 1525. You've probably seen ancient maps before. It's not exactly proportional if you've looked at ancient maps of North America before. They uh often have certain areas exaggerated and other areas are just poorly drawn along the coastline and this map is sort of like that. The cartographer made some very intriguing notations on areas of the map that represented regions that were not yet explored. He wrote, here be giants, here be fiery scorpions, and here be dragons. It's an amazing revelation of the human psyche that the unknown we tend to assume is really bad. In fact, people have said there's nothing more scary than the unknown. And when we look ahead at an unknown expanse of year ahead of us, many different thoughts come into our mind. Some of them are hopeful thoughts, thoughts of anticipation of good things that we expect to happen. But our thoughts are also filled with doubts and fears and questions Will I lose my job this year? Will I be able to keep my marriage together? Will I be able to make it in college? Will I be diagnosed with cancer? The future is often frightful because the future is unknown I know as your pastor that there are many people who come into this new year of 2019 with many serious issues on your plates Because many of you have shared those with me. You come into the new year with unresolved issues, with perplexing problems that weigh heavily on your heart. And it's my prayer as we consider this passage this morning that we will find help and comfort and strength. If you're visiting with us this morning, we have been working our way through the book of 1 Peter. My hope was that we would have uh finish up the book of first Peter at the end of 2018, but we came just a little bit short. And so this morning we are going to continue our study in this final chapter of 1 Peter, but in the providence of God, it also happens to be A perfect passage, I think, for the beginning of the new year. I usually like to preach a message the first Sunday of the new year. that kind of strengthens and stabilizes us for the journey ahead. And we come to one of those overarching passages this morning. This morning we're looking at just two verses, verses six and seven of 1 Peter chapter 5. It says, humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God. That he may exalt you in due time, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. Now the key idea of this section of 1 Peter is humility. In verses 2 and 3 of this chapter Peter calls on fellow church leaders to serve humbly. He says that they are to take the oversight not by constraint but willingly, not for filthy lucre. but of a ready mind. And then neither as being lords over God's heritage, but being examples to the flock. Although the word is not used, what he's calling them to do is to serve God humbly before the church. And then in verse 5, he transitions to the entire body of believers. Starts out by Mentioning the younger. Likewise, ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all of you be subject one to another and be clothed with humility. For God resisteth the proud and giveth grace to the humble. The younger are to submit to the leaders in the church and Then he calls on everyone, every believer to put on humility like a garment, like clothing. You would never leave your home hopefully without clothing, and so you should never go out. without clothing yourself, he says, in humility. And then he provides a reason for this very difficult admonition to heed, he says, for God resists the proud. He's against the proud, the arrogant, the self-sufficient. But he gives grace to the humble. Grace like water always finds the lowest place Now, why would Peter be assuming that his readers would be very desirous of the grace of God? And the answer is because In the broader context of this book, he's addressing suffering Christians. The original audience that Peter was writing to was of the diaspora and those people who were being Persecuted because of their identification with Christ. Both the Jews and the Gentiles were becoming increasingly antagonistic. to what they considered this new religion of Christianity. And so Christians were suffering Their families in some cases were divided. Some of them had lost their jobs. They had been kicked out of their social circles there in the synagogue. And some of them had had to leave the land of their fathers and go into exile, as it were. And these things were not easy. They were difficult. And so Peter writes this book. to comfort them and to strengthen them and to give them guidance as they faced increasingly intense persecution. And the principles that he provides here are helpful for all believers who face suffering. Peter is now transitioning to speak to them about humbly responding to their suffering. This quotation at the end of verse 5 acts as a hinge where he goes from addressing their humility before their fellow man to now addressing their humility before God. He says, humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God. I think that when we face a time of suffering , Probably the last thing we ever think about is responding in humility. That may never enter our minds, but this is what Peter is calling on us to do. This is the command here. Whenever we face a soul vexing problem, the first thing we want to do is fix it. We want to get out of that painful, uncomfortable situation as soon as possible. We want to flee from what is distressing us. But often we find that we can't solve the problem. The only thing that we can control is our response to the affliction that we face. And God wants us to respond in humility. This morning we're considering verses 6 and 7, and in each of these verses we kind of have a parallel structure. We have what is essentially a command. Notice this. It says, humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God. And then we have a reason why we should do that. That he may exalt you in due time. And then we have what seems to be another command, casting all your care upon him. Why should we do that, Peter? Well, because he careth for you. So we have a parallel structure in these two verses that we're going to consider this morning that help us to understand a humble response to difficult trials. But how do we humble ourselves to face difficult trials? I have two points, one for each verse. that I want us to consider this morning. First of all, we must humbly yield to God 's sovereign control in our trials. We have to yield to his control. The command here is humble yourselves. Let's consider this command. What does that really mean to humble yourself? It means essentially that we reflect on our painful circumstances and interpret it in the light of Scripture. It means that we must continually remind ourselves that God is sovereign. and that he has a right to do with our affairs as he seems fit. Sometimes you will hear a confrontation betwe between two people and one of them will come back and will explain it to you this way. They will say, I put him in his place. You ever heard that before? I put him in his place. Well in this verse, verse 6, we are being called on to put ourselves in our place. And that is under the mighty hand of God. You see, our suffering often reveals that we want to be in control of everything. What Peter here is saying here is basically what he said at the end of chapter 4. In a sense, he's picking up the thoughts that he left there. Look with me at chapter 4, verse 19. It says, Wherefore let them that suffer according to the will of God commit the keeping of their souls to Him in well-doing as unto a faithful creator. And then he's going to go off and talk about humility, especially within the church. And now he's coming back to that thread of thought that he's left there. But he's going to apply it now specifically to our suffering. So how is it that we fail to humble ourselves when we face difficult trials. I want to suggest two common ways that we fail to respond properly. Number one We refuse to accept our suffering and become bitter and angry at God. I wish I could say that this was a rare problem, but it's not. It happens all the time People face an unexpected, painful, difficult trial that completely upends their life. And they cry out to God and they say, Why, God? And they feel like they're not getting any answers. And as the time goes on and their problem becomes more compounded. They become bitter and angry and discouraged in their life. Some people believe that God has dealt unfair with them Some Christian counselors and preachers think that this kind of open dialogue is healthy. I've heard some Christian leaders say, go ahead and get angry at God. Tell him how he has let you down. Go ahead. Get it out of your system because he's big enough to take it. Now I want to go on record as saying I think that this is really bad advice. It's not biblical. You don't have a right to be angry at God. I don't care what you faced in your life, you don't have a right to be angry at God because your anger Is a manifestation of pride, and you're essentially saying, I think I could run my life and the universe that I live in better than you do. And that's a very arrogant thing to suggest. We must not respond in anger. Instead, we must respond in humble Submission to the will of God. I want us to look at a beautiful example of this. Keep a finger here in 1 Peter and turn back with me, please, to the book of Job. I want you to look with me at Job chapter 1. In Job chapter 1, we read of a remarkable man, a man who walked with God, who was righteous and also very blessed by God. And Satan, of course believes that he's not genuine, he's not real, that he's only serving God and faithful to God because God's been so good to him. And so He has this contest, as it were, with the Lord and says, let me touch him, let me take away his his family, let me take away his wealth, and then we'll see. how reverent and how special and how close he really is to you. And so the Lord gives him permission to do so. Job loses all of his children. He loses his wealth. And then we see his response in verse 20 of chapter 1. Then Job arose and rent his mantle and shaved his head and fell down upon the ground and worshipped. And said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away, blessed be the name of the Lord. And all this Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly. In chapter 2, we have another round of that. And this time he loses his health. His body is covered with painful boils. But Job still responds in humble submission. There's another common mistake that people make and respond to the trials. And that is that so often, instead of humbling ourselves and accepting it as from the hand of God, we become fixated on the secondary causes of our pain. The Bible teaches that God is the primary cause of all events that occur in the universe. If anything happens outside of God's control, then God is not sovereign. And the Bible reveals that God is sovereign. We see this in the story of Job that I just referred to. Because Satan was the agent that brought about the affliction upon Job, but he had to get permission from God. The Bible teaches that nothing can happen to you apart from God's will. And yet so often we become hung up on the people and events that bring pain into our lives. And we play the if-only game. If only I didn't get in that accident, my life would be great. If only I didn't have this disease. My life would be perfect. If only I had a happy marriage, then my life would be whole and complete. If only that individual didn't hurt me with their words, my life would be so much better. And so often people become bitter and despondent , and they fail to remember the hand of God behind it all. And their hearts will be so fixated on one event or one person that brought forth pain into their life that they never are able to really become whole again and walk before God and function as they should because they become hung up on one thing. We must look beyond the secondary causes and see the hand of God in everything. Secondly, I want you to notice in verse 6 we consider the power of God. Our text says, humble yourselves under what? Under the mighty hand of God. Now this exact phrase is used nowhere else in the New Testament, but the meaning is clear. Similar imagery is used in the Old Testament to describe the mighty way that God delivered his people out of the bondage of Egypt. About a dozen times in the Old Testament, we read that God brought out his people with a strong arm. The Lord humbled that most powerful man in the world at that time, the king of Egypt that we call Pharaoh. And he brought down this great empire. He brought them to submission through those miraculous ten plagues. He demonstrated through his power the impotence of Egypt's gods to deliver their people. And so when Peter says that we are to humble ourselves under the mighty hand of God, he is implying that God can deliver you from whatever difficulty you are facing. Do you realize that? There is nothing too hard for the Lord. How many people here could get up and Explain at some time in your life an impossible situation that you were facing. I mean, there just seemed no way out. And yet the Lord brought you out. Because he has a mighty hand. He is the omnipotent God who created heaven and earth. He is able to deliver you. But another application of humbling ourselves under the mighty hand of God is that we must yield to God's chastening hand. The same imagery of God with a strong hand is used in Ezekiel 20, of God correcting his people. We don't like to talk about this very much. But the Bible expresses the fact that like a loving father, the Lord chastens his sons and his daughters. Hebrews chapter 12 is the key New Testament passage on this. Not all the suffering in our lives is because of God's discipline, but some of it is. And I think probably it is more often that situation than what we like to think. And so what do we do when we are under God's chastening hands? I tell you one thing you you do. You don't run from God. You can't hide from God. You can't get away from God. You can't get away from his influence and power because he's overall. We run to God when there's a difficulty. Another thing we don't do is We must not defy God. I mentioned a couple weeks ago, this old Southern preacher used to say, your arm is too short to box with God's. I have known some Christians in my life who very foolishly, when they were away from the Lord and God was bringing um Correction into their life, but they just became more obstinate, more stubborn, and they would shake their fist at God and say, I'm never going to yield. I'm going to continue to fight against you. What a foolish thing to do. He is the omnipotent God of the universe, and you're going to fight against him? That is absolute nonsense But how often have Christians, perhaps out of sight of others, fought against God and rebelled against him and as it were with throw a spiritual temper tantrum? That's not the way we should respond. The Puritans used to have an expression, kiss the rod. The rod of God's correction. Kiss the rod. We must humbly bow before his loving purposes in our correction. And then look with me at the end of verse 6. We must consider the promise of God, that he may exalt you in due time. Do you know where Peter learned this foundational principle? He heard it from the mouth of Jesus. In Matthew 23, verse 12, Jesus said, He that shall humble himself shall be exalted. In Luke 14, 11, for whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. In Luke 18, 14, everyone that exalteth himself shall be abase, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. And James, and James chapter four and verse ten writes, humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. The clear implication of the statement is that if you refuse to humble yourselves, he will not lift you up But when does this deliverance occur? The cry of the saints is always, how long, O Lord? You know, the most difficult aspect of suffering is the duration, right? When a painful trial just goes on Day after day, week after week, month after month, it becomes in our minds intolerable. This is why doctors when they go, when you go and they have to give you a shot, and I know that there are grown people here who are terrified of giving shots, some of them big strapping men. And that little needle just terrifies you. And the doctor will say to relieve your anxiety, this is only going to hurt for a moment. Because you can steady your mind and say, okay, this is going to be unpleasant, but it's just going to be for a little bit, and then it'll be over. You can psychologically strengthen yourself to face that. But if you were to say, you know, this is going to hurt for the next 10 years That would be a different matter. Now what does Peter mean here by due time? Well, in one sense, we as Christians know that our suffering will certainly end when we die or when Christ returns. We have these wonderful promises in Scripture that in our future there will be no pain, no tears, no sorrow, no sighing. And some commentators take this phrase in due time to mean nothing more than this. And it certainly means at least that. But I think that what Peter's saying is what we find in other portions of Scripture is that God often releases us from our trials. When his purposes have been accomplished in our lives. I want to invite you to keep a finger here and turn with me, please, to the book of 1 Corinthians, if you can. 1 Corinthians chapter 10. And verse 13, if you cannot find it, just listen and I will read this for you. A very important verse. 1 Corinthians 10, 13. There hath no temptation, and that word temptation can also mean trials. Taken you, but such as is common to man, but God is faithful who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you are able, but will with the temptation also make a way to escape that you may be able to bear it God will make a way of escape. In the next book in 2 Corinthians chapter 4 , We read something similar to this in 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 16, the Apostle Paul, speaking from personal testimony, says For which cause we faint not, but though our outward man perish, yet the inward man is renewed day by day. For our light affliction which is but for a moment Worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory, while we look not at the things which are seen, but the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen. Are eternal. Paul says our suffering is but for a moment in light of eternity. And as we turn back to 1 Peter chapter 5. I want you to notice as Peter's wrapping things up in verse 10, summarizing the book as it were, and we'll get to this in uh in the near future. But in verse 10 he says, But the God of all grace who have called us unto his eternal plan , eternal glory, excuse me, by Christ Jesus after ye have suffered a while Make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. After you have suffered a while The Lord has a time appointed for the end of your suffering. And a key part of our humble response to suffering is to wait for the Lord to accomplish his purposes. Waiting is hard. Waiting is difficult, especially when it's painful. But this is how we yield to God's purposes in our life. We humbly say, Lord, in your time. I will wait until you release me. We have this wonderful hymn, Be Still My Soul. And it has this these words in the first line: Bear patiently the cross of grief or pain. Leave to thy God to order and provide. That is very difficult to do. In fact, it's impossible to do apart from the grace of God. But this must be our humble response. We say, God, you are in control. And I will wait for you to deliver me in your time. And then we come to verse 7. And my second point is this, we must humbly take our trials to the Lord. Look at this beautiful verse. Casting all your care upon him. For he careth for you. This is understandably a famous verse. Many of you have memorized it. I want to show you an important connection that you may have never noticed before. The one true command in this passage is in verse 6. Humble yourselves. This is what God commands us to do. And in verse 7, not to be technical, but we have a participle. represented by the word casting, and that participle is explaining how we are to humble ourselves How do we humble ourselves under the mighty hand of God? Well, one of the ways we humble ourselves is by casting our care upon Him. Now think of the implication of this. What this means is that often our anxiety is actually an expression of pride. You may have never thought about that for a moment in your life, but it's true. Let me try to explain. When you face a painful trial, you naturally want to figure a way out. You want to find a solution. But the problem is that you are ignorance and powerless to bring about a solution. So what do we often do? We obsess about the problem. We meditate on it. We think about it every moment of the day. We even dream about it. We worry about it. We make ourselves sick thinking about it. And the premise behind this approach is we think that somehow we are capable of solving all of our problems. And we say to ourselves, there must be a solution. I have got to find an answer, and I will find an answer. What if God doesn't want you to find an answer? What if he wants you to fail miserably in solving your dilemma? You see, even our anxiety, our worry is a revelation that we really want to handle things on our own. We really , most people that claim to be followers of Christ, what I often see in their life is they they think of God as kind of like a 911 responder. And they want to handle their affairs and and and do everything on their own terms. But when they face a real emergency every once, every 10 years or so, then they want to be able to call out to God and have him come and swoop in and rescue them and fix their problem. But that's not a biblical picture of the believer's relationship with the Lord. He wants to be in control of everything in our lives all the time. And sometimes the reason why he lets us just fail and fail again to find a solution is he wants us to come to the end of ourselves. Where we say, okay, Lord, I can't do this. I need you to intervene in my life. And I yield to your purposes in that this matter. So often prayer is our last resort, but instead it should be our first response. We want to be in control of everything in our lives, including our trials. We don't want to really be thought of as dependent and needy. Take care of our own affairs. Do not misunderstand me. There is, God wants us to take care of our affairs to some degree. That we're not dependent on others and a burden to others. And as a lot of people who I'm addressing this morning would identify as being politically conservative and that's one of our our our core values is that individual responsibility and taking care of things your matter or yourselves and and not being dependent on others Those things may resonate with us, but often in life, those things do not translate into the spiritual realm. In the spiritual realm, we must be utterly dependent on God. And not thinking, I can handle Lord 99% of the things in my life, and I need you for the 1%. No, you need him for 100%. And sometimes God sends trials into our lives to remind us of how helpless we really are. So how do we take our trials, the Lord? Our text calls on us to cast our cares upon him. The word care here is a reference to what makes us anxious or worried. The word originally had the idea of something that rips us or pulls us apart. And indeed, when you're in the grip of anxiety, you feel like you're being pulled apart. This unpleasant feeling should strongly motivate us to take our problems to the Lord. But so often we proudly cling to our burden because we don't want to relinquish control. We arrogantly tell ourselves, I can figure this out. And so the Lord lets us try and fail repeatedly. Often reminded , of the story of the Chinese devotional writer Watchman He tells of once when he was uh along with Shore there in China and there was a man who was out and He he got out too far and he wasn't a good swimmer and he was drowning and he was calling for help and there was a man next to him who was kind of an unofficial uh lifeguard. And watch me couldn't understand why this man didn't rush out to save him. And he said, That man is a large, strong man. If I go out there now, he will pull me under. I have to wait until he expends his energy and he has nothing left, and then I'll go out and I will save him. Now the Lord is not challenged by our aggression, but sometimes he lets us flounder and flail around. Until we wear ourselves out, and then he comes in and he shows us his mighty hand, so that we come to depend on him more quickly. Peter here is quoting from Psalm 55, 22. It's a wonderful verse that I feel some of you have memorized. Cast thy burden upon the Lord. And he shall sustain thee. He shall never suffer the righteous to be moved. So what should we learn from this admonition? I want to briefly mention three things. Number one , We must give our burden to the Lord completely. It says, cast things, did you catch that word? All your care upon him. You shouldn't think, well, I'm going to give the Lord part of my problems, but these problems here I'm going to hold on to. Or you shouldn't think, you know, I'll give him the big things and I'll take care of the small things. You know, sometimes it's the small things that really nag at our souls. Give him everything. You may feel that what you're worried about is kind of foolish. It may be. You should still give that to the Lord. The hymn writer put it right when he said, All your anxiety, all your care, bring to the mercy seat, leave it there. Secondly, we must give our burden to the Lord decisively. The imagery here is powerful, casting all your care upon him. When you throw something, it conveys that you are aggressively getting rid of it. We're not instructed to gently place our burden upon the Lord. No, we are called to Cast it upon him, roll it upon him is the idea. We just have to decisively determine that we're going to give this to the Lord. I've mentioned to you before from this pulpit that one of my besetting sins is anxiety. And I've often said that God has a sense of humor because he made me a pastor. There's a many, many things to worry about. And so often I will have something on my mind something sish situation that's come up, some burden on my heart, and I'll be mulling it over in my mind as we do, meditating on it, thinking about what the best thing to do, thinking about all the repercussions and everything. And I'll be worried about it. And finally I come to my senses and I say, you know what, Lord, I'm giving this to you. I don't want it anymore. And I don't know how many times I've said, Lord, this is your church. It's not mine. You can deal with it. Whatever you want. It's not for me to control. I give this situation to you. Now you take it and you do it with it as you see fit We must give our burn to the Lord decisively. And thirdly, we must give our burn to the Lord prayerfully. Turn with me, please, to the book of Philippians. Philippians chapter 4 And most of you know where I'm going. Philippians chapter 4 tells us here that we should give a burden of the Lord prayerfully. 1 Philippians 4 verse 6, be careful, be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication. with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. And then this promise. And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds Through Christ Jesus. How do we practically cast our burden upon the Lord? We go to Him in prayer. And we mention this burden that is heavy on our hearts, and we say, Lord, I give this to you. I don't want it to paralyze me with fear and to weigh me down with doubts and discouragement. I give this problem to you. I yield to your purposes. The devotional writer FB Meyer F. B. Meyer says about this verse, treat your cares As you treat sins. Hand them over to Jesus one by one as they occur. Committing them to Him. Roll them upon Him. You're going through your day, and all of a sudden a thought comes into your mind, and anxiety fills your heart Don't wait till two days later after you've been thinking about it. Right then and right there, take it to the Lord in prayer and give it to Him. So what burden did you bring with you to church this morning? I'm sure that you brought something what fills your heart with anxiety. It might be something that's financial How the cares of our financial situations weigh heavily in our hearts. It could be something medical involving you or a family member. Or perhaps it's relational. Within your family, within your marriage, there are real problems. What corroding care has been sapping the spiritual life out of your soul? Our text tells you to give it to Jesus. As the hymn writer put it, take it to the Lord in prayer. In his arms he'll take and shield thee. Thou wilt find a solace there. So why should we take our trials? The Lord, our text says, for he careth for you Let me ask you this morning, do you really believe that? You see, when we refuse to take our burdens to the Lord, we are either questioning his ability to help us or his willingness to help us. And both premises are an insult on the character of God. Our Father is omnipotent. He can do whatever he pleases. He is the creator of the universe. But the Bible also reveals that He is our Heavenly Father and that He loves us with an everlasting love, and the most trivial need and care of our hearts are known to Him. And he is concerned about them. If you're questioning the Father's love, go back to the cross. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. But God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. I love Romans 8. 32 that says, He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? This verse argues from greater to lesser. If the father was willing to give his beloved son to die on an old rugged cross for you, don't you think He's going to help you with your little need right now. Whatever need you have, whatever burden you bear, it is nothing to the Lord's. So take your burden to the Lord and leave it there. He's not only willing to take your burden, he is honored to take your burden, he delights To answer the prayers of his people. Psalm 50, verse 15 says, Call upon me in the day of trouble. I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me. Now the only way that you can take your burden of the Lord in reality is if you really know the Lord as your Savior. Why would you take your burden to the Lord for somebody that you don't really know or don't really trust? Jesus said, come unto me, all you that labor and are heavy laden. And I will give you rest. One of the reasons why we have no rest is because we haven't taken our load of sin to the Lord. We haven't come to rest in him. Augustine said our hearts are restless until they come to rest in thee. And that indeed is true. Let me ask you this morning, this first Sunday of 2019, do you know the Lord as your Savior? Have you come to trust in him? Have you learned the joy that it is to take your burden to the Lord and to rest in him and to know that he is watching over you and cares for you and loves you? If you do not, I would urge you to seek the Lord today , to call upon him while it is near. to trust in his atoning work on the cross and learn the joy that it is to cast your care upon him. I began this message by speaking of that ancient map that was filled with Fearful expressions such as here be giants, here be fiery scorpions, and here be dragons. Eventually the map came into the possession of Sir John Franklin, a British explorer. in the early 1800s. And he decided to scratch out those fearful inscriptions. And he wrote Across the map, here is God. We don't know what the future holds, but we know who holds the future. And this is how we can enter 2019 with confidence and with joy because we are trusting in the Lord. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, what a loving Father you are. How good you are to us. To take and receive our cares, our burdens, our sorrows and to bear them up. We thank you, Lord, for this wonderful passage. I pray that you use in the hearts of those today who come here with fear And with doubt and with discouragement, I pray, Lord, that they would find that they can trust in you and rest in you, and that they would come to cast their care upon you even today. and to find that peace that passes all understanding. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.