Turning your Bibles, please, to Luke chapter 16. If you were with us last Lord's Day, you know that I mentioned to you about John Wesley This remarkable man who was the basic founder of Methodism gathered a band of gospel preachers under him, circuit writers, and he gave them advice on everything you can imagine, including on how to handle money. He had a very clever philosophy of money, just three points to it. Number one, get all you can. Number two, save all you can. Number three, give away all you can. He preached an average of three or four times a day As an adult, and he received many large offerings. People speculated that he had one of the largest incomes of any private individual in England And there was all kinds of speculation on what he did with his vast fortunes of money that came to him. But when he died, they found that there was just enough money to bury him. Because he had given it all away. Wesley also had a famous sermon on Monday. You know, if you preach three or four times every day, you have to have some sermons that you repeat. One of his standard sermons was on money. And he said this in that sermon: when the possessor of heaven and earth brought you into being and placed you in this world. He placed you here not as an owner, but as a steward. This morning we come to one of our Lord's parables when he talks about a steward. Steward is a servant who also is a manager. I've decided to preach from this passage since last week I preached on materialism. I preached from the text that the love of money is the root of all evil. And at the conclusion of the message, I challenged you to lay up treasures not on earth but in heaven. And I think that this passage that we look at this morning helps us to understand how to do that. How is it that we can actually lay up treasures in heaven? Well, the Lord comments on that in this very intriguing parable. It's interesting to note how much and how often the Lord spoke about money. And his earthly ministry, not because he was out to get money. I remind you that when he died, his estate consisted of basically the garments that he wore. Now, Jesus spoke often about money. In fact, a third of the parables are about money, because he knew that money is so much of a heart issue. And we are all tempted in one way or another to lay up treasures on earth to try to amass uh monies that we need and to spend them on ourselves, and we so easily can become a slave of these desires. And so the Lord often spoke of money and he said, Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. I hope that you're turned to Luke chapter 16. I want you to notice in verse 1 we see that this parable was given to the Lord's disciples. But it's also interesting to note that the very conclusion of this, if you'll look down at verse 14, it says, And the Pharisees also, who were covetous, heard all these things, and they derided him. So we should not think of the disciples in some isolated area. No, there were Pharisees within earshot of this teaching, and there were other people undoubtedly as well. And so the Lord is speaking this primarily to his disciples, but there's something here for everyone in this passage for us to consider. He's speaking here about what's involved in being a disciple of Christ. And part of what it means to follow the Lord is that we recognize our position. That we are not owners. But we are servants. And that the resources that we possess have been given to us by God, and we are to manage them and to use them for his purposes. This parable is one of the most difficult to interpret. The crux of the problem is found in verse 8. You may have noticed it as we read together. And the Lord commended the unjust steward because he had done wisely An unjust steward who in a very strategic way, in a very crafty way, gets one over on his boss And we see here it says that the Lord commends him for acting wisely. What are we to make of that? In fact, there have been skeptics who have seized on this parable and have question our Lord's um ethical nature. And so we're going to take a look at this this morning. Let me just first of all say that the Lord Jesus Christ was the greatest storyteller the world has ever seen. I do recognize that the purpose of parables was both to reveal and conceal. Matthew chapter 13 brings it out very, very clearly. The fact is. This is one reason why the Pharisees uh who derided this parable didn't get anything out of it because it was it was uh uh it was opaque to them as something they could not see through or really understand. And so we see here something very interesting, and that is the Lord often in his parables has a shocking twist that we would never anticipate. I think we tend not to see that because we're so familiar with the parables we've been reading them since we were children and we've heard all the little Bible stories since we were kids. And so we don't It's hard for us to come to them and recognize how we would think if we were hearing it for the very first time. But just think about this. The parable of the Good Samaritan is a great example. Those who originally heard that story, those Jews who heard that parable, would have been shocked to find out that the hero of the story was a Samaritan. That doesn't bother us at all, but that was very disturbing to them. I read a modern author who Said that it would be like someone telling a story and the hero of the story was a Nazi. And it was entitled The Good Nazi. We would not like that story It would bother us a great deal. That's the way it was when the Jews originally heard the story of the Good Samaritan. Or consider the parable that precedes this, the parable of the prodigal son, perhaps the most famous of all of our Lord's parables. Now we don't have a problem with this at all, but when the Lord's original audience heard that that wealthy dignified man got up and ran to meet his rebellious, dishonorable son and threw his arms around him and kissed him. That would have disturbed them greatly That was not just, that was not appropriate for what this boy had done. It was a shocking twist in the story. And the same is true in this parable as well. What the reader expects is that the owner is going to have this guy locked up and he's not going to commend him. He's going to condemn him. And that would be the end of the story. But that's not the way it reads. This is part of the genius of our Lord's teaching. Now our text this morning is divided into two sections. We have, first of all, the parable of the unjust steward in verses 1 through 8, and then beginning In verse 9, we have our Lord's own comments about this or his application of it. This is wonderful. As a preacher, you must always apply the word of God. But usually the application is not obvious and you have to think and you have to scratch your head. But here the Lord has done the work for me. He has given the application already. And so this is an important scripture for us to consider. I'm going to preach to you this morning on using your wealth Do you think you manage the resources that God has entrusted to you in a wise fashion? We have here Christ's call to Christian stewardship. So let's first of all look at this parable. First of all, we have the circumstances of the steward. In verse 1, it says, There was a certain rich man which had a steward, and the same was accused unto him that he had wasted his goods. The steward was the manager of a large estate. What's in view here is that there was a very wealthy man who would be considered an absentee landlord. That is, he did not live in the vicinity where this business was. He lived far away. Perhaps he came and visited on things like once a year. But he was not there. He was not involved in the day-to-day operations of this business. He had a manager who was entrusted with everything And so that seems to be what we have in view here. Now there's some question about the kind of business in view. There's some scholars who view this as renters on a large farm who pay their rent. From their yearly produce. And we do have two staple crops that are mentioned here. It mentions oil. This would have been olive oil, and we read also in verse 7 of wheat. But other scholars think it's more likely that the customers are wholesale merchants who would buy large quantities of food at the beginning of the season. They would sell that food at a marked-up price, and then when they got all of their money from selling that food, they would come back and pay their bill for what they had purchased earlier. And that's certainly possible here. What we do know is that the owner is rich and that he has the ability to loan out large sums of money. That must be paid back at the end of the season. Then we have the charge against the steward. Somehow this owner hears that his manager is crooked. that he has wasted his goods. Now the word translated wasted here is the same Greek word used in the previous chapter in Luke chapter 15 To describe the way the prodigal son squandered his father's fortune. Now there's some question as to whether or not he was robbing his boss or simply mismanagement. In other words, was he being evil or was he just incompetence? Most scholars think that he was an outright crook since he is described as the unjust. Steward, not the incompetent steward, but the unjust steward. This guy was skimming off the top for his own good. Now in verse 2, if we were to put this in our own modern language, we would say that he's been called in and he has effectively been fired. However, he has to prepare a final ledger indicating the balance with his clients This is probably so that the owner could get someone to replace him and that he would have an accurate ledger of where all the accounts stood. Now, I want you to notice that the steward does not claim his innocence. He doesn't say what you've heard about me is not true. He doesn't say those allegations are false. No, he doesn't dispute them at all. This guy is indeed guilty. Apparently the evidence was overwhelming. And so he stands silently before his employer. And verses 3 and 4, we really see the character of the steward. Often In our Lord's parables, the Lord will let us know what one of the characters is thinking. And that thinking That internal discussion in his mind really gives us an insight into that person's character. Remember in the the the parable that comes before this parable of the prodigal son when he's there and he's feeding the pigs and he's come to the very end and he's about to starve to death He thinks in his mind about his father and how gracious his father is with his servants. And that's where he comes up with the plan. I'm going to return to my father. And I'm going to say I'm not worthy to be your son anymore, and I would have a good living if I could just live as his servants. It reveals something of the brokenness and the repentance. Of the prodigal. Here we see something of this man's character as well, but it's not the character of a repentant person at all. He quickly is thinking of his options. Now that he is going to lose this very comfortable position. He knows that he cannot go down the road and get another job doing this line of work. this white-collar job, if you will. Why? Because the rumors of an unjust manager of someone who's crooked, that would spread like wildfire. He would never be able to get a comparable job like that again because his reputation was ruined. So he's got to come up with another plan. So he thinks of things, first of all he says, I cannot dig. He's referring here to manual labor. He thinks this is not a good option. Perhaps he was getting older, perhaps he had become soft through years of working at a desk. Or perhaps he was just plain lazy. And then he says, I'm too proud to beg Begging was beneath him. He was a man of some standing in the community. People knew who he was. He could not imagine him going with the other beggars at the gate. And crying out for people to take pity on him. That was just too low. He could not bring himself to consider that. And then suddenly he has an aha moment. It comes to him, and the whole expression on his face changes. He has just thought up of a strategy that will put him in good stead for years to come. Notice the craftiness of the steward in verses 5 through 7. So he called every one of his lord's debtors unto him and said unto the first, How much owest thou unto my Lord? And he said, A hundred measures of oil. And he said unto him, Take thy bill, sit down quickly, and write fifty. And then he said to another, And how much owest thou? And he said, A hundred measures of wheat And he said unto him, Take thy bill and write four score. He visits his clients and he asks them how much they owe. Now we are given two examples here, but the implication is there were many more. He had many such dealings and renegotiations of the loan that took place that day. In verse 6, we read of a man who was indebted a hundred measures or literally baths of olive oil. This would be the equivalent of three years' salary. This was not a small sum of money this man owned. And so probably If he was a wholesale merchant, he would buy this in large quantity. He would sell it off in smaller quantities. And finally, at the end, he would pay back at the agreed upon price. He says to this man amazingly, sit down and write 50. In other words, instead of you owing a hundred, let's say that you owe fifty. I think it's interesting that you can see that this steward was a real salesman. He says, sit down quickly and write this. You ever seen a commercial or ad that says act now? Right? This is a limited offer. You've got to do it right now because they know that if a person really carefully reflects on it, they're not going to make this decision. And so you put pressure on them. Act right now and do this. And that's what the man does. And I'm sure this person had to ask him, well, what's the catch? You know, if your mortgage company called tomorrow and they said, you know, we'd like to cut your mortgage in half. You would say, yeah, yeah, what's the terms? What's the catch to this? No, there's no catch. We just felt like we would cut it in half for you. You probably would have difficulty accepting that. So that's exactly what happened. And I'm sure that these individuals who were indebted this large sum of money were very, very happy to get this deal. He comes to the next man. And instead of going down to 50, he goes down to 80. This causes people to wonder why is it that he made a different deal with this man than he did with the others? Now this is pure speculation. We don't know it doesn't say. But I suspect it's because he was a shrewd man and he knew his customers. He knew the threshold of what they would accept and what they would not accept, and so he knew the deal that he had to dangle in front of them for them to take it. And then in verse 8, we have the crux of the matter, this commendation of the steward. And the Lord commanded the unjust steward. because he had done wisely. Let me explain this as concisely as possible. First of all, notice that the Lord here is not the Lord Jesus It's the owner who has been deceived. Why would the owner commend this crook? Why wouldn't he call the authorities and instantly have him arrested? Well, there are several different schools of thought about this. Let me present them to you quickly. First of all, some some believe that the new terms of these contracts reflect that the manager simply did not charge the high interest rates that were included in the original loan. Perhaps you know that in the Old Testament, the stipulation was given that the Jews were not to charge interest to other Jews. That was forbidden in the law. But we know from records of the first century and at other times that it happened all the time. So how did they get around the law? They simply, when they had the legal document, the interest was not reflected there. It was not broken out. It was just rolled into one lump sum. Now often we suspect that they said these terms verbally between the two, a wink and a nod, you know, I'm not really supposed to charge you this interest, but uh you're in a desperate situation, so this is what we're going to do. It won't be in the documents because I need to be protected, because this is illegal, but this is what we're going to do. And so some scholars look at this and they say that this unjust steward, this is what he's doing. He's taken out those high interest rates and is charging them what they actually should have been charged. But I don't think that's true at all because this man is not described as being charitable, but as being crafty. This is contrary to his character. Another view is that this manager simply gave up his commission, which was included in the original loan offer. I think again this is being way too generous of a man the Lord describes as an unjust steward. I think the simple explanation Is that this man simply robbed his boss of much money? The reason why he was able to offer such drastic cuts is because it wasn't his money, it was his boss who was losing his money from this. So why didn't The owner have this man arrested. Why did he commend him? Well, let's think about this for a second How could he prove his case of what had happened? The books were all in order. He had cooked the books, we would say. They all balanced out. There was all these signatures. Everything seemed arranged. And these individuals that he gave these incredible deals to, do you think they would testify against him? They would be implicating themselves as well. There's no way they're going to testify against them. So there's not going to be any witnesses. You see, this crafty steward has thought everything through To make sure that he has put himself in a good s situation. So what we have here is kind of like what would happen sometimes when a law enforcement individual uh a detective or something might be studying the case of a jewel thief. And although he does not commend the man's actions as he studies the brilliant plan that he had for coming in and for leaving and for stealing those those diamonds. He has to take his hat off because there really is an incredible plan. This guy really thought it out. And in that aspect, he admires it. That's the same sort of thing that we have here. Now it's interesting to me what the Lord says immediately afterwards He says, for the children of this world are in their generation wiser than the children of light. What does that mean? What it means is that often lost people, children of this world, Are more earnest, more strategic, more imaginative , more intense about earning money Than we are about extending God's kingdom. They are more earnest and more strategic and more intense. They'll go to the ends of the earth to sell their products. That's why you can go to a third world country and you can it's amazing you can go in the back in the middle of nowhere, there's no paved roads, it seems like there's no electricity, but you know what? you'll find like coke products there along the side of the road. How did that happen? Because some salesman was sent out, and he was really determined to get the product out there to the ends of the earth, no matter what obstacles. Is not this true that the world is really earnest about making money and in some ways they put us to shame in our attempts to spread the gospel. I remember a man years ago who was a missionary and he ended that line of work and he wasn't quite ready to retire and so He went into sales and I remember him telling me one day, he said, Pastor, he said, the way they push us to make calls and the the the uh quotas that we have to meet and the explanations that we have to give and the daily pressure that we're given is absolutely immense. And he said this to me. He said, if every missionary had this kind of pressure on him, they would all raise their support in six months. Because every day they were saying, how many calls did you make? And how many sales did you make? And why haven't you done more? And this was a man who was a missionary. This is an example of that. The children of this world are often more strategic, more imaginative in trying to get their product out than we are in getting the gospel out. So I want us to turn now to verses 9 and following and look at the principles for Christian stewards to apply. And I want us to take home with us four lessons from this parable. Look with me at verse 9. Jesus says, and I say unto you Make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness, that when ye fail, they may receive you into everlasting habitations. Now we don't use the word mammon very often today. Mammon is an Aramaic word that simply means riches. It can refer to either money or property. Now, is Jesus saying that we should make friends with money? Not really. He's not saying that we try to buy friends. No, he is saying that by generously investing in people, we are in fact investing in eternity. So the first principle four that I want you to see is that we need to be prudent in the way we invest our money. And then he says this interesting phrase, so that when we fail, that is, when we die, we will be received into everlasting habitations. is not of course saying that if we give to the poor, if we spend our money wisely, we will earn a place in heaven. Do not misunderstand. That is the furthest Of what he's trying to convey here. Salvation is not by works, it's all of grace. Nothing we can do can save us. To understand what Jesus is saying, we must look back at this parable. What do you think happened when that unjust manager was put out on the street when he was fired? Well, he went and he knocked on the doors of those people that he offered incredible deals to. And he said, hey, remember me? I'm the one that saved you many thousands of dollars. And I need a place to stay. And I need some food to eat. Now, in their culture, we need to understand reciprocity was even more prevalent than it is in our culture. That means when someone does something nice to you, you feel obligated to do something nice to them. Also, hospitality was much bigger. So the idea when this guy came and knocked on their door, ah, we have an obligation to this man. This is the man who helped us. In a tremendous way. We are obligated to give him a place to stay and food and to cater to his every whim, because this man is an honored guest in our home. This was his plan all along. In verse 4, he says, I am resolved what to do, that when I am put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their homes. So how are you investing the money and resources that God has given to you? I'm going to apply this point in two ways. First of all, are you investing in others or in things? Now this is not a clear distinction because sometimes in helping others we have to help them with things, right? But perhaps a better way of putting it would be, are you investing, are you spending your mother primarily on yourself or on others? One of the most striking things that Jesus ever said is found in Matthew chapter 25 and verse 40, when he said, What you do to the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it. unto me. That's often used to say that if if whatever we do to any poor person we meet, we have done it to Christ. But notice it says, my brethren there. It's talking there about believers who are in need. Christians should be the most generous people in the world. We should especially seek to meet the needs of other believers. I used to know a preacher who would say that you can tell what you really value by looking at your checkbook. Now this was years ago when that's the way everyone paid the bills. So perhaps I would have to say for modern times, for your bank statement. What does your bank statement say about what you value? Now there are many expenses that everyone has. housing expenses, transportation expenses, you know, um taxes. We all have expenses that are unavoidable. But what does the way that we spend our money every day, every week, every month, every year say about what we truly value? How much do we give to minister to others as opposed to just ourselves? The idea here is that we are to invest in people. This does not mean that we just pass out money indiscriminately to people in need. I am not advising that. I'm talking about more than just money. I'm talking about our time, our energy. It takes a great expenditure of our human energy to minister to someone in need. and to help them out of difficult, complex problems. But are we investing our resources in people or simply in ourselves? You know, Jesus said, lay not for yourselves treasures on earth, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Perhaps you would ask, what does it mean to what will last forever? What does it mean to lay up treasures in heaven? Well, the souls Of people will last forever. So to invest in eternity is to invest in people. As opposed to thanks. And secondly, are you investing in the spread of the gospel? We should all be excited and motivated to give, to send the gospel to places that we will never go. I'm not trying to put you on a guilt trip. I'm encouraging you to make an investment that you will never regret. No one someday is going to be in heaven and say, Oh, I should not have given so much money to missions. That'll never happen. Are there people? Is it possible? That there will be people in heaven that greet you and thank you for having a part in either directly giving them the gospel or giving to a missionary who brought the gospel to them. That's the picture here of this guy when he came and he knocked on those doors of those people. They didn't say, oh no, this guy is here. They said, come on in. This is the guy that helped us out in a tremendous way. And that's the way it should be for us. When we come to the end of our journey and we go to be with our Lord, that there will be all those people to greet us there that we have invested our lives in in times past. The second lesson here is be faithful in the way you use your money. In verses 10 and 11, Jesus says, He that is faithful in that which is leaf is faithful also in much, and he that is unjust in the least is unjust also in much. If therefore ye have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon who will commit to your trust true riches, this is a very important thing for us to consider. Sometimes we think, well, it doesn't really matter the small things. You know, don't sweat the details they say. But you know, a person who is not honest, and a man or a woman of integrity in small things will not be a person of integrity with large things. You want to earn the respect and trust of others. You need to be faithful in the little things that God has given to you. Hudson Taylor said: faithfulness in a little thing is a great thing. And here the application is made in financial obligations. It's very interesting in verse 11. He says, if you haven't been faithful in unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust? True riches. Now what are true riches? It's referring to the souls of men and women. And it's showing us here that there's a direct correlation between the way you handle money and your spiritual maturity Would you like to have more of a ministry to people and for the Lord to entrust to your care the souls of others? Then you need to be faithful in the physic the managing of the physical things that God has given to you. So that you can show that you can be trusted and that you're investing not in yourself but in others. And then thirdly, the third lesson I want you to notice is that we need to be aware that all that we have belongs to God. He says, and if you have not been faithful in that which is another's, another man's, who shall give you that which is your own? Now this, I think, is a very shocking fault for us to consider. Did you know that everything that you have is not yours? It belongs to God ultimately. The Book of Deuteronomy tells us, God says to the Israelites, it's God that's given you the power to make wealth. It is God that's given you the strength and the skills and the know-how to go out and do what you do at your job. You couldn't do any of that apart from God's. And the Bible says, the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. He is sovereign. He owns everything. So it's absolutely wrong to think of, you know, I earned this money, I can do with it whatever I want. If I want to throw it away. Gambling, if I want to throw it away on some luxury, if I want to waste it, that's my business because I made it. That's not true Ultimately that money belongs to God. You're just managing his resources. And just like this servant had to give an account to his master, did you know that we also must give an account someday? I think many Christians think They don't have to give an account. That's something that lost people have to do. That they will be condemned. And that is true, they will be condemned someday. But the scriptures teach that there is an accounting for believers as well called the Bhima judgment. It's mentioned several times. in Scripture, perhaps the most prominent is 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 10 where it says, For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ that every one may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. This is often confusing to Christians because they say, I thought that we would never be judged for our sins because Jesus paid the penalty for our sins on the cross. You are right. I believe that this is not a judgment of our sin, but a judgment of our service. of the opportunities and resources that God has given to us. When it mentions here the things done in his body, it's talking about the things while you were on earth. And according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad, the idea is whether it is useful. And the word bad here there, that particular Greek word has the idea of that which is worthless. So all of us are going to have to give an account. This is something we don't like to think about and we don't think about. In fact, it might be news to you this morning. Someday you're going to have to give an account of what you've done with all the opportunities, all the resources, all the education, all the money that God has entrusted to your care. And you're going to have to give an account for it. How much money do you think you'll make in your lifetime? Did you know? that if you're just an average American middle-class person, you'll make way over a million dollars in your life, probably two or three or four. And how much of that have you used to really invest in that which is eternal, true riches? And how much of it have you used just to collect and to bring all this junk into your yard and into your house, half of which you don't even know it's there? We all must give an account. And then the Lord concludes with this fourth and final application. Verse 13, no man No servant can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will hold the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. Now, I wonder what you think about that. You might think, well, wait a minute. You can work for two bosses. Well, you can have two bosses, but you know what? The picture here is not of an employer and employee, it's of a master and a slave. You can't have two masters. Because a master demands entire allegiance. He doesn't just want you eight hours a day. He wants you 24 hours a day. And what we see here is that often the choice that we must consciously make in life is, are we going to be slave To mammon or to money, to live in the rat race of always wanting more and always wanting more and always thinking that we we need more if we want to retire, we need more if we want to live in a certain standard. And we give all of our life's energy and every waking moment and all of our thinking to bring that to pass, what we think we need. And no matter how much you make, you still think, I have to have more, because what if this happens? Or what about my kids or my grandkids or other individuals that I feel some obligation to And it's never enough. And before you know it, our lives are over, and all that we've done is live like lost people around us and collect things and pour our lives into stuff. That don't mat will not matter in light of eternity. We can't be a slave for God and money. We must make a conscious decision. Of what we will do. Money has the power to enslave, but can also be used It can also be used for the spread of the gospel. Money is a tool. It can be used for good , or it can be used for evil. Pastor Steve has mentioned before this great missionary, Bill Borden. A lot of our young people have read his biography, Borden of Yale, this man who was an heir to the Borden Dairy fortune. He was a millionaire back when a hundred years ago a million dollars went a whole lot further than it does today He went to the finest schools. He'd everything for him, but he felt God's call in his life. He was once with some of his college buddies. They know of course of his wealth and and everything and they ask him, let's go out and let's buy a car. This was when when cars were were just coming on into the public scene. In this case, most people did not own cars. It was only the wealthy who owned cars. And they said, let's go out and let's buy a really nice car. And he didn't do it. He said, I can't afford it. And they they thought he was crazy. What do you mean you can't afford it? You could buy ten, twenty of these if you wanted. I can't afford it. It would be a poor investment. You may know his story, how he went over to train to go as a missionary, but he died In Cairo, Egypt, after contracting spinal meningitis. But what they discovered in his will And in his financial records is that in those years when he said he couldn't afford to buy a car, he'd given over $100,000 to missions. to missionaries all over the world. You see, this man was investing in eternity. for the spread of the gospel. He gave us life, he gave us money, he gave us all. This is the kind of life, the kind of radical decisions that God calls on his followers to make. So that we demonstrate to the world that this world is not our home. Our treasure is not found in the same things that the world lives for, but we are investing our lives and our wealth in the spread of the gospel and the souls of men and women. May God help us. to be shrewd and strategic in the way we invest our money. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word We thank you, Father, that it is always true. Father, I pray that you would help us To be a people who invest in eternity, a people, Father, who desire to do your will in this matter. and put our energy into strategically spreading the gospel to the ends of the earth And Father, for those who might be here this morning who do not know you as their Lord and Savior, I pray that today they would seek the Lord. They would inquire about what it means to be a child of the King. For it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen.