All right, I invite you to turn with me, if you haven't already, to Romans chapter 14, a familiar chapter to us by this point. This is the fifth message from this portion of scripture in a series we've titled Welcome One Another, How to Experience Gospel Unity with Brethren Who Differ in Matters of Conscience. Tonight we will discover additional principles that will help us think through matters of conscience and the use of our liberty within the body of Christ. The Holy Spirit stated his stated goal in this portion of the word is that we would live in harmony with one another. This comes at the end of chapter 15. Or excuse me, at the end of this portion, right near the beginning of chapter 15, and reflect the love and peace that is in Christ. And so that we would with one voice be able to glorify our God and Father. Our passage this evening is verses 20 to 23. So note that in your scriptures. And this will, as you will see, conclude the 14th chapter. This passage is a continuation of Paul's counsel to the strong. Which spans from verses 13 to verse 23, the end of the pass of the passage. This portion of scripture is predominantly directed to Those who are strong in faith. In this context, the strong are most likely Gentile Christians who have come to understand that the new covenant Inaugurated by the blood of Christ, has given them great liberty and freedom. Christians are free in Christ Not just free from the penalty of sin and eternal damnation, Christians are free from the requirements of the ceremonial law and the dietary restrictions and the external requirements of the old covenant. With this understanding, the strong in conscience ate meat that was once considered unclean. However, Jewish believers among them who had not come to fully grasp the implications of the gospel and of the new covenant We're in danger of spiritual harm by the exercise of the strong's liberty. So the concern of our passage tonight is primarily horizontal. Paul is instructing the strong to not exercise their liberty in such a way that actually causes their weaker brother to sin against his conscience. Now, as I'm thinking through this passage this week and I'm thinking on how we are going to relate to this, it was very apparent to me that as 21st century Western Christians The opinions and scruples that cause controversy among us are most likely not related to whether you had pork, beef, or chicken for dinner last night. But just like this past generation of Christ followers in Romans 14, we do have different convictions. and conscience standards in areas that Scripture does not explicitly address. We must follow the counsel of the Holy Spirit given to us in Romans 14 so that we will preserve the unity of the body of Christ, just like God's intention was for these believers. So I want you to see tonight that we must, as God's people , This is my thesis statement. We must be careful to exercise our liberty in such a way that promotes the spiritual good of our brethren. We must be careful to exercise our liberty in such a way that promotes the spiritual good of our brethren. Let's read verses 20 to 23. Would you join me in looking at the scriptures? Do not, for the sake of food, destroy the work of God. Everything is indeed clean, but it is wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats. It is good not to eat meat, or drink wine, or do anything that causes your brother to stumble. The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God. Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves. But whoever has doubt is condemned if he eats, because the eating is not from faith. For whatsoever or whatever does not proceed from faith is sin. The instructions given to us in this paragraph can be summarized in three principles. And those three principles are going to become our outline and our points for this evening. The first two principles that are stated in this passage are directed towards the strong And then the last principle, the third one, is directed toward the week. So we're going to begin with the first principle tonight. Here it is A Christian must never exercise his liberty in such a way that tears down the work of God in a believer. Why is that the case? Well, here's Paul's first line of reasoning. Your brother's spiritual growth is actually far more important. Than your exercise of liberty. Look at our first verse, verse 20. It says, do not for the sake of food. Destroy the work of God. This is not the first time Paul has made this point. Look at verse 15b. There's a parallel here. He says, By what you eat Do not destroy the one for whom Christ died. These are parallel ideas. He has another parallel idea. Look at verse 20B. Everything is indeed clean, but it is wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats. Now compare that with verse 14. He says, I know and I am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself, but it is unclean for anyone who thinks it is unclean. Paul is essentially restating these principal ideas. And he's not just filling up space on a page. He doesn't want us to read this portion of Scripture without us coming away with these trees because they're essential to our consideration here. There's a preacher, James Montgomery Boyce, who often said this. If God tells us something once, we should pay attention. It is God speaking But when he says something twice or even three times, surely we should stop everything else that we are doing, focus our minds and seize upon each individual word. Memorize what is being said, ponder its meaning, and seek to apply it in every aspect of our lives. Do not, for the sake of food, destroy the work of God I believe the work of God here refers to individual believers because that is who Paul is concerned about in this passage. He says earlier, do not destroy the one. For whom Christ died, speaking of the individual. Ephesians 2:10 says that we are his workmanship. We are the workmanship of God created in Christ Jesus. There are in full transparency here, there are some scholars who would say that the work of God is not the individual but the church at large. And that that would be uh acceptable. I do think in this context he had the individual in view. However Because we are a community of believers, there is a sense in which it's hard to parse this too finely, okay? how how one or two or a few are influenced in a body can affect the entire community of believers. I think we understand that. He says, destroy, do not destroy the work of God. The idea of destroying is to tear it down. If you look back in verse 19, he says it's our responsibility to actually build up one another. And in the very next verse he said, so don't then tear down what God is doing Paul is making a very important comparison here when he says, don't for the sake of food, which is ordinary. I mean, think about it. Think about what you had for breakfast this morning. Okay, if you had breakfast. If you didn't think about what you had for lunch, hopefully you've already eaten today at some point. It was there there was nothing inherently special about that Paul says, don't for the sake of food, something that is very mundane and ordinary and temporal, destroy the work of God. Something precious and eternal and accomplished at great price His point that he's getting at is this. The work of sanctification and growth in your brother that God is doing is far more important. than how you choose to exercise your liberty. Now that the next logical question then would be this. How could you or I tear down and destroy our brother? Well, we could bring spiritual harm to our brother by influencing them to sin against their conscience by our conduct. Look at the rest of verse 20 in your Bible. It says, everything is indeed clean, but it is wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats. It is good not to eat meat or drink wine or do anything that causes your brother to stumble. Paul is essentially saying that it that even know even though food is not inherently evil, it's not. It would become wrong for a strong believer to eat meat if it causes his weaker brother To go against his conscience and sin by following his example or possibly by following just the social pressure of that situation. Therefore, it would be best to give up the exercise of that liberty for the sake of your brother's spiritual good. That is the point that Paul is making here. Now, there is a reference to the drinking of wine along with the eating of meat in verse 20. And I just don't feel like I would be doing this passage justice in explaining it if I didn't take a moment to address this um This reference here. The temptation for 21st century Western believers as we are is to read into verse 20 and to import our contemporary views. On the believers' relationship to alcohol into that statement and draw a direct parallel and application to our day. That would not be a careful handling of Scripture. From what the context indicates, the reason why some believers in Rome considered wine unclean was not because of its association to pagan sacrifices. not its alcoholic content. So even though it's mentioning the use of wine and that these believers should uh give up that liberty, the reasons for them giving up that liberty were were were different. It was not so much a concern of the alcoholic content as its association to paganism. So we can't immediately see that in our Bible and jump to a direct application to the context of today and some of the things that we're working through today in that regard. However, that being said, the principle that the scripture is setting forth in this passage is applicable to the contemporary issue of the Christian's use of alcohol, and I want to try to make that application. In a way that is faithful to the text. There are many God-fearing believers who are persuaded that they have the liberty to drink wine. And who would also affirm that drunkenness is indeed sin and condemned in Scripture. There are also many believers who are persuaded that the consumption of wine or any alcoholic beverage is sinful. Or at least would be sinful for them because their conscience would not allow them to drink. Okay? So there is division on this issue within the community of believers. How might verse 20 and 21 instruct a Christian who believes he has the liberty to drink a glass of wine? Well, let me apply this to that individual. According to the principles in verses 13 through 23 that we're covering in this message and the previous message. If by drinking wine, that Christian hinders another believer's growth, deeply grieves or causes disunity in the body or causes another believer to violate his own conscience, then it would be wrong for him to exercise that liberty. Actually, Paul goes as far as to say it would be wrong to eat or drink anything. Not just wine and meat that would injure another brother or tear down the work of God in your church. This way of thinking is so contrary to our human nature and our American culture. As Americans, we are independent and we're proud of it. No one gets to mess with our liberties. The spirit of me first, and dare I even use the term America first, is in all of us. But that is not the Spirit of Christ. If it was, he would have never set aside his right and died on a cross for you. Christ gave up his liberties to die for you. No, the Spirit of Christ teaches us to esteem other believers more significantly than ourselves and to set aside the exercise of our liberty. For their spiritual good. We're following Christ's example. Now let me ask you this Does that mean then that you have to change your convictions to conform to your brothers? Does that mean then, okay, you know, take for instance, I've used um other scenarios, take for instance, uh going to a movie theater or I mentioned Halloween a couple of messages ago. Does that mean that you have to change your convictions to perfectly then align with another brother. Is that what this passage is telling us to do? My answer to that is a profound no, it's not. Look with me at verse 22. It says, the faith that you have, keep between yourself and God. Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves. Our first point was this. A Christian must never exercise his liberty in such a way that tears down the work of God in the believer. Our second point here is this. A Christian should neither denounce nor flaunt his liberty. It says the faith that you have peep between yourself and God. We have said before in this passage, when we've come across this expression of faith, the faith that you have, he's talking here about a believer's persuasion or conviction on a matter of conscience. Faith here is not referring to the general Christian faith. In other words, Paul is not saying here that Christians should stop evangelizing. They should stop sharing their faith. Verbally with other people. No. That would go against the entire uh tenor of the New Testament. Nor is Paul saying that the strong should never speak of their freedom before others. That you should just never share your view on something. That's not what he's saying either. What verse 22 is saying is that the strong should not parade, I like that word, or flaunt. His liberty before others. He should keep his conviction about a matter between himself and God. Paul's saying to the strong in Rome, if if you have the liberty to eat meat, Then keep that to yourself. Keep that between you and God. Don't flaunt that in front of your weaker brother. and cause um either them to stumble or to cause uh division in the church On the other end of the spectrum, this verse is also teaching that the strong should not denounce his own conviction or conform his view to that of the weaker brother. He should maintain his conviction before the Lord. Because verse 22B says, Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves. When a Christian comes to an understanding of the scripture and in faith and in good conscience comes to a settled persuasion on a matter, that Christian is blessed. And should maintain that persuasion. You don't have to give up your settled conviction on a matter Do you see the balance here between this instruction? On the one hand, the strong in conscience ought not to flaunt his liberty. While at the same time, he doesn't have to change his conviction either. So far, we have considered this point and this principle kind of theoretically here. We haven't really put a feet to this idea. So At this next juncture in the message, what I want to do is actually give you flesh out a real application of the principles that we're talking about here and what they actually look like. And frankly, there's no better example Then the Apostle Paul himself. He not only taught these truths, but he lived them. So I want to invite you to turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 9, if you would, in your Bible. 1 Corinthians chapter 9, and we're going to be considering verses 1 through 15. Paul is himself an example of the attitude a Christian ought to have towards his own liberty. I want you to know that after I'm done reading this passage, I'm going to give you a quiz, okay? So I just saw one yawn. And uh I suspect some of you others are tempted to uh to do that as well. So if uh if this is gonna help you, we're gonna I'm gonna read a passage And then I'm going to give you a five-question quiz. Now, Victoria encouraged me to actually ask you and allow you to answer verbally, so we'll see how that goes. I am going to give you a chance to respond. So hopefully this helps you to engage here at this moment in the message. I'm going to begin in verse one. Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are not you my workmanship in the Lord? If to others I am not an apostle, at least I am to you. For you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord. This is my defense to those who would examine me. Do we not have the right to eat and drink? Do we not have the right to take along a believing wife as do other apostles and the brothers of our Lord and Cephas? Or is it not only Barnabas and I who have no right to refrain from working for a living? Who serves as a soldier at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard without eating any of its fruits? Or who tends a flock without getting some of the milk? Do I say these things on human authority? Does not the law say the same? For it is written in the law of Moses , you shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain It is for is it for oxen that God is concerned? Does he not certainly speak for our sake? It was written for our sake, because the plowman should plow in hope, and the thresher thresh in hope of sharing in the crop. If we have sown spiritual things among you, is it too much if we reap material things from you? If others share this rightful claim on you, do not we even more? Nevertheless, we have not made use of this right But we endure anything rather than put an obstacle in the way of the gospel of Christ. Do you not know that those who are employed in the temple service get their food from the temple, and those who serve at the altar share in the sacrificial offerings? In the same way, the Lord commanded that those who proclaim the gospel should get their living by the gospel. But I have made no use of any of these rights, nor am I writing these things to secure such provision. All right, are you ready for your quiz? Here we go. What right or liberty Does Paul focus on in this passage? He names several liberties, but there's one that he's actually addressing. Which one is that? I 'll take a raise of hand, Karina. Yes, absolutely. Paul is speaking of the right to receive financial compensation for his spiritual labor. Among the Corinthians. Here's my second question. Was Paul firmly persuaded that he had the right to be financially compensated by the Corinthians? Was he persuaded that this was indeed his right? I'm seeing some heads nod. Absolutely, yes. You know, he actually goes as far as to quote scripture to ground his reasoning. He quotes Deuteronomy 25, verse 4, and references that uh uh uh uh uh uh the the ox that treads the grain uh should eat from his labors essentially. And he references the uh the temple service and the food that was consumed there by those who served. This was not even a disputable, in my thinking, it's not even a disputable matter. He's referencing scripture. Third question. Did Paul change his persuasion that he had the liberty to receive financial compensation? Did did he change his persuasion on this? No, he did not. He did not Number four, did Paul exercise his liberty among the Corinthians in this way? Did he exercise his liberty? And the answer is no. He didn't take any compensation from the Corinthians. Now, follow me here, because the next and final question is very, very important. Why did Paul not exercise his liberty? Well, he states it Nevertheless, we have not made use of this right, but rather we endure anything rather than put an obstacle in the way of the gospel of Christ. Paul did not exercise his liberty because it would have hindered the Corinthians' reception to the gospel. It would have been easy for some of the Corinthians to reason this way, you're just here selling this message so that you'll get rich off of us. And that would have hindered their reception and growth in Christ. And Paul says, my liberty is not worth that. He valued the good of his brethren far more than he valued his right. And he set aside that for the good of the gospel and of his brethren. This is an example of one believer choosing not to exercise his liberty for the spiritual good. So we've seen our points here, principles. Number one, a Christian must never exercise his liberty in such a way that he tears down the work of God in a believer. Principle number two, a Christian should neither denounce nor flaunt his liberty. And finally tonight, principle number three. This is now addressed to the weak. A Christian must always maintain a good conscience. A Christian must always maintain a good conscience. Let's look at verse 23. It says, But whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats, because the eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin. The final instruction in this paragraph is directed toward the weak in conscience. In essence, Paul is saying to the weak, don't act out of doubt, because whatever action does not come with a clear conscience is sin. If you doubt that eating meat is pleasing to the Lord, then don't do it. It is sin for you to go against your conscience, what you sincerely believe is right. Now you see verse 23 uses the word condemn, and some of you might be troubled by that because Romans 8 says There is no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. So in what sense could the weak be condemned? Well, he's simply saying here that condemnation incurs guilt. It's going against his conscience. In short, he's simply saying that by doing this, by going against one one's conscience that that the weaker brother inc incurs guilt by that sense of sin. Sinning against our conscience is a very serious thing because it can eventually le eventually lead to apostasy. and eternal destruction, which is one of Paul's concerns in this passage. We gave a little bit more attention to that in the last message. Listen for a moment how the scripture speaks of the conscience. I'm going to mention several states of the conscience, and each one is in a sense progressively worse. The conscience can be weak, 1 Corinthians 8. 7. The conscience can be wounded, 1 Corinthians 8. 12. The conscience can be defiled, 1 Corinthians 8. 7. The conscience can be encouraged or emboldened to sin. First Corinthians eight ten. The conscience can be evil or guilty. Hebrews ten twenty-two And most fearfully, the conscience can be seared as with a hot iron. 1 Timothy 4-2. Paul instructs Timothy, hold faith and a good conscience. By rejecting this, some have made shipwreck of their faith, among whom are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan, so that they may learn not to blaspheme. Continually sinning against your conscience can lead to spiritual ruin and at the very worst outcome, apostasy. So a Christian must always seek to maintain a good conscience. Paul is simply saying to the weak. Even though the strong have the liberty to eat meat, if you cannot, before the Lord, in good conscience, do that. Then you should refrain, and that's okay. It's better to do that than to continually grieve your conscience. That is going to be harmful for your relationship to the Lord. Now I have some application here. I want to ask a couple of questions. Some of these questions are things that you have asked me at the end of a message like this. from the past few months. Number one, is your conscience infallible and must you always obey it? Is your conscience infallible? And must you always obey it? Well the answer to that is no. Only the Word of God is infallible, and only the Word of God has ultimate authority in a Christian's life. Your conscience can be misinformed, which was the problem with the weak brethren in Rome. There was theological information that they had not processed in their soul yet. And that was the new covenant allows them to eat all meat. It's clean. Each of us should be carefully studying the Word of God and seeking to inform our convictions to be in line with God's revealed will. And no one's conscience perfectly aligns with God's word. Our background and experiences shape our convictions. Some Christians have convictions that are stricter than the Scriptures are. And other Christians allow themselves to go beyond the bounds of Scripture in areas. We should all be seeking to align, and I'm going to use the term calibrate our conscience to be in line with the Word of God as best as we know how through the study of Scripture. The Apostle Paul is a great example of this. I want you to consider Paul's life for a moment. We know from Philippians chapter 2, right, that Paul had a pretty robust History as a Pharisee. He was the Pharisee of the Pharisees. Think about Paul's conscience prior to his conversion He inwardly was was bound to the Mosaic Law. His conscience was shaped. According to all of the rules and mandates. Paul says, when it came to the law, I was blameless. However, upon his conversion, there had to be a change in his conscience. That took place when he realized the incredible liberty that was now his in Christ. This is tremendous And he had to allow his conscience to be informed by the gospel. And as it were, updated to the liberty that is now in Christ Jesus. And there's a sense in which all of us as believers, part of our maturing in the Lord is to allow ourselves To be oriented to the truth of God as revealed in Christ Jesus when it comes to these matters of conscience. Next question. Do I have a weak or strong conscience? I've had people come up to me and say, Pastor Nathan, uh I'm listening to you and I think, well, maybe I'm the weaker brother, or maybe I'm the stronger brother. Well, none of us want to be considered the weak brother, right? I mean that's just not very flattering. Hello, weak brother. Hello, weak sister. You know, try greeting your your uh friends next Sunday with that. Um it's not very flattering One of the clear distinctives of the weaker brother in Romans 14 is this. It is that they were calling something sinful. That the scripture said was permissible. So I would say you would have to evaluate yourself, but if if you are tempted to call something sinful , When God clearly does not say that is sinful, then I then it's possible that you are weak in that area. At the same time , some believers may be weak in one area, but their conscience may be stronger in another. And I have suggested this in this series that I think it's possible in one area of your life to have a stricter conscience in in some in a particular thing and then in another area your conscience has more liberty and I think we find that uh in our own experience But I want to make this point. Christians have great liberty in Christ. And I want to, for a moment. maybe illustrate some of the things that I've been saying here. So at this time, would you bring up that diagram that I gave you in the back? I'm going to show you a diagram here that kind of illustrates one of the points that I'm making. This is not original with me. This is from Andrew Nasselli's book. entitled Conscience, one of the resources that I have referenced in my study of Romans 14. Let's see if I can get the here we go. Alright, so let's look at this outer triangle. This would be God's standard, okay? Now notice Christian 1 and Christian 2, they do not perfectly align with God's standard, do they? And this reflects the reality that my conscience, nor your conscience, perfectly aligns with God's revealed will. This diagram also communicates between believer Christian 1 and Christian 2. That there's not any two Christians whose consciences perfectly align even your closest friend who you have everything in common with. And I hope that is your spouse. It is for me. you will find that uh you don't share the exact same views on every matter of conscience. You you don't because you're two individual people. And that is reflected here. This diagram also reflects the fact that one Christian could actually have a stricter view on a particular area than God does. Do you see that? At the same time, that same Christian in another area could actually have a standard that needs to be reined in because it's going outside the bounds of Scripture. And that diagram also reflects this as well. And then it also shows that there is a tremendous overlap. There are many, many things that I had the same viewpoint on as you and that are in alignment with God's word. But it also shows here that one Christian could could be, in a sense, Christian number two might be stricter in one area than Christian number one. And Christian number two may feel more liberty in a different area than Christian number one. Do you see that? Do you see how that's working? This I don't think is flawless. Okay, this didn't come from the Bible. It it came from uh a man who studied scripture and is trying to communicate these ideas. But I think that that this is helpful for those of us who are very visual. Thank you. You can dismiss that image. Christians have great liberty in Christ. I enjoy hunting. Okay? Hunting is not inherently sinful. God told Abraham to have dominion over the earth and subdue it. So there's my biblical grounds for hunting, okay? I'd rather see uh venison in my freezer than alongside the road. All right. Hunting is not sinful. But it could be. Listen to me carefully. First Corinthians twelve, six says, all things are lawful for me in Christ. Or I should say all things are lawful for me. Paul says that. Brother and sister, you have so much freedom in Jesus. Every good and every perfect thing comes from the Father. There is so much to be enjoyed under the Son. Is it wrong for a Christian to own a nice hot rod? No, it's not. The scripture does not say that. And if you say that it is sinful for a Christian to own a hot rod, then brother, I would suggest that you are weak in that area because you are drawing a line that is stricter than the scriptures. Okay, God does not come out and say that. But Paul does say this: all things are lawful for me, but not all things are helpful. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be dominated by anything I'm going to be fully transparent here. There are times where I've had to check myself in my enjoyment of hunting. If that enjoyment, if that liberty reaches a point where it is distracting me from what is most important, or it's dominating my affections , And it's becoming an idol in my heart, then yes, at that point it becomes sinful. All things are lawful for me, but I have to monitor that. And I have to evaluate, and is this for God's glory? And is this in any way hindering me? Is this becoming a weight in my Christian life? But I should not draw this line in the sand and say You know, owning a hot rod is sinful. So therefore every Christian who owns a hot rod is outside of God's will, or worse, suggesting that they don't even know the Lord. That would be wrong. So I want to close tonight by asking you some final questions in light of this passage. So we've we've worked through the passage, and I have some closing questions that I want you to ask yourself now. Number one. Are you exercising your Christian liberties in a way that causes disunity in the church or that tears down another believer? Think about this. Think about your life right now. I don't know your life like you do. Allow the Holy Spirit right now, as we're under the Word of God, to speak to your heart. Are you exercising your Christian liberties in a way that causes disunity in the church or that is tearing down your brother? Question number two. Are you flaunting your liberty? Are you proudly parading them around without regard for how you might be affecting other believers? And question number three. Are you maintaining a good conscience before the Lord? Are you doing anything that maybe other Christians can do with a free conscience? But you can't You can't do that thing with assurance before the Lord. Brother and sister, are you keeping a good conscience? This is one of the things that's at the heart of Paul's concern. Paul doesn't say to the weak You just need to get over it. Can't you see from the scriptures? You can eat meat. Let me show you. Now come on. Get with the program. Get with the rest of the Gentile believers in Rome. No, no, no. He deals so patiently with them because they must not sin against the Lord by violating their conscience. And at the same time, I think there is encouragement here. I think the the weak believer after reading Romans 14 Is going to be coming back to the scriptures and saying, hmm, okay, maybe I need to realign my conscience with God's word here on this. But nevertheless, Paul dealt very gently with them. Because his concern was that they not sin by going against their conscience when they weren't ready to do that yet, when they weren't ready to take that step of faith. in eating meat and exercise that liberty. Well, brothers and sisters, that is the end of my time. And my prayer for you tonight is that God would give you great wisdom. In applying these truths to your own life and working them out in your walk with the Lord and in your relationship with other brothers and sisters in Christ. Let's conclude our time in prayer. Father, thank you for your word, Lord. You know this is a difficult passage. Um it takes uh prayer and consideration and meditation. Lord, I pray that you would teach us how these things apply to our lives, and Lord, how you might have us grow in the Lord as a result of coming to a better understanding of them. We commit this time to you in Christ's name we pray. Amen