It's good to have you here tonight. If you have your Bibles, you can turn with me to Ephesians chapter 6. Ephesians chapter 6. I'd like to begin reading at verse 10. Well it says, Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil, for we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers. of the darkness of this world against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand Stand therefore, having your loins gird about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace, above all, taking the shield of faith. wherewith you shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked, and take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Let's have a word of prayer. Father, I pray that you would bless our brief time together tonight. I pray that it would be helpful to these people. And I pray that you would help us to rely more fully on your word and on the spirit. That empowers us, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. When the famous missionary David Livingston began one of his expeditions into the interior of Africa. He had 73 books and three packs weighing nearly 180 pounds. He was a man after my own heart. Most people don't go in a safari with 180 pounds of books. Although he was not carrying them all himself, he still found the burden was too great for his party. And after 300 miles of trekking through the jungle, he stopped along the way. and left behind some of his prized volumes. As he continued on his lengthy journey, he left more along the path until finally He was reduced to just one book. And of course that was his Bible. The Bible was essential. He would never part with that. The only weapon that is mentioned in this classic passage on spiritual warfare is the sword of the spirits. There are two, there were two different swords that Roman soldiers could use, two different Greek words for them. One was a large and heavy broad sword that was nearly four foot in length. It was very heavy. It was a weapon used for hacking your way through the most violent battlefield. But that's not the word that's used in our text here. The word that's used here was a short sword. It was two inches wide and anywhere from 18 to 24 inches long. It was double-edged with a sharp point on the end, and it was used for hand-to-hand combat. It was not heavy and crushing, but sharp and penetrating. No Roman soldier would go into battle without the sword. Now what was true of the ancient warriors is still true of Christian soldiers today. We must have a weapon that will be helpful to us in combat. And God has provided us a perfect weapon in the Word of God. It's interesting to note that Roman soldiers as part of the regular gear also had a spear. But you can read through Ephesians 6 all you want. You won't find the spear there. And that is because, of course, it would break the analogy. There isn't another weapon we need in addition to the sword of the spirit. It's the only offensive weapon that is mentioned because the Bible is sufficient. Now the question is, how do we use this weapon? You can't really use the word unless you know the word. That is why we are to be students of the Word. Every Christian should be a student of the Word. We should read it, we should memorize it, we should study it, we should listen to it, we should share it with others. It must become part of our natural thought processes. This evening I want us just to briefly look at how to use the sword What was helpful when you're trying to do something that's difficult is to have a model for you, an example that you can follow And of course, the Bible provides for us a perfect example of how to use the sword in the temptation of Christ. And so I'd invite you to turn with me to Matthew chapter 4, please. We're going to look at Matthew's account of this. There are some Bible scholars who believe that Paul adapted this image of the sword from the Old Testament messianic passage. That's mentioned in Isaiah chapter 11. We read, of course, also in Revelation 19 that at the second coming of Christ it says, out of his mouth will go a sharp sword that will smite the nations. The power of Christ's word is illustrated frequently in the Gospels. You might recall at the conclusion at the Sermon on the Mount, it says that the people were amazed, for he taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes. They had felt The penetrating sharpness of the Word of God in his sermon that day on the mounts. The Lord Jesus Christ is clearly a student of Scripture. More than 50 times in the Gospels, we read him saying something to the effect of, it is written, and he quotes Scripture. Isaiah, excuse me, Psalm 14 verse 8 says , I delight to do thy will, O my God, yea thy law is within my heart. And Hebrews 10 tells us That is actually a reference to the Lord Jesus Christ. Our Savior was saturated with Scripture And if you want to look at an example of a master swordsman, there is no better example than the Lord Jesus Christ. And so I want us to look at this. There's much here in Matthew chapter 4 that's worthy of comment that could of course provide a whole series of messages. We are only going to be looking at how the Lord Jesus Christ uses the word of God in this passage. Look with me at verse 1. Then Jesus was led up of the Spirit into the wilderness. to be tempted of the devil. And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterward a hungered. And when the tempter came to him, he said, If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread. But he answered and said, It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. Then the devil taketh him up into the holy city and setteth him on a pinnacle of the temple, and saith unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down, for it is written he shall give his angels charge concerning thee, and in their hands they shall bear thee up. Lest at any time thou dash thy foot against this stone. And Jesus said unto him, It is written again, thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God Again the devil taketh him up into an exceeding high mountain, and showeth him all the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them, and he saith unto him and saith unto him, All these things will I give thee if thou wilt fall down and worship me Then Jesus saith unto him, Get thee hence, Satan, for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. Then the devil leaveth him, and behold, angels came and ministered unto him. I'm going to draw very briefly seven truths from this passage. I want you to notice first of all that we should be prepared to use the sword in the evil day of battle. In verse 1, we find an interesting thought here. Then Jesus was led up of the Spirit into the wilderness. And in another gospel count, the word that's used here is very almost violent, that he was cast out Now, if you're really a thinking person, you might say, wait a minute, I thought the Bible taught that God does not tempt us. We have direct statements of Scripture that affect And indeed, he does not tempt us, but God does sometimes put us in the place of temptation to test us, not to entice us to evil. but to strengthen us so that we might learn to rely more on Him. His wish is not that we would fall, but that our mettle would be tested We must never look for temptation. That's why we should pray, as is found in the Lord's Prayer, lead us not into temptation. However, when it does come, we must be ready to face the foe with the word of God. The fact of the matter is there are sometimes periods and seasons in our life when we are going to be fiercely assaulted with the temptations and the destinations of the wicked one. Not every day is the same in the Christian life. That's why in Ephesians chapter 6, the passage we began at, Paul talked about being able to stand in the evil day. That is the day of battle. Now there's a sense that every day of our Christian experiences a battle, but we all know that there's some days When the conflict is really fierce. And on every hand, it's as if all the forces of Satan are rayed against us. And then there are other days when there's really not that much of a skirmish taking place. And the fact of the matter is that was true in the life of our Lord. He did not face the same kind of intense temptation and testing like he did at the outset of his ministry in the testing that we read about here. So we should be prepared to use the sword in the evil day of battle. We need to be ready. We need to be preparing ourselves and memorizing scripture and and uh storing away, as it were, ammunition for the evil day of battle Secondly , second truth I want to bring out from this is that we should recognize that the Word of God is all that we need to defeat Satan. And all three of the temptations that are mentioned here in this passage, the Lord uses the Word of God exclusively. It appears that the devil has all the advantages. Our Lord is weak and starving. He's alone in the wilderness. And yet the only thing he does is quote Scripture. He doesn't perform a miracle. He doesn't call on angels to rescue him. Yes, they come at the end of the temptation when it's over. For they did not come in the midst of the temptation. All that he has was the word of God. Now, why is it that the Lord only relied on the Word of God? I think that one reason is because he was setting an example for us. He was showing us as believers who would meditate on this passage for many centuries to come. But all that we need is the Word of God's. And so He sets this wonderful example for us. No matter what disadvantage you may face, God's word will not fail you. It's all that you need. You are certainly weaker than Satan. And of course, you have much less experience than Satan. You've been around for how many decades? He's been around for thousands of years. He knows a whole lot more than you do. You may find yourself alone and isolated and fearful, away from the supports of family and friends You may feel like you will die if you do not give in to his lies. But if you take the sword of the Spirit and you trust in that truth, you can be victorious and repel his advances. The third truth I want to bring to you is that we need to be able to reach for the sword quickly. You will notice that there is no hesitation on the part of Christ. He quickly responds with a word of truth for the lies of Satan. If we hesitate and linger in the place of temptation without a reply, we are indeed vulnerable Haven't you found that in your own life when you entertain the temptation, when you think about it and consider it and you do not repel those lies? With God's truth, you will fall. Satan's lies often sound enticing and reasonable They may even at times sound spiritual. Certainly God wants you to be happy. You can always be forgiven for this. No one will know. There's really no one that's going to be hurt by this action. You deserve it. You've been working hard. You have been faithful at church. You deserve to have a little break. You deserve to be to enjoy some time for yourself and some some pleasure. Don't let Some teaching that you've received in the past keep you from what you have the right to. Others do this. Certainly you can do this. These are not just thoughts that occur to you. I mention those things very easily off the top of my head. Why? Because Those are the kind of thoughts I have come into my mind. And when I meet with people and they talk to me and I ask them about how they fell into this sin, how this occurred, they share thoughts like this with me And sometimes they're surprised when I tell them that's the sort of thinking that I hear all the time from people when they fall. These are the devices of Satan, these are his lies that we find so enticing to our flesh and so appealing. But of course they're not true. They must be repelled with the truth of God's word. And that's why we must be able to find the appropriate passage and remember it. and meditate on it and counteract the lie of Satan. I wonder if you can find verses to repel those kinds of lies that I just mentioned. The key to finding the right scripture is to consistently hide God's word in your heart. That's why it is good to have a memory program or have someone that you memorize scripture with. This is why it is good to read through the Word of God all the way through on a regular basis. I say again, the vast majority of Christians have never read through their Bible. This is why it's important to be at church again and again. You say I already know all that stuff. It is reinforcing passages and truth That you know, but we are so prone to forget. We need that constant reinforcement. It is repetition that drives the truth into our minds and into our hearts. I've mentioned to you before this man, William Gernall, the Puritan, who wrote this massive book entitled The Christian in Complete Armor. That's a meditation on Ephesians chapter 6, verses 10 through 20. Over 1200 pages of fine print. One of the most difficult books I've ever read through from end to end. And he says this, the scriptures are a spiritual garden where grows an herb for the cure of every malady. And the wise Christian will store himself with promises in health for sickness and in peace for future perils. You may right now not be in the midst of the evil day of battle. You might be able to say in the last few weeks it really hasn't been that intensive struggle. Are you storing up for the evil day? Are you hiding God's word in your heart? Are you soaking your mind in Scripture so that you will be ready when the onslaught comes? It's not a matter of if it will come. It's only a matter of when it will come. Fourthly, I want you to notice that we need to know a specific truth in God's word to counteract every lie of Satan. Look with me at verse 4. Jesus said It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. There are several different words for word in Greek. One is lagos. And sometimes the word of God is referred to in that term, and it refers to the whole council of God. But the word that is used here is the Greek word rhema, which refers to a specific word of God, a specific statement of truth. And in verse 4 here we have this term Rhema. And we see here that the Lord is armed with a specific text for this specific temptation. Satan's lie here is that you must take care of yourself. Your physical well-being takes priority over your spiritual well-being. That is something that many people buy into today. You've got to take care of yourself first. You can't spend too much time thinking about others or or uh uh a worrying about spiritual matters, you need to take care of yourself physically. The Lord counteracts that lie with Deuteronomy chapter 8 and verse 3. Man shall not live by bread alone. We are not animals that just need physical sustenance. We are spiritual beings that need God's truth. And therefore, we must be armed with specific statements of Scripture if we are going to stand in the evil day. I often think of Martin Luther who was plagued with guilt about his past sins. And I've mentioned you before that once he recalls the devil coming to him and, as it were, unrolling a scroll with all of these horrible sins that he had committed in the past. And he says to, as it were, to Satan, right over the top of that, 1 John 1:7, the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. He had a specific truth. to counteract that lie. Fifthly, would you notice that we need to know the exact wording of Scripture? In verse 6, the devil quotes Scripture himself from Psalm 91. Notice what it says. If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down, for it is written he shall give his angels charge concerning thee, and in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone. Did you know that the devil can quote Scripture? Now he leaves off four little words in all thy ways. And those four words make all the difference in the world. Is this God's will? I have often spoken to Christians who have defended their sinful actions with a Bible verse. With something that is half true. And they justify it. One of the things that amazes me And perhaps it shouldn't at this point in my life, but what amazes me is the incredible ability that people have to justify their sin. Note no matter how heinous, how wicked, how obviously wrong it is Every person who does something wicked somehow in some way in their own mind has justified it. That guy had it coming. Well, they never paid me enough anyway. Whatever the excuse may be, if you talk to them, you will find they have grasp hold of some justification for their sinful action. Because in their own mind they they have had to reason through that to follow the course of action that they have. And sometimes they will justify it with scripture, with some verse. But we see here that we need to know the Word of God very carefully. Psalm 119 verse 11 says, Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee That's why we need to know the Word of God very well. We need to know different verses for different problems for our besetting sins, whether it be lust or laziness or worry or fear or pride or anger, whatever it may be, we need to know God's truth that corresponds to that. So that when those thoughts come into our mind and we begin to not only listen to it, but we begin to believe it and receive it, we need to counteract it. With God's truth. We need to have a full arsenal of verses in the weak areas of our life. Sixthly, I want you to notice that we need to know the context of the scriptures that we use. You've probably heard before that all of these quotations that the Lord uses in his temptation comes from one book of the Old Testament. That is the book of Deuteronomy. I have a book in my library entitled Our Lord's Favorite Book. And it's on the book of Deuteronomy because he quotes from it so often, and three of his temptations come from here. Now it's amazing to me when you really study this. To read, to consider the amazing parallels between what the Lord was facing and the original context in which these verses were given. In Deuteronomy chapter 8 and verse 3. Moses writes, and he humbled thee and suffered thee to hunger, and fed thee with manna which thou knewest not, neither did thy fathers know. that he might make thee know that man doth not live by bread only, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of the Lord doth man live. There were two amazing parallels to this. Number one, Israel was being tested in the wilderness. Remember that? They had not reached the promised land yet. They had been wandering in the wilderness for many years. And our Lord had been in the wilderness now for 40 days. They were in the wilderness for 40 years. And they were being tested. And so the Lord reaches back to a parallel to this. And you remember that God was feeding Israel with manna in the wilderness. And he makes here the comparison between manna and the wilderness and the Word of God. You see, my point is there could not be a closer parallel in the whole of the Old Testament. During the second temptation, the Lord quotes from Deuteronomy chapter 6. And verse 16, ye shall not tempt the Lord your God. Again, Israel's in the wilderness. And she is tempting God with her arrogant disobedience. And Satan was seeking to entice here the Savior to test his father's will. And so there is again an exact parallel there. And then in the final temptation, the Lord quotes from Deuteronomy chapter 6 and verse 13, Thou shalt fear the Lord thy God and serve him. Verse 14 says, you shall not go after other gods. In this context, Israel was tempted to worship false gods. to achieve her goals. All the pagan peoples believe that if you sacrifice to these false gods, you would receive the food and the good crops and everything that you really needed. But of course that was a lie. And so the Lord again finds an exact parallel because what Satan was tempting him to do was idolatry. So the Lord knew the context and the exact passages defined. And finally, I want you to notice that we need to resist the devil with Scripture so that he will flee from us. In verse 11, of Matthew chapter 4, it mentions that the devil left him. He fled after these three times the Lord resisted him with God's truth. And so we need to take courage from this, that if we resist the devil with Scripture, he will eventually flee from us. James chapter 4 and verse 7 says, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Sometimes it may seem that this doesn't happen as soon as we would like it to, but the answer is if we continue to resist the devil with God truth, he will flee from us. Notice the devil does not flee the first time that Jesus says it is written, but he does eventually flee. He does eventually leave him. And this is a wonderful comfort for us. It says in verse 11, the devil leaveth him, and behold, angels came and ministered unto him. After the third time he left Christ alone. So we must not stop fighting with this mighty weapon. The battle may be long, but we will prevail. If we use the word of God and we rely on the Lord, if we try to stand in our own fleshly strength, we will fall. We will come short. So we must look to God and his word. I've mentioned to you before a French pastor who preached in France in the 1800s And he wrote an excellent book on the temptation of Christ. And he says this: that single phrase that is written works against the enemy like a dreadful volley against an attacking battalion. It is written, and the devil retreats the first time. It is written, and the devil retreats a third time. It is written, and the devil withdraws. Let's be people who know how to effectively use the Word of God and repel Satan's advances in our lives. The battle is won or lost. In our mind, in what we think, we have to be discerning about the direction that our thoughts are going in We have to be able to stop and analyze what we are thinking, and whether or not those patterns of thought are a lie from Satan or are in line with the truth of God's word. And when we find so often that they are not in line with God's truth, then we need to remind ourselves of what God says about that. And repel the devil's advances. May God help us to do that. Let's close in prayer. Father , We thank you that you have given us a great weapon in the Word of God. We thank you That it does strengthen us and help us, that it does renew our minds, that it does enable us, Father, to do battle with the forces of evil. And to be victorious in the evil day. I pray that you would help us to learn to stand the most fierce assault with God's truth. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.