So if you would take your Bibles, please, and turn to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. And we're going to begin with some scripture memory and then out of 1 Thessalonians 5, and then we will Begin breaking down this passage together this evening. Look at the theme or the breakdown of the book of First Thessalonians. We've been doing this by review week by week just to make sure that we are remembering how this book. plays together so that when we come to 1 Thessalonians in the future, it's not a mystery to us. We can very quickly remember, oh that's right, this breaks down into two main divisions. The first three chapters are a look backwards at God's work among the Thessalonians and the missionary team, Paul, Silas, and Timothy. their work among the Thessalonians, and how God did a mighty work bringing them from idolatry to worshiping the one true and living God and waiting for his Son from heaven. And then in chapters four and five, it's a forward look, looking to the return of Christ. Now, every chapter in the book of 1 Thessalonians ends with a reference to the return of Christ, but the The predominant teaching of the last half of the book is looking towards the return of Christ and living in faith, hope, and love. as a result of the fact that Christ is coming again and we are living expectantly towards that end. The theme is based on that. Continue to grow in faith, hope, and love in light of Christ's imminent return. He could come back at any moment. He could come back before we finish this lesson tonight. He could return. And wouldn't that be wonderful? Amen. I'm glad to hear that. Thank you. So the title for our lesson this evening is Wake Up. Night is not your nature. And it's based on what we read in this passage of Scripture. Beginning in verse 4 and following. Just kind of by way of review. We started off this chapter, and it's a continuation of some teaching that Paul began in chapter 4, verse 13. on the rapture. And the question that was given seems to be along the nature of what about those who have died in Christ? Are they related to the rapture in the events that follow the same way that those who are alive in Christ at His return? And Paul assures them that they are in no disadvantage. In fact, those who are dead in Christ are actually caught up a little bit before, just moments before, and then we who are alive are caught up And we meet them in the air, and then we return with the Lord. And we are to encourage one another with those words. Then he begins in chapter 5 saying, Now concerning the times and the seasons, brothers. You have no need to have anything written to you, for you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. And Paul He's telling them, you you should know all this. While I was with you, during those six plus months that I was with you, I gave you significant instruction on this. But he's bringing them back to remembrance. So he's giving them information in these first five verses. If you come to verse 6, there's a transition that takes place. In verse 6, He transitions to exhorting them. You'll notice in verses 6 and following there's several let us let us Keep awake. Let us not sleep. Let us be sober. He's exhorting them. That's exhortation. Because of this information, this is how we ought to live. And then in verses 9 and 10, he returns and gives them some more information. And then in verse 11, one final exhortation. Two weeks ago, when we were beginning chapter 5, We saw this, we spent some time looking at this word, the day of the Lord. What is the day of the Lord? And we saw that the day of the Lord is not a technical term. It doesn't refer to just one thing. It also doesn't refer to a single day. When you think of the day of the Lord, think of it more like your day in court. Your day in court can last a long time, depending on the case. But the day of the Lord is a period of time. It is a period of time that is characterized by judgment. It is characterized by the wrath of God. In the Old Testament, there were days of the Lord that were characterized by judgment and the wrath of God being poured out in localized ways. The day of the Lord when a locust Plague hit in Joel chapter 2, the day of the Lord when Babylon was judged. These were localized days of the Lord. All of them prefigured the ultimate day of the Lord. In some sense they were prefiguring the ultimate day of the Lord In this passage, and based on what we find in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, the day of the Lord is a period of time, not a single day, not a 24-hour event, but a period of time characterized by judgment. where the wrath of God is poured out in a unique way. And as we study this and other passages of Scripture like Daniel chapter 9, we're able to see that this is what is known as the tribulation period. The seven-year period of time where God's wrath is poured out on the world in a unique way for judgment on the world, but also for purification of the nation of Israel. And Paul reminds them that they're fully aware that the day of the Lord will begin suddenly, and it will come with devastating results. And he gives two analogies in these verses. If you remember, as we were going through this. We saw two analogies. The first one is the analogy of a thief in the night. A thief breaks in suddenly. They usually don't call you in advance and say, tonight at 2. 30, I'm breaking into your house. And uh just if I let you know, little courtesy call. That's not usually how thieves do it. They come as in the night because you're asleep usually. You're not prepared, you're not expecting them. And you wake up in the morning and say, What happened? All this was what happened while you were sleeping through that event And this is what Jesus described in Matthew 24. So Paul uses the analogy that Jesus described in the Olivet Discourse concerning that day and hour he said, No one knows, not even the angels of heaven. nor the Son, but the Father only. For as were the days of Noah, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. And when a thief breaks in, he breaks in with devastating results. That's why he begins this saying, while people are saying there is peace and security, then suddenly the onset of this day of the Lord. The second analogy he gives is like labor pains upon a pregnant woman. Labor pains Come suddenly, and they come inescapably. We saw several analogies that are brought out in this. It's an inevitable certainty. It is coming. When you're pregnant, it that day is coming. And so you can you can uh pretend that it's not gonna happen, and there's a lot of husbands that kind of do that. They think, what now? What happened? Well it's Nine months, and this is how it works. And they they're surprised by it. There's a there's an inevitable certainty, there's a suddenness, there is intense pain. That follows. This is what you see in the tribulation period, a period of intense judgment and pain upon the earth. There is an inescapability, which is what he brings out by this analogy here, where he says, and they shall not, or they shall in no wise, absolutely not escape. So once active labor begins, there's no escape from the events that follow. And so too when the day of the Lord begins with the coming of the seven seals, there is no escape. And he does this with by double, using a double negative to emphasize, they shall not at all. Escape. And the last thing is the increasing intensity. If you read through the book of Revelation, you see the judgments come in increasing intensity, very much like labor pains do. And even the speed of labor pains and the speed of the judgments come more rapidly as the tribulation wears on. So those are the things that we saw last week. And Paul had, or two weeks ago, I apologize. But Paul is describing here now this distinction between people of the day and people of the night. And he's saying there is a distinction between these two types of people in how the day of the Lord impacts them. Day people and night people have totally different results when it comes to the day of the Lord. In beginning in verse 4, he says, But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief. For you are all children of light, children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness. So then let us not sleep as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober For those who sleep sleep at night, and those who get drunk are drunk at night. But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of face and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us, so that whether we are awake at his coming, or asleep at his coming, we might live with him. Therefore encourage one another and build one another up just as you are doing. And Paul begins to lay out the distinction between day people and night people, first of all by using distinct pronouns. If you look in your Bible at verses 1 and 2, if you write notes in your Bible, I would encourage you to do this. I love using highlight or colored pencils. And it's a way that I can highlight different things in my Bible. And I I highlighted in here the difference in the pronouns in verses one and two where he Talks about brothers, and then he says you and yourselves. You yourselves know these things. Then in verse 3, the ESV says people The New American Standard says them or they and it begins to talk about people and they and them. So there's a distinction between you And they and them, the people who are caught unawares when destruction comes upon them. And they will not escape. He doesn't say you will not escape. You notice the difference. He's talking to believers and he says, they will not escape. There is a distinction as given in the pronouns. Then in verses 4 through 11, he switches back to you. And now he's giving some admonitions, some exhortation on how we ought to live as a result. And he switches to you in verses 4 and 5. And then in 5 he switches to we and us, meaning this includes the Apostle Paul saying, me too. Me too. I'm involved in this. All of us who are believers, this is how we ought to live in response to this. The purpose of this pronoun change is to indicate the different realities. And even the different destinies of these two groups of people, especially as it pertains to the day of the Lord. The day of the Lord, the tribulation period. And he begins by saying, You are not in darkness. And that's that's uh, you know statement here he's trying to express different nature, different realities for the those who are they and them and those who are you. What is meant by darkness? Darkness refers to the spiritual condition of all humanity apart from the grace of God. God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. The Bible says that God dwells in unapproachable light God is the absolute fullness of light. So to be classified as in darkness is to be separate from God, who is light. So when we are the world is called in darkness, they're separated from God. It's the state of death. It is the state of spiritual death. Ephesians 4, I believe I have this verse here. Yes, Ephesians 4, 17 and 18. Now this I say and testify in the Lord that you must no longer walk as the Gentiles do in the futility of their minds. They are darkened in their understanding. alienated from the life of God. This is the reality. They are alienated. They are separated from the life of God. They are in darkness because God is light. Because of the ignorance that is in them due to their hardness of heart. Those who are spiritually in darkness are characterized by lies of darkness. Ephesians 5 describes the works of darkness. Their lives are exemplified by acts that are consistent with that. Darkness also characterizes judgment, eternal judgment. Jesus called hell Outer darkness. Jude describes it as utter darkness. The judgment of God is a separation from God where only his wrath, none of his grace is given to a person, and it is described as outer or utter darkness. Those who are outside of Christ are those who are spiritually characterized by darkness. Jesus came as the light of the world. But instead of embracing the light of life, they rejected it because they loved the darkness. John chapter 3 says, and this is the judgment. The light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light, because their works were evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light, and does not come to the light, lest his works should be exposed. This is A declaration of judgment upon the world. They have loved their sin rather than the light of the world, which is Jesus The Bible calls those who are unsaved as being in the domain of darkness. Ephesians chapter 6. Talks about us not wrestling against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, this world as separated from God as in rebellion against God is this present darkness, the world system that we see. Isaiah described Christ and his coming as coming to a people who walked in darkness. But they have seen a great light. When Christ came into the world, a great light came upon them. 2 Corinthians chapter 4 describes Satan as the God of this world who has blinded the minds of unbelievers to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. How does Satan do that? How does he blind the minds of people? It's a spiritual thing, but he keeps them fascinated with money and power and sex and health and all these things that blind their minds to the true reality and so that the gospel which is glorious which is light shining into their lives, doesn't even appeal to them. But the Thessalonian believers, he says, you are not in darkness. You are believers. This is not your nature. You are not in darkness any longer. You've been given a new nature. That's why he says that you are all children of light. Children of the day. Literally, sons of the day, sons of light. That's a common Eastern metaphor uh to describe something that's being intrinsically related to an object. In Swahili , a lawyer was called a son of the law. If you wanted to talk to a politician, you'd call, you'd talk to him as a son of politics. If you wanted to talk to a citizen, you're talking about a citizen, is a son of the country. It means that there's an intrinsic, intimate relationship between With that thing. This person is identified with this. As Christians, we are sons of light, children of light, children of the day. There's an intrinsic, intimate relationship. There is a nature That is changed. As a result, we were in darkness. Now we are in light. This is a way of saying that believers have been given an entirely new nature. We become partakers. of the divine nature. The Holy Spirit lives inside of us. God is light. And now those of us who were formerly enslaved in darkness have been given a new nature, and we've become intimately and intrinsically connected with that new nature which is God's nature in us through the new birth. That's why Jesus said in John 8, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light I believe I have no I don't have that one there. Colossians, though. Giving thanks to the Father who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, the kingdom which is characterized by light. And he says to them, brothers, you are not in darkness. You are, your nature is distinct. You are not in darkness for that day to surprise you, to to overtake you like a thief. The reality is that the beginning of the day of the Lord, which happens with the rapture of the church, is something that is sudden. It is unknown. Jesus said nobody knows the day nor the hour. Not even the angels in heaven. So if someone tells you I know when Christ is coming back, you know instinctively that he's a liar. And that that you can just say, okay, I don't need to pay attention to that person anymore because they have lied about what Christ has already said But he says, that day, that day of darkness, will not surprise you like a thief. It will not overtake you like a thief. You'll have a different relationship to it entirely. The day of the Lord is frequently described as a time period characterized by darkness. Let's look at a few verses. Oh, these are day people and night people characteristics. Day people experience the rapture. Night people experience the day of the Lord, the judgment of it. Day people are caught up to heaven. Night people are destroyed on earth. Day people have spiritual life. Night people have spiritual death. Day people have hope. Night people have no hope. You can see this list. There's a distinction in the nature and in the end results. The very last one is very significant. Forever with the Lord. Never with the Lord. There is an absolute distinction between day people and night people. I want to look at a couple of these verses that are found in the Old Testament that describe the day of the Lord as a Time period of darkness. In Joel, he describes it as the day of the Lord is coming. It is near a day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness. And Zephaniah, he says, a day of wrath is that day, a day of distress and anguish, a day of ruin and devastation, a day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness. In Amos chapter 5, he says, Is not the day of the Lord darkness and not light and gloom with no brightness in it? And he says, you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day, the day of darkness, the day of the Lord, to overtake you like a thief. Your relationship to it is entirely different than those who are night people. And so the Thessalonians are not to fear The sudden inescapable destruction of the day of the Lord. They have been removed from the domain of darkness. They do not need to fear the day of darkness. D. Edmund Hebert said, The day of the Lord, as a time of destruction, will fall upon those living in darkness of sin and in estrangement from God. But believers do not live in that realm. They have nothing to fear from that day. They will already have been taken up in the rapture. The event that inaugurates the day of the Lord as the day of judgment. That's why he can say at the end of chapter 4 and at the end of verse 11 of chapter 5, therefore what? Encourage one another. And build each other up in these truths. This is an encouraging thing. You do not have a part in that day because your nature is distinct. You are a person of light, a person of day, not a person of the night. He says you have a distinct nature, but Christians also have distinct behavior. as day people. Because of these realities, it ought to change the way we live. And this is where he begins to exhort. He's been giving them information and now he says, because of this, I want you to live this way. He says in verse 5, or verse 6, so then. This is where the exhortation begins, so then Let us not sleep as others do. This is the first negative injunction. Let us not do this. Let us not sleep as others do. The nature of the world is that unbelievers are metaphorically asleep to the spiritual dangers about them. When you think of being asleep, it is one of those humbling realities of humanity that God has made us to sleep roughly eight hours of every 24. When we become pretty much dead to the world and we are like in a in a coma. Things happen And we're unaware of it. And it's one of the things I think that God has designed into our lives to make us realize how weak we are and how dependent we are upon him, that every day we have to spend some time where we're essentially unconscious. He's saying, do you not realize how dependent you are? How weak you actually are. To be asleep is to be unaware. It's to be indifferent. It's to be oblivious. It's to be insensitive to what's going on around you. Sat on a plane this past week coming back from Orlando, and the guy next to me was Not sawing logs, but he was he was uh definitely asleep and and there was some sounds coming from him. And I think if he knew those sounds were coming from the hymn, he would not wanted to have had that uh happen. But he was insensitive to it. He did not know. He was asleep. We are people of the day. Therefore, we ought to live as people of the day. We ought not to sleep. We ought not to be insensitive or oblivious to spiritual realities, to the dangers of the world around us spiritually. Rather, we ought to be awake. We ought to be alert. We ought to be watchful. Those who are asleep are characterized by certain activities that are not to be characteristic of Christians. They're characterized by them because they're insensitive to spiritual realities. And Paul clarifies this what it means to sleep in Romans 13. He says, For the night is far gone, the day is at hand. So then let us cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light. Let us walk properly as in the daytime, not in orgies and drunkenness, not in sexual immorality and sensuality, not in quarreling and jealousy. But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh to gratify its desires. Paul is essentially saying, you are people of the day. These are characteristics of people of the night. They're not to have anything to do with you. You are to put off those activities of the flesh. Then he begins with a positive injunction. Let us keep awake. Let us be sober. To keep awake is a word that's frequently translated to be alert or to be watchful. And I think Paul is definitely quoting, he's alluding back to what Jesus said in the Olivet Discourse in Matthew 24. Do I have this in here? No, I don't have this. I'm just gonna have to read it and you'll have to listen. Matthew 24, verses 42 and following, Jesus uses these same words. He says, therefore, stay awake. For you do not know on what day your Lord is coming, but know this that if the master of the house had known in what part of the night the thief was coming, he would have stayed awake. And would have not let his house be broken into. Therefore you also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect. He's saying, live. Jesus is commanding us, live with expectation. Live watchful. Live alert. Live in such a way that if Christ were to come today, we would not be disappointed by his return. We would not be in fear that he would find us living contrary to his will. We would not be living like people of the night, but like people of the day. To be awake, then is to live with an anticipation and a watchfulness for the return of Christ. And this is one of the things that we are to encourage each other about. We are to build each other up with these realities. Christ is coming again. He could come today. Are we living that way? Is there that reality in our lives? And additionally here, Paul urges them to sobriety. Drunkenness is characteristically an action of the night. That's why in Acts chapter 2, when Peter and the disciples are speaking in tongues, the people are mocking them, saying they're full of new wine, and he says, that's not even nine o'clock in the morning. Come on, guys. Nobody's drunk at nine in the morning. Why? Because drunkenness is characteristic of nighttime activity, not daytime activity. A drunk person has his senses dulled by alcohol so that he's not able to think clearly. He's not able to discern physical and spiritual dangers. And the New Testament does speak out against drunkenness and repeated passages of Scripture. For example, Galatians 5. Well this drunkenness among the works of the flesh and says those who live in unrepentant drunkenness will not inherit the kingdom of God But he's not talking about physical drunkenness here, though that is an application that can be made clearly. He's referring to drunkenness in a metaphorical sense. A spiritually drunk person is one who is inebriated with the pleasures of this world. He's unaware of what's going on in reality. Because his mind is dulled with the things of this world. And he's saying, you are not to be like a drunk person. You are to be more aware of spiritual realities than anybody else Because you are people of the day and ought to be characterized by daytime activity. It's possible for a Christian to be drunk for a time with sin. And in the pleasures of this world, and to be totally unprepared for the return of Christ. And that would be a horrible thing. To be so inebriated with his world. To see shame at the return of Christ. And Paul is urging them not to live like that. So he says to put on spiritual armor. We talked about spiritual armor in our songs that we sang this evening. And he uses a military analogy here. He says He says, For those who sleep, sleep at night, and those who get drunk are drunk at night, but since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation. And he's using a military analogy like a watchman who is on duty. A watchman who's on duty waiting. Maybe to let in a commanding officer who's coming through the gates. He's to be prepared. He's to be alert. He's not to be drunk. He's to be watchful. He's to be prepared with proper armor. Paul speaks about spiritual armor in a way slightly different than what you would see in Ephesians chapter 6. But again, these are metaphors, so you can understand that. And he urges the believers to put on the breastplate of faith and love. And for a helmet, the hope of salvation. So we have this triad, faith, hope, and love. 1 Corinthians 13 talks about faith, hope, and love. The greatest of these is love. We've already seen this. If you go back in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1, verse 2, he says, we give thanks to God always for all of you. Constantly mentioning you in our prayers, remembering before our God and Father your work of faith and labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. He says, you are characterized by faith, hope, and love. And now he's telling them, make sure you have on the armor. the breastplate of faith and hope and love and for a helmet the hope of salvation. The breastplate, of course, is that armor that protects the center mass. It's what we might call a bulletproof vest or body armor today. It's where the vital organs are located. And spiritually, faith and love It's like a breastplate, is like a bulletproof vest that protects against spiritual attack. Face is really uh isolated around several things. One, the person of God. Another the promises of God. You could even say even the plan of God. But I like how Jerry Bridges describes faith. In trusting God, when he says there's three elements that are vitally important for a believer when they're under spiritual attack, when they're facing trial. First is to know the sovereignty of God. That God is all-powerful and that he is ruling all things towards his ultimate desired end. And that no one and nothing can thwart God's plan. Nothing happens in this world outside of God's plan So Christ is coming again, and no power of hell can stop the plan of God. Secondly, the wisdom of God. God knows the end from the beginning. And not only does he know the end from the beginning, he ordains the end from the beginning. And he accomplishes all the details in between. And he always chooses the wisest. path to accomplish his desired end. And we might say, well, it doesn't always seem the wisest. That's because we're not as wise as God. And God is measuring and balancing many more things than we can even begin to comprehend. And God knows our nature. Sometimes when these trials come into our life, we say, Lord, I really wish you would do it differently. And he says, you don't know yourself like I know you. And what I'm trying to teach you, you would not learn apart from this. So we have the sovereignty of God, the wisdom of God, and then the goodness of God. Satan loves to attack the goodness of God when he tempts us. It's because God is good that he will keep his promises. When Eve began to doubt the goodness of God, she became easy prey for Satan. And that's what God does for all of us. That's why in James chapter 1, we've been going through this in Sunday school, he says, every good gift and every perfect gift comes down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. One of the things that he says, be not deceived, my beloved brothers. Satan likes to deceive us about the goodness of God, so that we don't believe that God is good in the midst of trial. So they don't believe God is good in the midst of temptation. God has forbidden this, but I really want that. God must not be good to me. No. God is good. And every good gift comes from him. And you must believe that in the face of temptation. Faith, the breastplate of faith, will help you greatly in this spiritual battle. Then love. Love is the affection that motivates us to obey the Lord. When Christ is the supreme object of our affection, and we marvel at the love of God for us exemplified and demonstrated in Christ. Satan will be unable to penetrate and to lead us into temptation. Jesus said the greatest commandment is to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, and all, and mind and strength. Paul said that love is the fulfillment of the law. It's easy to see then why Paul said that faith and love are like a breastplate for the believer. When we know these things, we have this security against the attacks of the evil one. And lastly, he says, for a hope, for helmet, the hope of salvation. You might say, well, why does he say the hope of salvation like it's a future thing? Well, he's talking about the fact that when we talk about salvation, we often talk about the three tenses of salvation. There's the past tense. When we are justified, when we are declared righteous, when we put our faith and trust in Christ, that instant we are saved There's also present salvation, which is sanctification. We are being saved. We are being made more like Christ. And then there's also future salvation, which is often called glorification. And he says, here, this future reality is at stake, the glorification that will come. At the appearing of our Lord, when he comes to take us to himself. The hope of the coming of the Lord and deliverance from eschatological wrath Is designed by God to motivate us towards holy living. Remember when the wicked servant felt like his master wasn't going to come back? He was delayed? What did he do? He became drunk and began to beat the other servants. But the one who lives in hope of the imminent return will labor to purify himself because he knows Christ could come back at any moment. John says in 1 John 3, beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared, but we know that when he appears, we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is. And everyone who has this hope in him purifies himself even as he is pure. We are pure. We are purifying ourselves towards that end. So we have the different nature, a distinct nature. We have uh a distinct uh behavior because we are people of the day. But also we have a distinct destiny because we are people of the day. In verses 9 through 11, we have this final reality. Believers are not destined for wrath. He says, For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. And again, it's important to remember here that the wrath that is, we'll talk about this more, but the wrath that's being described here is the wrath of the day of the Lord. It is the wrath that has been in context being described here. Because of our new nature as children of light, we do not need to fear falling under the wrath of God. The wrath of God is a terrifying reality. But for the believer in Christ, he took the wrath that our sins deserve. And he took it upon himself. That's why he says in verse 9, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, Christ on the cross. took the wrath that our sins deserved. He took the punishment of God that we deserved. He suffered and he died in our place, bearing the wrath of God for us. The Bible teaches us that by nature, by birth, we are children of wrath, Ephesians 2 says. Jesus said in Matthew chapter 10, I believe I have this. Let me see if I can no. Oh boy. I apologize. I'm missing a couple. This thing's just acting up. So we'll stop there and we'll just have to listen well. In Matthew chapter ten, he says, Do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body and Hell. He said, don't fear man, don't fear Satan, don't fear the powers of darkness, fear God. Fear God, for God alone is the one who can send a person to hell. That's not Satan's prerogative, that's God's prerogative. God is the judge. He says, fear the Lord. The reality of the wrath of God should be something that propels us to repent, to come to Christ, to find salvation in Jesus Christ. But it also should be something that should propel us to evangelize, to bring the gospel to those who do not know. One of the first indications of a person coming to know the Lord, truly, you'll see that begin to take place in their lives. They want to they want to share the gospel with their family members. and their neighbors and their co-workers, because they don't want them to experience the wrath of God. Like Paul said, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. But what is being described here by the wrath, is this just a reference to the wrath of God in hell? It is a reference to that, but it's more than that. Some have seen this as simply saying that Christians do not need to fear hell. The problem with that are at least two. There may be more, but there are at least two. First, Paul has not been talking about hell. He's been talking about the day of the Lord. He's been talking about the day of the wrath of the Lord. which is the tribulation which he which is described as the day of God's wrath. And this is how Paul spoke of the wrath of God in chapter one. You remember going back to chapter one, verse ten, where he says, That you are waiting for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. We're waiting for his son from heaven to deliver us from the coming wrath. Secondly, Paul uses the terms awake and asleep, and the way he uses it in verse uh verse ten is speaking about the state of those who are awake or asleep in Christ. They are alive or they're dead in Christ. And he's pointing back to the way it was used in chapter 413, speaking of those who are raptured at the coming of Christ. And we'll see that as we As we continue to look at this. So what is meant by awake or asleep? If you're tracking with this passage of scripture, you've probably noticed that Paul has used the metaphor of sleep in two distinct ways. Have you ever done that in a conversation where you use a metaphor and then you change it midstream and someone says, wait, wait, wait, wait, what did you mean by that? Well Paul does that here. He uses sleep with two distinct differences of meaning. In chapter 4, verses 13 through 15, Paul uses it to describe the state of those who have died in Christ, those who are asleep in Christ. Their bodies are asleep in the grave. We talked about that a few weeks ago. But then here in chapter 5, verses 6 and 7, he uses sleep to refer to those who are not alert. Don't sleep, wake up, be alert. And then he says in verse 10 about Christ that who died for us so that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with him. And you have to ask yourself, Which metaphor is he talking about? Which way is he using the word sleep here? We know that Paul is referring to the two classes of believers at Christ's return, because he states, whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with him. Actually, the ESV doesn't translate one word, which I wish it did. Other translations do. We might live together with him. The word together, for some reason, they didn't translate, but the word together is actually talking about believers, dead, asleep, or alive, will be together with him. So we will be with those who, if we're alive, we'll be with those who are asleep together with him. He's talking about two classes of people, two classes of believers at Christ's return. Because he says that we will live with him. So both classes of people will not face the day of the Lord's wrath, and instead will live together with Christ. So we know that much. If this was referring to those who were spiritually indifferent and were asleep spiritually and not alert waiting for the Lord's return. It really wouldn't make any sense. It would negate all of the Apostle Paul has been teaching here. F. F. Bruce said it this way, it's ludicrous to suppose that the writers mean Whether you live like sons of light or like sons of darkness, it will make little difference. You will all be all right in the end. You know, that doesn't Paul that like negate all that Paul's saying. You know Live like sons of light, live like sons of the day, be awake, be alert. But if you don't, it doesn't really matter. Does that make any sense? Is that what Paul would be saying? Obviously not. That's not what Paul's saying. Paul is clearly talking about those who are asleep, referring to those who are dead. So whether you are asleep in Christ, dead in Christ, or you are awake in Christ , You are alive when he returns. You will be caught up together. The same word together that's found in chapter 4, verse 17. Then we who are alive who are left will be caught up together. That's why I really wish they would have translated that word. It's the same word, and it would have been a clear reference. Boom. Together. Ah, the together When we are caught up with him to meet the Lord in the air, and we'll always be with the Lord. What Paul is clearly saying is that you have no need to fear the day of the Lord when God's wrath is poured out on this world like never before, and like never again. Because whether you are dead in Christ or alive in Christ, you'll be caught up together to live with Christ. And then, does that not make sense with verse 11? Therefore, encourage one another and build one another up just as you are doing. Believers are to encourage and build each other up about this reality. The fact that Christ is coming again to catch us up, to rapture the bride, the church. And that it could be at any moment. It is an imminent return. It should be a comfort to a believer, whether you're going through trials at this moment or not, it ought to be a comfort. I think unfortunately too many Christians live in fear of the tribulation that the Bible teaches is coming on the earth. We don't need to be preppers. We don't need to be building underground bunkers and storing up weapons and munitions and canned food. But if you do, make sure you have a can opener. But we're not going to have to endure the day of the Lord because he has said here, we will be caught up together with him. Paul taught the church that they were not destined for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. Specifically, that those who have repented and trusted in Christ's sacrificial death, whether they are awake or asleep in Christ, will be caught up together to live with the Lord. Let me ask you: when is the last time you comforted another Christian with this reality? It says, comfort one another with this truth. I do it regularly. This is something that comes out in my instruction to people on a regular basis, one-on-one. Because there are a lot of people that are living in fear, one, of the day of the Lord, two, they're watching too much Fox News and Newsmax and they're terrified about things that are going on in the world. And they need to be reminded that Christ is coming again. This world is on a collision course to this destruction, but Christ is coming again. We should not be pulling our hair out, if you have any, in fear of it. Christ is coming again. And we ought to be encouraging one another and building one another up with this reality. Are you building yourself up to holiness by reminding yourself about the coming of Christ? Are you building one another up to Christ's likeness through this teaching? I hope so. Romans 13 says, and this is the last verse we're going to talk about tonight. He says, besides this You know the time, that the hour has come for you to wake from sleep. For salvation is nearer to us now than when we first believed. The night is far gone. The day is at hand. So then, let us cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light. Put on the breastplate of faith. And love and for a helmet, the hope of salvation. For God has not destined us to wrath, but to obtain salvation. Let's pray. Father, thank you for these truths. They are comforting. I praise you for our Savior Jesus Christ, who bore the wrath that we deserve. Lord, I pray you'd help us to live in light of this reality day by day. And that we would encourage one another and we would build each other up in these truths. Help us to live holy lives in light of the return of Christ. And Father, may He come quickly. Come, Lord Jesus. We pray. Amen.