If you would, turn in your Bibles with me to Galatians chapter 5, the New Testament, Galatians chapter 5. And the Lord willing, this evening we're going to begin a brief series on the fruit of the Spirit. Galatians chapter 5. We'll be looking at verses 16 through 18 this evening. I remember as a young boy, as a teenager, I dreamed of a time when I would ride my bike across the United States. I I loved riding my bike. I just absolutely loved it. And uh I thought that'd be a wonderful way to spend a couple months. Walking, or not walking, but riding a bike across the country and seeing the nation from that perspective. Recently I was reading about a man named Edward Weston. Who is the first verifiable person to clearly walk every step of the way, not ride a bike, but walk every step of the way. Across our nation. He was an avid pedestrian in the eighteen hundreds, uh known for walking to Abraham Lincoln's graduation from Maine to Washington DC for the graduation, and then In nineteen oh nine, at the age of seventy, he decides he was going to do his transcontinental attempt and he wanted to do it in under a hundred days. Think about that. It's roughly four thousand miles across the nation. And it would be an average of 40 miles a day at the age of 70 to go from New York to San Francisco. He encountered a number of challenges along the way. And In the end, he did not reach his goal of 100 days. He did in 104 walking days. He became very disappointed in himself and only making it 104 days, 122 total days, because he took off every Sunday for rest and worship. So at the age of 71, he decided he would do this again. And this time he walked west to east. And this time he did it in 78 walking days. And total of 89 days. Now that record is no longer stands. It has been bested many times. In fact, the very next year it was bested with 77 days. But It's still rather impressive that at at the age of seventy-one he's able to walk across the continent in such a short time. Seventy-eight walking days. Very impressive. In this passage, we are beginning to examine this evening on the fruit of the Spirit. We see that the fruit of the Spirit is produced in the life of a believer who is walking In the Spirit. Begin reading in verse 16 of Galatians. This I say then: walk in the Spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. For the flesh lusts against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary the one to the other, so that you cannot do the things that you would. But if you are led of the spirit You are not under the law. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these: adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness. idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variants, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revelings, and such like, of which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past. That they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace. Longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Against such there is no law And they that are Christs have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. We're going to look at this idea of walking in the Spirit this evening. When a believer walks in the Spirit, as we see in this passage, passage of scripture, he will naturally produce the fruit of the Spirit that we just read about in verse 22. And so Paul, when he wrote this letter to the Galatians, he was writing an urgent letter, a very passionate letter. letter to combat combat a dangerous heresy that was found within the Galatian church where false teachers, known as Judaizers, had brought in false doctrine, teaching that Gentile converts had to be circumcised. in order to be justified and to belong to the family of God. Paul fought hard against that, saying that justification comes by faith. In Christ Jesus alone and not by the works of the law. In fact, if you go back to Galatians chapter two, verse sixteen Really, this is in some ways the theme of the book of Galatians here in Galatians 2. 16. It says, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law. But by the faith of Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Jesus Christ, that we might be justified by the faith of Christ. And not by the works of the law. For by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified. So very clearly we can see that justification comes by faith and not by works. But every time justification by faith is accurately and powerfully taught, it's open to the false charge that it leads to antinomianism. That it leads to a lawlessness of behavior. A life where there there is no restrictions. You can do what you want. After all, you're saved by grace through faith. It's not by works of the law, so you can do whatever you want. Every time it is taught accurately, that accusation can be presented. But if you're saved by grace through faith and not by the works of the law, they would say, then it doesn't really matter how you live. You could live any way you want and sin with impudence if you would like. Well, Paul argues against that, and he says that the gospel actually sets you free from sin. Not free to sin. The gospel, justification by grace through faith, sets a person free from the requirement to sin When Paul described this in Romans, he said that the law of the Spirit of life sets a man free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. It's now a freedom to live. Apart from sin and apart from the consequences that it has. So the Christian life, we as want to see this evening that the Christian life can only be lived in continual dependence upon The Christian life can only be lived as we live in daily, moment by moment, dependence upon the Spirit. Many people, when they think about the Christian life, They think, well, if I work a little harder, if I turn over a new leaf, if I just try a little harder, then I can overcome these things. But in reality, the Christian life has lived in dependence. Upon the Spirit, by walking in the power of the Spirit. Truly, the Christian life is a battleground. As we were reading these verses, maybe you thought about this reality that the Christian life is a battleground. And maybe you've experienced this. I hope and pray you have experienced this in your own life. We begin here but uh in verse sixteen by seeing that when we depend on the Spirit, the believer will avoid two great dangers. That are easily found in a life of a person who believes in salvation by grace through faith. And those two dangers, those two spiritual dangers, are the dangers of license. You can just do whatever you want. And then legalism, that you have to do these things in order to be saved. In verse 16, there's a conjunction that is actually linking what is said before To what we're now looking at in verse 16, where he says, this I say then. Some translations begin with the word but Whenever you see a conjunction like that, it should remind you, I need to go back and discover what's being said beforehand so that we can understand what he is speaking about now. So if we look back in verses 13 through 15, we see that walking in the Spirit is being contrasted with these two great spiritual pitfalls. The first is the sinful tendency to allow our freedom in Christ. To be an excuse for fleshly indulgence. I can do whatever I want because I'm saved by grace through faith. And the second is a fear that this liberty in Christ It might be abused, and so therefore we put up these external standards whereby someone can gain acceptance with God. He says in verse 13, for brethren, you have been called unto liberty. Only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another. For all the law is fulfilled in one word Even in this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. But if you bite and devour one another, take heed that you be not consumed one another. He says that the actual summation of the law is summarized in one word, and that word simply is love. That you're now under the law of love. The idea of license, it conveys the idea of grace which is abused, and legalism on the other side is a strict and sometimes even a hypocritical attempt to earn Salvation through the works of the flesh, through the obedience of the law, so that God is somehow going to grant salvation As regards a license, Jude talks about this in Jude verse 4. He says, For there are certain men crept in unawares who were before of old ordained to this condemnation. Ungodly men. Turning the grace of our God into liciviousness. What does that mean? It means that they had taken this freedom, the grace that they have we have in Christ Jesus, and they take it and they said, now we can do whatever we want. There are no There are no restraints. We can live however we desire because we are saved by grace, and so we can do whatever we want. But Jude says those who do that they deny the only Lord God and our Lord and Savior Jesus. Christ. Maybe not in words, but in actions they're denying the holy Savior that bought them. But both legalism and license are combated with the word of love. Love is the answer to both of these. Paul says in verse 13, use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another. If you turn over to Romans chapter 13, turning back in your Bible a little bit just to Romans chapter 13, there's some essential verses that really parallel what Paul is saying here in Galatians. The freedom that we have in Christ is not for selfishness, not to do what I want to do. But really it's for loving service. Isn't that not the example of what our Lord and Savior did when he came to this earth? Did he use his position to serve self? No, he says, I came not to serve Or not to be served, but to serve, and to give my life a ransom for many. In Romans chapter 13, in verses 8 through 10, he says, Owe no man anything but to love one another. For he that loves another has fulfilled the law. If you love another person, you are living in fulfillment of the law. True love is selflessly doing what is best. for the other person. For this thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness, thou shalt not covet. If there be any other commandment, it's briefly comprehended in this saying, namely Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Love works no ill to his neighbor. Therefore, love is the fulfilling of thy law. So the law of love is the spirit working in us, the spirit of Christ working in us to love as he loved, to serve as he served. Remember when we were beginning our series a couple of years back on um marriage in our Sunday school class That was we were starting off and just the simplest idea, if I could get one idea across about what what makes a good, happy marriage. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. And love your neighbor as yourself, and your nearest neighbor is the one you share a bed with. And so love that one. As yourself. And when you do that, there is a freedom. There is a beauty that comes in a marriage that is filled with a love for God. And then a love for the other person. Sometimes Christians make the mistake of thinking that to be free from legalism You must be free from any law whatsoever. You must be free from any restrictions whatsoever. But Paul says, don't use liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but use liberty as a launching pad. To serve. Serve in love. And in serving in love, you will not violate the commandments. We like to sing: free from the law, oh happy condition, Jesus has led and there is remission. But he's not saying free from obeying the law, he's saying free from the condemnation of the law, free from the guilt of the law, free from the curse of the law. We live in love and thereby we fulfill the law of Christ. We live as he did, and we fulfill that perfectly as we love. in obedience to the Spirit. He says here then, this I say then. Having said that, this I say then, walk in the Spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. So What is the flesh that Paul is speaking about here? What are these lusts of the flesh? What does the word flesh mean when he speaks about flesh here? The Bible uses it. In fact, Paul uses flesh in a variety of ways, but biblically there's there's at least three ways that the word flesh is. uh used in our New Testament. First it can refer to just the physical body that we have. Remember after Jesus came to the disciples, after he rose from the dead And the disciples were fearful. They're thinking, maybe he's a ghost. We're not really sure. He's a phantom. What is this that we're seeing? Jesus says in Luke 24, 39, he says, reach out, touch me. Feel my body. Grab my hands. He says, because a spirit has not flesh and bones as you see me have. He says, you can touch me. I have a real body. I have flesh. That's one way that the word flesh is used. Secondly, it can refer to a totally unredeemed person, someone who is lost. and does not know Christ as their Savior. Paul uses it this way in Romans chapter 7, describing his pre-conversion when he says, when we were in the flesh. Talking about a time when before knowing Christ, before he was born again, he was entirely under the control of the flesh. And he describes it that way as his pre-conversion experience when his His spirit had not been renewed, and he was living under the domination of the flesh. conversion The third way, and the way that Paul's using it here, refers to the unredeemed nature. Of a believer. And that this side of glory, that unredeemed nature, is not It is not able to be conformed to righteousness. It will never be righteous. Paul says this later on in Romans 7, speaking of him after salvation, he says, For I know that In me, that is in my flesh, dwells no good thing. No good thing in that unredeemed, wicked part of me, that sinful old man, I know there is nothing good. There dwells no good thing. For to will is present with me, but how to perform that which is good I find not. The flesh desires nothing good. Later in chapter eight of Romans, Paul says that The flesh is at war with God. It's at war with the Spirit, and it cannot please God. It says, because the carnal mind or the fleshly mind is at enmity against God, and it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can it be It can't be. For the believer, there is a part of you that cannot be subject to the law of God. So then they that are in the flesh cannot please God. The flesh is an active evil power that constantly seeks to assert itself. It seeks to dim our vision of the eternal. And to focus our attention on the now, on the temporal, on the things that we can see and touch and handle The flesh is concerned with the basic drives of life. It's not concerned with the heavenly realities, eternal things. It wants to focus on the here and the now. If you want to know what the works of the flesh are, we read them just a few moments ago, and they're they're not pretti. They're not good things. If you read in here, we were reading just a moment ago, it says that the works of the flesh are these, and they're manifest, they're obvious, it's not hard to figure out. Adultery. Fornication. Uncleanness. Speaking of just evil, wicked, perverse thoughts, actions, and ideas. That's such a perversion where you no longer you no longer blush about what you you've done wrong. It's just an open refusal to do what is right. Then there's idolatry and witchcraft and hatred, speaking of just contention that goes on And he adds more here, variants, where there's there is bitter fighting against people, emulations or jealousy, wrath. Where it's just an outburst of anger, strife, sedition, speaking of like a party nature and heresies where there's where there's cliques and there's people that are uh they're warring against one another. He said these things are of the flesh, envying, murders, drunkenness, reveling, partying, the loss of control. He says these are the the sins, the actions of the flesh. If you're a believer here this evening, you know the reality of the evil nature that lives inside you. of you. Maybe when I read that list, you're going, yeah, some of those things I I don't have any problem with some of them. I'm not worried about murdering, maybe. Maybe. But m you're saying some of those things I'm okay with. I don't have any any problem with. But then maybe as I read on further going, oh, jealousy, envy , stress I know something about those. Maybe reading about just uncleanness. You know something about that. The reality is that our flesh is not going to improve. It is not able to be rehabilitated. As long as you live on this earth, your flesh will be at battle with you. The flesh and the spirit are locked in a life and death struggle. The flesh and the spirit are diametrically opposed. to one another. Verse 17 says, the flesh lusts against the spirit, and the spirit lusts against the flesh. And that's a bit of a wooden translation. It doesn't clear clarify the idea, I think the best the idea of the word lust. It is simply the the common Greek word for lust, but it has the idea of a strong desire. Perhaps a better way to translate it would be to say something like this. The flesh sets its desire against the Spirit, and the Spirit, the Holy Spirit, sets its desire against the flesh. They are at war with one another. They are fighting each other. It's like two warring nations that are at enmity with one another. And it's a battle that is going on within the life of the believer. It's like there's no reconciling Nazi Germany and Britain. They're not going to be reconciled. They're at war with one another. Another way to think about it might be thinking of polarity of magnets. Just today, for a Father's Day gift, I got a couple basins that are magnetically charged so that when you're working on a car you can throw your screws in there and you don't lose them. Because that's one of the most frustrating things about working on a car is when you go look for the bolt that you took off and you know it was there. And somehow it's gone. And then you start looking around the house and trying to find where it is. But are these little magnetic bins that help keep your bolts all in one place? And the fun thing about it is when you take these two maybe north pole charged magnetics, you try to bring them together. They just don't want to go together. They will not agree. They are going to be opposed to each other. You might be able to force them together, and I did that for a little bit. I forced them together, but after as soon as they let go, boom. They were back apart again. Another idea is like water and fire. The two of those together don't coexist. Fire will either evaporate the water or water will quench the fire. They cannot peacefully coexist. And likewise, the Spirit of God living inside of you will not rest while the flesh is there. There is a war, there is a battle. So the main thing to learn from this verse is that the Christian experiences a war, a struggle. There is a fight that takes place within us. If you said to yourself when I was reading these, the lists of the flesh, of the works of the flesh, well I have some of that still in me, or I have a lot of that still in me. It doesn't necessarily mean that you're not a Christian. A Christian is not a person who experiences no bad desires. A Christian is a person who is at war with those desires by the power of the Spirit. Conflict in your soul is not all bad. In fact, in some ways, what would be worse than conflict in your soul is no conflict in your soul. If you don't have a war going on in you and you can live comfortably in your sin and the flesh has the whole castle, he's taken over, that's a problem. That's a very serious problem. Serenity in sin is death. There is no spiritual life there. But the spirit is He is inside of us, and he is doing battle with the flesh. So take heart. If your soul feels like a battlefield at times, that's not a bad thing. The sign of whether you are indwelt by the Spirit is not that you have no bad desires, but that you are at war with them. By the power of the Spirit, you are at war with those fleshly desires that are inside of you. He says at the end of verse 17. For the flesh lusts against the spirit, the spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary the one to the other, so that you cannot do the things that you would. Now that's a bit of a difficult phrase to understand. That last clause has been interpreted at least three different ways. The first is that because of the work of the Spirit in the believer, a believer who is being led by the Spirit, who's walking in the Spirit, who's being filled with the Spirit, cannot do the things that his flesh desires. The second idea of what this means is that it's speaking of that is the kind of the opposite of this. Because of the ceaseless energies of the fleshly nature in a believer's life. He cannot do the good, the spirit-led things that are the new man's desires. And that is true to a degree. That is true. The Apostle Paul describes this internal battle in Romans 7. 15. He says, For I do not understand my own actions. For the good that I would, I do not. You know that passage where he says, there's this battle. I mean sometimes I'm wanting to do good, and I find myself doing evil. And then it just doesn't make sense. He's describing an internal battle that I think every believer can say, yes, I've experienced that at times where I'm desiring to do good and then I find myself doing evil. That's one way that could be interpreted. The third way this is understood is that both the flesh and the spirit hinder the desires of each other. They are you're not they they're not able to have full control in the life of a believer. And there are valid ways of looking. I think all three of these interpretations have some degree of validity to them. And there are good, solid Bible students that adopt each of these interpretations. I think, however, though, as you follow the thrust of the passage , it leads us to adopt the first interpretation. But someone who is walking in the Spirit, when you walk in the Spirit, you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. You shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. The negative in that phrase is emphatic in the original. So that it can be translated: walk in the spirit, and you will not at all fulfill the lust of the flesh. You will not at all. So based on that, I think the idea that is being said here is when you are walking in the Spirit, when you are allowing the Spirit to have control of your life, you're walking in tandem with the Spirit, you will not at all. Walk in the flesh. You want to know how not to fulfill the lust of the flesh? You want to know how to overcome the sinful nature inside of you? Walk in the Spirit. Walk in the Spirit, and you shall not at all fulfill the lust of the flesh. The Christian life, he says here, is a journey. We walk in, or in the power of, or by the Spirit. So what does it mean to walk? In the Spirit. How do we do that? What does it look like? Well, walking by or in the power of the Spirit refers to a dependence. Upon the Holy Spirit. The idea is that the Christian is to walk in communion with and dependence upon the Spirit of God in his life. Walking by the Spirit means that the Holy Spirit is not the path in which you walk. But the power by which you walk. He is the power that enables you to walk. This past week I was reading an article in the news about a Dutchman who was paralyzed in a bicycle accident in 17 2011 while he was living in China. His name is Gert Jean Oscom. Bob, you can tell me if I said that right later. But he was told in 2011 that he would never walk again. His neck was broken, and he would never be able to walk again. But thanks to an implant in his brain that reads the brain waves and then wirelessly transmits them to his spinal cord, his muscles have begun to work again. And he's able to take halting steps. He's able to walk over a hundred feet recently. And they're believing that before long that'll improve and he'll be able to walk much more normally. I think it's a pretty good illustration for the Christian who is walking by the Spirit, in the power of the Spirit. Sin has severed us from the power to walk in holiness. In the flesh, we are not. We are like a paralyzed man. We cannot Please God. We are not able to, in the flesh, do that which pleases God. But through dependence upon the indwelling spirit, a child of God, a born-again Christian, can now have that communication restored. And the ability restored with his head. And he can communicate and walk in the power of the Spirit Christians are able to regain communication with their head Jesus Christ and walk in the power of Christ. And they receive the power to live holy lives. So walking by the Spirit requires a step-by-step obedience to the Holy Spirit. Walking, it's a good metaphor. for the Christian life. It speaks of progress. You can't you can't walk and not progress. Uh when we read or listen to the story about the the the gentleman who walked across the United States. He began in New York and it was just the journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step. It's a progress of walking. And when you're walking, you are making progress in your in your journey, wherever it is you're going. It's moving towards a destination. And so walking in the Spirit is moving towards a destination which is conformity to the image of Christ. The word for walk is is very similar word to what is used of Aristotle's students who were called peripatetics because they had the habit of following their teacher around They would follow him around, listen to his instruction, observe his life, and they were listening and discerning and following based upon their relationship with their teacher. And that is what a Christian is doing. We are to be listening to the word of the Spirit. We are to be following closely upon the Spirit's direction. We're to be discerning his will and following his guidance step by step. moment by moment, not just day by day, but literally moment by moment. Walking by the Spirit means that we're in agreement with the Spirit. Amos says, can two walk together? Except they be agreed. There can't be a walking with the spirit unless you are in agreement. Can you imagine the Holy Spirit saying, Do this? We say, no, I'm not doing that. Well, you can no longer be walking with the Spirit. If you're no longer in agreement with the Spirit, if you're refusing to do what the Spirit guides you to do, it involves a yielding, a continual yielding. To the spirit. The idea of of walking is when we take one step and we put all our weight on one foot, and all our weight on the next foot, all our weight. There's this constant shifting of weight from one leg to the next, one leg to the next. And the idea is that step by step in our lives as we live the Christian life, moment by moment we are shifting all of our weight To the Holy Spirit. We are yielding all of our obedience, all of our desire to the Holy Spirit. We're putting all of our weight on Him. You might say, In my flesh, I cannot. Forgive this person. Holy Spirit, I know you've called me to forgive. So I will depend upon you to forgive. And forgive and forgive again. And I will live out that forgiveness. We were talking about this in Sunday school this morning. Forgiveness is a decision, it's an event, but it's also a process. If you've ever been gravely hurt and had to forgive someone, it's not just done. It's a process of continuing to live out the promises of forgiveness. Moment by moment, day by day, maybe week, month, year by year, continuing to live out those promises. How is it done? It is done in dependence upon the Holy Spirit. I can't. My flesh recoils against forgiveness. But Holy Spirit, you can help me this moment to forgive. You might say, I don't have the patience. Holy Spirit, you will give me the patience. Lord, give me the patience. I need. You might say, I don't have the power to turn from pornography. But Holy Spirit, you do. And I am going to depend upon that power, your power, to enable me to turn from pornography. I am not going to yield to your prompting in my life. This moment, moment by moment, step by step, putting all of my weight upon the Holy Spirit and his power, letting him guide me John MacArthur wisely noted that the word walk implies step-by-step. He said, Are you accepting your responsibility to follow his leading one step at a time? Or are you waiting for the Spirit to hurl you into a quantum leap? Many people want others to solve their problems for them because of their lack of discipline and determination. That philosophy is not uncommon in Christian circles. Don't expect the Spirit to miraculously make you holy. Holiness is a joint effort. The Spirit leads, but you must follow. Step by step, following the promptings, the leading, the guiding of the Holy Spirit. I I I I I I confess I think what what MacArthur said here is very true. How often do I say, Lord, I just wish you would take all of these desires away from me? But what did the Bible say? What have we been told here? The flesh is the unredeemable part of our nature. It is going to be with us. So how do we how do we please God? Walking by the Spirit, moment by moment, step by step The flesh will always want evil. The spirit is at war with the flesh. So how do we walk by the spirit step by step? Well, first, we saturate our life daily with the Word of God. Remember the armor of God passage in Ephesians chapter 6. What is the word of God called? You 're gonna answer out. Sword of the Spirit. The sword of the Spirit. The Holy Spirit. It is the sword of the Spirit. So if we're walking by the Spirit, we need to have the sword of the Spirit in our lives. We also have some crucial information in the twin epistles of Ephesians and Colossians. Turn to me, Ephesians chapter 5. If you're in Galatians, just go over a little bit. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 18. He says, and be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. Now if you notice the next verses, I have these highlighted in my Bible. This is just helps me very quickly grab these things. Verse 19, speaking to yourselves in Psalms and Hymns. Speaking. 20. Giving, giving thanks always for all things unto God, the Father, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of the Lord. And then following that are relationships of submission. There are different types of relationships of submission. The way a wife submits to her husband is different than how a husband submits to his wife. He submits by yielding his life and giving his life for her. But he says, okay, husbands love or wives submit to your husbands, husbands love your wives. Chapter 6, children obey your parents, and then servants, chapter 6, 5, obey your masters. That is what it means to be filled with the Spirit. And being filled with the Spirit and walking with the Spirit are very, very similar. There are slight differences to it, but the idea in both of those is a yieldingness to the Holy Spirit in your life. Now look at Colossians. Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, chapter 3. Remember we had these relationships. Wives submitting, husbands loving, children obeying, servants obeying. Well, we're going to see those same things in Colossians chapter 3. In verse 18, it says, wives submit yourselves to your husbands. Verse 19, husbands love your wives. Verse 20 Children, obey your parents. Verse 22, servants obey in all things your masters. Now if you go back a little bit from that, verse 16. You'll see these same things teaching, singing, giving thanks. Oh, those are the same things that we saw in Ephesians. Oh. So there's a parallel. So what 's interesting there is verse 16 says, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. It doesn't say be filled with the Spirit. It says Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. These are the two parallels. These are parallel to each other. Being filled with the Spirit is letting the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. When you are filled with the Spirit, the word of Christ is dwelling in you. It is controlling you. It is guiding you. So we want to walk by the Spirit step by step. The first thing we need to do is we need to Daily saturate our lives with the Word of God. It is not possible to be filled with the Spirit, to walk by the Spirit, without a regular diet of the Word of God. It is not possible. The sword of the Spirit is the Word of God. Secondly, saturate your life first with the Word of God. Secondly, acknowledge your helplessness. This is the humility, the brokenness that brings us before the Lord. We are helpless to do good apart from the enablement of the Holy Spirit. Paul says in Romans 7. 18, I know that in me that is in my flesh dwells no good sin. Jesus said in John 15, 5, I am the vine, you are the branches. He that abides in me, and I in him, the same brings forth much fruit. What fruit? The fruit of the Spirit. For without me You can do nothing. In my flesh I can do nothing. So Lord, I confess I cannot do anything. I think sometimes Christians we get this backwards. We're like, okay, if I'm going to I'm if I'm going to live walk by the Spirit, then I need to get rid of all these things, and then I'll be able to walk by the Spirit He said, no, walk by the Spirit, and then these things will be cleared out of your life. Walk by the Spirit, and you will not fulfill the lust of the flesh. But in your flesh, you cannot get rid of the flesh. It is not possible. Thirdly, pray. Pray because we are Confessing our need for the Lord and His power to do it. Ezekiel thirty-six twenty-seven says that God put his spirit in us to cause us to walk in his statute. Pray that he does that in you by his almighty power. Many of you can testify to this, where the Lord has given you gracious victory over what was once a controlling sin in your life. By the power of God, through prayer, God delivers you from what was once a controlling sin. You will not gain victory apart from the power of the Spirit. It cannot be done in the flesh. So saturate your life with the Word of God. Acknowledge your helplessness. Pray. Seek God's face. Fast. Spend time on your knees. Lord, I need you. To help me do this. And I am depending upon your spirit. Your word says you will give this to me, and I am depending upon you. Next, reckon. The idea of trusting involves walking by faith. We must believe that since we have come under the power of the Holy Spirit, that sin doesn't have dominion over us. And Paul says in Romans chapter 6 that you're to reckon our we're to reckon ourselves dead to sin and alive unto God. What does that mean to reckon ourselves dead to sin? It means to believe that God has actually done this work. I'm going to believe what he said. I'm going to I'm going to trust him. I realize I can't do it on my own, but that he can, and he will. We simply count on it. The Spirit who made us alive when we were dead in our trespasses and sin, He has the power to make us holy. We have to believe as well that God's will is best. This is important in gaining this victory. Believing not only that He can, but we also need to believe that it is best. James 117 says, every good gift and every perfect gift is from above and comes down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variableness, neither shall be We have to truly believe that the God can, He will give us this victory, but we also have to believe in our hearts this is best. Although maybe my flesh is saying, no, that isn't best. No, the Spirit says it is, and every good gift is from above. And I'm going to trust the Lord. I'm going to act in faith upon what He has revealed in His Word. If we do not believe that His will is best, it is good, we will never follow it. But when we do, we will find the freedom to obey. Now, this next step is simply taking action Taking action. If we were to put that first, that would be walking in the flesh. It'd be dependence upon yourself. But after these steps of saturating your life with the word of God. God, acknowledging your own helplessness, your dependence, praying, trusting, acting now becomes a result of. Galatians 2. 20 says, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live. Yet not I, but Christ lives in me. In the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the face of the Son of God. Who loved me and gave himself for me. How does he live? By the power of the Spirit. He acts, He He works. But he does so in the power of the Spirit. Philippians 2. 12 says, Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God which worketh in you, both to will and to do of his good pleasure. There's a beautiful tandem, isn't it? I'm just gonna let the Spirit guide me. That's not what he's talking about It's not let go and let God He's saying, Once you have done all these things, now act in faith in dependence upon the Spirit. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you, both to will and to do of his God. Pleasure. And when we do that, when we take this step of faith, we act in obedience to his word. And we see the Lord guiding us step by step. Moment by moment along the journey of life, we need to be filled with thankfulness for God who has given the victory. You may reach a point in your life and you look back and like, I didn't know I could be free from that sin. How did that happen? Walking by the Spirit. Walking in the power of the Spirit. You've been freed from that sin. I had more, a little bit more for this evening, but we're going to stop right there for tonight. But truly the Christian life is lived in dependence upon the Holy Spirit. Apart from the power of the Holy Spirit, there is no victory. There is no spiritual growth. We must walk by the Spirit. Step by step, moment by moment. Let's pray. Father, we praise you. Your word is alive, it is powerful, it is what we need. We thank you, Lord, that although we are Desperately needy, and powerless in our own flesh, you have given us your Holy Spirit To dwell inside of us. God, the third member of the Trinity, living inside of us, enabling us To obey your word. Oh Lord, we thank you for this. We praise you for it. Help us today, help us this week to walk by the Spirit and to not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.