It's good to have you here, this beautiful Lord's Day that God has given to us. I want to speak to you tonight Topically, not from any one passage of Scripture, which of course is my normal method, but I want to seek to do my best to answer the question. of what is preaching. What is preaching The fact of the matter is there is a move in modern times, in the contemporary age in which we live, to move away from the traditional way that at least Protestants uh have worshipped uh now for many hundreds of years. There are uh many churches, as you may know, that uh uh no longer have a Sunday evening service and I don't want uh I'm not casting stones at them or heaping abuse upon them at all. A church can still be a sound ministry and not have a Sunday evening service. I want to be clear about that. I have many friends. uh who pastor churches that no longer have a Sunday evening service. They're Orthodox, sound, solid men, okay? Do not misunderstand me. But I heard a statistic of the day that only five percent of churches in America now have a Sunday evening service. So I guess we're in the 5%. And I'm glad that you're here tonight. Otherwise we wouldn't be having a service. Many preaching services, of course, have been uh eliminated. Uh some of them have been replaced with other things, some of them just not replaced at all. But we do have uh a great um uh fondness people today for group bible studies which I'm not saying is evil uh but certainly have a different purpose and a different flavor than does a preaching service. We have many sermons or the time that was previously given to sermons, now given to drama and music or to videos or even liturgical dancers. And there are many churches, many churches that would proclaim that they're evangelical churches, that is, that they preach the gospel. where the service, which would be one service, perhaps repeated several times on a Sunday, where the service is very much like a production. I've talked to various pastors. I talked to a man once who had a staff, this is a large church, of seven audio-visual workers. uh for every Sunday morning service. And they have to have this multi-hour rehearsal where they go through everything because it's a huge production. You've got all kinds of people coming on and going, and all kinds of lights and microphones and video clips, and there's so much going on that it really is Uh like a production, like producing a TV show or something. Uh there are large ministries where uh they put incredible amounts of time into crafting A show, as it were, and preaching is just a small part of that. I was in a pastor's meeting a number of years ago with Charlie Main. And uh he invited me to come to this and I I very much enjoyed it. There was some good preaching there, but uh after the meeting they invited uh any pastors that were there to come down for luncheon and they had a roundtable discussion and one of the pastors there, a man who had been in the ministry for many years, very boldly announced that preaching is no longer effective. He said, we live in the video generation where most people in our churches have been brought up watching TV and watching video clips. And so to expect them to attend to a man who's standing behind a pulpit and preaching is sheer nonsense. And in many churches today, the sermon has been cut down to about a 15-minute message. And that might not be so horrible. I'm not here trying to extol the virtues of the hour-long sermon. But in many cases, when it has been pared down to like 15 minutes, it really is not biblical exposition. It's not really gospel preaching. There's no mention of sin or hell or wrath or judgment. There's no exposition of scripture. There's no giving forth of authority of thus saith the Lord. I like to know what's out there, so I often will watch, not on a necessarily weekly basis, but occasionally I will watch. video messages from some of the more popular evangelical preachers in the world today who have quite a following, who write books, who are considered to be on the cutting edge. And one of the things that's very clear about them is that they have really moved away from any kind of proclamation so that the message is much more conversational. It's not some authority figure saying this is what God says. It's someone like talking over the back fence to their neighbor, just throwing out some solutions, some suggestions. Hey, you might want to try this. It might it might help in your family. And uh it's not threatening, it's not in your face, it's not confrontational. It's conversational. It's casual. And that is becoming more and more of the trend in evangelical churches So I want to talk to you about this a little bit this evening because I want to make sure that our thinking is clear and I'm not trying to To lift ourselves up or say we're so much better than everybody else because we're certainly not. There are many things we could do better. But I do want you to know that the way we do things is not just because we're stuck in a time warp. Or or because you know Pastor Lehman, he's just not really up to modern things and the way things are done today I do try to stay abreast of modern innovations and what's going on and the philosophy and thinking behind things like preaching and worship. But I think it's important for us to understand the reason why we do the things that we do. And one of the very important and central things that we do is the preaching of the word. So what is preaching? Let me talk very quickly about what it's not. Sometimes people confuse it with these things. It's not simply a religious talk, okay? That's not really biblical preaching. It's not simply the delivery of a prepared sermon. It's not someone preparing a sermon and delivering that sermon, that's what preaching is. It is not the Sunday morning speech of a clergyman. That's what many people might think it is. It's not simply the teaching of the Bible. The Bible includes teaching, but the Bible does make a distinction between teaching and preaching. It is not simply teaching the Bible loudly. Some people think that preaching is yelling. The difference between teaching and preaching is the decibel level. That is not true. It is not simply the elevation of moral truths. It's not simply spiritual oration. I want us to turn to, I want us to look at four essential components tonight of biblical preaching. All right, four elements. that are present there. And let me just say that this is, in a sense, uncomfortable for me to preach about because it might seem self-serving. It might seem like I'm lifting myself up because I am the preacher preaching to you about preaching. But every Christian should be very interested in preaching. Because as preaching goes, so goes the church. If you study church history, You will find that when the church has thrived, when the church has been moving forward and making progress and permeating society and people are being saved and revival has come. invariably there has been powerful preaching in those ages. But when the church has declined When it is falling apart , can always be traced to the fact that there has not been powerful preaching. The two always go hand in hand. God always revives his work. through preaching. And so it's important that we understand what preaching is. First of all, preaching is delivered by a man of God. The messenger does matter. Preaching is not just the dissemination of information. If it was just the dissemination of information, then it would be valid to say, listen. What's important in Scripture, what's important in the gospel is the message. How you deliver that message is irrelevant. And so Maybe we should think of preaching as just an outdated, outmoded way of presenting truth, and we need to realize we live in the 21st century, the technological age, and so we should abandon this notion of one person standing up and speaking to a large assembly of people. Now, the Bible says it does matter who delivers the sermon. It's true. Let me give these disclaimers. It is true that God can use anyone as a mouthpiece, okay? We read in the book of Numbers that God used a donkey to speak for him, okay? God can speak through a donkey. Okay? We read of a prophet for hire by the name of Balaam in that very account. He was hired by Balak, the king of Moab, to curse the children of Israel, but he couldn't do it. God wouldn't allow him. So God does on exceptional occasions speak through people who have no business preaching or giving out his word. In church history, we have examples of preachers who were not even converted, who were not even saved men, but who did proclaim the gospel, believe it or not, and people were saved. And later they came to Christ. An amazing thing. It is a reminder to us that the gospel is the power of God unto salvation. Alright? And so what we can't do is turn it around and say, well, you know, such and such a person got saved under this person's preaching, so it must be that God is saying that person is a valid preacher. No, you've got it turned around. The gospel is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth, and God can use The efforts of a person who is not a holy man, not a godly man, not living the way they should, I have heard in many cases And I hate to even mention this of preachers that involve involved in scandalous behavior and have been exposed, and yet there were people that were converted under their ministry even while they were living in sin. How do you ex Explain that. I explained that again because the gospel that they preached was true. God wasn't pleased, certainly, with their lifestyle. That's not what he wants. He says in 2 Timothy chapter 2. That he wants a preacher to be meat for the master's use. Fits. A vessel set apart. A holy vessel of God. So these are anomalies and exceptions and not the way that God normally works. I want to touch on a few controversial areas for a a moment as I define who it is that should do the preaching in a local church. The first one is the one that's perhaps distasteful to some, and that is that preaching is not for women. This may sound chauvinistic to you. This may you say, well, that's just the pastor's narrow-minded focus, or that's the way Baptists believe, or whatever. That's not the case. This is what the Bible teaches. And I want to show you this very briefly. Turn with me, please, to 1 Timothy chapter 2. 1 Timothy chapter 2. Verse eleven says, Let the women learn in silence with all subjection. But I suffer not a woman to teach nor to usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence. For Adam was first formed, then Eve, and Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived was in the transgression. Notwithstanding, she shall be safe and childbearing if they continue in faith and charity and holiness with sobriety. I don't have time to unpack what all of this means, especially verse 15. But what is clear here is that preaching is not for women. Now, if you were to read the commentary written by a person who uh does not hold to this view, they would say, well, you've got to understand Paul's writing in the first century. You know, they were chauvinistic times. They didn't understand the things the way we do today. And so we just need to view this as his own cultural view of things, but not really what God wants. The problem is that Paul bases his argument notice on creation That's not a cultural thing. That's biblical revelation. He bases it on the order of creation, going all the way back to the creation of Adam and Eve. So that explanation that this is just a cultural thing really does not hold water. If you look across to the very next chapter, chapter 3 and verse 2, you may never have thought of this before, but notice the qualifications. for a bishop, or we would say a pastor. He must be blameless. Verse 2, the husband of one wife, vigilant, sober, of good behavior, given to hospitality apt Notice the assumption is that it's a man. It doesn't say the husband of one wife or the wife of one husband. It doesn't read that way. And then if you'll turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 14 , Verses 34 and 35. This is in the context of this chapter, which deals with the matter of speaking in tongues and prophecy. And Paul here in the latter portion of this chapter is giving qualifications for those who would speak in tongues or prophesy in the church. And he says, let your women keep silence in the church. For it is not permitted unto them to speak, but they are commanded to be under obedience, as also saith the law. And if they will learn anything, let them ask their husbands at home, for it is a shame for a woman to speak in the church. So these words are pretty blunt, pretty plain, and it is the way that the church has, in very large part, understood the scriptures for 2,000 years. There have been little pockets of exception. By the way, the groups historically that have allowed women preachers have tended to be heretical, okay? So you shouldn't say, oh yeah, good Christian people. Not generally in church history has that been the case. It's really up until modern times with the feminist movement and so forth that there have been more churches that have allowed that. Now I want to be clear about this. The Bible is not saying That men are smarter than women, or better speakers than women, or more godly than women. Just as God has ordained man to be the leader in the home. He has also determined that men should be leaders in the church. It would be very difficult for a woman to be the pastor of a church, to be the leader in the church over hundreds of people. and be in submission to her husband, who's also a member of the church. You can see how that would be a problem. So this this is um this is not chauvinistic thinking. This is rooted in what scripture teaches. Also, let me secondly add, the pulpit is not a place for a new or untaught believer. In 1 Timothy 3. 6 Where we were just a moment ago, it says, not a novice. That is, you should not have someone who is a brand new believer standing behind the pulpit instructing the people of God. That is a dangerous thing to do. And this passage also tells us that the pulpit is not a place for a person with a poor testimony in the community. And 1 Timothy 3 and verse 7 it says, Moreover, he must have a good report of them which are without, lest he fall into reproach and snare of the devil. A man who is known as a womanizer cannot effectively preach on moral purity. I remember many years ago. When I was a freshman 30 years ago in college, uh our professor used this example of in the previous year there was a freshman student there and they had to give a speech on how to do something, a step-by-step process on how to do something. And this young man in the class submitted his topic and he wanted to give a speech on how To make certain that you showed up on time for everything, the importance of managing time. And the professor said to him, I'm sorry, you can't give a speech on that. And he said, why not? He says, because you've been late to class more than anyone else here. You have no credibility. How can you instruct people about something that everyone knows you struggle with? You have no credibility. The fact is the message cannot be separated from the messenger. Now, every preacher is very well aware of the fact that he falls short as a man of God, that he's not everything that he should be. That he uh fails to be everything that God has called him to be. But this matter of Who preaches it is important. One of the most famous definitions of preaching in the history of preaching was by a man named Philip Rokes who said, preaching is truth. Mediated through personality. Okay? It's not just truth, but it comes through a person. To preach the Word of God is a grave responsibility. It's not something that someone should take up as a hobby. It is not something to say, well yeah, I think I'll try that. That sounds like an interesting way to make a living. You know, preachers don't do very much work anyway. That's great. They give us admiration from people, it's wonderful. By the way, if that's your viewpoint, you won't be in the ministry for very long. A preacher should be like a tree and not a pipe. They both take in water, but one passes the water on without being changed. But a preacher needs to be like a tree where he first takes in the water. And he appropriates it for himself. And so there's a sense in which it's it's like an instrument where the the sound comes through the instrument, the message comes through the person. He's not just a communicator. He is part of the message. That's an astounding thing. That's a humbling thing. That's a fearful thing for me to say It takes a long time for a man to be able to effectively communicate the Word of God. I've said this to you before, but you know, I look back on when I first came here almost 15 years ago and some of the early sermons I preached and I read them today and I just cringe. I can't believe I said that. Not that it's false doctrine, not that it's evil or that I've changed my view of theology, but just the way it's put or the way it's applied or the way it's explained. is not very effective. And it in some cases it could be counterproductive for people. Sometimes people will ask me uh how long does it take you to prepare a message? And Uh sometimes I want to say something, well, you know, it takes about it's taken me about thirty years to prepare that message. Because that's how long I have been preparing to be a preacher. And it it really does come through not just The several hours that you give to studying the text, but through your life experiences and through how God has worked in your life and shaped and molded you with and your varied experiences and your counseling with people, all of those contributes to make the preacher who he is. And there's a sense, of course, in which it's not that difficult when you've done it for a while to prepare a message relatively speaking, although I do agonize over every one But the fact of the matter is what's much more difficult is preparing your heart to deliver the message, not just getting the words together. That's a lot more difficult. So preaching is delivered by a man of God. Number one. Number two, preaching comes from the Word of God. That is, if it's going to be biblical preaching, it must contain biblical instruction. The Greek word for teach is the dosco. We get our English word like didactic from that. Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 11, it talks about these gifted men in the church. Let me turn there for a second. You can join me there if you would like. Ephesians chapter 4. And verse 11, and he gave some apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors and teachers. I personally believe that the first two were foundational gifts. That are no longer operative. I don't think there's apostles and prophets roaming about on the planet right now. If I see a church and they say Apostle so-and-so is going to be here this Sunday, I'm not going to attend there. Because the Apostolic Age ended about 1900 years ago. But it describes What God has told me to do, and many scholars think this should be hyphenated as the pastor teacher at the end of verse 11. A pastor must be a teacher. If he's not an effective teacher, he should resign from his office because it's what God has called him to do. In 1 Timothy chapter 3, one of the qualifications of the bishop or the pastor is that he's apt to teach. That is, he is able. He has the capacity to explain the word of God. This is what God says. This is what it means. That's at the very core of what he has been called to do. This is very important. One of the reasons why the Christian community today is becoming more and more biblically illiterate. is because pastors have been putting in less and less of biblical content in their preaching. If you were to carefully analyze preaching and say how much of this is really the Word of God, how much of it is just Christian cliches or stories or illustrations or experiences or quotations. You might be amazed. You might realize that if you whittle all of it down, there's just a tiny little bit. A Bible in that sermon. Even though the preacher might talk about the Bible, he might talk about God, he might talk about Jesus, it's really not a biblical sermon. I don't mean to be technical here, but everything that a preacher says in a sermon can be divided up into three categories. Deal with men and men in an internship or or whatever when I went overseas to speak for Pastor Aaron to the pastors there, I went over this kind of basic information. All sermons are divided up into three types of material. There is explanation. That is where you're explaining what the Bible says, what the text says. Then there's illustration, which literally means to throw light on something, and that is answering the question, how does this truth work? in real life. And then there's application, and that is, how does this truth apply to me? Everything that a preacher says can fall into one of those categories. And a good sermon will have a balance of all three. Now, which of these three aspects, let me ask you, do people find most boring? Explanation, Illustration, Application Explanation. You got it right. That's what people find most boring. They they just just you know this word means this, and I want you to notice that this phrase is repeated three times in this chapter and I want you to notice the context of this. When I start going like this and I go more than just two or three minutes like that, I see I see head starting to nod like this and everything else. Now if I start telling a story about my little pet dog when I was a boy, everyone's paying rapt attention So guess what happens? Do you think that preachers know that? Do you think they figure that out after a while? They do. They do notice that right off the bat when they start preaching. Wait a minute. When I talk about what the Bible means and I get into those technical details, people are bored to tears. But when I tell them stories or things like that or get off on political issues, they really waken up and they're giving me all these amens and everything else. So guess what every preacher is tempted to do? He's tempted to pare down the explanation more and more and more and more until it virtually disappears. And then just fill it up with stories, with illustrations, with quotations, with cliches, with political comments. This is a great temptation. But this is not what God wants us to do because a biblical sermon is rooted, it's grounded in God's revelation, God's truths. And if a preacher is not saying this is what God has said, then he's not really preaching. He may be entertaining. He may be funny. He may be engaging. He may really hold you in rapt attention. There have been more than a few times that people said, Pastor, I want you to listen to this preacher. I want you to check this out on the internet. This guy's incredible. He's an incredible preacher. And I'll go and I'll watch it or I'll listen to it. And I'll say, you know, he is a very effective communicator. He is very entertaining. But there was no biblical substance to anything that he had to say. He did not expose God's truth for our eyes to see. He just was talking in an engaging way that was entertaining to people Sometimes I, and I I uh I do hear from people that uh you know the the preaching sometimes they find very boring and so forth, and sometimes I want to say to them, I could be more entertaining. I do know some jokes. I do have a good memory and I have a ready supply of stories up here. But the reason why I do not revert to those things is because that's not biblical preaching. That's not what God has called me to do. That's not what's going to change your life. Those stories, those funny anecdotes, those quotations, they may really interest you. You may walk out feeling better about yourself, but they are not going to change you or transform your life It's only God's truth that does that. And let me just say that if a person is truly preaching God's word, that means that they will be preaching a great deal about Christ and about how the gospel plays out in our lives. I know that there are wonderful principles in the Word of God. for doing certain things, like handling your finances or improving your marriage Or wisdom in making decisions in life. You can go on and on and on with that list. But you know what? The word of God was not written to give us The edge in life. It was not written so that we would have some better principles so we can live a superior life than our lost neighbors do. It was written to show us Christ. And the gospel, and the great message of redemption. And so when we when we dissect the word of God in that way through that lens. We have to be very careful that we're not distorting it because invariably what are you doing then? You are turning what is inherently a God-centered book, a book about God, into a book that's primarily about man. And it's not about man. Christ didn't come so that you would have a better family. That might be a byproduct of walking with Christ, but that's not why he came. He didn't come so that you can actually handle your finances better than your unsaved labor because you've got more discipline and you know these secrets of financial wealth that are found in scriptures That is not what the Bible is about. This is a book about God. This is a book about Christ. This is a book about the gospel. And thirdly, I want to submit to you that an essential component of preaching is that preaching must be empowered by the Spirit of God. Turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 2. This is a great text on preaching, and one that stirs my heart. Written by the Apostle Paul, he gets a little autobiographical here, 1 Corinthians chapter 2, verses 1 through 5. And I, brethren, when I came to you, came not with excellency of speech or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God. For I determine not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified. And I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling. And my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom. but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power, that your faith should not stand in wisdom of men, but in the power of God's When people heard Paul preach, they didn't say, what a gifted communicator. They didn't say that man's got some real stage presence. The way the words just roll off his tongue, that guy's incredible. That's not what people were thinking. They saw a man who was not impressive in human terms. They saw a man whose body had been scarred and broken and beaten throughout the ministry. I mentioned to you before that in 2 Corinthians 10 and verse 10, the opponents of Paul who questioned his apostolic credentials said that his bodily presence was weak. And that his speech was contemptible. I think it's probably a good thing that we don't have audio recordings from the New Testament era. You might be very disappointed in the way Paul sounded. Maybe he had a certain tonal quality to his voice that made it difficult to listen to. Some people have a voice that it's just grating on your ears. It's hard to listen to it because it's not effective in communicating truth. Perhaps he had a speech impediment. Some scholars conjecture that he did. It's not that this was an incredibly fluent man. But people knew that when this broken little man spoke, that it was the Spirit of God speaking through him. It wasn't because of his rabbinic training. It's because he walked with Christ and the Spirit of God was speaking through him. When Paul spoke, people sensed the presence of the Lord, and their hearts were pricked. They didn't leave saying, What a great preacher! So they left saying, what a great God. A preacher once asked the great London preacher Martin Lloyd Jones if he could tell when he was preaching in the power of the Spirit. And he replied, When you preach in the energy of the flesh, you feel exalted and lifted up. But when you preach in the power of the Spirit, you are filled with humble awe at the work of God's. One of the amazing things about preaching is you never know exactly what's going to happen. I can't tell you every preacher who's ever preached for any length of time can tell you and can testify to this. That sometimes when you preach your heart out and you think that you've been right on the mark and you've effectively communicated the scriptures, there's absolutely no fruit from it. Sometimes that's the case, and other times when you think you have completely failed and you've you have not uh powerfully or effectively communicated God's truth, that all of your efforts have been futile, yet God has used that that sermon to really speak to people. So I want to submit to you this is the only way to effectively preach the Word of God, and that is through the power of the Spirits. And that would mean that it needs to be preached with authority You ever thought about the fact that apart from this truth, preaching is an incredibly arrogant exercise. You have one man standing up telling a group of people what is truth and how they should live. That's one reason why people are moving away. They say, this is so old-fashioned. This is authoritarian. We live in a more egalitarian age where everyone sits down and everyone's opinions on the same level, on the same plane. No one has more knowledge than anyone else. That's the way it should be. That's much more compatible With the age and the culture in which we live. But the Bible says the word of God should be proclaimed with authority. The most common Greek word that's translated preach in your New Testament as the Greek word keruso. It was originally used to describe a man who was a herald, that is a man who gave an official proclam proclamation on behalf of a king. This is before the days of of electricity and the internet. And so if a king wanted to get a message out, what did he do? He had these men who had loud voices. And they would go into the town square and people would gather at the marketplace and he would stand up and he would say, I have a proclamation from the king to read. And he would unroll his and he would read that proclamation as loudly as he possibly could. And the hope was that that message would then be disseminated By the people in the marketplace to the villages and so forth, and that's how the word would come out. He was like a town crier that was here at the early days of our nation. It was not his message. It was the king's message. He had no right to alter it or to give his own personal opinion or to say, you know, I really don't think this is a very good idea. Well, this is what the king wants. No, he was to say exactly what the king said and no more. This is the word used of Christ in his proclamation in the synagogues This is the word used in 2 Corinthians 4-5, where Paul writes, we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus. This is the word used when Paul gave his dying exhortation to Timothy, preach the word. The word means to proclaim. It's also translated to speak boldly. Preaching is not a casual conversation. It is a declaration or a proclamation. When I get up here Sunday morning, it's not here to have a little chat with you. A preacher is not offering suggestions. He's declaring with a divine authority, not authority invested in himself. But in the word that he speaks, the word of God. You ever wondered why a sermon is a monologue, one person speaking? Why don't we just have a long question and answer session every Sunday morning? I've had people suggest that to me. Be much more effective. We would have give and take, and we could exchange ideas. I want to be clear about this. I'm not at all saying that there's never a time for question-answer. There's never a time to have that exchange That interaction back and forth that can be very valuable in certain situations. And some preachers do it much better than others at the end of sermons. But the scriptures do not speak or describe of preaching as a dialogue. They speak of it as a monologue. Why is that? Because dialogue weakens the authoritative nature of the sermon. And the way the prophets and the apostles And the army of preachers after them proclaimed the word of God with standing up and saying, this is what God says. When the herald went to the center of town, to the marketplace, he didn't have a discussion with people. He didn't, there wasn't give and take. And they didn't say, you know, can we modify that second phrase? That sounds a little too strong. Can we change that a little bit? No, there was no discussion. This is what God says And as ironic as it might sound, it's the authoritative preaching of the word that has been most blessed of God's. When people sense this is not so much the message of the preacher as it is the message of God that is being empowered by the Spirit of God I mentioned this morning George Whitfield and his cohort, John Wesley, and men like Jonathan Edwards and many others during the Great Awakening and the Second Great Awakening and the other revivals that have taken place in this land and abroad. They all had this in common. They were unusual authority and power in the preaching of the words. And then finally, this final element, preaching persuades people to change so that they become more like the Son of God. That might mean evangelism, or it might be Sanctification, a lecture informs, but a sermon should motivate you to change. It may be a change in your behavior or in your thinking or in your attitude. But preaching should open your eyes to God's truth in a way that you have not seen before. People preaching drives people to respond in faith to the Word of God. Have you ever thought about this? Every sermon that you hear, you either respond to it in faith or in unbelief. You either say, That is so, and I will obey what God has said, or you say, That's not so. I don't really believe that. This is why a sermon must be preached with a sense of earnestness. Richard Baxter called it blood earnestness, preaching as a dying man to dying men. Richard Baxter had many health problems, and so he always thought that every sermon he preached might be the last sermon he ever preached, and so he gave it his all. He left held nothing back because he may never be able to proclaim God's word again. This is why Martin Lord Jones described preaching as logic on fire. It should Stir your heart, not just stimulate your head. It should not just be entertaining or interesting to you, but it should start a fire in your heart. It should drive you to action. And as you surrender to the authority of God's word, you will become more and more like Christ. This was what the Apostle Paul was preaching for. In Colossians chapter 1, a great text on preaching, he says this. Whom we preach, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus, whereunto I also labor, striving according to his working, which worketh in me mightily. In Galatians chapter 4. In verse 19, he says this, my little children of whom I travail in birth again until Christ be formed in you. So let me put that all together. Preaching is a man of God teaching the Word of God by the Spirit of God so that people are becoming more and more like the Son of God. I don't mean in that sense, of course, that we are deities, but the process of sanctification. So what should be our response to this message? Let me give you this one application. We're going to sing in just a moment this hymn, Brethren, we have met to worship, and I love this verse, and it says. . . Will you pray with all your power while we try to preach the word? All is vain unless the Spirit of the Holy One comes down. Brethren, pray. And holy manna will be showered all around. Preachers are very aware of the fact that they can study and they can work and they can pray and they can get up and they can preach. But unless the Spirit of God moves through the words, it will accomplish absolutely nothing. And so one of the things that I implore you to do is every time we gather for worship to pray that God will send his Spirit and use the word Spurgeon, the great eloquent preacher that he was. It is said that every time he ascended the pulpit stairs to preach the word, he was whispering a prayer, and others could hear it. I believe in the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit, come and empower me to preach your words. He recognized that apart from the Holy Spirit, his work would be in vain. And so that's what I ask of you, that you would pray every Sunday when I stand up here, that the Word of God would empower me. By the Spirit of God to preach his word effectively. Let's close in prayer, Father.