Would you turn in your Bibles to Galatians chapter 5? I remember recently hearing about a missionary serving Overseas for a short period of time, about six months in a particular field, and he was under the auspices of a mission organization, and while he was in that country They provided him with a vehicle so that he could get around and do the ministry he needed to for that limited period of time. But the vehicle that he was given was had a small problem in that it was wouldn't start. And so he he determined, since it was uh a stick, that he could find a way to get it started. He'd call the the native kids in the community and say, hey, will you push me? and we'll I'll pop it into gear and you know I'll pop the clutch and and we can and I'll get started. And so for six months or so he would learn to park Downhill, or he would park near a school where he knew kids would be. He would park in such a way that he could he could make sure he could find a way to get his vehicle started. Don't do this with an automatic transmission, please. But if you have a standard, uh you could do that. I'm not sure how the modern cars work, but we did that numerous times in Tanzania when we had issues with our battery or whatnot. But After the end of six months, a new missionary was coming in to take his place and he was going to transfer the car over to him and he said, hey, I just want to let you know what I developed. Over these last six months, how I work this out. The car doesn't start. So, you know, if you're gonna come to us top of a hill like over here in such and such a place You want to make sure you're parking so you're facing downhill. Or you want to park near the school where the kids are so they can push you and you can pop the clutch and you can get going. And as he's talking and explaining this rather elaborate system that he developed with some degree of pride in what he'd accomplished, the new missionary pops the hood. Fiddles around with the battery cable and goes over and he starts the car. And he says, you know, the problem was your battery cable was loose the whole time. And I think that is is i probably kind of embarrassing to the uh the the veteran missionary leaving the field that for six months he'd been developing this elaborate system when all it could have been fixed in a matter of 30 seconds or so, tightening the battery cable. But how often do we as believers have the power of the Holy Spirit living within us? indwelling inside of us, and yet we we live and we act almost as if we're disconnected from that power. As if that power isn't alive and at work inside of us. And the Apostle Paul in the book of Galatians is encouraging the Galatian Christians to let the fruit of the Spirit, the power of the Spirit, to ad to work in their lives so that the fruit of the Spirit is demonstrated on a regular basis. We began this study on the fruit of the Spirit last Sunday evening. And we're going to continue on this morning and Lord willing over of the next uh few opportunities I have to preach on a Sunday But there's just so much here that we need to realize that the Spirit of God is dwelling inside of every believer. Maybe though, as we read this and we read this this morning, you had a number of questions that pop up into your mind. What does this mean? What are the fruit of the Spirit? How are they? How is it produced in my life? So that's some of the things that we'd like to look at this morning and begin to answer. First question is, what is The fruit of the Spirit. And how is the fruit of the Spirit produced in my life Now it it's interesting as we look at verse twenty-two where it says, but the fruit of the Spirit, and then the list of The ninefold aspect of the fruit of the Spirit is given love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. It starts off with the word but But the fruit of the Spirit is. So obviously when we see a conjunction like the word but, it's bringing us back to what was just read in what we just discussed in the previous verses, beginning in verses 19 through 21, there is the list of the works of the flesh. The works of the flesh that are typical, maybe not found in every single unregenerate person, maybe not found in the flesh in every single aspect, but that are typical of the unregenerate life. These are two contrasting powers. The flesh's power is a natural power. It works in tandem with the nature of the fallen man, where the spirit is supernatural. They bear two totally different outcomes. One is death and destruction and animosity, where the other is life and peace and joy and blessing. Blessing. The list of the works of the flesh are found here. And it's not a complete list. You may find things that aren't found in this list It's a representative list. As you look through the works of the flesh, there may be things here like, well, I don't see that in there. It's a representative list of things that are accomplished in the flesh through the selfishness of mankind. But it begins with a number of things that are what we describe sexual sins. And it's interesting that the sexual sins lead off the list. And sometimes they're the things that are the most obvious. The most rampant in uh in the lives of people, whatever culture, whatever time, this is an area that is very common. And he says, now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these. Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness. These are known as the works of the flesh. Of course, adultery is sexual relations with someone other than your spouse. A married person having sexual relations with someone other than their spouse. Fornication comes from the Greek word pornea, which we get the word pornography from. But it really Refers to sexual relationships with someone else before marriage. Sexual intercourse before marriage It's rampant in our culture. It's considered normal, but the Bible calls it a work of the flesh. It is sinful. Uncleanness. Uncleanness just speaks about perversion, dirtiness, filthiness. It can be perversion in talk. It can be perversion in thought. It can be perversion in actions. It's the general term of just a perverted lifestyle. And the word lasciviousness has the idea of flaunting that perversion. No longer do you blush, no longer do you feel the shame, you flaunt it, you live it openly. What would normally be done in private now is flaunted openly You brag about it, you speak openly about it. And maybe you say, why are we discussing this in church? Well, it would be foolish of me to think that in a body of believers like this that there are not those who are fallen in these areas. That are not struggling with these areas. These are the works of the flesh, unless you are lied to and deceived by the culture to say it's okay. We need to look what the Bible says here very clearly, that it is the work of the flesh. It is not the work of the spirit. It is sinful. It is contrary to the work of the Holy Spirit. The list of the works of the flesh include religious sin as well. Things like Idolatry is mentioned. Idolatry is worship of any God other than the one true God. Whether you bow down to an idol or not, it is worship of a God who is not the one true God. We see it in our culture growing the worship of the universe. Where we're saying that the universe is somehow deified, and the idea that I bow down and worship the universe Which is just creature, created, and not the creator. Witchcraft is also mentioned, And it's interesting that sorcery is also growing in connection with a lot of the idolatry that we see in our country. But the word witchcraft literally is the word pharmacea, which we get the word pharmacy and pharmaceuticals from. speaks of drug use as well. Oftentimes in ancient witchcraft, drugs would be used to induce a sort of supernatural feeling. And again we see this many religions incorporate drugs into their religious use. But also it is a gateway to the demonic. Drugs are the gateway to the demonic. Satan destroys through drugs. And it is part of the list of the flesh. The list of the works of the flesh include relational sins. You might say, I don't I'm doing pretty good in those areas, Pastor Aaron. Don't you don't need to worry about me. Well, maybe that is the case, maybe it's not the case. I don't know. But the next list of a group of this list I think it touches on areas where every one of us will struggle. Things like hatred, variance. Maybe the word variance is not a common English word today. The idea is quarreling. Arguing, contention. It comes from the Greek word for the goddess of strife and discord. I'm not sure why you'd have a goddess of strife and discord. But it is Eris is the goddess of strife and discord. How many relationships can be characterized by strife? Strife and discord. How many homes are characterized by strife and discord? Unless you say this is just normal, this is just the way it is. The Bible says it is the works. Of the flesh. Don't deceive yourself in saying it's normal. It is. It is a normal work of the flesh, but it is not characteristic of the spirit Emulations is a word for jealousy, a wrong desire, wanting for yourself what someone else has, seeing someone else receive something, and you say, I want that from them I wish I was the one who had that and not them. Wrath, speaking of outbursts of anger. You're quick-tempered. Quick-tempered means that you have The flesh controlling. Strife. Seditions. Seditions as the idea of clicks. Party spirit where us two no more us three no more you're not part of us Again, the idea of heresies is similar to that, envying the green-eyed monster which is upset at the success of others and likes to bring that person down to the rest of us. This so often is the case when we see someone who is promoted, someone who's given some blessing, we quickly attack them with our words and with our actions. We're gonna bring that person down. We're gonna drop them down a notch or two because I don't want them to be successful. What is that? It is a work of the flesh. It is not a work of the spirit. Murders. And you can murder someone with words. It 's interesting that it comes right after this idea of envying because so often that is where we do our murdering. We're afraid to go to jail. We don't wanna we don't wanna suffer. But we will attack someone and we will murder someone with our words and we'll murder them with our eyes and we'll murder them with our thoughts. Then the work includes lists of the flesh, which are, I would say, drunken sins, drunkenness. It says reveling, the idea of a party atmosphere, partying. This is a an issue that is controlling our country and our society. It is imp Impacting the church. If you go to the the liquor store in any town, you're gonna watch how many people come in and out of the liquor store on a daily basis. And how much drunkenness destroys in our culture, and the reveling, the partying atmosphere, all of these things are classified clearly in this passage as the works of the flesh. These works are contrary to the new life, the spirit life that is inside a believer. Unless we we try to make uh you know You know, excuses for ourselves. It is very clear what is being said here. He says these are contrary to they are they are in opposition to the work of the Holy Spirit in your life. And maybe when we read this list and as we've taken time to just look at it a little more closely just in a few minutes this morning, perhaps you'd say, my life is characterized by those things. Maybe you say, my life is characterized by immorality. My life is characterized by drunkenness. My life is characterized by envy or anger. Or partying. My life is characterized by those things. If that's the case, then I want you to look at what is said at the very end of verse 21. He says, it says here, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. He shall not inherit the kingdom of God. What does it mean to not inherit the kingdom of God? Now there are some who would say that a person who is a believer, who trusts in Christ, and is saved. can commit all these works of the flesh without any difficulty and continue to live a life of wicked, rampant sin, and they will not inherit the kingdom of God, but they still will be saved. They would make a distinction between those who inherit the kingdom of God and those who are citizens of the kingdom of God. You'll hear some some respected believers will make a a statement like that. Well, he won't inherit the kingdom of God, but he is still a citizen of the kingdom of God. And I believe that is that is absolutely contrary to what the scripture teaches. I would say that technically speaking that would be called bogus. Absolutely not true. If you look at Revelation chapter 21, look with me in your Bibles in Revelation chapter 21. in verse 8 where we see a similar list. A list, maybe not exactly the same as this, but a list that is similar to it. In fact, if we could start even in verse 7 of Revelation chapter 21. It says in verse 7 of Revelation 21, he that overcomes shall inherit all things. So notice here we're talking about an inheritance. Same idea of inheriting the kingdom of God, shall inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he shall be my son. But the fearful and unbelieving and the abominable and murderers and whoremongers and sorcerers and idolaters and all liars shall be citizens but not inherit the kingdom of God. Oh no, it doesn't say that. It says, shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. Interesting. It's pretty severe. It's not a a minor distinction. Those who overcome by faith inherit all things. They inherit the kingdom. They are called the sons of God. While the contrast is made with those who are characterized by immorality, by unbelief, by murder, by sorcery, by idolat idolatry, by lying. They're said to be those who do not inherit the kingdom. But rather are cast into lake which burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. Speaking of eternal damnation. After they die physically, they stand before the judgment of the Lord, and they are condemned and sent to eternity in the lake which burns with fire and brim. So this is not a minor thing. When we come back to Galatians chapter 5, and we think about the end of verse 21, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. So does this mean that anyone who is guilty of any of these sins that Paul describes here is going to hell? I think that's a question we have to ask ourselves. Certainly anyone who commits these sins deserves to go there Does the Bible not teach that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God? The wages of sin is death? But the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. It does teach that. However, it's important to remember that Paul has just told us, and this is where what we learned from last week is going to start to play into what we understand this morning. He's just told us that every Christian still has to contend with the flesh. Every person, every Christian still is living with the flesh, the unredeemable Nature, the fallen man. Romans 8. 7 says that the mind of the flesh is enmity against God, for it is not subject to the law of God. Neither indeed can be. So there is a part in the life of every believer. We mentioned this last week on Sunday evening. That inside of every believer there is this unredeemable part. This unrehabilitatable part of him that is always going to be loving the things of this world. That is striving after this. And that's why Paul mentions earlier in verse 16 that we are to walk in the Spirit and then we will not fulfill the lust of the flesh. for the flesh lusteth, or he desires, strongly desires against the spirit, and the spirit in the life of a believer strongly desires against the flesh. There is a war that is taking place within the life of every believer. The danger is if you claim to be a believer and there is no war. If there is no battle, if you do not see the struggle, then there is a problem. But in the life of every true believer, there is a struggle. If there is no struggle, it is because you have given in to the struggle, and maybe you're not actually a child of God. The key to understanding this is that the word is translated do. Maybe in your some of your translations it might be translated practice. It's not just that there is a one-time doing of something, but a general tendency towards a habitual continual practice of, not an occasional lapse. It refers to the habitual continual conduct in fleshly sins. Again, not a periodic lapse in sin. It describes a person who has no real struggle against the works of the flesh within him, no real desire to do the right thing. It is the pattern of his life, and he continues in that pattern without any internal struggle. If that is you this morning, if there is a continual habitual pattern of sin with no actual struggle, then the words of verse 21 should be something you should consider. That they which do such things, that continually, habitually practice these things, shall not inherit the kingdom of God. Shall not inherit the kingdom of God. It is very serious. Paul said that if you can habitually do these works of the flesh and not be bothered by them, do not deceive yourself. You're not a child of God. It doesn't matter if you made a profession of faith as a child, if you can habitually continue in them without any struggle. And don't deceive yourself. Jesus said that you shall know them by their fruit, speaking specifically here of false teachers, but that a good tree will bear good fruit. And a bad tree will bear bad fruit. Now, Paul is not saying a genuine believer will never fall back into the previous lifestyle for a period of time. First John makes that very clear that we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. But if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. But he is saying here that if a person is genuinely a new creation in Christ, they will exhibit a behavior which is genu generally oriented this direction, that he is oriented towards the work of the Spirit away from the fruits. or the works of the flesh. He is oriented towards that which is in is pleasing to his Lord. So if the works of the flesh are the natural product of the unregenerate, The fruit of the Spirit are the supernatural product. They're the supernatural product of the life of Christ in a believer. So if you're here this morning, you say, I feel like I am generally in the flow of my life is characterized. By a continual habitual pursuit of sin and it doesn't bother me, then I want to call you to repent and trust in Christ as your Savior. I want to call you to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ because He died to set you free. Not just from eternal damnation, but from the sins of this life. He died to set you free. And then you'll be able to sing like Abby did this morning, yet not I. But Christ in me. But if we are indeed born again, then the works, the supernatural fruit of the Spirit will take place in your life, maybe not perfectly. Absolutely not perfectly, in fact. But you will notice it. The ninefold fruit of the Spirit describes the essence of true Christian character. It's a description of the life of Christ. If you're to look at this, and when we look at each of these aspects of the fruit of the Spirit, we're going to see that Christ Perfectly fulfills them. Christ perfectly shows us what that looks like in the life of a human being And to some degree, every believer experiences the Holy Spirit producing this fruit in him. Every believer will, because it is the work of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit will do this work. Now it it may be significant that the word fruit is singular. You can't say, well, I have The fruit of love, but I don't have the fruit of joy. I have the fruit of peace, but not of long suffering. No, the fruit is singular. And we look at this a little bit further. Really, in essence, love encapsulates all of them. And so therefore every believer will have every aspect of of this to some degree in their life. It's more like a cluster than separate fruit. All the qualities are to be manifested in every believer. So the first and most important thing to understand about the fruit of the Spirit is that it can only be produced by the Holy Spirit inside of a believer. And the Holy Spirit only lives inside of someone who has been born again. If you're here this morning and you do not know Christ as your Savior, then you cannot hope to be exhibiting the fruit of the Spirit in your life. Not until you are born again, not until the Holy Spirit resides inside of you, lives inside of you, can you expect to have this fruit in your life. The Holy Spirit is the source of all practical holiness. Not only is he the source of of holiness in the in the sense of regeneration, but after regeneration, after a person is born again, his work is to make us holy. He is the Holy Spirit Before a person is born again, he is dead. And he is unable to produce the fruit of the Spirit. Just as a dead tree or a dead branch cannot produce fruit. So too, a spiritually dead person cannot produce the fruit of the Spirit. Ephesians chapter 2 says Paul mentions about us before salvation that we are dead. We were dead in our trespasses and sins. This is the reality of a person before they come to know Christ. If you're here this morning and you have never put your faith and trust in Christ, Spiritually, you are dead. Physically you may be alive, but spiritually you are dead. The Holy Spirit has not revived you, not regenerated you. He is not living inside of you and enabling you to live out this So if that is you, I call you again to turn, to repent of your sins, and to receive Christ, to receive that work of the Holy Spirit inside of you. Now, the amount of the fruit of the Spirit that you may exhibit in your life or produce in your life depends on your willingness to abide in Christ. One of the key passages to us understanding Galatians chapter 5 and this fruit of the Spirit is actually John chapter 15. Maybe if you write in your Bible, I'd encourage you just to put a cross-reference there to John chapter 15. And read that in tandem with Galatians chapter 5. But the desire of Christ, our Savior Is that every Christian produce much fruit? In fact, John 15, verse 8, he says, herein is my Father glorified, that you bear much fruit. so shall you be my disciples. So the the the Lord, our Lord says, my desire is for every Christian to glorify God the Father by producing not just fruit. But much fruit, an abundance of fruit in your life. And the way to do that, he says, is to be vitally connected to the vine. And the vine is Jesus Christ. In John 15, again, verses 4 and 5, Jesus says, Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself. Except it abide in the vine, no more can you except you abide in me. I am the vine, you are the branches. He that abides in me and I in him, the same brings forth much fruit. For without me, you can do nothing. So again, we see here, spiritual fruit, the work of the Spirit in our lives, cannot be produced just by pulling ourselves up by our bootstraps, by just working a little harder. It is the work of the Spirit inside of us. So you know, maybe you're asking yourself, we were talking about the fruit of the Spirit. Now you're talking about abiding in Christ. Which is it? Are we to be abiding in Christ, or is it the fruit of the Spirit? Is it the fruit of Christ in us, or is it the fruit of the Spirit in us? And the answer to that is yes. It is both. It is not an either or it is, it is both. In Romans 8, why don't we turn to Romans chapter 8 verses 9 and 10? Again, a key cross-reference to Galatians chapter 5, but we see this beautifully brought out. That when we abide in Christ, we are abiding in the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is dwelling in us and is producing this fruit in us. In Romans chapter 8. Viewed by many people as the most crucial chapter in the entire Bible, it says this, but you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If so be that the spirit of whom God dwell in you. Now, if any man have not the spirit of Christ, he is none of his. And if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin. But the Spirit is life. Because of righteousness. So notice we have three references to the Spirit in here. We have just the Spirit without any other uh clarification. Then we have the Spirit of God. Then we have the Spirit of Christ. All within these two verses. The Spirit is described as the Spirit of God and the Spirit of Christ. The relationship between Father, Son, and Holy Spirit is so close, it is so intimate, it is so indissoluble that it's impossible really to dishonor the Father without dishonoring the Son or the Holy Spirit. Similarly, it's impossible to abide in Christ without also abiding in the Holy Spirit. These things are intimately connected. Perhaps we could illustrate it this way: of a vine and sap. With a branch. When a branch is connected to the vine, it is the sap from the vine that then comes through into the branch that produces the fruit. Maybe we could say in some sense that when we abide in Christ, the Holy Spirit flows in us to produce the fruit of the Spirit. As we abide in Christ, the sap, the Holy Spirit then comes into our lives and enables us to produce this fruit. So, what does the Holy Spirit do to produce the fruit of the Spirit in the life of a believer? What does he do to produce this fruit in our lives? Well he does several things. One of them is the Holy Spirit exposes sin. The Holy Spirit works, you might say, negatively in exposing sin. Augustine said of the fruit of the Spirit, these spiritual fruit reign in one in whom sin does not reign. They reign in one in whom sin does not reign. That makes sense. We just saw in in the earlier verses in verse sixteen and verse seventeen of this chapter. that the flesh lusts or he desires against the spirit, and the spirit desires against the flesh. There is a warfare. And so where the spirit is reigning, by nature, it must be that the flesh is not reigning. And so the spirit reigns, the fruit of the spirit reign in one where sin does not reign. And it makes sense as well when we think the Holy Spirit does this in the life of an unbeliever. Jesus said in John 16, 8 that when the Holy Spirit would come after his death and after his resurrection and ascension, The Holy Spirit would reprove the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. This is the work of the Holy Spirit in the life of an unregenerate person, but it is not entirely different in the life of a believer either. Have you ever sat? Maybe you can remember the time if you're a believer here, the time you came to know Christ as your Savior. And you can remember being maybe under the preaching of the Word of God, or maybe someone was just privately sharing you the Word of God, and you felt this conviction, this guilt. over your sin, you're going, oh, I am so unworthy. I am deserving of judgment. I am deserving of damnation. Maybe you were convicted over your anger or your lies or your lusting or your adultery. Maybe you're convicted about homosexuality in your life or drunkenness. Maybe you were convicted about envy or jealousy. Maybe there was there was another sin that was that was dominating in your life, and you were convicted of this, that you were worthy of the judgment of God. What is that? That's the work of the Holy Spirit, through his word, bringing you to a place where you recognize your condemnation before God. God, so that you will turn to Christ to be saved. You will find Him to be the answer for your needs. After salvation, the Holy Spirit continues to convict you of sin. He continues to point you Point out to you, this is wrong. This is not pleasing to your Lord. This is in contradiction to your confession. This is in contradiction to the God whom you serve. This is not right. It is the work of the Holy Spirit. through the Word of God. It is His goal to make you holy. It is His goal to make you like Christ. That is His His whole purpose is to make you, to conform you to the image of Christ so that you will be like Him. As God desires you to be. We have been predestined by God as believers , as one pastor says, not to argue about predestination. But to be conformed to the image of his son. To be conformed to the image of his son. And that is what the Holy Spirit does. He convicts us of sin to conform us to the image of his son. But secondly, there's another work of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit reveals Christ to us. He reveals Christ to us. This is one of the Holy Spirit's primary delights. This is what he loves to do. John 16, 14, Jesus said that the Holy Spirit shall glorify me, for he shall receive of mine and show it unto you. He delights in revealing Christ to you and to me. Turn with me to Ephesians chapter 1. If you're in Galatians, it's probably just over one page, maybe two. In Ephesians chapter one, verses sixteen and seventeen He says that he ceases not, Paul mentions, I cease not to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers. That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of Him. That we, as we see Christ, we see the revelation of God in Christ, and we are we are transformed by the image of Christ. And for a believer, this is where what we delight to do is to see Christ. And it shows us. What he desires for us and what he wants to make us to be. If you were here on Wednesday evening, we've been studying the book of Isaiah. That's a little plug for the book of Isaiah. We've been enjoying that study. on Wednesday evening. But we looked at Isaiah chapter eleven, verse two, which is a prophecy about the coming Messiah. And that we're told that the Messiah the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him. That Christ in his earthly ministry will be filled and controlled by the the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of wisdom and understanding, the Spirit of counsel and might. the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord. And we we saw that the this last Wednesday that everything that Christ did in this earthly ministry was by the direction of and the empowerment of the Holy Spirit. Everything from his teaching and preaching to the miracles he did to his death on the cross and even his resurrection was done by the direction and empowerment of the Holy Spirit. John 3. 34 tells us that Jesus in his earthly ministry had the Holy Spirit without measure. And so one of the things that the Holy Spirit loves to do is to point us back to Christ. See? This is how he lived. This is how he defeated sin. This is how he showed patience. This is how he loved. Do as he did. Theodore X said that the fruit of the Spirit is the Holy Spirit producing Christ in us. He called the fruit of the Spirit a Christ-flavored fruit. Christ-flavored fruit. So the Holy Spirit is producing Christ in us. And that the truth is for a Christian, there is nothing so thrilling. There's nothing that so stimulates us to as to see Christ. And so when when we're dealing with one another, we're counseling one another, we're encouraging one another, people that are going through trials and difficulties, what should we do? How can we help them? Point them to Christ. Help them to think like Christ thought. Help them to see Christ and how He lived, how He walked, how He loved, how He forgave. So that they can do likewise. Beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. It says it's like we're looking at a mirror. We look at Christ. We see him. We're like, oh, I'm to be like that. I'm to forgive like that. Oh, okay. I want to forgive like that. We're being conformed. We're being changed by the Holy Spirit as we gaze upon Christ. in his forgiveness. Oh, I'm to be pure like he is pure, and then we are brought into conformity to the image of Christ as we gaze upon Christ Christ. When we see His forgiveness, we are transformed by the Spirit to forgive. When we see His patience, we're transformed by the Holy Spirit to be patient with one another. When we see his love or his purity, we're transformed by the Holy Spirit to be loving, to be pure. Because this is Christ's flavored fruit. So, what does the Holy Spirit use to produce this fruit in us? We said that he convicts us and he reveals Christ to us. But what does he do to produce this in us? How does he do it? What are some of the tools that the Holy Spirit uses in the producing of this? The Holy Spirit, first of all, uses the Word of God to produce The fruit of the Spirit. That's why we come to a church like this. That's why we sit here and we listen to a preacher expound the Word of God for 45 minutes, 50 minutes. Fifty-five minutes sometimes. Why? Because it is the word of God that the Holy Spirit uses to conform us to Christ, to produce us John 15, Jesus says, Now you are clean through the word which I have spoken to you. The word that Christ spoke did the saving. It is what brought us to repentance, but it is the word that continues to save us, it continues to sanctify us. It is the word of God that continues to transform us. In verses 7 and 8, he said, if you abide in me, and my words abide in you. Notice he says that. You abide in me. And my words abide in you. Now remember, we talked about this last week. We just made the analogy that He's divine, and the Holy Spirit is like a sap. We said that the sword of the Spirit is the word of God. Ah, so that analogy works. The Holy Spirit, through his word, is like the sap that produces the fruit. in our lives. If you abide in me, in my words in you, you shall ask what you will, and it shall be done unto you. Herein is my Father glorified. That you bear much fruit, so you shall be my disciples. Now, this verse is often just yanked entirely out of its context and saying, if you ask for whatever you want, it'll be given to you. What is he talking about? Is he talking about a new motorcycle? Nothing wrong with a new motorcycle. But is he talking about a new motorcycle? No, he's talking about the fruit of the Spirit. He's talking about holiness in your life. He's talking about conformity to Christ. This is what he's talking about. How often do you pray for the fruit of the Spirit to be more abundant in your life? How often do you pray for a raise? Compare those. Interesting. Do you labor in prayer for the fruit of the Spirit? Have you ever fasted and prayed that the fruit of the Spirit would be more evident in your life? The Lord would produce love in you for himself and for others. Did he give you greater patience? Kindness. Mercy. Is that ever a part of your prayer? Well, that's what Jesus is talking about when he gives us this freedom. And that's why in Romans 8. 26 it says, the Spirit helps our infirmities, for we know not what we should pray for as we ought. But the Spirit Himself makes intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. Why is that? I think sometimes because we are praying for the rays. And he says, No, that's not his biggest need, Lord. What he actually needs is to lose his job. Huh? Lord, what he actually needs is physical infirmities. Oh. The Spirit prays for us in ways that we may not pray for ourselves. Remember the words of the first psalm. Maybe you have them memorized. And if you do, praise the Lord, that's great. Blessed is the man that walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of the scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law He meditates day and night. And he shall be like what? A tree that's planted by the rivers of water, that brings forth his fruit in his season. His leaf also shall not wither, and whatever he does shall prosper. Prosper. Oh yes. Prosperity. That's what we want. In what way? In the fruit of the Spirit. being evident in our lives. Are you daily reading the Word of God? Is it your delight? Are you meditating on the Word of God? Can you say, my delight is to do Do your will. My delight is to know your word. My delight is to meditate on the word of God. Are you memorizing the word of God? We've been doing some memorization on Wednesday evenings. Plug again for Wednesday evening. Memorizing scripture. Are we m memorizing Scripture? Are you listening to the Word of God? Does the preaching of the Word of God come before every other priority? And again, I'm probably preaching to the choir here you might say. But does the preaching of the Word of God come before every other priority? Is it the priority of your life that when the church doors are open and the Word of God is being preached, as for me and my house, we will be here. We will hear the Word of God Or is it if we don't have anything else going on? Are you studying the Word of God? The Holy Spirit produces the fruit of the Spirit through the Word of God. Another thing that the Holy Spirit uses to produce the fruit of the Spirit, I touched on it already, it's affliction. He uses affliction in us. Remember, going back to John chapter 15 again, I am the true vine, and my father is the husbandman. Every branch in me that bears not fruit he takes away. And every branch that bears fruit, he purges it, or he prunes it, that it may bear more fruit. Hmm. This past year I had a nice little cherry tree in my property and it gave us almost enough cherries to make one apple or one cherry pie. Almost enough. We had to add a few other my wife had to add a few other uh things into it to make it sufficient for a pie. And so what did I do? Well it was it was good cherries. They were they were good. That's a little tree. I mean it's it's probably about that big right now. And so what did I do to it? I went out and I pruned it In the beginning of spring, end of winter, it pruned it. And if you were unfamiliar with pruning, you'd say, that was unnecessary. What do you have against this tree? Why would you be cutting off its branches? Well, what has this little tree done to you? Well, it produced fruit. But I want to produce more fruit. Well, why would you do that? Well, I don't want it to waste its vital sap on longer, less productive branches. I don't want it to have these suckers that are coming up from the the s the stump or from the the base. That are unproductive. So what I I do, I went and I cut all those off and I trimmed the branches so that all of its vital sap would be used in the production of cherries. And what happened this year? We got three cherry pies out of it. That was a pretty good pruning. I pruned it so it'd produce more fruit. You know the Lord does that with us as well. He prunes us, he's less concerned about the rays than we are. He's more concerned about the fruit of the Spirit. Than we are. And so he prunes us with sickness, with loss , economic difficulty, with trials Breaking maybe of friendships. Variety of trials come into our lives. And God is not angry with us. He says, every branch that bears fruit, he prunes. Why does he do that? Because he knows the greatest good is the fruit of the Spirit. He knows the greatest good is conformity to Christ. That's why he's saying Us to make us like Christ. And so He is working his purposes in us through these trials. Hebrews 12, 11 says, Now no chastening for the present seems to be joyous. True, but grievous. Nevertheless, afterward it yields the peaceable fruits of righteousness. Unto them which are exercised thereby. Every child who is spanked knows it's not joyous to be spanked. But why does the parent do it? So that they are Brought into discipline and they exercise the peaceable fruits of righteousness, they become conformed to truth and righteousness. Why does God punish us? Why does God prune us? Why does God chasten us? So that we will yield the peaceable fruits of righteousness. In our lives. Can you say with the psalmist, it is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn your statutes? Can you say, Lord, this trial that you brought in my life, it is good for me. Because I have seen you like I've never seen you before. And you have taken away some of the things that were crowding out my life and making me unproductive. And now I see your goodness. John Mason said, by affliction God separates the sin which he hates from the soul which he loves. Is that not a good quote? He separates the sin which he hates from the soul which he loves. And he does that by affliction. Spurgeon said, I for my part owe more, I think, to the anvil and to the hammer, to the fire, to the file, than to anything else. And I can testify that's true in my own life. It is through affliction, it is through the anvil and the hammer, the fire and the file, that God brings about growth in my life. The Holy Spirit also not only uses the word and affliction, but he also uses fellowship. Christian fellowship, the church, to bring about this fruit of the Spirit in us. The work of the Holy Spirit is twofold. We mentioned it briefly already that it is a mortification work, it is a killing off. of the the works of the flesh, but it's also a life-giving, a vivification work where He creates in us fruit. Love for that which is good. If we live in the Spirit, he says, let us also walk in the Spirit. John Calvin said the death of the flesh is the life of the Spirit. And so he does this twofold work. He kills the flesh and he gives life in us. And one of the ways the Holy Spirit does that in the life of a believer is through the body of believers, is through the fellowship of the church. The lead aspect of the ninefold fruit of the Spirit is love. And as we mentioned already, so we will examine them more in the future, there's a sense in which the rest of the other eight are actually Aspects of this love. They are all fulfilled in love. After all, just a few verses before this, Paul said that love is the fulfillment of the law But that being said, it's impossible to love others by yourself. it not? It's impossible to love the children of God when you're not around the children of God. Hebrews 10, 24 encourages the gathering of believers. Pastor preached on this recently. And he says, and let us consider one another to provoke unto love and good works. Well, how is that done? Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. Well, how do we provoke to love and good works? We have to meet together. We have to fellowship together. We have to join together. And in this body of believers, we provoke to love and good works. And I want to encourage you. Calvary is unique. And I've traveled to numerous churches as a missionary. Calvary is unique and one of the greatest fellowshipping churches I've ever experienced One of the things I love about Calvary is you can come here an hour after the service left out, left is over, and there will still be people here. And not one or two, but usually a bunch, and and Ron style can testify to that But that's good. And I want to encourage that more. If you're a believer that likes to just beeline it for the door after the service, I understand. Maybe you have to get to work. Maybe there's a problem. Maybe there's something that's demanding your attention. But you should desire The fellowship of believers, because it is in the fellowship of believers that we provoke to love and good works. Conversation shouldn't just be about the baseball game, not that it can't be about the baseball game. But it shouldn't be just about that. In the fellowship of the body of Christ, we are instructed to provoke each other to love. And love needs stimulation, it needs society. Faith and hope, you can practice that all by yourself. But you can't practice love by yourself. It requires others We also require speaking the truth in love. And one of the things about fellowship, Christian fellowship, is this reality of speaking the truth in love. Ephesians 4 says, but speaking the truth and love may grow up into him in all things which is the head, even Christ. from whom the whole body fitly joined together and compacted by that which every joint supplies, according to the effectual working and the measure of every part. Make the increase of the body under the edifying of itself in love. So the body grows, it is conformed to Christ, who is the head, as we meet together, as we speak truth to one another. We speak truth to one another in songs. That's why we sing here at church. It's not just because it passes the time, but we're singing to one another in love to build each other up. It's why we meet, because this is what the Holy Spirit does. It's very interesting that the very next verse of Galatians after the fruit of the Spirit passage is Galatians chapter 6. Verse 1. And it's not that it's an entirely new subject that's being discussed, but he says in Galatians chapter 6, Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, you which are Spiritual. Restore such as one in the spirit of meekness, considering yourself lest you also be tempted The fruit of the Spirit working in us says, I'm concerned for my brother, because he's not right with the Lord. So I'm going to admonish him, I'm going to encourage him, I'm going to rebuke him, maybe. But I'm trying to restore him in love because he's part of me and I'm part of him. And we are part of Christ. That's what the body does. Now we haven't even gotten into the fruit of the Spirit. I'm just simply going to read them and then I'm going to make a few points of of brief application The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering or patience, gentleness, goodness, faith, or you might say faithfulness Meekness, temperance, self-control. Against such there is no law. And they that are Christ's have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. In closing, I'd like to just make a few brief points of application. First, if you're here this morning and you do not know the Holy Spirit living inside of you, you can't say, yes, I have been born again Maybe you look at the works of the flesh and you say, that's characteristic of me. I am those things. I am not the fruit of the Spirit. But I'm calling you. I'm calling you to put your faith and trust in Christ, to believe in Him. The Bible says, break up the fallow ground of your heart in Jeremiah. What does that mean? It means To repent, to turn from your sins, to acknowledge that you are under the wrath of God and believe in Jesus Christ who alone can save you. James 1. 21 says that to lay aside all the filthiness and the rampant wickedness and receive with meekness the implanted word. Receive the word of God that you have heard this morning. Trust in Christ. Believe in Christ. He died for you. He rose again for you. He will give you new life through faith. Secondly, Christian, are you abiding in Christ daily? Does your life show that his law is your delight? Do you read the Word of God? Just start with that. Do you read the Word of God on a regular basis? In order to abide in His love, you must have His Word abiding in you. So you can abide in his commandments. His. Are you abiding in him? Are you meditating on his word? Or does it not even cross your mind I want to call you Christian to abide in Christ. You know, you can read this Bible through in a year without too much effort and time. Fifteen minutes a day? You could read through the Bible in a year. Not that much to ask, is it? We spend fifteen minutes on Facebook and Instagram and everything else. Do we spend fifteen minutes in the Word of God? daily basis. How are you responding to the Lord's pruning, thirdly? Have you Bristled at it, you hardened yourself against it, you gotten angry and yelled out to the Lord, Why me? Maybe it's because you produced fruit. And he wants more fruit. And so he is pruning you in love. Don't fight for pruning of the Lord. Receive it. And allow him to conform you to the image of Christ through the trials that he brings into your life. And lastly, I want to encourage you: are you making the most of Christian fellowship? Are you regularly in attendance at the worship services of this church? Are you beelining it out the door afterwards? encourage you to. Takes work, takes time, takes effort, make friendships, make relationships. It's not gonna happen like that. But some things are worth it. And the fruit of the Spirit is worth it. And one of the things he uses is the fellowship of believers. Are you provoking and being provoked to love and good works through the fellowship of the body of Christ? There is probably no better church for that to happen at and I mean this honestly than this church. Having traveled to dozens of churches, dozens of good churches, I don't know that I've seen a church Church that's better at it than this assembly. And I want to commend you for that. But maybe you're not involved in that, maybe you're not participating in that, maybe you're not receiving that ministry. I want to encourage you to receive And that means placing yourself in that fellowship to receive that ministry of the Spirit in your life. Let's pray. Our Father and our God, we praise you that you are sovereign and you are good, and your goodness exceeds our understanding. Your goodness is greater than our wisdom. Lord, we rejoice in the work you are doing. We thank you that you have loved us with an everlasting love that involves even sufferings and trials that you bring into our lives. Thank you that you have given us your Holy Spirit, who dwells in us, to conform us to the image of Christ. Would you continue that way work in us. And Lord, I pray for some who may be here this morning without a knowledge of Christ, without the Holy Spirit living inside of them. Lord, I pray that you would draw them. To the Savior today. Convict them of sin through your Holy Spirit and through your word. Remind them of judgment. And may they see Christ in his beauty and the meaning of his sacrifice like never before. I ask this in the name of Jesus, our Savior. Amen.