If you have your Bibles, please would you join me in John chapter 4? We began this chapter last week, and we continue now with a conversation that Jesus has With this woman. I once read the story of a missionary who brought some indigenous people from the mission field to his home country in Europe. They were amazed at the technological advances that were unknown in their country. Modern buildings and roads and automobiles. The missionary went out to buy some food. He left them in the hotel. And when he came back, he found them working diligently trying to take the faucet off of the sink. Because in their estimation, this was the most valuable thing they had seen in the modern world. They had lived in an arid climate where clean water was a scarce commodity. And the idea of having fresh, clean drinking water in your house was just mind-boggling. They thought the faucet was somehow magical. And if they could take that faucet off the sink and hide it in their luggage, they could take it back home and it would provide endless supplies of clean water Now we know that's foolishness. It doesn't work that way. But that's that was their perspective. It is difficult for us to grasp what a tremendous advantage it is to have fresh water always available to us. Throughout much of human history and still in many places in the world, this is not the case We as human beings are primarily made of water, and so we need water to live. We can only survive a few days without water before we die. And so God has given us a mechanism so that we can remember to drink. It's an unpleasant feeling called thirst. Now I suspect in a very true sense probably very few, if any of us here have really experienced thirst. We seem to be consumed with hydration. We have water bottles with us everywhere I bet that if I came to your home, I would find all manner of utensils for holding water. And perhaps you have some with you today. That's fine. I'm not going to call you out. But we we are obsessed with hydration. But imagine if you lived in a community where you had to travel several miles to find fresh water. And it had to be, of course, replenished every day. And those in arid climates often find water sources that are not so fresh and not so clean that can prove to be very dangerous and deadly. And those who get caught unawares without ample supply out in the wilderness without water can experience the profound desire for water that's called thirst. I'm told that it can produce some of the most painful desires that a human body can experience. And so it's not surprising that the Bible uses the imagery of water and thirst throughout its pages. And of course, the Bible was written from a culture and a place. where water was more scarce, where there was less rainfall than what we have here in Carroll County. Today, as we continue our study of the Gospel of John, we're examining our Lord's conversation with the woman at the well. Jesus is traveling back to his home country of Galilee, and he intentionally passes through Samaria to evangelize a woman who was an outcast in her own community. Jesus sends his disciples into the village to purchase food so that he could speak to this woman without interruption. Last week I mentioned that there were three cultural taboos that Jesus broke in this meeting. First of all, Jesus was speaking to a woman. Most Jewish men would not speak to a woman in public The Bible does not forbid this, but it became in their culture the proper thing to avoid. And you can see the disciples felt this way because in chapter 4 and verse 27, as they returned, they marveled that it says that he was talking with the woman, but no one said, What do you seek, or what are you talking with her? They were surprised, but they were not courageous enough to ask him what he was doing. And then the other taboo, of course, was that she was a Samaritan. Last week I spent a fair amount of time explaining the history of the Samaritans. I'm not going to repeat myself, but let me just summarize by saying the Samaritans were Jews who had intermarried with Gentiles. and established their own brand of religion that was like Judaism but was also significantly different. They only believed in the Pentateuch, the first five books of the Bible. And they believed that they were the true people of God, and the Jews were the people who had false teachings. And so they had their own priesthood and their own temple. And over the centuries, both Jews and Gentiles had attacked each other, and there was great animosity between them. But Jesus, a Jew, takes the gospel to the Samaritans. But there's a third taboo that Jesus breaks here, and that is he doesn't just talk to a woman and a Samaritan woman, but an immoral Samaritan woman. And Jesus knew this because in chapter 4, verses 16 through 18, this is clearly what he brings out as he confronts her about her sin. Jesus did not sin, but he smashed cultural sensitivities because he came to seek and to save that which was lost. Now the first half of this conversation centers around the meaning of the term living water. Now on a literal on a literal level, we know what living water is. It is flowing water. It is spring water. It is the opposite of stagnant water. But what does Jesus mean by living water? What is the spiritual meaning of this? This is where Jesus begins his conversation with this woman at the well. He uses What she is going to get there as an illustration of something much more profound. So I want to preach you this morning on what is this living water? The first thing I want to say is this living water is a gift from God offered by Christ to sinners. Look with me at verses 7 and 8. A woman from Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink, for his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. This conversation begins with Jesus making a simple request. Give me a drink. But this was monumental. Not only was he breaking societal taboos. But if I can put it this way, he was acknowledging her existence, something she never expected. I feel certain that the Samaritan woman would have never spoken to Jesus. if he had not first spoken to her. Just like no one truly seeks the Lord without the Lord first seeking them. Now note her reply in verse nine. And the Samaritan woman said to him, How is it that you, a Jew, asked for a drink from me, a Samaritan woman? Now you might wonder, how did she know that Jesus was a Jew? Undoubtedly it was because of his dress. Samaritans and Jews dressed very differently. And she recognized instantly when she saw Jesus that he was a Jew. Now, why was she surprised that Jesus would ask a drink from her? I mean, they're at a well. Well, the answer is that Jews never ask for help from Samaritans. When the Jews returned from the Babylonian exile to rebuild the temple, the Samaritans came and offered to help them rebuild, and the Jews said, No, thank you. In fact, they didn't even have the most polite answer to that. You can read about that in Ezra chapter 4. It was a painful snub that the Samaritans never forgot. And so when Jesus asked the Samaritan woman for a drink, it surprised her in several ways. It was unusual that he even spoke to her, but to ask her for a drink was very different. So why did Jesus ask her for a drink? Let's think about this for a moment. He could have had his disciples get some water for him from the well when they were there earlier. And indeed, he did have true thirst, but his request acknowledged her humanity and her inherent dignity as a person made in the image of God. Christians throughout the centuries have struggled with this. Because we are perhaps disgusted at the sinful lifestyle of some people that we see We think that somehow we do not need to show them any dignity or any politeness or any courtesy at all. Because they're under the judgment of God and because their values are different from our values. But we see that Jesus does not adopt that kind of perspective. When he deals with her. Every human being that you meet has been made in the image of God. And no matter how much that image has been debased It is still there. And therefore, we should treat them with proper respect. Jesus is also demonstrating to her that he did not share the typical Jewish hatred for a Samaritan. I mentioned last week that the Jews regarded his drinking from a Samaritan vessel as ritually defiling, but Jesus didn't share this man-made perspective. His request was a gracious act like when he touched the leper. But quickly Jesus transitions from asking for a drink to offering her a drink. Look with me at verse 10. Jesus answered her, if you knew the gift of God and who it is that is saying to you, give me a drink, you would have asked and he would have given you living water. What's an intriguing statement. What kind of drink was Jesus offering to this woman? I want to mention five characteristics of this drink. Number one, it was a gift of God. The emphasis here is he wasn't trying to sell her something. It was a gift. It was gracious. It was free. And notice it's a gift that comes from God's. He acknowledges that this gift is ultimately something that God has provided. And thirdly, the person that is himself who is giving this gift is significance. He says, if you knew who it is that is saying to you, this would certainly pique her curiosity. Who is this man? Who is this unusual Jewish man that is speaking to me? And she begins to think. And notice that this drink was available for the asking He would ask if she would ask, he would give her this water. It's not something she had to earn or pay for. It was free for the asking. And number five, this drink is described as living water. It's not stagnant warm water like you would find in a cistern, but cold, refreshing spring water that comes out of the mountain. This is the gift that Jesus is offering to this notoriously sinful woman. This gift, if you haven't grasped it yet, is salvation. It's eternal life. We find imagery of living water often in the Old Testament. Psalm 36 in verse 9 says, For with you that is with God is a fountain of life. Isaiah chapter 12 and verse 3 says, With joy you will draw water from the wells of salvation. But certainly the most significant passage is found in Isaiah chapter 55. The picture here is of a vendor out with a little booth, and he has different types of beverages that people can drink, and as travelers came by, he would call out to them. Come, come everyone who thirst. Come to the waters. He who has no money, come buy and eat, come buy wine and milk without money and without price, why do you spend your money for that which is not bread and your labor for that which does not satisfy? Listen diligent to me and eat what is good, and delight yourself in rich food. Incline your ear and come to me, here that your soul may live, and I will make with you an everlasting covenant, my steadfast sure love for David. This is the offer of salvation. This living water is a gift from God offered by Christ. To sinners. That brings us to our second point. This living water is superior To the water that Jacob provided for his people. Look with me now, please, at verses 11 and 12. The woman said to him, Sir , You have nothing to draw water with, and the well is deep. Where do you get that living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob? He gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did his sons and his livestock. This woman here is responding to Jesus' offer to give her a drink. And she says basically, you don't have anything to draw this water out of. You're offering me water. How are you going to get that water? You don't have a bucket with a rope attached to it like a person would use to get water. You certainly can't climb down that well and get the water with your hands because it's very deep. You can visit this well today, and it's right at about a hundred feet deep. And it was certainly deeper in the time of Christ. In fact, there's credible evidence in the literature that it was known as the deepest well in Israel. Now for us today, a well that's a hundred foot deep is not a big deal. Perhaps many of you have wells at your home that are deeper than that. But let me remind you that this was hand-dug They did not have the machinery that we do today. So if this living water that this man is talking about doesn't come from this well Where does it come from? And perhaps she begins to think, is this man claiming to be able to perform a miracle? Now look with me at what she says in verse twelve. We see a little bit of party spirit coming in here Because she's starting to think that maybe he's starting to say, you know, us Jews are better than you Samaritans. And so she starts to become a little defensive. And so she says, Are you greater than our father Jacob? He gave us the well and drank from it himself as did his sons and his livestock. Now we do not read in the Old Testament that Jacob dug this well. What she is saying reflects Samaritan tradition, but it is certainly possible. Now the question that she asked Jesus in verse 12 grammatically expects a negative answer. Notice in verse 12 what she says, are you greater than our father Jacob? She's expecting the answer, of course, is no. It could be rendered like this, you certainly aren't greater than our father Jacob. It seems that Samaritan tradition claimed that all Samaritans were descendants of Jacob through Joseph. They kind of claimed him as their patriarchs. The Jews claimed Abraham. We're going to claim Jacob. And notice She backs up her claim that he could not be greater than Jacob with three arguments. She says, he gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did his sons and his livestock. Number one, Jacob was a patriarch. And I don't think you're a patriarch, she's saying to him. He dug this well and drank from this well. What does she mean by that? She's saying this well is sacred I mean, not only did this great man of God dig this well, but he drank from this well that must make this water sacred. In fact, there's some suggestion that scholars have made that the village that she lived in there were springs and wells that were there that were closer, but maybe she traveled out further to this well, perhaps to avoid the other women, but perhaps also because It was taught that this water had some special spiritual benefit, that it was sacred. We are familiar with holy water rites. Perhaps that was what she thought of the water of this well because Jacob dug it and he drank from it. It's sacred. And third, the third argument she provides, it's also long-lasting and abundant. She's saying this well has provided water for countless people and numerous livestock for over a thousand years. So she feels confident that she has just demonstrated That this well and the water in that well is far superior to anything that Jesus could offer her But this what this woman doesn't know is that one greater than Jacob is right in front of her. In fact, I believe that Jacob wrestled with the preincarnate manifestation of Christ in Genesis 32, and we read that the angel of the Lord prevails. And in the last verse of John chapter 1, we have a reference to Jacob's vision that he had the night when he ran away from home. And in that vision, Jacob saw a ladder that would stretch from earth to to heaven. And the angels of God were going up and down on that ladder. And what John makes claim in that last verse of that first chapter is that Jesus is that ladder to God, the only way to God. And so he is far greater than Jacob the Patriarch, as she will soon realize. The living water that Jesus is offering here is far superior. to the water that Jacob provided for his people. And that brings us to our third point. This living water is the only thing that will satisfy one's soul eternally. And now we really come to a point the major point of climax in this conversation, at least in this first half of this conversation. Look with me at verse 13. Jesus said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again. That is the water from Jacob's well. Whatever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water Welling up to eternal life. This woman has just laid down some arguments to show that this water is far superior than anything he could provide. And now Jesus is going to counter those arguments. He says, everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again. The fact that this woman was coming to this well was proof of that. Undoubtedly, she had come the day before, but that water did not quench her thirst, and so she must come again. But this was not just true of this woman, this is true of everyone who drinks this water. And I believe in this symbolic way that Jesus is demonstrating the inferiority of both the Samaritan religion and Judaism. They both were built around the law and ceremonies and traditions and sacrifices that had to be repeated again and again, just like a person must drink of this water again and again. But the living water that Jesus was offering was very different. It permanently satisfied a person. In John chapter 1 and verse 17 we read, The law was given through Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. And then we come to verse 14, which is one of the most significant verses in this chapter and certainly in this conversation. It's the key verse. in our text this morning. We have this incredible promise that we find many of in the Gospel of John Notice what it says, but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. I want you first of all to notice the open-ended invitation here. We have the word whoever. This is open to everyone. even an immoral Samaritan woman. This is something that John emphasizes in his gospel and John 315 he writes, whoever believes in him may have eternal life. And three sixteen, whoever believes in him should not perish. And three eighteen, whoever believes in him is not condemned. And three thirty-six, whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. But there is one inherent condition in this What is it that a person must be in order to drink of this water? They must be thirsty They must recognize their need. They must understand that they need this water. They must understand that they are sinner who desperately needs God's forgiveness. And if they do not drink of this water, they will perish. Now look with me back at John 4. 14. Whoever drinks of this water that I will give him will never thirst again. I want you to notice that it's Jesus who offers this life-giving water. Whoever drinks of this water that I will give him. That 's the only place you can get this water is through Jesus. He is the way, the truth, and the life. In the Greek text, this permanent satisfaction is emphatic. There's a double negative in the Greek text. In English, when we use two negatives in a statement, it makes it a positive It's not like that in Greek. It magnifies the negativity of it. So you could render it this way, the person who drinks this water will never ever be thirsty again. But how can that be? How can it be that they will never be thirsty again? Well, the last phrase in verse 14 answers this question. The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. The water that Jesus provides for his people is not like the stagnant water in some container. or even like the water in that well. No, it's life-giving fresh cold water from a mountain spring. And the idea is that it continually bubbles up within that person. And the water from this flowing spring will never get stale or dirty, and it will never run dry. But what does this symbolism mean? Well, there's an important cross-reference for us to consider within this Gospel of John. Turn with me ahead to John chapter 7, please. John chapter seven, verses thirty-seven through thirty-nine. Attempted to say many things about the sex, but we'll come to it in time John 7. 37, on the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up and cried, that is, he lifted up his voice If anyone thirst, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. And then John's explanation, verse 39. Now this he said about the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to receive, for as yet the Spirit had not been given, because Jesus was not yet glorified, a reference to the day of Pentecost. So how is it that New Testament believers have a fountain of living water bubbling up inside of us. It is that we are permanently endwelt by the Spirit of God. And we are sealed by the Spirit until the day of redemption. This is an amazing truth. Those who believe in Christ are indwelt by the Spirit, and the Spirit will continually replenish and refresh their spiritual life. Now turn back with me please to John 4. 15 The last verse in this first part of their conversation, we have the woman's response to this incredible promise She says, Sir, give me this water so that I will not be thirsty or have to come here to draw water. Now there's some debate among scholars about how we should take this. Did she say this sarcastically? Did she say this playfully? Was she really as dense, if I can put it that way, to not understand that Jesus was speaking symbolically, and she just wants some water that she can drink once and never have to make this trip to the well again? It's hard to say. What we do know is that she was intrigued by this offer and interested in what this man would say. He has her full attention. She can't figure out who this man is, but he's different from any man she's ever met. And he's going to continue to draw her to himself. in the next paragraph. But what we see here in her response is the response that every lost sinner should have to our Lord's promise in this phrase, give me this water. Give me this water, that water that will satisfy the thirst of my soul, that will well up, bubble up within me. So let me ask you, have you ever come to Jesus thirsty and dying? And have you tasted the life-giving water that He offers? If you do, he promises that he will give you that water. I want to conclude now with just a few points of application. The first point I want to make is this is that while it is true that we are satisfied with the water of eternal life. And we know as believers that we have a relationship with God. This doesn't mean that we never come to God again. Because throughout the scriptures, I'm thinking especially of those various psalms. It talks about as the deer panteth for the waters, so panteth my soul after you, O Lord. There's a sense and a spiritual sense that once we have drunk of this water, this living water, we come back for more and more, not that it will save us, but because we want to know the Lord's. And so we must continually come to Him, not to remain saved, not to get saved again and again But because the more we enjoy the presence of the Lord, the more we want the presence of the Lord We continually come to Him. And so I ask you, Christian friend, do you still have a thirst for the Lord, a thirst for His presence? A thirst for his refreshing word. The next point I want to make is this, Christians Should be the most satisfied and contented people in the world. We should be the most satisfied and contented people in the worlds. Because we have received this life-giving water, the gift of eternal life. And our Lord promises that it will satisfy our souls. We have drunk deeply from the streams of living water. We have the Spirit of God, as it were, springing up in our hearts. So why do Christians so often seem discontent and at times miserable? There can be many reasons. Let me mention one in the Old Testament, Jeremiah chapter 2 and verse 13, for my people have committed two evils Notice he says, my people. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, and have hewn out cisterns for themselves, broken cisterns that can hold no water. In the ancient Near East, they would dig cisterns into the ground to collect rainwater because it was such a scarce commodity. But if the soil wasn't right, it would just drain out. It was a broken cistern , and so often even the Lord's people seek to find their satisfaction. And things that can never satisfy their souls. So often we seek happiness the way lost people do. We think about this even the trajectory of our lives. What do you think it is this morning that you need to make you happy? If I had this, then I would be happy. Often young people will think, when I graduate from high school Then I'll be happy. When I get married, then I'll be content When I have children, then I can be happy. When I get a good career, then I'll be satisfied. If I can get my dream house, then I will be content. If I can retire in comfort, then I can really enjoy life. But I want you to know as wonderful these gifts are from God, they are all like a pool that has a leak in it. It won't satisfy your soul. And there's so many people in the world that live their life thinking if I can just achieve that idle, that goal that I set up my life, then I'll be happy. And they achieve one after another after another and they come to the end and they're still not satisfied. They're still not happy. John Piper is famous for saying, God is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in Him. You want to be a powerful witness for Christ? Let people see in you that you have great satisfaction in God that there's like a well of joy that's bubbling up inside of you. I'm not asking that you put on a face and be fake and pretend when you don't really feel that way. But what I am saying is if you could truly understand the treasure that eternal life is and the future that's in store for you, if you could really come to grips with that You would be a very happy and contented person. My third application is that Christians should find great assurance in knowing that our salvation is eternal. Jesus promises here that those who drink of his living water will never ever thirst again. That is, they will never be lost. They will never die spiritually. In fact, we are sealed by the Spirit until the day of redemption. And this is to give us a basis of assurance. This is to give us this wonderful sense that what God has started in us spiritually, He will not abandon He will continue to work through his spirit in our lives. And then finally, everyone who is lost has a thirsty soul. What I mean is that they have no true satisfaction in life because They have no relationship with God. God created us to know Him. And so no matter how much wealth How much pleasure, how many status symbols a person has, if they don't know God, they have a thirsty soul. And read the words of a king, a pagan king who lived in the 700s, over 1300 years ago. They found this inscription Written by this famous king of the day. He says, I have reigned above fifty years in victory or peace, beloved by my subjects, dreaded by my enemies, and respected by my allies. Riches and honors, power and pleasure have waited on my call. Nor does any earthly blessing appear to have been wanting in my felicity. In this situation, I have diligently numbered the days of pure and genuine happiness which have fallen to my lot. They amounted to 14, 14 days out of his whole life. And then he says this, old man, place not thy confidence in this present world. This was a dying man giving his concluding thoughts. O man, place not thy confidence in this present world It's so easy to live for the things of this world. It's so easy to fight and struggle to gain more and more stuff and status and things that we think will satisfy our souls, but only Christ will satisfy. And the eternal life that He provides. Let's close in prayer. Father I pray that you would use your word in our hearts and lives today. Help us, Father, as your people, to demonstrate to the world that we have a supernatural joy and peace and love that flows out of us. Because of the living water that we have tasted Father, I pray for those who are lost, who have heard these words, who have a thirsty soul, I pray, Lord, that you would help them to become even more aware of that painful thirst. until they come and seek you with all their hearts. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen