He was born in the late 1800s, had a very storybook life, fascinating character. He was a race car driver. He raced in several major races and even came third, I believe, in the in Daytona. He was a pilot in World War I. He was not just a pilot. He was the ace of aces in World War I, shot down confirmed 26 kills in World War I. Went on to be involved in major business in the airline industry after World War I. During World War II, he was not a soldier But in October 1942, he was sent by the U. S. Secretary of War down to the South Pacific to observe some of the military uh bases and the conditions of the soldiers and to report back to him. But along the way as well, he was to meet with General Douglas MacArthur and provide a secret message from the Secretary of War to General Douglas MacArthur The plane that he was in over the South Pacific got off track because of a equipment uh failure and was several hundred miles from its refueling station when it went down in the ocean. In the the ditching in the ocean, the eight members of the plane got onto a life raft and they had some some supplies in the life raft and they lived three days in the life raft and ate up all of the food supplies that they they had with them. By day eight, things were looking very precarious. And they had a time where they prayed and sought the Lord and asked God for his deliverance. And shortly thereafter, Eddie Rickenbacher was Was kind of half asleep in the boat with his cap over his head when a seagull landed on his head. And he was able to capture it. And from that seagull, they were able to make hooks and eat some of the food. But using the intestines for string, they made fishing line. and they were able to to eke out an existence for the remaining days in their life raft. It's because of Eddie Rickenbacher that now all U. S. Navy life rafts have fishing equipment in them as a result because that is a very important thing when you're stuck in the middle of the ocean. But after he was delivered Every Friday for the remainder of his life until he passed away in the 1970s, you would find him Friday evenings with a bag of shrimp at a pier. feeding sh seagulls in thanksgiving for the one who gave his life for him I think that's a fascinating story. He lived a fascinating life. But if Eddie Rickenbacher could give continual thanksgiving to a seagull. How much more should we give thanksgiving to our Savior, who not only saved us temporally, but saved us eternally. This psalm we're looking at is one of the Egyptian halels. We mentioned that it is one of the songs that was sung during the Passover feast. And that's the reason why it is called the Egyptian Hallels, because it commemorates the deliverance of the people of Israel from their bondage in slavery in Egypt. Those Egyptian Hillels are Psalm 113 through Psalm 118, and they were sung at every Passover feast. This Psalm 116 would have been sung after the conclusion of the Passover meal, as the disciples had finished and were preparing Matthew 26, 30 recounts that by simply saying when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. And we know the remainder of the story about what took place on the Mount of Olives. Our Lord would have sung this hymn with a deep understanding of what would transpire In the day that would follow, and what he would give to accomplish this These words of this psalm, the deliverance that is described within it. This psalm is really a psalm of thanksgiving from great deliverance. It's significant that the phrase that we find in verse 3, we mentioned this last month when we began to look at this psalm, the snares of death. That phrase we find here in verse 3, the snares of death encompass me. That is quoted by Peter on Pentecost as he preached, and he described that the snares of death had been loosed in the life of Jesus Christ, that although he died and was buried, they were loosed and he was released from the grave because it was not possible for him to be held by it. Interestingly as well, the Apostle Paul quotes this psalm in 2 Corinthians chapter 4, in verses 13 and 14, he's quoting saying, Since we have the same spirit of faith according to what has been written, I believed and so I spoke. You'll notice that he's quoting there verse 10. I believed even when I spoke. He says, we also believe. And so we also speak, knowing that he who raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus and bring us with you into his presence. So two times this psalm is quoted in the New Testament, and both times it's quoted in connection with the resurrection of Jesus Christ. So this is a psalm that really commemorates the resurrection of Jesus Christ as a resurrection that we have entered into by faith in his death, burial, and resurrection. Andrew Bonard, the famous Scottish preacher, said that this is Christ's resurrection song, sung by his own lips in the upper room at the Passover. in anticipation of the darkness of Gethsemane and Calvary passing away into glory. This is a resurrection psalm that our Lord Himself would have sung with the full intention of not only offering himself as a sacrifice, but rising and offering for us as the resurrection from the dead through his own resurrection. We mentioned last month that this psalm has two main divisions. It divides nicely, verses 1 through 9, where the psalmist expresses love for God. Because of what God has done for him. He begins by simply saying, I love the Lord. I love the Lord because he has heard my voice and my pleas for mercy. It's a good thing for us to express our love to God in this way. In the second half, the psalmist tells what he will do because of what God has done for him. He says in verse 10, I believed even when I spoke. I am greatly afflicted. I said in my alarm, All mankind are liars. What shall I render to the Lord for all his benefits to me? And the question comes, what can I give to God because of all he has done for me? When we look at this psalm, this last half of the psalm in particular, we see the deliverance of God that is found, it demands a response of faith. He says in this verse, verse 10, I believed. even when I spoke. It's that belief, it's that faith that governs all the rest of what he describes here in the second half of this Psalm. And the deliverance that God gives demands a response of faith. And so we're going to look at that this evening. The challenging part as we deal with this is this psalm has a immediate context. The psalmist wrote about a deliverance from a uh uh a life-threatening situation that he was in, as well as an ultimate context in the life of our Savior, as he was delivered not from a life-threatening situation, but he was delivered through death into resurrection life. We will seek to understand them both as responses of faith. The first thing I want us to see this evening as we look at this passage, Is that faith relies on God alone? Verses 10 and 11, we'll read it again. He says, I believed Even when I spoke, I am greatly afflicted. I said in my alarm, all mankind are liars. Now these verses are coming on the heels of some beautiful verses. We finished up with a beautiful rendition of these verses in verses 7 through 9 last month where he says, return, O my soul, to your rest. For the Lord has dealt bountifully with you. For you have delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears, my feet from stumbling I will walk before the Lord in the land of the living. And those are verses that bring us to a place of exaltation and praise and worship. And that these next verses almost feel Anticlimactic. Almost feel like they're bringing us to a place that we wouldn't have expected when he says, I believed even when I spoke. I am greatly afflicted. I said in my alarm, All mankind are liars. So on the heels of that beautiful confession, we have a statement like this. What we find here is that the psalmist faith is really at the foundations, what gives rise to the words he speaks He says, I believed. I believed, and as a result of what I believed, I spoke this Now, if you have a different translation than the ESV, you may notice it says something different than maybe even when. Perhaps it says I believed when I spoke. Or perhaps it says, I believed therefore I spoke. The challenge is this connecting word is very difficult to interpret or to translate in the context here. It can be translated as even when or even though or because or therefore. And the challenge is No matter how you translate it, it is going to change the meaning of that verse. The meaning would be different with each of those possible translations. If I said, for example, I believed even when I spoke. I believed even when I spoke. What is the implication of that? The implication is I said something that maybe if you first heard it, it might not sound like it was a statement of faith. But Even so, I was believing. It was a statement of faith, even though it may not seem to align with faith. In reality, I spoke In faith, even though it may not appear to be. However, if I were to say, I believe, therefore I spoke. See a vast difference in those two statements. I believe, therefore I spoke. The meaning is That the words that I spoke were the direct result of my faith. I believe, therefore I am saying these things. My faith is driving the words that I speak. I believe that although the ESV is a great translation, I believe here the best way to understand this is actually the word therefore. It's actually the word therefore. And there are two reasons for that. The first is this is how the Greek translation of the Hebrew Old Testament translates it. So in the Septuagint, this was a translation that was made by Jewish people prior to the time of Christ, and it tells us how Hebrew-speaking Jews would have understood this particle. And they translate it with the particle, therefore, I believed, therefore I spoke. And the other reason why I think it makes more sense to understand it as therefore is that when Paul quoted this verse in 2 Corinthians 4, he quoted it that way. He quoted it, I believed, therefore I spoke. And that fits with the context of the argument that he is making. He says, we also believe, and so we also speak. It's because we believe, we speak this way. As the psalmist was in the depths of distress, his faith enabled him to see clearly a few things. Enabled him to see, first of all, that his situation was very dire. I am greatly afflicted. I am greatly afflicted. I the situation I'm in is a desperate situation. In essence, what he's saying is, I'm unable to save myself. I got to the point where I realized I could not save myself. There was no hope For me to figure this out, I wasn't able to save myself. In verse 3, he had already said that the snares of death had encompassed him The cords of death were pulling him down like one who was being dragged into a pit. But at the same time, he also says there was no hope from men That second line is a pretty strong line where he said, I said in my alarm, all mankind are liars. Now, I don't know how you take that. That's uh an accusation for all of us. We're all lumped into that. All mankind are liars. You say, well, I'm not a liar I think that's a pretty accurate statement. All mankind are liars. But really, what he's trying to say here, what is actually being described here, is not so much that we are all liars, or that, although that is true. But that all mankind is utterly unreliable to help him. There is no hope. There is no salvation The word that is translated liar is also used to describe springs of water that don't fail. They are not lying. They are faithful springs of water. Ever been to a place where you're desperate for water and you think I'm gonna find some water here and you go there and it's dried up? Like, oh no, I really needed water Well, you're saying I thought I could turn to mankind for help, but there was no help in mankind. There was no help from my friends. There was no help from my fellow countrymen. There was no help from mankind whatsoever. They were utterly unreliable. He was unable to save himself. And he found that all mankind was utterly unreliable to save him. So in his deep distress, the psalmist looked around and he called out to the Lord. When all human hope had failed, when there was no possible deliverance from mankind, he called out to the Lord, And the Lord saved him. That's really the essence of this song. That in the time of deepest distress, he said, I love the Lord because he has heard my voice and my pleas for mercy, because he inclined his ear to me. The Lord was merciful to me. He heard my cry when no one else could do anything about it. This is what the songwriter expresses in the hymn, Abide with Me, when he says, When other helpers fail and comforts flee, help of the helpless, O abide with me. The psalmist essentially is describing that. I was in a desperate situation, and there was no one who could help me. And I cried to the Lord, and he saved me. God alone saved me. The beautiful thing is this that not only does this picture what the psalmist went through, but our Lord perfectly embodies these words in his suffering and death. Just picture a few days before our Lord's crucifixion. We celebrated Palm Sunday and the triumphal entry, and the multitudes are crying out, Hosanna to the Son of David. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest. And in just a few days, the crowds would cry out, crucify him. The Lord realized, and he knew this, that there was no help in man. Man would be utterly unreliable. All mankind are liars. Just a few hours before our Lord's Passion, as Jesus and the disciples were on the way to the Mount of Olives, just after they sang Psalm 116 together in the upper room. Just after our Lord washed the disciples' feet. The Lord tells the disciples, You will all fall away because of me this night. For it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered. And you can you know the story and how Peter denies it. This is not Jesus speaking because because he was full of self-pity. Jesus knew the truth. He knew the prophecies. He knew what would take place. It was a responsive face, and he had learned that God alone could be relied upon in his distress. And Peter boldly declares, though they all fall away because of you, I will never fall away. I love Peter's boldness. But he didn't know himself. He didn't understand that he too was utterly unreliable. And to that the Lord told him that he would deny him three times that very night. And Peter and all the other disciples boldly declared, even if I must die with you. I will not deny you. Our Lord wasn't strengthened by that. He wasn't thinking, well, at least I know I have 12, 11. He knew that all men were utterly unreliable. Just a short time later, Peter and the disciples could not even stay awake to pray with Jesus in the depths of his anguish. Then when push came to shove, all of their boasts were revealed to be empty words as they scattered into the night and left the Lord alone. But our Lord's faith was not in man. Our Lord's faith was in his Father, in God, who alone would deliver him through death. This is a beautiful reminder for us. As believers, we are called to put our faith in God, not in ourselves Not in mankind. Not in anything that this world has to offer. The Apostle Paul understood this. That's why he quotes these verses in 1 Corinthians or 2nd Corinthians chapter 4. He says this we have this treasure in jars of clay. Speaking about salvation. The salvation that we have in this physical body is like An immense treasure in a clay jar. He says, to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed. Perplexed but not driven to despair, persecuted but not forsaken, struck down, but not destroyed. Where was Paul's confidence in the midst of persecution and suffering? It was not in himself, not that he gets, I'm going to figure this out. I'm going to endure this. I've got this under control. He says, no, it's in God alone. That the excellency of the power be of God. and not of him. It's in this context that Paul says, We have the same spirit of faith according to what has been written. I believed and so I spoke. We also believe and so we also speak. Knowing that he who raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus and bring us with you into his presence. He says, My confidence is not in mankind. My confidence is not even in myself. My confidence is in God Himself who raised Jesus Christ. I believe, and therefore I speak. And I continue to proclaim this message because my confidence is in God. Is that your confidence? Today, in the face of affliction, in the face of death, can you say that you are powerless to save yourself? Maybe you've realized that in your own life. I'm powerless to save myself, that no man, no saint No angel, no pope, no church, no pastor, no one is able to save you. Only Jesus Christ. All are powerless, but Christ alone, who defeated the power of death for us. And true faith will always respond, as we find here in this psalm, with a confession. Where he says, I believe, therefore I spoke. I believe, therefore I spoke. I am greatly afflicted. There's nothing I can do to save myself. All mankind are powerless to save me. But God, you will save me. True faith cries out to God with a confession of faith. Have you done that? Have you looked to God who alone can save you? Have you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, whose resurrection is the verification that his sacrifice was accepted by the Father? We see here as well that faith in this passage desires to repay the Lord. Notice what he says in verse 12. He says, What shall I render to the Lord for all his benefits to me? I will lift up the cup of salvation and call on the name of the Lord. I will pay my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people. Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. O Lord, I am your servant. I am your servant, the son of your maidservant. You have loosed my bonds I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving and call on the name of the Lord. I will pay my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people. In the courts of the house of the Lord, in your midst, O Jerusalem, praise the Lord. We find here beginning that faith asks the unanswerable question. He begins by asking this question, what shall I render to the Lord for all his benefits to me? Have you ever stopped and considered all the benefits that you've received in Christ Jesus? They're numerous. They're they're really they're beyond our ability to enumerate. But the more he considers the greatness of his deliverance from death, By the act of God, he realizes the magnitude of all his benefits. He'd already exclaimed in verse 7, Return, O my soul, to your rest. for the Lord has dealt bountifully with you. He's already seen the bountiful care. God has been abundantly gracious to me. God has been so kind to me. He says, what shall I repay the Lord? What shall I render to the Lord for all his kindness? Now it's important to know this is not the psalmist trying to earn his salvation in any way. Our salvation is by grace through faith alone. There's no mixing of grace and works in the psalmist understanding. But what this is, is the heart cry of one who has received the gracious forgiveness of God. It's that it's been awakened by grace, and he says, I have been blessed abundantly, and I want to give to the Lord. I want to show the Lord my love for what he has done for me. This is what those who balk at the idea of salvation by grace through faith don't understand. Those who say, well, if salvation is by grace through faith alone. That means then you can just go and live a wicked life, and there's no there's nothing that's going to stop you because you're not saved by works, you're saved by grace through faith. But what it doesn't understand is this. When we've reached that place where we say, I am helpless, mankind is unable to help me. And God alone has saved me from death. The cords of death were pulling me down into hell, and God delivered me from that. That person no longer wants to live a life that is contrary to God. and in defiance of God. Instead, he wants to live a life that pleases God. The problem is most people who say that they do not understand the grace of God. They do not understand the magnitude of the forgiveness that we have received. No truly bankrupt sinner who has ever been lavish the grace of God in Jesus Christ. Will continue to love the sin that he's been saved from through Jesus Christ. So how can we repay the Lord for his goodness? He asked this question. What shall I render to the Lord for all his benefits to me? This is a question that is a worthy question to ask. What can I repay the Lord? Paul asked that same question in Romans chapter 11, verses 34 and following. He says, For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has been his counselor, or who has given a gift to him that he might be repaid? Who who has ever done anything to repay the Lord? For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen. We've received from him. All we have to offer him is what he has freely and graciously given us. But what's amazing is in the very next verse, and Romans chapter 12, he says, I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercy of God, to present your body as a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual It's not that there's anything that we have to offer God that's intrinsically valuable that we have that God does not But the only proper and grateful response to the one who has done so much for us is to give ourselves unreservedly to Him, to offer ourselves as a living sacrifice back to Him. He has given us life, then I will give my life to serve him. This section is followed by the psalmist for I Wills. He said, I will do this, I will do this, I will do this. Verse 13, 14, 17, and 18. You probably noticed them as I was reading through them. In the middle of the four I Wills, we have these verses, which are beautiful verses. They're verses of comfort and assurance. But they almost feel a little bit disjointed. But when we understand them, I believe that they are they are precious Verses that describe that unique relationship that we have with God as his children. He says this in verses 15 and 16: Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. O Lord, I am your servant. I am your servant, the son of your maidservant. You have loosed my bonds. We've probably heard that verse, especially verse 15 many times in the context of a funeral. Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. The psalmist acknowledges that the death of a believer is actually a precious thing for God. For it's in death that the testing of the faith of the believer is truly revealed, whether he will cling to Christ. Or he will cling to himself. But also in death, it's the end of suffering for the believer. There is no longer suffering for the believer, and because God has this precious love for his children. It is precious that the suffering comes to an end. It's the end of their sin as well. And for the Lord, he says, it's precious to me. That you come into death, where is the end of your suffering? It is the end of your experience with sin. And it is the end of your separation from me. So for the Lord, as he looks at death, he looks at it perhaps differently than we might look at it. For the Lord, he looks at our death as actually a very precious thing because it is in death that we reach the end of our suffering. In death we reach the end of our sin. And in death we reach the end of our separation from God, and we are brought into intimate fellowship, face-to-face fellowship with our God and our Savior. And so he says, for the Lord it is a precious thing. The Lord looks at it perhaps very differently than we do, because he recognizes the reality and the beauty of it. That's why when we come to this passage of Scripture, we find a great deal of comfort when we reach death, because it readjusts our thinking in a proper way. For the psalmist here, he realizes he had been loosed from the bonds of death. The Lord had delivered him from an almost certain death. And so what does he say? Well he says, Oh Lord, I am your servant. You have delivered me from death, and I know that's a precious thing for you. It is the end of suffering. It is the end of sin. It is the end of the separation that I have because of sin with you. But you have loosed me from death. You have given me more life on this earth. Therefore, I am your servant. And he repeats that again. I am your servant, the son of your maidservant. You have loosed my bonds. He says, Lord, I have been brought into this intimate relationship with you because you have loosed me from death, even though it is very precious in your sight. I am left here to be your servant. I am left here to serve you. That's why Paul could say, For to me to live is Christ. God gives me more years, for to me to live is Christ. To die is gain. He had the perspective of the Lord. It's precious. But if I'm here, I am your servant, and I will continue to serve you. Faith responds with a very different perspective of death, but says, I am now your servant because you have spared me. For those of us who know Christ, we have been spared from the death we deserve. And he says We ought to respond with a similar attitude. I am your servant. My life is yours. I give you all that I am, a living sacrifice to you. The question is, will we do that? We also see in these verses that faith seeks to repay by doing something perhaps a little unusual. by receiving from the Lord. Notice what he says in verse 13. He asks the question, what shall I render to the Lord for all his benefits to me? And then he says, I will lift up, or I will take the cup of salvation and call in the name of the Lord. What shall I do for all the Lord has done for me? I will take the cup of salvation and I will call upon the name of the Lord. What shall I do? I will receive. I will receive this gift of salvation from God. Some have seen this as a reference to lifting up or taking the cup of salvation with a drink offering, like what they describe in Numbers 28. But in the drink offering, they're pouring out. In this, it is a receiving. It is a taking, not a pouring out. And it's interesting as well, the word cup of salvation, the word salvation in Hebrew is Yeshua. It is the cup of Jesus. Very interesting that we we have that here. This is the cup of Jesus, the gift from God to us, not from us to God. It's important to remember that this psalm is part of the Passover Seder, which symbolizes, again, the historic deliverance of Israel from Egypt. Which in turn symbolizes the deliverance that we have from the slavery of sin through Jesus Christ. And the deliverance that our Savior accomplished for us. During the Passover meal, there were four cups. That were lifted up, they were blessed, and then they were consumed and passed around. Those four cups supposedly symbolize the four promises of God to the nation of Israel, that I will bring you out of the land of Egypt. I will free you from slavery. I will redeem you, and I will take you as my people. Each one of those cups symbolize a promise from God. But this symbolism is what the Lord reappropriated when he took that cup and he said, this cup is the new covenant in my blood. And he commanded them to drink it all. At the first communion service, our Lord sang this psalm, Psalm 116, with his disciples, and I cannot Help but believe that he was thinking of this cup as he sang these words. Matthew 26 tells us that when Jesus took the cup, he gave thanks to the Lord, and then he gave it to the disciples, saying, Drink of it, all of you. So we have our Lord lifting up the cup of salvation and offering it to his disciples. This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Drink of it, all of you. And he's calling us to take and receive this cup. The question of what shall I render to the Lord for all his benefits is answered here by the psalmist. I will lift up the cup of salvation and I will call on the name of the Lord. Charles Spurgit said, but alas, what have I to render? All my rendering to him will be but taking more from him. For all I can do is but take the cup of salvation and call upon his name. And what rendering is there in this taking? And then he quoted this poem. He says, the best return for one like me, so wretched and so poor, is from his gifts to draw a plea and ask him still for more. When we come to the Lord's Supper, we are coming again saying, Lord, I receive what Christ has done for me. And I'm again asking you for grace. Forgiveness. Power to walk in holiness. That I might be more like my Savior. We come, we lift up the cup of salvation, we say, Father, thank you. And I ask again, cleanse me. And I ask again, pour out your grace on me. And I take again the cup of salvation for myself. The beautiful truth is that every time we come to the Lord's table, we are calling on the name of the Lord. We are confessing by our actions that it is only through his shed blood that we have salvation. When we come this evening and we partake, we're saying, Lord, I receive what was poured out for me. We come to Him each month and we confess our sins and we utter dependence upon Him and we seek His grace again to walk. before the Lord in the land of the living. And we ask him again for his grace. What shall I render to the Lord for all his benefits? I will take the cup of salvation and I will call on the name of the Lord. Faith pays its vows. By receiving from the Lord his salvation. We see also another one of the I wills in verse 14. He says, I will pay my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people. He has the same response at the end, I will pay my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people. But we're going to skip that and talk about at the very end. I want to look at the next I will. In verse 17, I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving and call on the name of the Lord. Faith repays the Lord with thanksgiving. The idea here of offering the Lord a sacrifice of thanksgiving could refer to a peace offering. One of the aspects of the peace offering was an offering of thanksgiving as described in Leviticus 7, verses 11 through 14. But what's more seems more appropriate here is not the ritual of offering a thanks offering That is a sacrifice, but what the psalmist later describes in Psalm 50 is the sacrifice of thanksgiving of our lips. In Psalm 50, verse 23, it says, the one who offers thanksgiving as his sacrifice glorifies me. What is the sacrifice? It is the giving of thanks, the proclaiming of our thanksgiving to God. It's like what Hebrews 13, 15 says. Through him then let us offer continually A sacrifice of praise to God, that is the fruit of our lips, that it acknowledges his name The sacrifice of thanksgiving is a continual gratitude to God for what he has accomplished for us when we come to the Lord's table. It is in thanksgiving for what he has done. The body that was broken for us. The blood that was poured out for us. The willing sacrifice, the bearing of the wrath of God for us. And we come and we receive again the cup of salvation. And we come again and we offer thanksgiving to God. For what he has done for us. When we studied Psalm 22, we looked at verses 22 and 23 in that beautiful passage, which are the words of Christ. In praise to God for hearing and delivering him from the jaws of death. It says, I will tell of your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation, I will praise you. You who fear the Lord, praise him. All you offspring of Jacob, glorify him, and stand in awe of him, all you offspring of Israel. We have here Christ prophetically being described as giving praise to God, offering thanksgiving to the Father for delivering him from the jaws of death, delivering him through death by raising him from the dead. And this is really what Jesus did preemptively the night that he was betrayed. He offered thanksgiving. He led the disciples in praise. The night he instituted the Lord's Supper for us, Matthew 26 tells us now as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and after blessing it, broke it, and gave it to the disciples. And he said, Take, eat, this is my body. And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, saying, Drink of it, all of you, for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins He says, I tell you, I will not drink again of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom. And our Lord there declares not only his impending death, but also his ultimate victory when he says, I will drink it again with you in my Father's kingdom. And so in that light he can give thanks. He took the cup and he gave thanks for what? For the fact that he would be delivered. That death would be defeated. And that we would enter into his resurrection. He leads us in thanksgiving. So when we come to this, he says, I will offer the sacrifice of thanksgiving and call on the name of the Lord. When we come to the Lord's table, it ought not to be just ritual. It ought not to be routine. Something we do on the first Sunday evening of the month But it's a time when we give thanks to God. We remember the deliverance that we have received from Him. And we worship him and give praise to him, following the example of our Savior Jesus Christ. And we offer the sacrifice of thanksgiving to our God. Faith repays the Lord with thanksgiving. Lastly, this evening, faith repays the Lord by paying its vows in public. Twice he says, I will pay my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people. Have you ever been in a desperate situation? Where you look around and you say, I don't know if I'm going to get out of this. And maybe in that moment you say, Lord, I will do X if you get me out of this. I will be faithful to church if you get me out of this. I will witness to my co-workers if you get me out of this. Maybe you've done that? I can imagine that probably many of us have. There's times when we're in a desperate situation and we make a vow to God, Lord, if you deliver me from this. Then I will do whatever it is. And the psalmist apparently was in a very similar situation. Where he had made a vow to the Lord, and he said, I'm going to publicly pay my vows. I want everyone to know that God has been faithful to deliver me. And I'm going to pay my vows in the presence of all the people. We have a phrase in Swahili that says, Ahadini Deni. Which simply means a promise is a debt. A promise is a debt. And I'd always tell people that when they'd say, Pastor, I'll see you at church. And I say, a de mi deni. And they go, ooh. Pastor, I'm going to be at church this Sunday, uh-huh. Uh I didn't need any. Ooh. The fact is, though, when we have made our vows to the Lord, it is right for us to pay them. They become our debts to God. And one of the ways we repay the Lord is by paying the debts that we have incurred to God. Has God answered prayer in your life? Has he healed you from some sickness? And maybe on that sickbed you said, Lord, if you get me out of this, then I will publicly praise you. If he has, if you have, then pay your debts to the Lord. It is pleasing in his sight and it's encouraging. to believers. Has he protected you through a car accident? And maybe you said, wow, I know that was the hand of the Lord. And maybe in that moment you uttered a vow to the Lord. I would encourage you to pay your vows to the Lord. Give public praise to God. It's interesting. This Psalm, Psalm 116, is actually part of the Book of Common Prayer. And it is used in services for the thanksgiving of women after childbirth. It's an appropriate psalm. Lord, you have delivered me. From danger, and I will praise you publicly for that deliverance. What situation has God delivered you from that he deserves to be praised for? Our Lord sang this song that night in the upper room, remembering that he came into the world saying, Not my will But yours be done. And that night he said, Not my will, but yours be done. And that he would pay that vow to the fullest on the cross. He would pay his debt as he hung on the cross the following day. When we come to the Lord's Supper, it is to be with profound gratitude For what He has done for us. It is to be with absolute dependence upon God as we take the cup of salvation. There's no magical power in that cup. But as by faith we say, Lord, this represents the shed blood that was poured out for me, I receive that again And I give thanks to you, for you have been so good to me. You have blessed me abundantly. You have dealt bountifully with me. And I will give thanks to you and I will pay my vows. The cup of salvation is the cup that we We take here as we remember what the Lord has done for us. Have you come to God by faith in Christ? Or are you still clinging to, I think I can work my way through this? I think I can be good enough to make my way acceptable before God. I want to encourage you to repent of that, to believe, and to confess that there is no other salvation but in Christ. That all men are liars and you are afflicted. And unless you trust in Christ, there is no salvation. If you're here And you have saving faith. I want to remind you that saving faith desires to give back to the Lord your life as a living sacrifice. When we come before the Lord, we have this Lord's Supper service, it is again A pledge to the Lord. I am your servant. You have delivered me from death, and I will follow you. G. Campbell Morgan said, the cup of salvation is the cup of blessing which is given to the soul. Let the soul take it and drink it, but let him remember that the very partaking is in itself of the nature of a pledge of loyalty. It is the oath of allegiance in which he calls upon the name of Jehovah. When we come to the Lord's Supper this evening, we are saying, I am your servant, the son of your maidservant, and I give you my life. Let us do that with a solemn remembrance of all that He has done for us this evening. Let's pray.