I understand that the IRS gets many interesting notes Often, as you might imagine, filled with anger. But sometimes they get some that uh are amusing as well They once got a note from a man who said, here is $175 in back taxes. My conscience has forced me to pay up. If I still can't sleep, I'll send the rest. We find this story, of course, amusing because in some way we identify with the individual. So would you describe this man as being repentant? Probably not. Repentance is a theme that is rarely heard in their modern pulpit. Most churches in America rarely mention words like sin or hell or repentance. These biblical terms sound old-fashioned and offensive. And even many conservative and evangelical churches avoid any mention of these negative terms. Every preacher knows that people would rather hear something uplifting, something inspirational. or something they consider to be relevant. And so if you were to look at the largest churches in America and consider some of the most popular sermons that people listen to or watch on their computers, you would find that many of them, in fact most of them, are man -centered They would have titles like Five Keys to Unleashing God 's Blessings on Your Life. Or about how to be a better wife or a better husband Or how to handle your money in a way that will produce great dividends to your life Now the Bible does of course talk about money. It does talk about marriage. It does talk about children and things that we encounter and deal with here on the earth. But these are not the major themes of God's word. Often what people want and what they need are two different things. The fact is, repentance is not a minor doctrine. It's the first word of the gospel. And it's really the only way to live the Christian life. This notion sounds strange to many in the visible church. Many view their relationship with God as a means to an end. The God of many professing Christians is the ultimate psychological crutch the best marriage counselor and the most astute financial advisor. We have distorted the God of the Bible into a coach that seeks to give us our best life now. And so any call to repentance, to brokenness, seems archaic and out of step with our age. But no man of God can be faithful to the word of God. Without preaching about repentance on a regular basis, because it is found throughout the scriptures It was the substance of Noah's sermon. It was the universal message of the prophets in the Old Testament. It was the cry of John the Baptist in the wilderness. And it was the constant call of Jesus and the apostles. But those preachers who sell Christianity like any other product have removed the bitter ingredients of repentance so that the Bible will become more palatable to the modern listener. And the results of this new approach have been catastrophic. A false understanding of repentance leads to many false conversions People who believe that they can take heaven and yet hold on to their sinful lifestyle and they can have, as it were, their cake and eat it too. They can have heaven and the world. They can have God and the devil. They can have it all. A false understanding of repentance is the reason why many Christians live very sorry Christian lives. Why There's a great distant connect between their experience and what the Bible describes as the Christian life, why they have no joy and no peace. And no desire to be a light for the Lord. It's because they still have sin that has ensnared their hearts. So let me ask you this morning, do you have a proper understanding of repentance? Do you know the difference between false repentance and true God-wrought repentance? I would have preached you a doctrinal message on what is repentance. And I want us to understand that it's essential that believers recognize the nature of true repentance. The message will have two main points this morning, and the first is this, we must recognize the common misconceptions concerning repentance. And under this heading, I want to show you several responses that may in some degree look like repentance. But fall short of true repentance. And I want us to consider a Bible character for each of these, because we have many models of false repentance. in the pages of God's Word. I want you to notice with me, first of all, that repentance is more than repeating some words. Yes, and repentance includes confession, but it must be more than just an acknowledging of wrongdoing. I think in the minds of many people, repentance has been reduced to just saying essentially, I'm sorry, but I think this is a superficial understanding. Of true biblical repentance. The first character I want us to consider is a man who was once the most powerful individual in the world. He was Pharaoh, the king. of Egypt. Turn with me, please, to Exodus chapter 10, the second book of our Bible, Exodus chapter 10 And I want to read to you his words. Exodus chapter ten, verse sixteen. Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron in haste. And he said, I have sinned against the Lord your God and against you. Now therefore, forgive, I pray thee, my sin only this once, and entreat the Lord your God that he may take away from me this death only. This confession takes place after the eighth plague. You remember that Pharaoh refused to let Israel go, and so God sent ten plagues and finally after the tenth plague, the death of the firstborn son, Pharaoh let them go. But after the eighth plague, we find this confession. Already Egypt has endured the water being turned into blood. Frogs, lice, flies, moraine, which was an animal disease, boils, hail, and now locusts. And Pharaoh, in his desperation, calls for Moses and Aaron to come to his royal court. And he says the words that sound like a true repentance. I have sinned against the Lord your God and against you. Notice he also asked for forgiveness in verse 17. He was desperate. We notice he calls them in haste. He knew that Egypt could not survive many more plagues like this. It was devastating the land. And when people are unhappy, a ruler is in trouble And so he says what he feels he needs to say to stop this plague. He did not turn from his sin, from his wicked idolatry, from his pride. He simply wanted to end the consequences that he was facing. And so he repeats some words. This should not be hard for us to relate to what happens all the time in our society. A famous athlete or a politician calls a press conference, and with his wife by his side, he admits to some indiscretion. He carefully crafts his words at the advice of his lawyer, lest he incriminate himself. All this is done as a public relations stunt. to retain lucrative endorsements or to regain political office. The press even has a term for this. It's called a non-apology apology. We hear this all the time. You don't have to have much spiritual discernment to know that this is not what the Bible calls repentance. But how often, even on a personal level, do we say the words that we feel we need to say But they do not in any way, shape, or form reflect our hearts. God is not fooled by a few carefully chosen words. Secondly, repentance is more than real conviction over your sin. I want us to turn now to the New Testament, to the second book of the New Testament, the Gospel of Mark. Mark chapter 6. One of the most wicked and intriguing families in Scripture were the Herods. These descendants of the Edomites who ruled as the puppet government for Rome in Israel. There are several Herods that we encounter in Scripture. One is best known for beheading John the Baptist. I want you to look with me at Mark chapter 6. I want to begin reading at verse 12. Referring to the disciples, it says, and they went out and preached that men should repent. You notice how, by the way, it encapsulates their message. And they cast out many devils and anointed with oil many that were sick and healed them. And King Herod heard of him For his name was spread abroad, and he said that John the Baptist was risen from the dead, and therefore mighty works do show forth themselves in him. He hears hears of Christ, and he thinks this is John the Baptist come back. Others said that it is Elias. Others said that it is a prophet as one of the prophets. But when Herod heard, therefore, he said, It is John whom I beheaded. He is risen from the dead. For Herod himself had sent forth and laid hold upon John and bound him in prison for Herodias' sake, his brother Philip's wife, for he had married her. For John had said unto Herod, It is not lawful for thee to have thy brother's wife. Therefore Herodias had a quarrel against him, and would have him kill Kill him, and she could not. Verse 20, for Herod feared John, knowing that he was a just man and holy, and observed him, and when he heard him He did many things and heard him gladly. I'm going to pause there at verse 20. Notice that this wicked man Herod had some fear of God. He respected John the Baptist. He knew he was a holy man of God. He liked, it says in verse 20, to listen to his preaching, and it certainly wasn't for his entertainment value. He knew that he was hearing the truth. He knew that John the Baptist was a true prophet like the prophets that he had heard of in the Old Testament. But Herod would not turn from his sin. He continued his immoral lifestyle. In fact, when his hand was forced Because of a foolish promise that he made in a drunken state, he had John the Baptist executed, and he was haunted by that decision. It is good to be convicted over your sin. What pain is to the body, conviction is to the soul, it is a warning that something is wrong. But just because you're troubled over your sin does not mean that you have repented of your sin. Oh, it is a good sign. It's an encouraging sign, and you may be on your way to true repentance But conviction alone over your sin is not enough. It does not indicate true repentance. It's amazing here. This man, John the Baptist, though he spoke the truth in very offensive ways to Herod, yet Herod apparently still wanted to hear from him. It is good to hear the preaching of the word, and it is true that most lost people have no appetite and no interest in the preaching of the words. But we see here that it is possible for even a lost person to some degree to want to hear the preaching of the word. And want to hear from a man of God, but just because you respect the man of God and the word of God does not make you a child of God. Repentance is more than real conviction over your sin. And repentance is more than regret over your sin. Turn with me. back to the Old Testament now, if you would, to the book of 1 Samuel. 1 Samuel chapter 15. If you have trouble finding it, that's okay. I will read this passage to you. I would just encourage you to listen carefully. I want to begin. with Samuel's , with Saul's confession. 1 Samuel 1524. And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned, for I have transgressed the commandment of the Lord and thy words, because I feared the people and obeyed their voice. Now therefore I pray thee pardon my sin and turn again with me that I may worship the Lord. Earlier in this chapter, God, through the prophet, had commanded Saul to wipe out the Amalekites. This is mentioned in verse 3, but he did not do it. Look with me at verse 9. But Saul and the people spared Agag and the best of the sheep and of the auction, and of the fatling of the lambs, and of all that was good, and would not utterly destroy them. But everything that was vile and refuse they destroyed utterly Verse 10, then came the word of the Lord unto Samuel saying, and then we have it, repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be king, for he has turned back from following me and hath not performed my commandments. And it grieved Samuel, and he cried unto the Lord all nights. And verse 13, and Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou the Lord, I have performed the commandment of the Lord. And Samuel said, What meaneth then this bleeding of the sheep in mine ears and the lowing of the oxen which I hear? I want you to notice the way that Saul excuses his sin, verse 20. And Saul said unto Samuel, yea, I have a obeyed the voice of the Lord, and have gone the way which the Lord sent me, and have brought Agag, king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites, but the people took of the spoils Sheep and oxen and sheep of the things which should have been utterly destroyed to sacrifice unto the Lord by God in Gilgal. So what he says is, I mostly obeyed. And the part that I didn't obey was really the people's fault. He blames others for his sin. There's an important lesson for us that's found here and throughout Scripture, and that is that you can't really repent of your sin and excuse it at the same time. This is often what people do. They will say, I'm sorry for doing that, but I had a really messed up childhood. I'm sorry I cursed you, but I have an anger disorder. I'm sorry I did this, but You have to understand the stress that I've been under. But this is not real repentance. Look with me at verse 30. Then he said, I have sinned, yet honor me now, I pray thee, before the elders of my people and before Israel, and turn again with me that I may worship the Lord thy God. Notice that Saul is focused on himself. He's consumed with his public perception. He is sorry that Samuel is angry. He regrets the fact that he has been caught. He regrets how things have turned out, but he has not broken over his sin. The acknowledgement that you have made an error in judgment. or that severe consequences have come about because of your decisions is not repentance. Repentance is not just repeating a few words or regretting a course of action. Fourthly, repentance is more than remorse over your sin. Turn with me now. Far back in the New Testament, the book of Hebrews. Hebrews chapter 12, which is going to be discussing an Old Testament character by the name of Esau. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 14. We read this exhortation, follow peace with all men in holiness. Without which no man shall see the Lord. Looking diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness spring up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled. Lest be any fornicator or profane person as Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright. For you know how that afterward, when he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no place of repentance, though he sought it carefully with tears. Then let me explain this text a moment. It's not saying that Esau really tried to repent, but his father wouldn't have it. Esau shed tears over the consequences of his sin. He did have an emotional response. We read of this in Genesis 27 verse 38. It says, Hast thou but one blessing, O my Father? Bless me also, O my Father. And Esau lifted up his voice and wept. But notice that Esau did not cry about his sensual values. He cried about the fact that he had forfeited his father's blessing. He didn't change. He lived the rest of his life with the same wicked values that led him to sell his birthrights. It is often an encouraging sign when people cry when they are confronted with their sin. But do we realize that tears alone do not indicate true repentance? I have known people who have cried profusely when they have been caught in sinful activity And they made many promises and many pledges and said many good things, but their future actions demonstrated that there was no change of heart. It could be they were crying because they were embarrassed. Perhaps they cried because of the consequences that this would have. And so we must not assume that because someone cries when confronted with their sin that they have truly repented. The converse is also true. It is possible for a person to truly repent without shedding any tears. Some people cry very easily, and some people do not. God made us differently. So we should not make the crying of tears or the expression of desperate regrets The essential factor in repentance. Repentance is more than remorse. And repentance is more than reformation. Turn with me, please, to the Gospel of Matthew. Matthew chapter 27. It may surprise you to note that perhaps the person who comes closest to repentance without really repenting was a man named Judas Iscariot. In Matthew chapter 27 and verse 3, we read this. Then Judas, which had betrayed him, When he saw that he was condemned , repented himself, and brought again the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priest and elders, saying, I have sinned and that I have betrayed innocent blood. And they said, What is that to us? See thou to that. And he cast down the pieces of silver in the temple and departed and went and hanged himself. Judas was troubled over his betrayal of our Lord as well he should have been. Let me just say to begin with that this word that's translated repented in verse 3 in the King James Version is not the New Testament word for repentance. It's a word that means regretted. He regretted what he had done, but there was not true repentance here. It's interesting how many things we see that are commendable in his response to his sin. He was convicted about his sin. No one confronted him about it. It's not that Peter or some of the other disciples said to Judas, how could you betray the Lord like this? This was his own troubled conscience, his own compass of right and wrong, and yet Judas is greatly troubled. It says he condemned, he was condemned, he knew that what he did was unthinkable. He was convicted about his sin. You know, I don't want you to get the wrong impression. It's very possible for a person who's caught in their sin to repent of that sin. I've seen that many times. But sometimes when that occurs, you wonder, would they have ever repented if they were not caught? What is often a hopeful sign is when a person, without anyone finding out, is so troubled by the convicting power of the Holy Spirit that they come forward and they confess their sin to someone and they say, I have done wrong. And it was not because they were found out. Judas was that kind of person. He was not, it was not because he was caught, it was because He was internally convicted and he confessed his wrongdoing. Notice he takes all the responsibility. He says, I have sinned, and then I betrayed innocent blood. He doesn't say, well, you know, it was these Religious leaders that were so eager to betray the Lord, they kind of trapped me into doing this. He doesn't say, well, you know, some of the other disciples didn't really accept me. I was kind of an outsider because I wasn't from Galilee. He could have given many excuses, but he does not. He says, I have sinned. And third He even, in a sense, makes restitution. What does he do with those 30 pieces of silver, not a small amount of money? He cast them down. This was a big thing for Judas because we know from John chapter 12 that Judas was a thief. He had been stealing from the treasury of the twelve. He loved money. This was contrary to his natural inclinations. His inclinations was to take and to gather as much as he could, and here he is throwing it aside, something that he could have taken and spent as he wished. How close this seems to the real thing. If you didn't have anything else in your Bible, if you had never heard the story of Judas Iscariot. And you stopped at verse 5, you might have thought that Judas had truly repented. And now he was going to turn to God, and maybe he's going to rejoin the disciples, and everything's going to go great. What we see here is someone who indeed is disgusted by his sin. We see him turning in a sense from his sin, but he doesn't turn to God's. That is why there was this hopelessness. That is why he ended his life. He believed he was condemned and there was no hope. There was no way back. There was no way to find repentance. So often people confuse repentance with Reforming their actions. They speak of turning over a new leaf, of reinventing themselves, of starting afresh. And indeed, the Bible does offer wonderful promises to those who will repent, turn from their sin, and turn to God. But the repentance must be Godward. It must be focused on God. And that is where Judas came short. I now want to transition to look at some of the biblical teaching concerning repentance. And the first sub point under this is that repentance involves a real turning. The most important Old Testament word for repentance is a word translated, you could say, shouve. It means to turn or return, such as in Isaiah 55 and verse 7, let the wicked forsake his way and the unrighteous man his thoughts, and let him return unto the Lord. Our Psalm 85 and verse 4, turn us, O God, of our salvation. Cause thine anger towards us to cease. Unless you think this is just an Old Testament concept in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 and verse 9, we read of those early believers at Thessalonica. Paul says that you turn to God from idols. to serve the true and living gods. One of the helpful pictures the Bible gives us of repentance. is of turning around. A person is walking in one direction. They're walking and the paths of wickedness, they're walking on the road to destruction and then they turn around. They do an about face and they walk in the opposite direction. We have a New Testament concept for that. It's the word conversion to turn. Now I need to make two clarifications. This turning is primarily a matter of the heart and is not to be confused with some outward action. Just because a person walks an aisle or cries a river of tears or even pays restitution does not mean that they have truly repented. As I've just mentioned, an example of Judas, reformation is not repentance. Repentance is a turning of the heart. Listen carefully. To this passage in Joel chapter 2 and verse 12, turn ye even to me, the prophet says, with all your hearts And with fasting and with weeping and with mourning, and rend your heart and not your garments, and turn unto the Lord your God, for he is gracious. and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness You see, it's possible for a person to go through the emotions and rent their garments as they would do in the Old Testament to show their repentance. Put sackcloth on their head. Put on a big show to fast and pray. But he says, rend your heart and not your garments. Repentance involves a real turning in our hearts. I always remember the story of Billy Sunday, a man who had an unorthodox method of preaching, and a man who often preached against sin. And once at the end of one of his services, a man came up and he said to Billy Sunday, you rubbed my fur the wrong way. And Billy Sunday says, well then turn the cat around. And I want you secondly to notice that repentance will look differently to different individuals. The repentance of a five-year-old child is quite a bit different than a 50-year-old drug addict. But they both involve a turning of the heart. Repentance also involves a real change. The New Testament word for repentance is a word that literally means a change of mind. It's the word metanoia. And what it means is that a person suddenly has a completely different perception of their situation. A person like this says to themselves, what I am doing is wrong. This is wicked. This is displeasing to the Lord. Let me hasten to add that repentance is not strictly an intellectual exercise. It changes everything. It changes your mind, the way you think. is differently. It changes your emotions. You will feel differently. It changes your will. You will want to do things differently. And it will inevitably lead to a change of actions. One of the great pictures of repentance in the Bible is the prodigal son. The climax of that story, it says, and when he came to himself in verse 17, when he was there feeding the swine, and he was so Hungry. He was starving to such a degree that even their food looked good. And he came to himself. He said, in essence, what am I doing here? The path that I've been following is going to lead to death and utter destruction. This is foolishness. And he begins to think of his father and his father's graciousness. The father, of course, symbolic of God himself. He has a change of mind about himself. Before he thought he was so clever, so smart and resourceful. Now he sees he's a fool. He has a change of mind about God. Represented by his father, and he has a change of mind about his sin. Repentance changes everything And if there is no change, there is no repentance. Thirdly, under this heading, I want to say that repentance is necessary for salvation I believe it's a necessary part of the gospel. I know that there are some Christians who strongly object to this. They say that to make repentance essential to salvation is to add works to the gospel. And because they have a misunderstanding of repentance, they have a misunderstanding of its necessity. I remember when I was in seminary, I was newly married, and my wife and I were working at a little church about 30 minutes from seminary and I would go there on the weekends and minister and during uh the last few months that I was there The pastor resigned and this little country church was in complete disarray. There was a vacuum of leadership. And there was a man who, in this time of crisis, made his way onto the board, and he told the man. I don't want that young man in seminary ever preaching from the pulpit again here. And why was that? Because I preached on the necessity of repentance for salvation. And in his mind, that was a work salvation. I was a heretic. And so the final months I was there, I never preached in that church again. To him, repentance was saying that a person had to do something, that they had to whip up some tears and clean up their act. And that's what I was saying when I said that repentance was necessary. But that is not what I was saying. That's not what the Bible teaches. We do not merit or earn our salvation Through the tears that we shed, or the works of restitution that we do, these are but the fruits of something that is changed deep in our heart. Something that God has wrought. I want to show you that this is indeed essential. I'm not going to have us turn to this because of time, because there are so many scriptures involved. The earliest message we read of Christ in Mark chapter 1 and verse 15 is this, repent ye and believe the gospel. Repent ye and believe the gospel. In Luke chapter 13, Jesus says, Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. And in Luke's account of the Great Commission, he tells his disciples that this is what they are to preach throughout the world and that repentance and remission of sin should be preached in his name among all nations. How did Jesus summarize the message of the gospel? It was a message about repentance and forgiveness. In Acts chapter 17 and verse 30, we read that God commandeth all men everywhere to repent. In Acts chapter 20, when Paul is speaking to the elders at Ephesus, he's saying his farewell to them. He describes his ministry among them in this way that he preached. repentance towards God and faith towards our Lord Jesus Christ. Now some people would object and say, well, what about all those passages that just say believe? For instance, when the Philippian jailer fell down before Paul and said, what must I do to be saved? And Paul said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved in thy house. The answer to that objection is that you can't really believe on Jesus without repenting. They are like two sides of the same coin. If you have a coin And you're looking at the head side of it. On the other side, there's the tail side. You can't hold one without the other. We see this in the story of the rich young ruler, where this man, who seemed like a prime candidate to be saved, came to Jesus. But Jesus didn't lead him in the sinner's prayer. He didn't say to him, just believe. I think this man would have been happy to do anything like that. But Jesus pinpointed the sin of his life and that man went away sorrowing because he did not have genuine repentance I'm told by church growth experts that only about 4% of those who make a profession of faith really end up following Christ. Four percent. Why is this? There are probably many reasons But certainly one of them is that in many cases we have failed to stress the need for repentance. We have not really dealt with the matter of sin. We have made salvation simply a ticket to heaven and nothing more. But the Bible says that when a person has really come to trust in Christ, they recognize that it was Christ who died for their sins, that it was their sins that necessitated his death on the cross. And so how can they hold on to their sin and the gift of the Savior at the same time? Repentance is the work of God in the heart of a sinner that results in a change of mind, a turning from sin to God. But I want you to know that repentance is not just for lost people. It's not just for those who have Yet to be saved, repentance is necessary for the restoration of Christians who have fallen into sin. Martin Luther said that the Christian life is a life of repentance. And although I disagree with him about many things, I think he was right about that. Certainly the most prominent example we have in Scripture. Of this is the sweet psalmist of Israel, King David. You remember the story? Of how he committed adultery with Bathsheba, the wife of Uriah the Hittite. And then to cover up his sin, he had Uriah murdered. He lived in this secret sin for at least nine months. Psalm 32 and Psalm 38 were likely written about this time, and they reveal a man who was in physical and psychological and spiritual agony. And so the Lord mercifully sent a prophet by the name of Nathan who rebuked him. And David condemns himself, as Nathan tells him, this parable, and he says, As the Lord liveth, the man that hath done this thing shall surely die. And in those words he condemned himself. And Nathan says to David, Thou art the man And in the very next verse we read in 2 Samuel 12, 13, David says, I have sinned against the Lord. And Nathan says, the Lord. Hath also put away thy sin, thou shalt not die. Now when we read that, it all seems so simple David did these horrible things. And all she says is, I've sinned. And Nathan says, essentially, you're forgiven. And so God has given us Psalm 51 that reveals to us the broken heart of someone who has truly repented of their sin. Let me read some of this to you. This is what a repentant person sounds like. Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness. according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgressions, wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. You see this desperate desire that he has to be clean, to be pure. For I acknowledge my transgression and my sin is ever before me against thee. Thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight that thou mightest be justified. When thou speakest and be clear when thou judgest. Behold, I was shapen in iniquity and in sin did my mother conceive me He is not here making an excuse for his sin. He is not saying that somehow his mother sinned in the moment he was conceived. He is saying that from the moment of conception he has had the sinful nature, and it is yet with him. Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts, and in the hidden parts thou shalt make me to know wisdom And then the verses that we read together, purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me and I shall be whiter than snow. Make me to hear joy and gladness of the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. Hide thy face from my sins. Blot out all my iniquities. Create in me a clean heart, O God. Renew a right spirit within thee. Cast me not away from thy presence. Take not thy Holy Spirit from me. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation and uphold me with thy free spirit. And verses 13 and following, he begins to talk about the results of his confession and repentance that he hopes to see. Then will I teach transgressors thy ways and sinners shall be converted unto thee. unto thee, deliver me from blood guiltiness, O God, thou God of my salvation, and my tongue shall sing aloud of thy righteousness. O Lord, open thou my lips, and my mouth shall show forth thy praise. For thou desirest not sacrifice, else would I give it. Thou delightest not in burnt offerings. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart. O God, thou wilt not despise. The good and thy good pleasure undesigned. Build thou the walls of Jerusalem. Then shalt thou be pleased with the sacrifices of righteousness with burnt offerings and whole burnt offerings. Then shall they offer bullocks upon thine altar. This is what a repentant heart sounds like. This is what a person who has really broken over their sin feels. And David was forgiven and restored in Psalm 32, which he wrote. After it was all over, blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven. Let me ask you, do you know that happiness? that your sins have been forgiven. You might be here this morning And you have never truly repented of your sin. You might consider yourself a Christian because there was a time in your life when you felt convicted. We've seen that doesn't mean that you've truly repented and been saved. You might think and rest in the fact that you enjoy hearing the preaching of the word and and that's the basis of their assurance. Well Herod enjoyed hearing John the Baptist. He may point to good deeds that you have done. But my friend, have you turned from your sin? Has there been a change in your hearts? Have you come to hate your sin and to love the Savior? Or the story of a boy who got his hand stuck inside an expensive vase. His parents tried desperately to get his hand free. They used soap and then they tried cooking oil And they were about to break that expensive glass when the boy said, Would it help if I let go of the change in my hands? We're so often like this little boy. We want to hold on to some treasured possession, some sin in our lives. This is such a big problem with so many Christian people. I've heard many confessions in my life as a pastor, of things that I never would have imagined about people. And I'm so glad that they have done that. And I have seen people restored. from really, really serious sin and put back into great fellowship with the Lord. But I often think that those confessions are like the tip of the iceberg. There's so many other things that people have done that they never ever will confess, they never will admit, they never will turn from. And they live their life without joy, without peace, without assurance. They're going through the motions. They may still come to church. But it's not the delight of their heart because they're not truly worshiping gods. And they will not give up that cherished sin. They're like that child holding on to that change. And they have believed the lies of Satan that for them to repent, for them to acknowledge their sin is just too costly. It would be embarrassing for them. It would be so disappointing to their spouse. They might lose their job. What would people think of me at church if I really came clean? When a person has truly repented, they say, I want to be right with God no matter what the cost is. That's when you know that you have come to the place of repentance. I want to urge you to think of David's example. Do you know the blessedness of having your transgressions forgiven? That is the beauty of the gospel. That is the glory of the cross that we as wicked, sinful people can be forgiven through the blood of our Savior. I would encourage you, if you do not know the Lord, to seek the Lord today And if you are a child of God, but you are living in sin, I would encourage you that it is not worth it. And that God desires that you repent, confess, and forsake your sin, and renew that fellowship and joy with Him. Let's close in prayer. Father, we ask that you would use the words that have been spoken this morning for your purposes. Undoubtedly There are people in our midst who are lost, who are trusting in sand and not the rock, our Savior. And there are others who indeed are your children, but they are living in the misery of unconfessed sin, like David did for all those months. I pray that you would show them, Father, the foolishness of this, the wickedness of their sin, and the wondrous redemption that is found at the cross. Help them, Lord. To seek your forgiveness and restoration today. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.