We are continuing in our study on 1 Thessalonians, and we are into chapter 3 this evening. And our memory verse for tonight comes out of 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, and I'm not sure why the uh reference isn't showing up, but it's verses 5 and 6. So we will have to remember that. 1 Thessalonians 5, verses 5 and 6. Let's stand together and we'll say this through two times. First Thessalonians five, five through six for you are all children of light, children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness. So then let us not sleep as others do But let us keep awake and be sober. 1 Thessalonians 5, 5 through 6. For you are all children of light. children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness. So then let us not sleep as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober. But we are continuing in our study on this short epistle of 1 Thessalonians, just five chapters And if you remember how the book lays itself out, there are two main divisions. The first three chapters is a look back at God's work among the Thessalonians. and the work of the apostles and the missionary team as they ministered there in in Thessalonica, and also what God had done and how they had responded to the gospel. The first chapter is really a chapter that's full of thankfulness for what God had done among them. And in the second chapter, there's a reminder of how Paul acted along with his missionary team. But it's kind of a defense. He's defending against the accusations that he had somehow done ministry for personal gain or with uh with uh ulterior motives. And he just reminds them, you know how we lived among you, you know how we carried ourselves, you know how we worked, you know how we came in among you. You know that we came in as those who had just come from a public, shameful beating in Philippi, and we were still bearing the marks of that beating on our bodies. And we came in not with fanfare, but with humility, not trying to flash our knowledge, but to preach Christ and Him crucified alone. We didn't come in trying to gain money. We worked to provide for our means. We didn't come in to try to sub seduce the women in the community. We were upright and moral before you. you know how we lived among you. And he's defending their ministry against accusations that have doubtlessly come. And then in chapter three He's rejoicing because he has sent Timothy away back to Thessalonica to give an idea of the ministry there to strengthen the believers, and Timothy has come. with a good report. And that's what we're going to find here in chapter three. The first verse, every time I read this, I think back to my college days. Because this was my sister and her now husband, then fiancé's life verse during this time. And I sent her a message tonight just saying, hey, guess what verse I'm preaching on? And I told her, she's like, Ah, yes, I remember that. I don't think it's her life verse anymore, but at the time it was. And I'll give you the background. It says, Therefore when we could bear it no longer, we were willing to be left behind in Athens alone. Her husband is from Athens, Georgia. And she said, we could bear it no longer. We are willing to be left in Athens alone. I think it's every engaged couple's desire. So every time I read this, I think about that. It's a little bit different context to what Paul's writing here. But this is a great passage of scripture, and it really reveals the heart of the Apostle Paul and the ministry that he had among them. It is an example for all of us. You may not have a very public ministry, or you may have a public ministry. None of us are apostles. But the heart that we see in the Apostle Paul and his ministry team is a heart that is to be exemplified in all of the ministries that God has placed us in. Each one of us have ministries, whether it's a Sunday school class, whether it's a children's church class, whether it's a Bible study, whether it's our children, whet Whether it's our spouse, whether it's someone in our neighborhood and our community or at work, we all have ministries And people that God has called us to minister to. And the heart of the Apostle Paul that's exemplified throughout this book, but in these verses here in particular tonight is something that we ought to exemplify. And I jokingly call this the when love just can't take it any longer passage. Because Paul mentions twice in here that he just can't bear it any longer. Let's just read these first five verses. He says, Therefore, when we could bear it no longer, we were willing to be left behind at Athens alone. And we sent Timothy, our brother and God's co-worker in the gospel of Christ, to establish and exhort you in your faith. That no one be moved by these afflictions, for you yourselves know that we are destined for this. For when we were with you, we kept telling you beforehand that we were to suffer affliction. just as it has come to pass, and just as you know. For this reason, when I could bear it no longer, I sent to learn about your faith For fear that somehow the tempter had tempted you, and our labor would be in vain. As we continue on here, This is the theme of the book of Thessalonians, continue to grow in faith, hope, and love in light of Christ's imminent return. And we see him pressing this reality even in this chapter, does they need to continue to grow in light in in faith, open love in light of Christ. imminent return. And last week we mentioned that there's three divisions here in this section. Paul's love and reason for his continued absence comes out in the last section we looked at and in this section Paul's love expressed by sending Timothy. And then in verses 6 through 13 we see that Paul's love is reciprocated. in the Thessalonians. What do we learn about Paul's love here? The heart of a Christian minister. We see here that he has a deep, affectionate interest in their spiritual well-being. Whatever ministry that God has placed you in, God calls you to have a deep, affectionate interest in the spiritual well-being of those that He has called you to minister to. You notice he begins with the word, therefore, when we could bear it no longer. The chapter begins with this word, therefore. pointing back to the love that Paul had just expressed, the love of the reason why he was he was absent even though he loved them so deeply. And he had just expressed How he had longed to come visit them. He had eagerly, not just longed internally, but externally had made significant efforts to try to come, but there was a satanic hindrance that had kept him from being able to come visit them time and again. And he says in verse 19, For what is our hope or joy or crown of boasting before our Lord Jesus at his coming? Is it not you? For you are our glory and our joy. He talked about the fact when he left, he was torn away from them. Remember we mentioned that word is like the word orphaned. He was orphaned. that it was like uh the s the parting of parents when they will never see their child again or they fear they may never see their child again. And he felt like he was bereaved of his children in Thessalonica because of the persecution that came that forced him to leave the countr the the region. But it was a satanic hindrance that kept him from being able to come back and visit them, even though his love for them was so intense. You ever wonder when you see something like this? We know Satan's at work. And we know that the Lord works all things together for good to those who love him, to those who are called according to his purpose. What good did God work through these satanic hindrances? Well pretty quickly I think we can think of at least two that are pretty evident. One, the letter we're reading today. We have this here in Scripture today because of the fact that he was thrust out of there and he had to write this letter. If he'd been able to stay and establish them in the faith, he wouldn't have had a need to write this letter. And we wouldn't have this instruction. We wouldn't have a lot of information, especially about things like eschatology. This is one of the most significant books in the Bible regarding eschatology, and we wouldn't have that if it wasn't for the fact that that he was thrust out and unable to return. Secondly, the sending and maturing of Timothy as a disciple. So Paul had to send Timothy back, and Timothy grew in spiritual maturity and ministerial ability through this time. So what Satan meant to destroy, God actually brought good and eternal good and great good for many more. So you see that God works all things together for good to them who love God. And that's an encouragement for us when we don't we come across realities in our lives and say, what is God doing? I don't understand. Why has God allowed Satan to hinder this? Well God is working a great good that we must trust him for. But notice also in this beginning of chapter three that he starts off with these plural pronouns. And he's saying the the team here is is in agreement with this. It's not just his love, but it's the entire team. We have Paul and Silas and Timothy. They're expressing their love to But he said that we could bear it no longer This is an irrepressible love that Paul had for the Thessalonian believers. It's a love that demands, you might say, to burst out. A love that demands to burst out in action. This deep love and intense joy that Paul had for the Thessalonians was irrepressible in light of the persecution he knew was coming to the Thessalonian believers. It was like a balloon that someone's blowing up, and it got to the point where it just had to explode. And Paul said, when we could bear it no longer. The actual word is used to describe the hull of a ship that that holds out the sea. And when it bursts, when the sea comes in, maybe through uh hitting a rock or something, it bursts open, he said, we could bear it no longer. And the sea waters rush in. We had to do something about this. And he says it twice in this passage of Scripture. In verse 1 and in verse 5. In verse 5, he says, when I could bear it no longer. You remember this same word that was used in 1 Corinthians chapter 13, the love chapter, and describes that love bears all things or love endures all things. But here he says, I love you so much I can't endure it. So it's one of those interesting plays that happens where he says, My love is so great, I can't endure not knowing about your well-being. Not doing something to establish your well-being. His love was so great that it couldn't endure not taking action. for their good. And so he says, I couldn't endure waiting any longer. I must take action. But I can't go. Satan has hindered me. It's not possible for me to return. And so we have to find another way of doing it. The word here kind of is similar. If you are a parent and you've ever had a child with the family vehicle. And they're out at night and they're saying, hey dad, I'm going to be coming home at such and such a time. And then they call you and they say, I'm on my way home. And you're like, okay, from such and such a place, you should be home in, you know, 30 minutes, 25 minutes, whatever it is, and then an hour goes by. And you're like, what is going on? Where are they? And you begin to wonder, you start thinking, well, you know, in this day and age, you you just call them on the cell phone and they don't answer and And you know, because they're not supposed to answer when they're driving, of course. And so they don't answer or just go straight to voicemail and you begin to wonder, and you're going, what has happened to them? Another half an hour perhaps goes by. This has probably never happened to any parent. But it's just a theory here. And you're going, what is going on? And at some point You can bear it no longer. And you say, I'm going to drive the route that they would normally travel home and see if they are wrecked on the side of the road or they had a their vehicle is broken down. I just can't bear it any longer. And so you travel down that road and just as you're pulling out, they pull in and you say, Where were you? Oh, I stayed a little longer and I someone else came and well why did you answer my phone Okay , then I'm silent. But you know, Paul is saying the same idea here. I could bear it no longer. I had to know your condition. I had to know your spiritual state. Had Satan deceived you, had the persecutions been so great that you had fallen away? And I couldn't stay here and be content any longer. I had to do something about it. And I was unable to go myself, so I sent Timothy to go and to check on you. You see this this love that is deeply concerned for their spiritual well-being. He has a deep affection. This is the way it ought to be for us when we are ministering to people. We can't just have a casual, well, I hope they do well I hope they walk with the Lord. No, our hearts are gripped. They're stirred. There's like something inside of us that says, I have to know how they are doing. I have to make sure that they are walking with the Lord. I have to do what I can to be able to minister to them. The love that the Apostle Paul demonstrates here. is a beautiful example for us. Secondly, we see him that he's willing to make personal sacrifices for their spiritual well-being. Let's just kind of get a bit of a the lay of the land of what's going on here in this chapter. He describes we were willing to be left behind at Athens alone. You're like, well, how did he get to Athens? What's going on here? Well you remember Paul and Silas were forced to leave Thessalonica. In Acts chapter 17, verses 9 and 10, it says, And when they had taken money, meaning the government had taken money from Jason and the rest, they let Jason go. The brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea. And when they arrived, they went into the Jewish synagogue. So Paul and Silas had had to flee in the night. They arrive in Berea and they jump right back into ministry. They don't have any classes on how to deal with trauma. They just jump right back into ministry full bore. So they traveled to Berea, they minister there, but the Jews from Thessalonica came and they began to stir up the same trouble And they stirred up against the Apostle Paul. So the brothers were forced to make Paul leave for his own safety, and there he went to Athens. And when he arrived in Athens, he gave strict instructions that Silas and Timothy were to come and join him. We read about this in Acts chapter 17. Those who conducted Paul brought him as far as Athens, and after receiving a command for Silas and Timothy to come to him as soon as possible. They departed. So they brought him to Athens. They said, we're heading back. He said, you tell those guys I want them to come here as soon as possible. I need to see them. I can't be here by myself. So we have them being in Philippi, that they travel down here to Apollonia, to Thessalonica, they go to Berea, and then on down to Athens, which is actually off our map slightly. We'll see in the next map. When Silas and Timothy meet up with Paul in Athens, they decide to send Timothy back to Thessalonica. There in Athens they say, we need to send Timothy back to check on the spiritual condition. We know the believers are facing persecution. This is a serious matter. And they're young in their faith. We're reading about this right here in the verses that we're reading this evening. And it seems likely that shortly after this, based on what we will see here in a moment, Paul sends Silas back to Philippi. So he he sends he sends Timothy to Thessalonica, and he sends he sends Silas to Philippi. This is all in the area of Macedonia, as you can see. And that's important because of what we'll read in Acts chapter 18, verses 1 through 5. I just kind of cut out a couple verses in between to make it a little bit easier to read. It says, and after this, Paul left Athens and went to Corinth. And then when Silas and Timothy arrived from Macedonia, Paul was occupied with the word, testifying to the Jews that Christ was Jesus. And so we see Paul leaves Athens, he goes to Corinth, he begins an 18-month ministry there in Corinth. And while he's there in Corinth, Paul, or Timothy and Silas return now from Macedonia. They return from Macedonia from Thessalonica and Philippi and they return to Corinth and they meet together. And it's at this meeting that Paul gets the good word that the Thessalonian believers are doing well and that they long for him in return. And Paul is writing from Corinth. immediately after reuniting with Timothy and hearing this good report of their spiritual condition. So you have a bit of the map here. You can see Philippi, Apollonia, Thessalonica, Berea, then you go all the way down to Athens, down here, and then over to Corinth. And you see the journey that they had made. These were not quick, easy journeys, but very treacherous and long, tiresome journeys that would take significant amounts of time. But it's in this point, at while he's at Corinth. That he gets word from Thessalonica and he is encouraged. But it was while he was at Athens, he's all the way down here in Athens, that he sends Timothy back to Thessalonica. And he sends Silas back to Philippi. And he stays down here in Athens by himself. And then he travels over to Corinth and begins ministering there in Corinth. Paul says, I was willing, because of my great love for you, when I could bear it no longer, I was willing to make a great personal sacrifice for the sake of you, Thessalonian believers. Solo ministry is fraught with danger. Wherever it is, it's fraught with danger. Paul wasn't simply making YouTube videos in some the safety of some private studio. He was traveling to synagogues where he was preaching the gospel to people who did not want to hear the gospel. Or he was standing in the agora or the public square. And he was preaching to people who were idolaters and hated his message and would start riots when he would preach the gospel to them. He had a knack for winning friends and influencing people. He had a knack for causing riots wherever he went. And when you do that, there's always safety and number. At least someone can protect you. They can get your back. But Paul said, I was willing to be vulnerable. I was willing to be by myself and let you travel up there so that I could know of your spiritual condition. But in addition, the Apostle Paul was not a healthy man. He'd been through much, much ministerial suffering. He had endured multiple beatings by this point in time in his life. He had even been stoned and left for dead. His body was racked with significant pain because of the suffering that he had endured. In his letter to the Galatians, he describes the fact that he ministered to them even and they had to endure observing and dealing with some physical infirmity of his. Just reading it in Galatians chapter 4, he says, you know it was because of a bodily ailment that I preached the gospel to you at first. And we're not told what that bodily ailment is or why that caused him to stop there and preach the gospel. Perhaps he wasn't able to travel any further. And he says, and though my condition was a trial to you. You did not scorn or despise me, but received me as an angel of God, as Christ Jesus. What then has become of your blessedness? For I testify to you that if possible, you would have gouged out your eyes and given them to me. And he's describing the love of the Galatians for him, but he does it in such a way that many people think that Paul had some serious eye condition. Possibly the result of malaria, possibly the result of the event where he met the Lord Jesus in that bright shining light on the road to Damascus. Some people think that he was nearly blind. We don't know. But there was some significant infirmity that was that was a trial to the Galatians to deal with him. And so Paul to be left alone in Athens, where there was great danger, and where his own physical health was limited, was a significant sacrifice for him. But along with this, Paul sent his very best to the Thessalonians. And that's what he's trying to express to them. I sent my very own, my very best, my faithful companion. He says, we sent Timothy, our brother, and God's co-worker in the gospel of Christ. So Timothy was not only his son in the face, but he was a brother And he was a very trusted coworker. When he calls him brother, he's not just simply saying that he is he is a Christian. He's saying that he is a partner in ministry. Timothy is much younger than the Apostle Paul. And so Paul is pouring out his credentials, you might say, on Timothy. He's my brother. He's my associate. He's my partner in ministry. And I sent him to you. I depended on him, and I sent him to you. Paul speaks about Timothy as well, and he calls him God's co-worker. I don't know how that that phrase strikes you when Paul says he's God's co-worker. Some people have in fact there are ancient texts of this of this um of this epistle where the scribe writing it said that sounds a little Dangerous. And so they would change it so that it wouldn't sound like God needed a co-worker. And you'll see some of the ancient texts of First Thessalonians where they changed that word to make it seem like not seem like that God had a need. But that's an okay phrase. Maybe you're like, I don't know about that. Does that somehow diminish God's omnipotence like God needed a coworker? Well, God doesn't need a coworker. This in no wise diminishes God's omnipotence. God allows us to be his co-workers. And he calls us to do it. It exalts the status of the minister whom God has chosen to use. In 2 Corinthians chapter 5. We read this, therefore we are ambassadors for Christ, God making his appeal through us. I don't know if you ever thought about that, but God speaks through you. To the lost world around you. You are an ambassador, and when you preach the gospel, it's as if God is speaking through you. You are speaking on behalf of God. In 1 Corinthians chapter 3, Paul actually uses this designation as God's co-worker of himself and of his missionary team. He says, for we are God's fellow workers. You are God's field. God's building. And he says, we're God's fellow workers. God is doing this work. We are working. As his servants, we are sent into his field. We are building this building. We are doing this work, but it is the work of God. We get our orders and our spiritual strength from the Lord who allows us and who has called us into this work. Paul says, I sent Timothy, my brother, and God's co-worker in the gospel to you. Paul speaks highly of Timothy in many places in the New Testament. Philippians chapter 2 he says, I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, so that I too may be cheered by news of you, for I have no one like him. Who will be genuinely concerned for your welfare? I don't have anyone else that has that same heartbeat. So when Paul sends Timothy, it's not just, ah, I'm sending whoever I can, this this young kid, he'll work. No, he's saying Timothy is my brother. He's my son. He's God's co-worker. He has the same heart as me. I'm sending you my very best. In 1 Corinthians 4, he says, That is why I sent you Timothy, my beloved and faithful child in the Lord, to remind you of my ways in Christ, as I teach them everywhere in every church. So Paul is stressing to them. That he has sent him as an example of his deep sacrificial love for them. So Christian love calls us not only to make personal sacrifices for the spiritual well-being of those we minister. But also to give our very best when we do minister. The third thing we see about the heart of the Christian minister here is that he has a strong desire to strengthen their spiritual state. If we continue reading here, he says, and we sent Timothy our brother and God's co-worker in the gospel of Christ to establish and exhort you in your faith, that no one be moved by these afflictions. So there's these afflictions that are coming on. Paul's going to speak about them. And Paul is sending him to establish them in the faith so they don't waver in their faith at all. The word established has the idea of making firm or setting fast. It's really a construction term. The idea of like of well this pa if you drive through New Windsor, there's a beautiful house in New Windsor that I pass every day. And there's a beautiful covered porch on the front, but the porch roof has begun to sag. And so they've recently propped it up while they do some work on constructing it with two sets of two by eight beams that are propping up the roof while they establish the column to make it secure. That's the the idea of this term. They are strengthening it. They are establishing it. And he says, I sent Timothy for the purpose of establishing you in your face, making sure your faith was strong and would endure. And God does this in a number of ways. One of the ways is he gives grace Through trials. Giving grace through trials is one of the things that God does. And he actually uses the same word in 1 Peter 5, verse 10. He says, After you have suffered for a little while. The God of all grace, who called you to it his eternal glory in Christ, will himself perfect, confirm Strengthen and establish you. That word confirm is the same word here that is to establish that through the trials God gives grace. And the purpose of that is to establish you in the faith. God works through trials to establish us. God also establishes the believers' faith through the truth of his word. And we see this. in first second peter chapter one. Therefore I shall always be ready to remind you of these things, even though you already know them and have been established in the truth with which is present with you. So he says, I'm going to remind you of these things. You already know them. I've already told you them, but I'm going to tell you again. And that tells you a little bit about the responsibility of A pastor. A lot of times on on a Sunday or on a Wednesday, we're telling you things that you already know, but we're bringing them to mind again. So that you are established in them for the coming week and the coming trials that you will endure in the week ahead. And so Paul says that it happens through the word of God. Strong faith comes through knowing all that God has revealed in His Word. And so this is one of the ways that we come under the Word of God on a regular basis to be established. He also does this in an interesting way. He uses the same word in Romans chapter 16, verse 25. Paul says to those who are already Christians. Now think about this. Paul's writing to Corinth Christians in Rome. And he says, now to him who is able to strengthen you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery that was kept secret for long ages. I think so often we think, the gospel, that's for people who aren't saved. Those who aren't saved, they need the gospel. We're okay. You just tell me what I need to do. Just tell me what I need to do. No, we all need the gospel. Paul is writing to Christians in Rome and he's saying, You need the gospel. You need the the message of Jesus Christ again so that you are strengthened according to it. We need to hear it so we'll be strengthened or established in our faith when we face trials. We need to be thinking of Christ so that we can respond like Christ did. And be strengthened to do so. We need to be preaching the gospel to ourselves. When we are called to forgive, we need to be thinking about the forgiveness that we've received in Christ. So we need to be preaching the gospel to ourselves. When we are depressed. We need to preach the gospel to ourselves so that our faith is strengthened, so that we respond appropriately. And we defeat the lies of the evil one. Timothy was sent to strengthen them, to encourage them. And he says here, to exhort. The word exhort here means to encourage. Really is the idea of urging or pleading or begging. It literally means to come alongside. Almost like you imagine a runner that's running in a race and there's the coach comes and he's just running next to him and he's encouraging him to continue on. In classic Greek, this was a word that was used to describe the exhorting of troops that were about to go into battle. To be courageous, to be brave, to be heroic in their battle. There was actually one Greek regiment which had lost heart and was utterly dejected And the general sent a leader to talk to them and he uses this word, encourage them, exhort them, come alongside of them so that they will do heroic deeds in battle. You can picture like a coach talking to his his his team at halftime. And he's encouraging them to this work. Paul says, I'm sending Timothy to strengthen you in truth and to encourage you to endure. Because you're experiencing trials. He says that no one be moved by these afflictions, for you yourselves know that we are destined for them. And we see here a fourth aspect, a fourth truth about the heart of a minister. He had an understanding of the realities of spiritual warfare. He understood the nature of the battle that these Thessalonian believers were in. Paul knew that trials could cause their faith to be shaken. That's what he says, that no one be moved. The word move there actually is literally the word for wagging a tail. Back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. And he's saying, we don't want you to be back and forth. We want you to be firm. We want you to be established. We don't want you wavering. He says that no one be moved by these afflictions. For you yourselves know that we are destined for them. Now some question whether the we here that we are destined for them. They say, is Paul saying that Paul and his missionary team, they're destined for sufferings. And that somehow that the Thessalonians heard about the sufferings that Paul's enduring in Corinth and it's shaking their faith. That's a possibility. The language here could indicate that. But most Bible students see this as Paul referring not to just his own afflictions. But the we meaning we, you, me, the Thessalonians, that we are destined for suffering. This is the lot that all believers on this earth are called to expect and endure. And he says this at the very end of verse 4, you'll notice he says, just as it has come to pass, and just as you know. So it seems like he's talking about a very personal experience to the Thessalonians. You know this suffering. The we seems to indicate not just Paul and his missionary team, but the Thessalonian believers as well. The reality is that trials can reveal the true nature of the faith of a person Remember the parable of the sower in Matthew 13? Jesus tells a parable, and there are four different soils that the seed is sowed on. The sower is out there and he's sowing seed in Matthew 13, and he describes the sower sowing seeds on four different soils. The soil that's the past. That's been hardened down and the seed can't get in, and the bird snatches it away. Then there's the rocky ground and the thorny ground, and last of all, the good ground, which is the one that indicates true salvation. Of that rocky soil. Jesus says in Matthew 13, 20. As for what was sown on rocky ground, this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy. Yet he has no root in himself, meaning he doesn't have true faith. But endures for a while, and when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately he falls away. So Paul says, I know the reality that you can be shaken by this type of trial. Paul knows that true falling away can come at times of persecution. Not that those who have fallen away lost their salvation, but they're revealing that they never had it. He has no root in himself. Now, Paul has a firm understanding of the sovereignty of God in salvation. So we need to understand here that just as God sovereignly Saves through means. He saves through people preaching the gospel. God sovereignly saves through means. In the same way God also works through means to keep his people in the faith. God uses means. God uses his word. God uses believers. God uses preaching to keep his people in the faith. That's what the book of Hebrews is really instruction about. Paul knew that there was a reality of a spiritual adversary. And he had a realistic view of these spiritual realities that he was up against. And so he said. I am sending Timothy to establish you and to encourage you to maintain in the faith. He didn't say, well, you know, if you're saved, you're saved. That's all there is to it. You're good to go. He said, no, you need to be established. You need to be encouraged to keep on believing. And that's what I'm going to do. I'm going to send Timothy to do that work He said in verse 5 that he feared lest the tempter had tempted you, and our labor would be in vain. He described them as people who could in chapter one who clearly had been born again. From his perspective. But he feared lest the tempter attempted them and their labor would be in vain. So he said, they need to be strengthened, they need to be established and encouraged in the faith. This is almost what he describes in verse 4 and verse 5. It's almost identical to what we read in 1 Peter chapter 5, where he says, Be sober-minded, be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion. Seeking someone to devour. Resist him firm in your faith. Knowing that the same kind of sufferings are being experienced by your brotherhood. Throughout the world. And after you have suffered a little while, the God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. How do you resist a lot the lies of the roaring lion? Well you said you've got to know some things You gotta be reminded of some truths. First of all, you need to know that these sufferings are normal. They are normative. What does he say here? He says, resist him firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of sufferings are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world. What you're experiencing, other believers are experiencing. There is no temptation taken you except that which is common to man. But God is faithful, who will not let you be tempted beyond what you are able to bear, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape. So whatever trial you're facing, whatever temptation you're facing is not unique to you. It is common. And that should encourage you. So when we know that, it strengthens us to endure. Secondly, he says here, by knowing that these sufferings are temporary. He says, and after you have suffered a little while, even if it lasts the rest of your life, it's temporary. Because it won't last throughout eternity. And this life is just a blip on the screen of eternity. And then he says, by knowing that these sufferings are purposeful. After you have suffered a while, the God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. God has a good purpose in these sufferings. And is maturing you in Christ through them. And in knowing those things, we are strengthened to endure trials Paul never gave a false hope of a Christian life without suffering. We don't see that at all You know, today there's a lot of people that say, you know, this is your best life now. Come to Christ, and everything will be better. Your marriage will be better, your finances will be better, your job will be better. Everything's going to be better But he says, you've come to Christ, now everything's going to be tough. You shouldn't be surprised that it's tough. Because I told you that. What does he say here? He says, you yourself know that we were destined for this. For when we were with you, we kept telling you beforehand that we were to suffer affliction, just as it has come to pass, and just as you know. So, what did we tell you? We didn't just tell you once or twice. We told you repeatedly. This is the common lot of believers. You should expect it. Jesus said, I have said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart, I have overcome the world. You see Paul, his standard teaching to the new churches, we see it in Acts 14, actually, verse 22. They're strengthening the disciples in churches that have been established, and he says. Through many tribulations, we must enter the kingdom of God. Doesn't sound like health and wealth. Doesn't sound like your best life now. He says, through many tribulations, we must enter the kingdom of God. Every Christian, in every generation, in every country. should anticipate this. Through many tribulations, we must enter the kingdom of God. It's not what so many people want to tell new converts. But didn't Jesus say, if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me? For whoever will save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. That's what Jesus said. Jesus didn't say, everything's going to be easy. He did say, I will give you peace. In me you will have peace. But he said in the world, you will have tribulation. You'll have an internal peace because of his presence with you. He states it repeatedly. When we were with you, we kept telling you beforehand. I love that as well. He said, we gave you an advanced warning. We told you beforehand, so that when it happened, it wouldn't catch you off guard. What is this persecution we're experiencing? No You need to know in advance. That's where a a Christian who loves those he's ministering to is going to tell him the truth. There are going to be trials. There are going to be difficulties, there are going to be hardships, and you need to be prepared for them. It doesn't does that Christian know good To tell him, you should expect easy sailing from this point on. Life's going to be a lot better now. Well, what's going to happen when he faces those trials that Christ said would happen? And the New Testament tells us does happen. He's going to be turned upside down. That's why so many people fall away from the faith because they were lied to at the beginning. Paul says, we repeatedly told you. beforehand, so that you would know these things. How much better is it to know beforehand that the Christian life requires suffering? Peter said something like this in 1 Peter 4:12, Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to you. It's not strange. It's standard. It comes with all models. You know, it's just the standard on every model. Suffering. Expect it. Don't be surprised. Don't be shaken. This is what we were told to expect. Jesus said the same thing to his disciples. Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. For which of you desiring to build a tower does not first sit down and count the cost whether he has enough to complete it? What's he saying? Count the cost. Count the cost of discipleship. Following me will be costly, but it will be worth it. We see the heart of the Apostle Paul in this. He has a deep, affectionate interest. and their spiritual well-being. He's willing to make deep personal sacrifices for their spiritual well-being. He has a strong desire to strengthen their spiritual state. And he has an understanding of the realities of the spiritual warfare that they are in. This is an encouragement for us as we minister to people that we need to have a heart that is very like this. As we minister to those that God has placed under our responsibility. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. Thank you for the example of the Apostle Paul I pray, Father, that you would give us a heart like this. A heart filled with love that overflows in deep affection. But wise affection, sacrificial affection that does what is best for those that you've called us to minister to. Help us, Father, to exemplify this. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.