We are looking at Psalm 118 this evening. So you have your Bibles, you can turn to Psalm 118. We'll be looking at verses 19 through 21. In the year ten seventy seven, King Henry the Fourth made a journey To a castle in Lombardy, Italy, the Canossa Castle, for the purpose of begging forgiveness from Pope Gregory VII. And in both men there really wasn't great uh piety or righteousness that was behind this. But when King Henry IV arrived at the castle gate, Pope Gregory gave the orders that the castle gate be barred to King Henry IV To show his submission, to show his true penitence. And King Henry For fear that he would lose the power that he had, chose to show himself to be a true penitent, and he waited outside for three days in the January cold, allegedly in a blizzard Allegedly barefoot, allegedly wearing a a hairy shirt alone. He waited three days in the snow until Pope Gregory VII felt that his penitence was sufficient and the gate was opened up for him. In this verse we have the passage we're looking at this evening, we have a gate that is opened. He says, Open to me the gates of righteousness, that I may enter through them, and give thanks to the Lord. This is the gate of the Lord. The righteous shall enter through it. I thank you that you have answered me and have become my salvation. Really, the theme of this psalm, Psalm 118, is one of thanksgiving. It begins by calling all people Jew and Gentile to give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. It begins by saying, Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. And it ends in verse 29 with the very same phrase: Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. The primary aspect of thanksgiving that we are called to remember here is a thanksgiving to the Lord because of his enduring, steadfast love. And as we look at these three verses that I just read a moment ago, twice more in these three verses, we are called to give thanks. We see here in verse 19, it says, Open to me the gates of righteousness that I may enter through them and give thanks to the Lord. And then in verse 21, I thank you. That you have answered me and have become my salvation. We've been going through the psalms that are known as the Egyptian Hallel. We get the word hallelujah from this word. There's Psalm 113 to Psalm 118. And these were psalms that were sung every year at the Passover feast. in remembrance of God's miraculous deliverance of the people of Israel from Egyptian slavery. Thus the term the Egyptian Halels. They are singing praise to the Lord for the deliverance that He has done. And just as the Passover celebration foreshadowed an ultimate Passover that Jesus would accomplish on our behalf on the cross. When you think of the Passover, you think of a deliverance of the people of Israel from Egyptian bondage, but ultimately the great Passover Lamb who delivers us from the ultimate bondage of our sin. In a similar way, this psalm has multiple layers. It has an obvious historical element, speaking of the Egyptian. Deliverance. It has a present element. Speaking of the psalmist 's own lifetime and how God has delivered him and his call to thanksgiving. But ultimately, this psalm, Psalm 118. Is about Jesus Christ. Ultimately, this psalm is about our Savior Jesus Christ. It's quoted numerous times in the New Testament about specifically our Savior Jesus Christ. Peter mentions this in Acts chapter 4. He speaks about verse 22. The stone that the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. He mentions this again in 1 Peter chapter 2. Our Lord Jesus mentions this in Matthew 21, that he is the stone which the builders rejected. And we're going to look at that, Lord willing, next month. We have the phrase Hosanna or Hoshana, which is save now That the the worshipers sang and chanted as Jesus rode in on the colt, the foal of a donkey, on that Sunday before the crucifixion. And that is mentioned in Matthew 21, verse 9. It's also mentioned in John 12, 13. And where do they get that from? Well, it came from verse 25 of this psalm. where it says, save us, we pray, O Lord. They were quoting Psalm 118. It was obviously on their lips and in their minds as they knew this was One of the psalms that would be sung, one of the Egyptian halels that would be sung in the Passover feast. But also our Savior Jesus. Quotes this psalm about himself in Matthew 23, 39, when he says, For I tell you You will not see me again until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Speaking of that ultimate day of victory and deliverance. when the nation of Israel will recognize their Messiah is Jesus Christ. And they'll say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And they will recognize him and worship him and receive him at the end of the tribulation period. And this is found, of course, in verse 26 of this psalm. So ultimately, this psalm is about Jesus Christ. It is a psalm about our Savior Jesus Christ. It is the overarching focus of the words of this psalm. And we are called here to give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. And the idea of the steadfast love of the Lord is that it is ultimately revealed in Jesus Christ himself. His steadfast the steadfast love of the Lord is revealed in the person and the work of Jesus Christ on the cross of Calvary. So when we come to this Psalm, there is much that has to do with Jesus Christ. It is a psalm that teaches us of our Savior. And it's for this reason that we are We are exhorted to give thanks because of the steadfast love of the Lord that is revealed in the person And in the work of Jesus Christ, in his life, and in his death and resurrection. In these verses before us, we have several things that we are encouraged to give thanks to the Lord for as we look at them. And first of all, it's good for us to give thanks to the Lord. For Jesus Christ victoriously entered the presence of God. When we come to this phrase, we read that open to me the gates of righteousness. that I may enter through them and give thanks to the Lord. I don't know about you, but that's not a phrase that we use frequently in our average speech. The gates of righteousness. What are the gates of righteousness? What does the psalmist mean here? What does the Holy Spirit mean when he says, open to me the gates of righteousness? The image is of a victorious king returning to his city. And as he approaches the gates of the city, he says, open the gates. And the king is able to march in, perhaps with his army following behind him, because they have been victorious and they're returning in safety. The gates here could refer to the gates of the city of Jerusalem. They could refer to the gates of the temple because both the city of Jerusalem and the temple had gates. And they had to be open so that the processors could walk through them. And either one is appropriate since the temple, the place where the presence of the Lord was, was of course in Jerusalem. And so both of them could be what is being referred to. When we think of the gates of righteousness. They are the gates of righteousness because they are only open to the righteous because they enter into the presence of God. Jerusalem was the city of the living God. The temple was the house of the living God. And so to come into his presence, one must be righteous to enter into the presence of the holy and righteous God. David spoke of this in Psalm 24, when he said, Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord? meaning the place where the temple is? Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord, and who shall stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully. He will receive blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation. He says, the one who can come into the presence of the Holy God, who can stand before the righteous God, is one who must be pure in heart and in action. But it's a righteousness not that is earned, but a righteousness that is received. Notice he says he will receive blessing from the Lord. And righteousness from the God of his salvation. It is a righteousness that is received. And as we continue to study, we find out it's a righteousness that is received as a gift. By faith. David describes that only the righteous can come before the presence of the Holy One of Israel We see something like this in Revelation 21, when the New Jerusalem is described, it has 12 gates. And those twelve gates are never shut. Because nothing, he says, unclean, or no one that is detestable or that is false will ever enter in there, but only those whose names are found written in the Lamb's book of life. Only the one who is righteous, because of the righteousness of Christ, are able to enter in there. Just two verses later in Psalm 24, David exclaims, Lift up your heads, O gates. And be lifted up, O ancient doors, that the King of Glory may come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord, strong and mighty the Lord mighty in battle. And he continues to go on to describe the responsibility of the gates to exalt themselves as much as possible, to allow for the person Who is the King of glory to come in? Who is the Lord? Who is Yahweh, mighty in battle, the victorious conquering king, to enter into the gates of righteousness. We see that in this phrase here that the Lord is saying, open to me the gates of righteousness that I may enter in. Jesus is commanding that the gates be opened to him because he has offered the perfect sacrifice. And he has been accepted by the Father. He doesn't come with a humble request, please open to me the gates. Have mercy on me and open the gates. It doesn't come like Henry IV had to come before the Pope on bended knee. He comes with an exclamation, open to me the gates of righteousness. He comes on his own merit, worthy and accepted and righteous. It's what we read in the latter verses of Psalm 24. Lift up your heads, O gates, and be lifted up, O ancient doors, that the king of glory may come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord strong and mighty. The Lord mighty in battle. The gates of righteousness. Are the righteous gates that Christ enters into because of his own merit. However, Jesus didn't merely walk through the gates of the temple or merely walk through the gates of the city of Jerusalem. But the Bible teaches us that he entered into the very presence of the God of heaven, into the very throne room of God. In Hebrews chapter 9, verses 23 and 24, it says, thus it was necessary for the copies of the heavenly things to be purified with these rights. And he's speaking about the copy of these heavenly things, meaning the earthly temple. It is right that they'd be purified by the sacrifice of lambs and of goats and of bulls. But the heavenly things themselves, with better sacrifice than these. For Christ has entered not into holy places made with hands. He has not entered into a temple made with hands. He hasn't entered into a temple that is of stone and of wood and of gold and of silver He said, these are copies of the true things, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf. Christ comes in in his own merit, righteous, into the presence of God. Our Savior and Lord is not merely entering a man-made temple. But into the very presence of God, and none but the very perfectly righteous are accepted there. It's interesting that again in the book of Hebrews. It begins by exclaiming that Jesus is the final word from the Father. And he says this because he is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. And he upholds the universe by the word of his power. And then he says this: after making purification for sin, he sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. Our Lord, when he finished his sacrifice, he came into the throne room of the thrice holy God. And he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. Because he is the victorious, righteous, conquering king. It is this triumphant reality that is expressed by the command of our Savior, open to me the gates of righteousness. That I may enter in. And he was accepted. Because our Lord was accepted, and he is seated on the right hand of the majesty on high. The Bible says he ever lives to make intercession for us. We can have confidence. That's why we are called to have confidence to come in. Boldly into the very presence of God, into the throne room of God, that we might find grace to help in time of need. Why? Because at the very right hand of the Majesty on High sits our Savior who has been accepted for us. It is good for us to give thanks. Because Jesus Christ victoriously entered into the very presence of God. Secondly, it's good for us to give thanks to the Lord, for Jesus Christ fulfilled all righteousness. He says, Open to me the gates of righteousness that I may enter through them and give thanks to the Lord. This is the gate of the Lord. The righteous shall enter through it. The Bible tells us that the first Adam was created in untested righteousness and placed in a perfect environment And he failed. And he plunged the rest of the human race, all of us , into misery and sin and curse and destruction and death. But Jesus Christ, the second Adam, was born into a sin-cursed, broken world Surrounded by unrighteousness and injustice. The Bible says he was tempted in all points, just like we're tempted. Yet he remained blameless and righteous. The second Adam is the perfect righteousness that we all need. In Galatians 4, we are told that when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of a woman. born under the law, to redeem those who are under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. Just last Sunday we looked at the beginning of the Beatitudes, and we saw in the Sermon on the Mount that Jesus sought to awaken the conscience of his hearers. Not only by teaching them the full implication of God's law, he would say things like, You have heard it said , but I say to you. And he would explain the full implication of the law of God, that God's law demanded not merely external obedience, but also internal obedience. But also he said a remarkably shocking statement when he told the multitudes, be perfect as your Father in heaven is perfect. And he set the bar impossibly high for any man, woman, or child to ever meet. Not just external obedience, but internal obedience. Not just good obedience, but perfect obedience Yet Jesus made another startling statement in that sermon. When he said, Do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the prophets. I have not come to abolish them. But to fulfill them. For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not a yoda, not a dot will pass from the law until all is accomplished. He said, basically, what you are unable to do, to fulfill the righteous demands of the law, I will do. I have come to fulfill him. When Jesus said he did not come to destroy but to fulfill, he meant that he did not come to subvert, he did not come to annul the law. And if you were listening to his sermon, you could be tempted to think that he was somehow subverting the law, you have heard it said, but I say to you, but if you understand properly, he's saying, you have not understood the full weight of the law. But I say to you, this is the full weight of the law, and I have come to fulfill it. He said that he would embody those commands. That law in living form. It meant that he would perfectly obey the commands of the law and fulfill all that was prophesied about him in the Old Testament. Jesus fulfilled all righteousness by actively obeying the law of God. Theologians like to uh distinguish between Jesus's active obedience and his passive obedience. You've probably heard this phrase before. The Bible doesn't use the term, but it's it's a helpful concept. And the concept is simple enough to understand. Christ's active obedience refers to the act of obeying the definite commands of God's law, while his passive obedience refers to his humble submission to the will of the Father even to the point of death. And another element of that is his willingness to take the punishment that the law demanded for our sins. We see here Jesus' active obedience means that he perfectly obeyed in heart and in action all the commands. We see Jesus' active obedience exemplified throughout the pages of Scripture. Even as a child, Jesus perfectly obeyed the fifth commandment to honor his father and mother. And you can think back to Luke chapter 2. In that interesting event when as a twelve-year-old boy he goes to the temple and he's now a son of the law, and his parents are looking for him when they realize he is not in the caravan returning back to Nazareth. And they search for him for three days, and they finally find him in the temple. And they were astonished. And his mother says to him, Son, why have you treated us so? Behold, your father and I have been searching for you in great distress. And you can imagine the distress of a mother I mean if you've lost your child for 45 minutes or half an hour, you know the distress that comes. You lost your child in a grocery store. You know the distress that comes as you look for a child. Three days. Have gone by. But he says to them, Why were you looking for me? Did you not know that I must be in my father's house? And they did not understand the saying that he spoke to them. And the Bible says, and he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was submissive to them. And his mother treasured up all these things in her heart. Has she been doing all along the way? Apparently at some point there was a little bit of a disconnect in her heart where she didn't quite understand all that the angel had said to her. You know that these are the first recorded words of Jesus in the Bible. And he seems perplexed at their ignorance. And at their unbelief. Didn't the angel come and tell you that I was the Messiah? That I was the Son of God? That I would redeem Israel from her sins? Didn't you understand those things that were said to you? How is it that you didn't naturally assume that I would be in the temple? After all, at the age of 12, I'm a son of the law, that I would begin to learn my father's trade. But when he saw that they were clueless, he returned home with them and submitted himself to them in fulfillment of the fifth commandment. A beautiful example of even how our Savior Jesus Christ chose to submit to even his misunderstanding parents In obedience to the commands of God to fulfill the law of God on our behalf. His act of obedience included perfect obedience in thought, word, and deed to the entire Mosaic Law. Including Sabbath keeping and dietary restrictions, as well as the rest of the Ten Commandments. And it's for this reason that the very next verse in Luke 2 says that Jesus increased in wisdom and in stature and in favor. With God and man, because of his perfect act of obedience. This active obedience continued even under the severe testing of The Son by Satan himself after Jesus had endured 40 days of fasting in the wilderness. And he was tested severely by Satan. Just a couple months ago we studied John 8. 29, where Jesus said these amazing words. He says, And he who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him. What an amazing statement. That our Savior said, I always do the things that are pleasing to the Father. Perfect obedience. Jay Gresham Machin is a Baltimore native who's buried in Greenmont Cemetery in downtown Baltimore He was a professor at Princeton Seminary who became concerned with the liberalism that had overtaken the seminary, and he is a founder of Westminster Seminary. In 1936, he went out to the Dakotas to preach, and it was there that he contracted pneumonia. On January 1st, 1937, Machin went home to be with the Lord. One of the last things that he said shortly before he died, he sent a telegram to his friend John Murray, and he said this, so thankful for the active obedience of Christ. No hope without it. So thankful for the active obedience of Christ. No hope without it. I pray that we are so thankful for his active obedience on our behalf. But Jesus also fulfilled all righteousness by his passive obedience on the cross. Again, the idea of passive obedience refers to his total submission to the will of the Father to bear the penalty of our sins on the cross. The laws demands not only obedience, but it also prescribes punishments. And it's because of this reason that Christ became a curse for us. He took the punishment that the law demanded. He submitted to the punishment of the law that our sins demanded. And it's this ongoing surrender that he said in the garden, not my will, but yours be done. It's this Obedience that Paul was referring to in Philippians 2 when he said, being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. It's because of Christ's active and his passive obedience that throughout the Old Testament we have this reference to the righteous one. Then when we come to the New Testament, many times in the book of Acts, Jesus is described as the righteous one. The one who alone perfectly in thought, in word, and in action, actively obeyed the commandments of the Father and passively submitted to the will of the Father to die even for our sins. We ought to be thankful because he entered the presence of God victoriously, but secondly, because he fulfilled all righteousness. And lastly, as we look at this verse, it's good for us to give thanks to the Lord Jesus Christ, because he leads those whom he has made righteous into the presence of God. Notice what he says in verse 20. This is the gate of the Lord. The righteous shall enter through it. Now it's not very clear in our translation, but in verse 20 the word righteous is in plural. This is picturing That our Lord not only perfectly fulfilled all righteousness, but that he imputes that righteousness to us who come to him by faith. This is what Machin was referring to when he said, so thankful for the active obedience of Christ, no hope without it. That righteousness was his by faith. It was imputed to him by faith. It is this righteousness that Paul spoke of in Romans 3. 22 when he said that we are given the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ. for all who believe. And then in chapter four he says that the person who does not trust in his works, but rather believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his face is counted as righteousness. When we come to the Lord's Supper, we come to communion. We use the word communion even in our bulletin this morning. And it comes from 1 Corinthians chapter 10, where it says, the cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation? Is it not a communion? Is it not a fellowship in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation? Again, that same word, koinonia. Is it not a communion? Is it not a fellowship in the body of Christ? When we come and we receive of the bread and the cup, we're saying that his broken body Is ours. His blood that was shed is ours. His death was ours. His resurrection is ours. His righteousness is ours It is this reality that we delight in. I think of what Martin Luther said. He said A man can with confidence boast in Christ and say, Mine are Christ's living, doing, and speaking, his suffering and dying, mine as much as if I had lived, done, spoken, suffered, and died. as he did. Through faith in Christ, therefore, Christ's righteousness becomes our righteousness, and all that he has becomes ours, rather he himself. becomes ours. And it's this reality that we are testifying to this evening when we come to the communion table That it's his death for mine. His righteousness is mine. My sins became his I'd like us to look just briefly at one verse, and then we'll be closing here in just a moment. Would you turn your Bibles to Isaiah 53? I know I love Isaiah. the privilege of teaching through it, but Isaiah fifty three is probably the greatest, in my opinion, it's the greatest chapter in the Old Testament. But in Isaiah 53, we have the fullest explanation of the substitutionary death of Christ. And his resurrection. But in verses 10 and 11, we have this beautiful statement. He says, Yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him. He has put him to grief. When his soul makes an offering for guilt, he shall see his offspring. He shall prolong his days. And this is a reference to his resurrection. He will die. But he will see his offspring, he will prolong his days. The will of the Lord shall prosper in his hands. Then he says this Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied. By his knowledge, or by the knowledge of him shall the righteous one, my servant Make many to be accounted righteous. And he shall bear their iniquities. Shall the righteous one, my servant, make many To be accounted righteous. When we come and we read Psalm 118, and we read what it says here in verse 20, this is the gate of the Lord. The righteous ones shall enter through it. It is because the righteous one The perfectly righteous one suffered and died in our place. But it is also because he perfectly fulfilled all righteousness for us, so that we can be brought into the very presence of God. Hebrews 10 says that we have confidence to enter the holy place by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that he opened up for us through the curtain that is through his flesh. Mark 15 tells us that when Jesus Christ uttered his last and he breathes his last, that the curtain of the temple was torn from top to bottom. And the presence into the Holy of Holies, into the very presence of God, was open for us, not because of our own righteousness, but because the righteous one Died on our behalf. And by faith, we are given his righteousness as a gift And so when we come to the communion table, it is a time of remembrance of all that our Savior has done for us. But it also ought to be a time of thanksgiving. Like the song that Rebecca played before the service. A time to fall in love again with Jesus. Remembering all that he purchased for us in his death and in his perfect life. I have just a couple points of application, then we'll be done. First of all, only the perfectly righteous are acceptable before God. If you're here this evening and you are You are not found in Jesus Christ, then the Bible says that your righteousness, all of your righteousness, are like filthy rags They're putrid, rotting, disgusting garments. Your righteousnesses will never make you acceptable to God. It is only by coming in repentance and in faith in Jesus Christ that you are given the gift that you receive perfect righteousness. You can try to offer your righteousnesses up to God as a gift, but he's already said they're unacceptable. Christ has been accepted. And his righteousness is available to you. I urge you to come and receive him by faith. Secondly, worship should begin with gratitude. Jesus teaches us to give thanks. And here we are called to give thanks to God. We ought to be filled with thanksgiving to our God and Savior, who provided a way for us and who fulfilled all righteousness and makes us righteous. And we ought to be offering sacrifices, spiritual sacrifices of praise, of thanksgiving on a regular basis, because we are being built up into a holy temple as holy priests. And lastly, righteous living is the evidence of true worship Righteous living is the evidence of true worship. Christ's active obedience calls us to actively obey the law of God. We will never do it perfectly. But Jesus said, if you love me, keep my commandments. Imputed righteousness is no excuse for sin. And again I go back to the song that was played. I repent, making no excuses. There is no excuse. We are called to live righteously because our God is righteous. In fact, the active and the passive obedience of Christ is actually used by Peter to call us to righteousness. He says in 1 Peter chapter 2, for to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example. So that you might follow in his steps. He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten. But continued in trusting himself to him who judges justly. This time is a time of recommitment to the Lord. So that we walk After the example that our Savior set for us. Let's pray. Father, we praise you for our King. Who boldly and in perfect righteousness came before you and was seated at the right hand of the Majesty on High. Lord, we thank you for the righteousness that is ours as a gift by faith. I pray, Father, that you would thrill us with this reality again this evening. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.