If you have your Bibles, please would you turn with me to Luke chapter 12? Luke chapter 12. In 1929. J. C. Penny's business prospects were very weak. The stock market crash meant that few customers were coming to his stores. In case you didn't know, J. C. Penny was a strong Christian with a conspicuous testimony. But at this time in his life, he was consumed With anxiety about his business. He felt certain that his business empire would collapse. He worried so much that he could not eat or sleep. He was hospitalized and given the best medical treatments by the finest doctors, but he found no relief. He was in absolute agony. But one day, while he was in the hospital, he heard the sound of singing down the hall. He heard the hymn, God Will Take Care of You. And as Mr. Penny listened to those familiar words, he took them by faith. And began to rapidly improve. Soon he was out of the hospital and back to work. Later he would say that those words were like a door opening on a dark dungeon. that let in the brilliant sunlight of hope. There are a lot of people in the world today who are worried. Anxiety is the number one mental health issue in America. It's not just a problem for unbelievers, but also for believers. And in case you didn't know, there are a lot of things to worry about. There is the continuing COVID pandemic with over two people every minute dying in this country of this deadly virus. There's rising unemployment due to in large part to COVID restrictions and shutdowns. There is the unstable stock market, which many analysts suggest is poised for another historic crash. And then there is the political unrest and violence in our country. And this week there will be a transition of power. And many people question whether or not it will be peaceful. Some ask, are we on the verge of anarchy, of civil war? Will the new administration adopt a radical left agenda? Will Christians become the target of bureaucratic oppression. Will churches like ours be persecuted for hate speech? Will we lose our tax exempt status and eventually our freedom to worship I don't know. What I do know is that we must not be controlled by worry. This evening we're going to address a passage where our Lord addresses this issue of worry, but a specific kind of worry. This is very similar to the more famous address in the Sermon on the Mount, where this section is found in Matthew chapter 6. But this was definitely given on a different occasion. Look with me. at Luke chapter 12. I'd like to begin reading at verse 22. And he said unto his disciples, Therefore, I say unto you, take no thought for your life what ye shall eat, neither for the body what ye shall put on. The life is more than meat, and the body more than raiment Consider the ravens, for they neither sow nor reap, which neither have storehouse nor barn, and God feedeth them. How much more are ye better than the fowls? And which of you with taking thought can add to his stature one cubit? If ye then be not able to do that which is least, why take ye thought for the rest? Consider the lilies, how they grow, they toil not, they spin not, and yet I say unto you that Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. If then God so clothed the grass which is today in the field and tomorrow is cast into the oven, how much more will he clothe you, O ye of little faith? And seek not ye what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink, be ye of doubtful mind, for all these things do the nations of the world seek after, and your Father knoweth that you have need of these things. But rather seek ye the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added unto you. Fear not little flock For it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Sell that ye have and give alms. Provide yourselves bags which wax not old. A treasure in the heavens that faileth not, where not where no thief approacheth, neither moth corrupteth, for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also The word for worry or anxiety is reflected in our text in verses 22, 25, and 26 with the expression, take no thought. The Greek word behind this expression has the idea of being torn apart. We have this term that we use all the time, stress. I feel stressed. And I think there's a connection there. We feel like we're being pulled in many directions. I think everyone here knows what it's like to be anxious. To be worried, to have it consume your thinking. Kierkegaard, the father of existentialism, said No grand inquisitor has in readiness such terrible tortures As anxiety. The passage before us this evening was specifically addressed to the disciples. Notice what Jesus says in verse 22, and he said unto his I want you to notice the broader context of this address. Look back with me now at chapter 12 and verse 13. And one of the company said unto him, Master, speak to my brother, that he divide the inheritance with me. And he said unto him, Man, who made me a judge or divider over you? And he said unto them, Take heed and beware of covetousness, for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of things which he possesseth Jesus is now going to go on an extended discourse about various aspects of materialism. First he tells the parable of the rich farmer, which we considered about a year and a half ago. This man, the rich farmer, is the prototypical materialist. He was only concerned with the accumulation of his riches. He hoarded possessions. He sought to satisfy his soul with things. He said in his heart, Take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. What he didn't realize is that he was going to die that very night. I suspect that when this incident occurred with this man coming and asking the Lord to intervene in this estate dispute , And Jesus rebuked him. I suspect the disciples enjoyed this. And they said, Lord, you let him have it. And perhaps they thought no one could ever accuse us common fishermen of being materialistic. But then the Lord turns to address his disciples, and he talks about another type of materialism. The kind of materialism that reveals itself not in avarice, but in anxiety. Greed says, I can never get enough. Worry says, I don't ever have enough. The first type of materialism portrayed by the rich farmer seeks to find status. in money, while the latter seeks to find security in money. And both kinds of materialism are wicked and wrong. I think that Christians generally don't think of our desire to find our security and money as a sin problem, especially in the consumerist mentality that we live in. So the anxiety the Lord is specifically addressing in these verses is the worry about the essential provisions for life. He speaks of food and clothing. You can't get much more basic than that. The situation is honestly difficult for us to relate to. We live in such a different economic world. I can't imagine that anyone here this evening is worried that they will have no food for tomorrow. We worry more about eating too much than not having enough. This original audience could not imagine the number of garments that you have in your closets. They would be amazed to look into your refrigerator or to view the stockpiles of food that you have in your pantry. They would have difficulty grasping the concept of health insurance. And if the disciples could live with us for a day, they would probably assume that we would never worry about material possessions. But they would be wrong. We still worry about our jobs, our pensions, our health insurance, and of course our retirements. I was talking to our pastors before the service. I was speaking to a missionary last week who Out of the blue, and the providence of God got in touch with my mom and with me. He was a missionary that served with my father over in Papua New Guinea. And he knew the young man that my father led to the Lord and who became a pastor and is still a pastor there today. This young man named Epan, who is now 62, is not a young man anymore. But in 1994, Eppen and another pastor from Papua New Guinea got to come to the United States of America. In fact, Eppen came and visited me when I was in my final year of seminary in South Carolina. But this missionary related a story to me that I did not hear before this last week, and that is that when he went to pick them up from the airport in 1994, they lived about an hour away from the airport. in Texas and he says, all right, I I my wife wants me to stop by the grocery store before we go home and pick up a few things. And so they went into the grocery store with them. and their mouths were gaping wide open and they quickly grabbed their cameras and started taking pictures of every aisle because they had never seen so much food before and they couldn't imagine That you had access to all of this produce and all of this meat and all of these other supplies. They had never seen anything like it in their lives. And they said to him, This must be the greatest store in the world. He says it's just a grocery store. There's another one over there, and there's another one over there, and there's another one back there. We have thousands of them in our country. And he said it kept telling them, please stop wasting your film. This is before the days of cell phones. But that was the most amazing thing to them. And that would be replicated by millions and millions and millions and millions of people if they were to come to the States. We have unparalleled material prosperity And yet so often we go around worrying that we don't have enough to pay our bills and to make a living. So I'm going to preach to you on this truth. Christians should not seek to find our security in material provisions, but in God's. The first main point I want to bring out is that Christians should not worry about our material needs. Now, in verses 22 through 30, our Lord is going to bring up four reasons why Christians should not be anxious. Number one , Worrying about material things is contrary to the purpose of life. Look with me. At verse 22, and he said unto his disciples, Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life what ye shall eat, neither for the body what ye shall put on, for the life is more than meat, or we would say food. And the body is more than raiment or clothing. In verse 22, the Lord prohibits worry for his followers. This is a command. Christians should not let material concerns dominate our thoughts. We don't even have permission to worry about the essentials of life, such as food, clothing, and shelter. Now let me clarify, this teaching does not mean that we shouldn't work to meet these needs. Of course we should. The Bible says if a man does not work, neither should he eat. It doesn't mean that we shouldn't plan ahead and store up for lean times. The Bible talks about the ant that stores away food for the winter. What these verses prohibit is finding our security in possessions or financial resources. Because all the money in the world cannot truly give you peace of mind. You see, worrying about material things Is a waste of life. He says here the life is more than meat and the body than clothing. To reduce human life to a quest for food and clothing. is to reduce mankind to the level of an animal. Animals, of course, are not so much concerned about the clothing parts But they do live just to meet their needs. They have an instinct for survival. But God has made us in his image. We are to view these things as a means to an end, but not the end. And therefore to live our lives for nothing more than to accumulate Food and clothing and everything else that's surrounding that, all the accessories and all the status symbols, is a waste of life. Whether you hoard them or long for them, both responses are fundamentally materialistic and they are clear indications the Bible teaches of idolatry. In Colossians 3, it identifies covetousness, or we would say greed today with idolatry. And when we live in a perpetual state of worry, there's a sense in which we are robbing ourselves of life itself. Because every minute that we worry is a sense A portion of our life that we have wasted. The second reason that he gives that we should not worry is because worrying about material things is contrary to God's provision as seen in creation. The Lord turns to nature to confirm his point. He talks about the fact that ravens, these birds, do not plant their crops and harvest them or place them in barns But somehow God providentially provides for their needs. This is all the more striking because ravens were considered unclean birds by the Old Testament law. And so the Lord here as often he does is arguing from lesser to greater. If this is true, then certainly this is true. And so he is saying that God will certainly provide for his children if he providentially even provides for these dirty birds. In verse 27, he says, consider the lilies. Scholars debate about what kind of flower this is referring to. We really don't know specifically. Whatever it was, it was beautiful to behold. These flowers do not labor for such beautiful coverings. Even the royal robes of Solomon, the wealthiest king that Israel would ever have, could not equal the beauty of a common flower. And the point of contrast is made in verse 28. If God then so clothed the glass grass which is today in the field and tomorrow is cast into the oven. How much more will he clothe you, are ye of little faith? Again, from lesser to greater. These flowers that last have a very short lifespan. If God provides for them, provides coverings for them, how much more will he provide? Thirdly, worrying about material things is contrary to reason. Look with me at verses 25 and 26. And which of you with taking thought can add to his stature one cubit? If ye then be not able to do that thing which is least, why take ye the thought for the rest? Now cubic can be used for a measure of length or time. Our King James translators viewed this as a unit of length that is about 18 inches. But most scholars today, and in most of your translations, It's a reference to the length of time and most believe that that's the way it should be taken because most people are not consumed with trying to get taller unless they're adolescent boys. But many people are very concerned about when they will die. Worrying about death, however. has never added any days to a person's life. In fact, if it's done anything, it's subtracted days, weeks, months, and perhaps years. Why worry about things you can't change? Worry is contrary to reason. It doesn't solve anything. It just makes matters worse And fourth, the Lord teaches that worrying about material concerns is contrary to faith He says in verse 29, Seek not ye what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink, neither be ye of doubtful mind. For all these things the nations of the world seek after, and your father knoweth that you have need of these things. At the very end of verse twenty eight, he leads into the section by saying, O ye of little faith. We should not live our lives seeking after All removal of things that would make us worry in fear Still today the nations of the world are seeking after fresh drinking water and adequate shelter and a sustainable food supply. This is what the leaders of the world list as some of their top priorities And we as Christians should be concerned about the needs of others. Do not misunderstand me. But to live our lives for material security is to live like the world. And so when we are consumed with worry about God meeting our needs, we are essentially saying, God, I don't trust you. I don't believe that you will provide for my needs. We're saying, Lord, I'm not sure I can really depend on you. In verse 29, the Lord says, Neither be of doubtful mind, the Greek term that's used here in the Bible literally means to be up in the air. That is to be unstable and unsettled. This is the way people in the world so often are, unstable and unsettled, but Christians are to respond differently. Why? Look at verse 30. Your father knoweth that you have need of these things. And in the Greek text, yours is in the emphatic position, your father. Knows that you have needs. The world cannot claim God as their father because they have no relationship with him. But we are his children and he knows our every need. The evangelist J. Wilbur Chapman of a century ago tells the story of a prodigal son who left his wealthy family. And in time, due to degradation of sin, he became a homeless beggar. One day in a large city, he tapped on the shoulder of a nicely dressed older man. and asked if he could have a dime. And when the man turned around, he recognized that it was his father he was addressing. And his father said to his son, you can have more than a dime. All that I own is yours. And our Father owns the cattle on the thousand hills, and he delights to meet our needs. Christians must not worry about our material concerns. But if we don't respond to our need by worrying, what should we do? That brings me to my next point. Christians should demonstrate that we trust in God by the way we respond to our material needs. Instead of worrying, there are three things that Jesus says we should do, and let me just say they are absolutely counter-cultural. The first thing he says that we should do is in verse 31, and that is seek God's kingdom. But seek ye the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added. unto you. The more famous version of this verse, of course, is found in Matthew 6. 33. Like all good teachers, Jesus often repeated himself. What does this famous verse mean? Well, first of all, the word seek here has the idea of a continual quest. That is one's priority knife. He's not talking about a short-term seeking after God, hoping that by your religious earnestness God will be impressed and then give you what you want. He's talking about a lifestyle that is intentionally set on seeking God's kingdom. Lord is saying rather than focusing on seeking possessions so that we have a sense of security, we are to find our satisfaction our security, our identity as a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ who lives to advance his kingdom Because we are members of that kingdom. And this is the focal point of our existence. Of course, this verse is not a promise that if we put God first, he'll make all of our dreams come true. In context, of course, when he says, All these things shall be added unto you, he's talking about food and clothing, the basic essentials. Now I wonder what you think about that. Again, this is radical teaching. This is where our Lord's instruction Completely cuts across the grain of our contemporary society and the way that even Christian people instinctively think about their needs and the way they should live their life. Someone might object and say, if I were to live to advance the kingdom of God I and my family will starve. But God says He will take care of you. It's sort of like the Lord saying, you take care of my business, and I will take care of yours. This is a radical test of faith. This would be a radical demonstration to the world that we really trust in the Lord. And then we come to verse 32 and the second the second response that the Lord asked us to do Is not to fear, but to trust in the promises of God. Look with me at verse 32. Fear not, little flock. For it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. I think this is one of the most beautiful statements that Jesus ever made. He's like a father speaking to fearful children. Fear not, little flock. One of the reasons I decided to preach this passage is because this verse Has been echoing in my mind now for several weeks as we go through tumultuous times and the people of God are anxious and fearful I kept coming back to this verse, fear not, little flock, for it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom This is the only time we read of Jesus addressing his disciples this way. I suspect there was a warmth in his voice, like a father addressing his children. Sheep, of course, are famous for being afraid. We are all fearful creatures by nature. The older I get, the more I observe humanity, the more I realize I think that perhaps Most of our decisions, at least our major decisions, are rooted in fear. We do what we do because we're afraid And we always want to play it safe and make sure there's no risk involved, which by the way is exactly the opposite of the way Jesus said we should live. He says, a person who lives so that they don't lose their life will lose it. We are to risk things for the kingdom's sake, but that's another message. He says it's your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Just imagine the men he was addressing at that moment. They were mainly poor, uneducated fishermen. They were not very impressive. They were not very educated. They were not very refined. They didn't show a lot of promise. But these were the ones that he had chosen, and they would be parts. Significant parts of the kingdom of God. Why? Because God delights to use the weak things of the world to confound the mighty So that he receives all the glory. The Lord here is reassuring the disciples that they need not fear the days ahead. This kind of dovetails in with what I was talking about this morning, that we as Christians know the end of the story. The scriptures give us this great historic narrative of what God is doing, and we know how it ends. And so we should live as those who know the end of the story. And as tumultuous times come upon us and we observe them and we're shocked and we're dismayed. And perhaps rightfully so, and we're filled with sorrow at the things that we see in our nation. Our response must not be that we live in despair and despondency And sadness, we have to remember promises like this: fear not, little flock, for it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. And think about what this meant. What happened to those men the Lord spoke these words to? Every one of them would die as a martyr, but for one, John, and he barely escaped, according to church history, being a martyr. In other words, the Lord wasn't saying, you know, when my kingdom comes, as they were probably thinking when he said these words, it's going to be smooth sailing. You're going to be sets Oh, all of your needs will be met, you will have status and authority and wealth. No They would be persecuted and hounded. They would go across the known world preaching the gospel and they would die doing so. But he says to them, fear not. Because you will receive the kingdom. And then he says, thirdly, invest in heavenly treasure. Although actually, first of all, he says, divest. Notice what he says, sell that you have and give alms, or give to the poor. Is this like Radical advice. A person is worried sick about financial concerns. And he says to his followers, Sell what you have and give to others. What? That doesn't seem right, does it? It's not the way we think. Now, of course, the Lord's not saying that this is how We earn our salvation, but it is a profound demonstration that we live for another kingdom. It's a tangible evidence that our possessions are not our God. These verses in Luke are the equivalent of what Jesus said in Matthew chapter 6, verses 19 and 20. And I want to show you a parallel here that I think is insightful for us. You don't necessarily have to turn there. Let me read these to you. Jesus said, lay not out for yourselves treasures upon earth. Where moth and rusteth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven where neither moth nor rusteth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal. But how do we lay up treasures in heaven? That sounds kind of metaphysical. What does that mean? Well, according to this parallel passage, one of the things it means is you take the surplus That God has given to you, and you give it for the advancement of this kingdom. Now, the world's advice is precisely the opposite of this. The world says work hard, become independently wealthy, retire at an early age create passive income and live out your dreams and says save every dollar for your retirement but Jesus said sell that you have And give it away. Why? All of those other investments will be taken from you. But you never lose the treasures that are invested in heaven because the bags of heaven have no holes in them. There are no thieves in heaven that will steal them. There are no mauls to eat holes in your expensive clothing. In other words, if you invest in the work of Christ, it is a safe investment. And then we have another motive for investing in heavenly treasures in verse 34. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Did you know that how you invest your money is one of the clearest indications of what you value and therefore what you truly believe? Earlier in Luke 12, in the passage preceding the one we've read tonight, our Lord told the parable of the rich farmer. This man's treasures were in his barns. He had worked hard to gather that bountiful harvest What he didn't know is that he would never get to enjoy all that produce because that very night he would die. God called him a fool because he invested his life in crops and he left it all behind. But when your treasure is in heaven, living on earth becomes carefree. John Wesley laid down stringent rules for all of his Methodist preachers. That are very provocative. He had three points. Number one, get all you can Number two, save all you can. Number three, give away all you can. And he lived by that philosophy. John Wesley in his lifetime was world famous. He had one of the largest annual incomes of anyone in England. It wasn't wise. It wasn't prudence. But wherever he went and preached, they would take up an offering and they would just give the money to him. Today we would say that that's not being very careful or accountable, and we would be rights. People speculated On what he was doing with the fortune he must have amassed. But he was always on the road preaching. He was always ministering. He almost never Stop and took a rest for nearly fifty years. He was always giving money away. People were always coming up to him and Mentioning their needs, and he would always hear of little preachers out in the middle of nowhere who couldn't feed their family. And he was always sending money off, every day, sending money out And when he died, they found just enough money laid up to bury his body, because all of his investments were in heaven. John Wesley lived what he preached. So let me ask you Does your use of the resources that God has given you indicate to anyone that you have different values than your unsaved neighbors? Or does your lifestyle, your choices, your investments pretty much parallel theirs? And does your life reveal that your trust is in God and not in how much money you have in the bank? I run into so many common displays of a lack of trust in God among his people in these areas. Christians who look at the stock market every day bemoaning the fact if their retirement income is going up or down by a certain percentage. Or people who are obsessed with finding some kind of investment that will give them a good return. Or people who cannot sleep if they don't have a certain amount of money socked away in the bank, because then they can rest in peace. That is trusting in something that will not sustain you and not help you in the day of crisis. I remember years ago when I was a young man in my twenties. There was a Christian family that I knew. The man had a very, very lucrative job for many years. He retired at a somewhat young age. They had a huge home, they had everything that you would want in the American dream, and these were mature believers. And I remember them talking to another couple in our church and I was there kind of just part of it, but not really part of it. I was just A young kid. And they were complaining about the fact that they could not find the kind of health insurance they really wanted as retirees. They had searched high and low and they wanted to have this gold-plated coverage and they just couldn't find what they could really afford and they were so distraught about it. They kept saying, What are we going to do? And I didn't feel like I could rebuke them as someone who was 25 years old, but I everything inside of me wanted to say, why don't you trust in the Lord? You're trusting him with your eternal life? And you feel like you can't trust him with your insurance? Do we really believe that God will provide for our needs? Have we learned to rest in Him? Are we really investing in heavenly treasures? I firmly believe. That one of the sins of our age, you know, we look back on Christians of different ages and we have different perspectives, and sometimes we Ask ourselves, how could they do that? How could they be so blind, for instance, to slavery and other things? How could they how could they fall into this trap? You ever thought about what will be the sins of our age? I think one of them will be our inherent materialism. of wanting to just make our life and the life of everyone that we care for very, very comfortable so we never ever ever have to worry about how we're going to pay our bills or meet our needs. Sometimes children of parents, I think, rob their children, their children who are young adults of learning to trust in God. Because they always bail them out. I can remember a time, this was long before I came to Calvary Baptist Church, when my wife and I were first married, and we had seven dollars to our name. That's what I had in our checking account and no savings. $7. You know what it did? It forced us to trust in the Lord. This is what we need to learn. We need to seek first the kingdom of God. It's so easy for us to be caught up in the conventional wisdom that surrounds us That tells us almost from the b moment we begin working. Now you've got to be socking away money for your retirement. You know, if you want to live a very comfortable existence with on a very high life's uh life scale, uh quality of life for like thirty years. I mean, you've got to put a lot of money and of course, you know Health costs are going to be really very expensive, and so you've got to put up for that. And so from the very beginning, when we become young adults and we get jobs, we're constantly just putting away money. so that we can live comfortably and never have to worry. May I suggest to you that all the Christians who have ever lived would look at us and say, What are you thinking? Now, full disclosure, I have a retirement account the church gives me. I don't have much in it, but I have a retirement account. So I'm preaching a little bit to myself here as well. But it's so easy for us to just go along with what everyone else around us is doing and what our society tells us we need to do. Have you ever thought about the disciples? They had no health care plan. They had no IRA. They had no catastrophic life insurance. They had no house insurance. They had, of course, they didn't have any of these things. This is the way 99. 9% of the people in the history of the world have lived. But we become convinced that we have to have all of these things in order to feel secure. And I am not saying that some of these things are not good stewardship. We do have insurance on this building, for instance. I think that's being a wise steward, but there's this important distinction. Do we find our security in the fact that we have that? Does that help us to sleep at night, or is our trust and our rest in God? I think that the Lord has called us to be so different from the people that we rub shoulders with at work and from the other people in our neighborhood and everyone else who are in this quest for achieving the American dream. Living a light of comfort and ease, to maximize our pleasure and minimize our pain. Jesus said to live that way is to waste your life. He has called us to live for him and to seek first his kingdom and to rest knowing that he will meet our every need. Let's close in prayer. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for the reminders and the rebukes that we find in it. I pray that you would help us to be a people. Who lay up treasures in heaven, who live for another kingdom, not seeking to create our kingdom in this life. I pray that those around us would know instinctively that our treasure is not here and that Christ Is what dominates our heart 's desire. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen