You have your Bibles, would you join me please? John chapter three We believe at Calvary Baptist Church that what people need to hear more than anything else is the gospel. That's true for believers as well as unbelievers. In 1976 Watergate conspirator Charles Coulson wrote a best-selling book entitled Born Again I can remember in the late 70s seeing that book on our coffee table at home In this book, Colson tells of his conversion after his arrest, describes how he cried out in prayer with these words, Lord Jesus, I believe in you, I accept you. Please come into my life. I commit it to you. Chuck Holson says that with those words, everything changed. He was spiritually alive. He was now born again. The publication of this famous book brought the terminology of born again into the mainstream of American culture. And so A company that comes back from bankruptcy is said to be born again, or an athlete who comes back from an injury might describe himself as being born again. It may surprise you to note that Chuck Coulson did not invent this term. It actually is found in Scripture. It is found in several places, but most prominently in John chapter 3, the passage that we begin studying this morning. This term born again is found in verse 3 when Jesus says, unless one is born again he cannot see. the kingdom of God, and then a form of it's found in verse 5 where he speaks of being born of water and of the Spirit. In verse 6, he speaks of being born of the Spirit. And verse 7, he gives the central imperative of this passage. You must be born again. And in verse 8, he talks about being born of the Spirit, which is the same as being born again. So this paragraph is all about being born again. But what does that mean? It sounds kind of mystical, kind of subjective, perhaps extreme to you. This is a very important issue. There is nothing more important than to understand this doctrine. Now I want to show you first of all. How it connects to what precedes it. At the very end of chapter 2, Jesus performed some miracles, and we read that many people believed in him. But then we read that Jesus did not entrust himself to them because he knew that their faith was a superficial faith. He says He knew all people. Verse 25, and needed no one to bear witness about man, for he himself knew what was in Man. The last word of chapter 2 is the word man. And then we come instantly to chapter 3 and verse 1. It says, Now there was a man of the Pharisees. And it's the same Greek word, and the author, John, is making a connection. What he's alerting the reader is this: Nicodemus is an example of someone whom God knew their hearts. And it's going to be evident in the way he deals with them here. We'll see the same thing in chapter four when Jesus deals with the woman at the well. We have another example where Jesus perfectly knew the stranger that he had never met before, but he knew everything about their hearts. Now John is still revealing in this chapter the identity of Jesus Christ. We've seen his identity revealed and great theological propositions. in the prologue of this book. We've seen his identity revealed in the way he called his disciples. We've seen it in Acts like the way he cleansed the temple and in miracles like the wedding feast at Cana. But now John is going to show the identity of Christ through his conversations with individuals here in chapters 3 and 4 and into chapter 5. Now John chapter 3 is one of the most significant chapters in the Bible. Romans chapter 3 provides the best explanation of the process, the doctrine of salvation. But John chapter 3 provides one of the best understandings of conversion, how that takes place. Now I'm told that 24% of Americans today claim to be born again. That's about one in four people. The latest polling also reveals that about 68% of Americans claim to be Christians. Obviously, there are many more people who would say they were Christians other than born again. And often this is an indication that they are saying they're not evangelical Christians. But let me be very clear about this. If you are a true Christian, you are born again. And if you've never been born again, you're not a Christian in the biblical sense of the words. So the big question I'm going to be asking this week and next week and perhaps the week after that. Is this. Have you been born again? Are you a born-again Christian? This passage in this interview with Nicodemus reveals to us who needs to be born again. Because perhaps in your mind you're thinking, well, there's certain types of people who need to be born again, and then there's other people who don't need to be born again. I want to show you from this passage, excuse me, that everyone, unless they've already been born again, needs to be born again if they want to know God and have their sins forgiven and go to heaven. So I want you to notice first of all that even very religious people need to be born again. Look with me at verse 1 of chapter 3. Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Now Nicodemus was a Jewish man with a Greek name. This probably indicates that he came from an elite family. We only read of Nicodemus in John's gospel. You won't read about him in Matthew, Mark, or Luke. But he's mentioned three times He's presented as a highly educated, well-mannered, elite religious leader. He's presented here as a typical representative of Judaism of the time. The first thing the Bible tells us about us is that he was a Pharisee. The Pharisees were a religious party that developed after the Babylonian exile. The word Pharisee comes from a Hebrew word that means separate ones. The Pharisees were seeking to preserve their Jewish heritage against the rising threat of paganism around them. Josephus, the historian, tells us. That there were about 6,000 Pharisees in the time of Christ. They had a zeal for the law, especially the hedge around the law. There were many things. hundreds of commands that God gives in the Old Testament. But these scrupulous Jewish leaders over the centuries added more and more man-made laws. which they called a hedge around the law so that people wouldn't get close to violating the law. But over the centuries, the hedge became the law. It no longer became guidelines given by men, but things that you must do if you are to please God. And so they had hundreds of pages of legislation about what a Jew could do or could not do on the Sabbath day, how far you could walk, how much you could carry. Every aspect of life was zealously regulated by these religious leaders. And Nicodemus was a card-carrying member of this religious sect Verse 1 goes on to say that he was a ruler of the Jews. This means that he was a member of the Sanhedrin. The Sanhedrin was a council of 70 men. Who were kind of like a combination of our Supreme Court and Congress. They ruled over all things religious and civil. But they were under the authority of the Roman governments. Those who gained this coveted position usually came from very wealthy, aristocratic families This should not be hard for us to understand, right? Are most of our politicians on the national level poor? No, they're not. They're usually very rich. It's always been that way. This was true in the time of Christ as well. So this man, Nicodemus, was a member of the Sanhedrin. But what's interesting, excuse me, is the Greek text has a definite article in the description, so it could be rendered the ruler of the Jews. indicating that perhaps he was the most famous member in this council. Like we cannot name all 435 members of the House of Representatives. But some of the more famous ones you could. The same with our hundred senators. You couldn't name them all. But there were a few names that are always in the news that would come to your mind. It was the same with Nicodemus. If you went through Jerusalem and said, hey, have you ever heard of Nicodemus? People would say, oh yeah, we know Nicodemus. He was very well known. He was the epitome of a religious person. The ruler of the Jews also indicates that he was a professional scribe, an interpreter and teacher of the Jewish law. I'm certain that he had memorized, if not all of the Old Testament, vast portions of the Old Testament. And this is the man who came to Jesus by night. So let's summarize who he is. He's extremely religious. He's intelligent, wealthy, cultured, respected political leader. And yet Jesus says to this man, You must be born again. One of the greatest hindrances to people coming to Christ is false religion. Most people in the world are part of some type of religion in some way. Whether it be Hinduism, Buddhism, Islam. And the list could go on and on. And many of those people believe that they are right with God and they are good. And often for many of those people, their religion is woven into the fabric of their culture, their ethnicity. and their family heritage. So it has a very, very powerful, strong hold on them. That would have been true undoubtedly with Nicodemus. Most people believe that they are right with God, and then when they die, they will go to some type of heaven. And if you ask them why, they will rattle off a number of what they consider to be their religious resume. Of good things that they have done, of the fact that they're a member of a church, perhaps, or they were baptized as an infant, or they contribute to charity Or that they have an uncle who's a pastor. They give answers like this. But let me just say that if religion could save an individual, Nicodemus would have been a believer. And Jesus would not have said to him, you must be born again. Religion in and of itself, trust in your own morality, in your own discipline, in your own good works, has never saved anyone. In fact, it's an insult to God. It's in essence saying, I don't need your son to be my savior. I can be my own savior. I can earn my own way to heaven. But the Bible teaches that even very religious people need to be born again. Secondly, even people with a high view of Jesus need to be born again. Look with me at verse 2. It says this man came to Jesus by night and said to him, Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God Is with him. Now there's some debate among Christian scholars about how we should understand Nicodemus. Does he have a sincere interest in Christ? Or is he just an agent for the religious establishment trying to gather some information? Are his compliments in verse 2 just flattery? Or what he truly believed? Undoubtedly, Nicodemus' words are influenced by his culture, which used honorific language when greeting someone. We don't have this as much in our culture. But in many cultures of the world, this is the case. When you greet a stranger, you use honorific language. Pastor Aaron could give you many examples of this from Tanzania. All right? And they don't literally mean those things are true. In fact, if you translate them literally, it sounds ridiculous. But it's part of their culture. Jewish culture was sort of like that. But Jesus seems to take what Nicodemus says at face value, and I would suggest to you that he was a sincere follower of Christ. Because we read of him later in this book, and he seems to be growing in faith, and by the end of this book, he seems to be a believer, a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now it's very interesting to note that he comes to Jesus by night This is not a trivial fact because every time John mentions Nicodemus in this gospel, he mentions the fact that he came by night. What are we to make of that? This is one of those cases where we we want to know how to interpret what John intends from this. So there are three major views. Some scholars suggest this description is to be understood figuratively, which means that John is indicating that Nicodemus is still spiritually in the dark. And it is true that this is how John typically uses light and dark in his gospel. He uses it symbolically. Others suggest that Nicodemus came by night so that he would have a long time of undistracted opportunity to discuss theology. In other words, this was the most convenient time. But I think that probably the simplest explanation is best, and that is that Nicodemus came by night because he didn't want other people to know that he was coming to see Jesus. There's an old logical axiom that I subscribe to often called Occam 's razor. Do you know what that means? And essentially means the simplest explanation is usually the best one. The more convoluted the explanation the less likely it's really the explanation. The simplest explanation, the first one that you would think, oh, that probably means this. That's probably the answer. And I think that's the case here. He came by night. He was a very famous, respected man. He didn't want everybody in Jerusalem to know that he was coming to see Jesus. Because he's still trying to figure out who he is. Now Nicodemus addresses him as rabbi or teacher. He's accepting Jesus as a peer. He himself was a rabbi. And this was Perhaps a condescending thing on in his mind because Jesus was not a trained rabbi like he was And so Nicodemus is seeking to understand him better And he's interesting that he uses this word, we. We know that you are teacher come from God. This would suggest that he has been talking to other Pharisees and other members of the Sanhedrin, and they also are becoming more and more convinced that something is different about this man. And they also have come to the conclusion that God is with them, that God is behind the miracles that he's performing. Apparently Nicodemus saw some of these miracles that Jesus performed during that Passover season. And Nicodemus has concluded that only God could do these things through him. John speaks of Christ's miracles as signs pointing men and women to Christ, and that's indeed what seems to be taking place in the heart of Nicodemus. So what does Nicodemus believe about Jesus at this moment in his life? He sees Jesus as a great teacher, as a miracle worker, and he sees him as a man who has God with him. This is remarkable, but not enough. He doesn't see him as the Son of God, as the Savior of his sin. And so Jesus says to him in verse 3, you must be born again. I mentioned earlier this poll that 68% of Americans claim that in some way they're a follower of Christ. What do they mean by that? Well, for many of them, I suspect, it simply means that they're not Hindu or Buddhist or Muslim And so by default, because they're in the United States of America, a nation with a Christian heritage, they consider themselves to be Christians. If you go back to their parents or their grandparents, there are Christians there, and so they think of themselves as Christians, and perhaps they attend church every once in a great while at Christmas or Easter or some other special events. But the Lord plays no real role in their lives. Others would say that they've been brought up in a church. They love Jesus. Maybe they have a cross on their around their neck or a fish on their car. They think of Jesus as kind of a good luck charm. But they have no real trust in him. Others would say in a more intellectual way that Jesus is a great teacher. And they would like to extract his teaching from Scripture and just kind of embarrassingly disregard the supernatural elements because they're a person of science and we can't believe in the supernatural. But although millions and millions of Americans have a high view of Jesus, many of them have never been born again. And they're not truly the children of God. Because believing that He is a great teacher or a miracle worker or that somehow God is with them is not enough. to save your soul. And that brings us to our third point. And that is that everyone who desires to go to heaven needs to be born again. We come to verse 3. Jesus answered him, truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Our Lord's response to Nicodemus is unexpected. It kind of interrupts the flow of the conversation. And verse. Two, Nicodemus says these very commendable words. He says, Rabbi, we know that you are teacher come from God, for no one can do these signs unless God is with him. And instantly Jesus says, truly, truly, I say unto you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. You see the disconnects What is Nicodemus fishing for when he makes these compliments about the identity of Christ? He wants to know: who are you? Who are you? Are you a John the Baptist kind of character, a great prophet? Are you the promised Messiah? Who exactly are you? And so you would expect Jesus to give an answer because so often in the Gospels we read about Jesus saying, whom do men say that I am? And this Gospel of John is all about the identity of Christ. You would expect Jesus to say, I am the promised Messiah, I am the Christ, the Son of God. But that's not what he does. He abruptly takes the conversation in another direction. He says, Verily, verily I say unto you, this is John 's way of emphasizing the statements of Christ that he considered to be most significant and amazing. It's the sense in which Jesus is saying to Nicodemus, I want you to listen very carefully to me. What I'm about to say to you is very important. He says, you need to be born again. Now why did Jesus respond that way? Why didn't Jesus just tell him who he was? Remember the answer at the end of chapter 2? Jesus knew what was in the hearts of all men. He knew that Nicodemus' heart was not ready to receive this truth He was still blind to his own need for Savior. You see, you can tell people about the identity of Christ all day long and what a great Savior He is, but if they don't think they need a Savior , It's not going to register with them. If they think they're already good, if they think they're already pleasing to God, if they think they're already going to heaven, and you say, listen, I have a wonderful savior I want to tell you about then it makes no impact on them. They say good for you, but I don't really need a Savior. I'm good. I'm right with God. That's where Nicodemus was. That's why Jesus took the tack that he did He says, if you're not born again, you will never see the kingdom of God. You will never, and I take this as parallel to what he's going to say in verse 5, you're not going to enter the kingdom of God. Nicodemus, you need to be born again. This was an incredibly humbling statement I'm sure if somehow we could have seen the face of Nicodemus, he was kind of taken back and stunned. He just started the conversation off with a very nice, commendable expression. And Jesus just takes the conversation in another direction and essentially insults him, this religious leader of the Jews. Have you ever noticed how Jesus deals so differently with different individuals in the Gospels? It is good. Don't misunderstand me. It is good to have kind of a program where you can effectively give the gospel to somebody else. We had last year the exchange in April and nearly a hundred people went through that training program based on the character of God and how to give the gospel and and and no verses that go with each of those character traits of God. In the past at a church we've done something called net casters, and many of you are very familiar with the Romans road. I'm not opposed to those at all. I've learned all three of those programs. But Jesus never dealt with any individual the same way. Now he had a great advantage over all of us. You know what it was? He knew what was in their hearts He knew exactly what they were thinking. He knew exactly the condition they were in. And so, like when he dealt with the rich young ruler, what did he say to him? Sell everything you have and come and follow me. That sounds like a strange way to present the gospel. Why did he do that? Because that young man's God was his money. And if he had to choose between God or following Christ, I'm going to go with the money instead of following Christ. And then when the Lord deals in chapter 4, which we'll deal with in a few weeks, the Samaritan woman She wants to argue about theology, and he does some of that, talking about the nature of God, God is spirits But then he puts his finger on the wickedness of our heart. You've had five husbands, and the man you're with right now is not your husband. That's a very bold thing to say to someone you've never met before. And she perceived that he was a prophet. Why? Because he knew her heart He said what she needed to hear. And so when Jesus here speaks to Nicodemus and says, you must be born again. He is saying something that is custom-made for Nicodemus' condition. What would Nicodemus take from this? Well, the fact is that we know that the Jewish rabbis of his day taught that Gentiles in essence needed to be born again in order to be right with God. There is a saying that says a proselyte who embraces Judaism is like a newborn child. And so a Gentile who wanted to become a follower of Jehovah They would come to the temple, they would learn, they would go through ceremonies, they would be circumcised, all of these things would take place, and then they were said to be born again. So when Jesus said to Nicodemus, you must be born again, he was in essence saying You're going to have to come to God like one of those despised pagan Gentiles that you look down your nose at. That would have been extremely insulting to a man of his status. It would be like going to someone who was a professor of literature and saying, you need to learn your ABCs. Or going to a professor of mathematics and saying, you need to learn your times tables because you don't have them down. You don't even know God, and you're supposed to be an expert in knowing God. It would have hit him right between the eyes. It would have shaken him up And that's exactly what the Lord wanted to do. You see, the Jews, especially the religious Jews, believed That they were already in the kingdom of God because they were the children of Abraham. They were trusting in their covenantal blessings through Abraham. We will see more of this when we get to John chapter 8. How many people are still like this in the world? Maybe they're Irish Catholic and going back as far as you can think of, they were Irish Catholic, and every grandmother and grandfather in their family tree that you can ever imagine they were all Irish Catholic. And so when you talk to them, of course I'm right. I'm part of this great body, this great family heritage, and all of us are Irish Catholic and we're all going to heaven. That's part of my culture and my family and my heritage. It's the same, of course, in a hundred different ways with Hindus in India, Muslims in Saudi Arabia. Of course I'm right with God. I mean, look at me I'm a devout Muslim. I'm a devout Hindu. I'm a devout Roman Catholic. Or I'm a devout Protestant who doesn't know the gospel. False religion is a great hindrance. And often one of the reasons why it's so difficult for people to objectively see themselves is because it's wrapped up with part of who they are, their very identity of their family, their ethnicity, and their country. Jesus is in essence is saying to this Jewish man, what you've been trusting in your whole life is completely wrong. It won't save you. It doesn't give you a true knowledge of God. You have to be born again. And that is true of every human being who wishes to know God and have their sins forgiven and spend eternity in heaven. I want to make just a few points of application as we conclude this morning. Number one, the true gospel is a very humbling truth. One reason that people hate the gospel is because they find it insulting. It tells them that you're not essentially good, you're essentially bad. It tells them that you cannot save yourself no matter how hard you try. It tells them that you are reliant on God's Spirit working in your heart. Man does not want to hear that. That is counterintuitive the way lost people think. I find it fascinating that most people think that morally they are superior to others. Most people will very honestly tell you that they're a good person, that they're right with God Yeah, they've got their vices and their inconsistencies, but everyone would say that they are a good person, and they believe certainly that God will receive them just as they are. But the very fact that you believe that you are a good person reveals how deceived you are And how much in the dark you are, and how ignorant you are of your own human heart. The Bible proclaims in Jeremiah 179 that the human heart is deceitful and incurably wicked. Now Nicodemus was not converted during this conversation with Jesus because he was too proud. He was too self-reliant. But I think those words that Jesus spoke to him that day stuck in his mind. And God would continue to work until he would come to repentance and full faith. The true gospel is a humbling gospel. The gospel that says you must be born again. Have you ever thought about this? Think of it in the natural realm. No one walks around saying, you know, I don't know if you know this or not, but I've been born. It was really hard. Nine months of hard work. But eventually I was born. No, no, no, no. You don't take credit for that. It's the same way with our salvation. We've been born again. It's the work of God. We see here that the true gospel produces, secondly, a definite change in a person. Salvation is described here as being born again. This expression can also be translated born from above, meaning it comes from God, that it's God who ultimately saves. The Bible consistently describes salvation as a radical change. Describes a Christian as being alive from the dead, Romans 6. 13. Describes a Christian as a new creation. 2 Corinthians 5. 17. A Christian is one who has been called out of darkness into the light. 1 Peter 2. 9. A Christian is one who has been made partaker of the divine nature. 2 Peter 1. 4. And a believer is an individual who has passed from death unto life. John 5, 24. All of this imagery have one thing in common. It's a really big change. From the darkness to the light, from death to life Salvation is not an exchange of information It is not saying a prayer or signing a card or writing something in the front of your Bible. I'm not saying if any of those things are true, you're not a Christian. But those things are not the same as being born again. And your trust must not be that you signed a card or wrote a date down on the front of the Bible, but that you're trusting in what Christ did for you on the cross. And so you must never think that you've always been a Christian. Or because you were born into a Christian home, that therefore you're a Christian. No, everyone who is truly a child of God has at one point been born again. And thirdly, the true gospel must be received by faith alone. How can a person know if they've been born again? It sounds very mystical and subjective, and there's a sense in which it is the Lord's going to compare it to wind. The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear the sound of it, but you don't know where it's coming from or where it's going. God moves definitely in mysterious ways. But just like with wind, there's evidence that the wind has been blowing. You see the leaves rustle. You see the trees bend. You can't see the wind, but you can see the wind is blowing. 1 John 5, 1 says, everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God. And this faith is more than intellectual scent. It's not a nominal faith. It is a trusting faith. And of course, what we find and this great revelation of the gospel a little later in this encounter in chapter three and verse fourteen we read these words and as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness so must the Son of Man be lifted up. that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only Son. That whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned. But whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. So as I conclude this morning, my question to you is this, has there been a turning point in your life? Kind of like two volumes of your life story. There's the life before Christ, almost like how history is divided with BC and AD. And then there's the second volume of your life that things are different now, and this is my life with Christ, and the whole trajectory of my life story is different because there was a turning point. When I repented of my sins and I trusted in Christ and things have been different since then. Has there been a turning point in your life? Are you trusting in Christ today? Is he your Savior today? Are you resting in him today? These are the evidences, the unmistakable evidences that you have new life in Christ. If that is not true of you today, would you seek him today? Scriptures tell us to seek the Lord while he may be found, to call upon him while he is near. You may say, why does it say that? Isn't he always near? Yes, but his spirit is not always convicting you. And troubling you and drawing you. So when he is doing that, that's what you must do. So I would encourage you, if you need the Lord, that you seek him today, that you speak to someone today. Because unless you are born again, you will not see the kingdom of God. Let's close in prayer. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you. That it tells us how we can know you. And how we can know our sins have been forgiven. Help us, Father. To be a people who walk with you and trust in you and exhibit that our lives are very different from what they once were. Oh Lord, we pray that you continue to build your church through the preaching of the gospel. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.