Give your Bibles, please, would you join me in John chapter 8? Lord willing will complete John chapter 8 today. Have you ever met someone and they knew your name but you didn't know their name? It's an uncomfortable situation. Perhaps you knew them years ago in a different context. The face is familiar, but you just can't place them. I often encounter circumstances like this, but it's not my fault. I've been told that I have a pretty good memory. But sometimes I meet people and I don't know their name and the reason is because I've never met them. But they come and greet me here at church because their visitors and they've been watching our service for months online. And they know who I am, and they come up like they've known me for ages. But I've never seen this person before in my life. This happens to me almost every month. Knowing a person's name is an essential part of knowing their identity. Today as we study John chapter 8, we're going to read of Jesus making one of the greatest, most amazing statements that he ever made in his earthly life. At the second to last verse in this chapter, he says Before Abraham was I am. In the clearest possible terms, Jesus states That he is the God who revealed himself to Moses at the burning bush, the self-existent Lord, the God who has always been and always will be. John chapter 8 records the longest and the most intense discussion that Jesus had with the religious leaders of Jerusalem. The animosity in this chapter grows hotter and hotter until it boils over. At the very end of this chapter, right after Jesus makes this statement, it says, so they picked up stones to throw at him. Now, the whole issue of contention in this chapter concerns the identity of Jesus Christ. Who is Jesus? This is why John, the last of the gospel writers, has included this incident in his gospel because the gospel of John is all about the identity of Jesus Christ. He says in John chapter 20 and verse 31, these things have I written that you May believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you might have life in his name. And so he includes things like this debate. Because he wants his readers to carefully think about who is this Jesus? Let me show you how this is the key thing. If you look at John 8. 25 , We see these men asking him, who are you? I have that underlined in my text because it's so important. And if you were here when I preached on that verse, I mentioned to you that really it has the idea of who do you think you are? And now look at verse 53, which we encounter this morning. They say to him, Are you greater than our father Abraham who died and the prophets died? Who do you make yourself out to be? And once again, these words have the idea, who do you think you are? So this issue that caused such intense anger and animosity was all about the identity of Jesus Christ. This is still one of the great questions of humanity, a question that the answer divides all of humanity into two. Who is Jesus? Who do you think Jesus is This is no trivial question because unless you believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, you will perish eternally. That is what is recorded in this Gospel of John numerous times. So who is Jesus? This final paragraph in John chapter 8 can be divided into two parts. In the first part, Jesus defends his identity, and the second part, he declares his divine identity. First point I want to make this morning is this. Jesus refutes the accusation of the Jewish leaders. Look with me at verse 48, please. The Jews answered him, Are we not right in saying that you are a Samaritan and have a demon? When it says the Jews, it's a shorthand way that John uses to refer to the Jewish religious leaders in Jerusalem. Sometimes when you're losing an argument and you can't really answer what the other person is saying, or you get really frustrated with them, people will turn to just name-calling. And that's what they're doing here. They say two things. They say, first of all, that he is a Samaritan. This is the only time we read of anyone calling Jesus a Samaritan. What did they mean by this name? Well, there's several suggestions that scholars have advanced. Some say that he was using it as a racial slur, and that is possible, but certainly they thought that the Samaritans were racially, culturally, and religiously inferior to them. But I think it's more likely that they are saying that Jesus was not theologically Orthodox. Because the Samaritans were not theologically Orthodox. They only accepted the first five books of the Bible, the Pentateuch, and only their version of the Pentateuch. They rejected the rest of the Old Testament. They believed that they were the true people of God and that the Jews were impostors. They believed that they had a true priesthood and the Jews had a false priesthood. They believed that the right place of worship was not Jerusalem, but Mount Gerizim. From the Jewish perspective, the Samaritans were heretics. They were apostates. And so I suspect that when they called Jesus a Samaritan, they weren't thinking that that was actually his ethnicity, but they were saying that he was a false teacher. But it's also possible that when they said this, they were saying it in response to the fact that he said that they were not children of Abraham in the paragraph before. Because that's what the Samaritans said of them. And they knew that Jesus had dealings with the Samaritans, and so perhaps they were thinking He's been influenced. He's gone over to their side. He believes that we are illegitimate. And so They call him a Samaritan. Regardless of which interpretation is the correct one, we know that by calling Jesus a Samaritan, they were insulting him with malice. But Jesus does not dignify this charge with a response. However, he will to the charge that he has a demon Perhaps they said to this to him, because he said in the previous paragraph that they were essentially children of the devil. He says, you're not of your father. You're of your father the devil, the less of your father you will do, remember? Verse 44. And so Perhaps they are, as it were, returning the favor. Let me hasten to say that Jesus was not name-calling. He was saying that something that was absolutely true that was designed to alarm them to the reality of their perilous situation and their spiritual bankruptcy. This is a common accusation that was hurled at Jesus. In Mark 3 and in Matthew 10, they said that Jesus was casting out demons by the power of the devil. And in John chapter 7 and verse 20, they said, You have a demon. And later in this book, in John chapter 10 and verse 20, they will say he has a demon and is insane. And so it's very likely that they put these two things together. And so essentially when they're saying that Jesus has a demon, they're saying that he's crazy. That he's insane, that what he is saying doesn't make respon make any sense. Some of you have heard of the trilemma. That C. S. Lewis did not invent but popularized. And that is that logically, if you think about it, there can only be three possibilities to the identity of Jesus Christ. One is that either he is a lunatic who has delusions of grandeur. In every place that houses those who are severely mentally ill, you will find people who think they're some famous person, like Napoleon or Hitler, or George Washington. And so some have suggested this was the case with Jesus. This is why he made these claims to deity because he was crazy. He was insane. The problem with that view and why it must be easily dismissed is because Jesus does not have any of the other characteristics of insanity. In fact He has provided the world with the greatest teaching, the most profound instruction it has ever seen. And he has actually By the estimation of some psychologists, secular psychologists who have studied the Gospels, they have proclaimed him to be the most mentally balanced, sane person the world has ever known. So the answer that he's crazy does not wash. It doesn't stand on its own feet. It's not legitimate. The other view, of course, is that he was just a liar, deceiver That he knew he wasn't the son of God, but he wanted to gain a following and everything, so he lied all about it There are of course many problems with that. One is that he was the man who best exemplified the truth of any human being who's ever lived. And certainly when if he was just a huckster when things were going south and people were no longer following him and everyone was talking about killing him, you think he would change his message. if he was just a liar. And then the third option is not as the lunatic or liar, but that he is who he claimed to be the Lord. Well here we have the first of those options dealt with. I want you to notice how Jesus responds to this charge. Look with me at verses 49 and 50. Jesus answered, I do not have a demon, but I honor my father, and you dishonor me. Yet I do not seek my own glory. There is one who seeks it, and he is the judge. He says, First of all, I honor my father, and you dishonor me. Earlier in this chapter, Jesus declares that he always does what pleases his father, John 8. 29. He was obedient, loyal, faithful. Whereas these religious leaders had failed to honor God. John chapter 5 and verse 22, Jesus says, Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. And so their claims to honor God the Father were not legitimate or true. Secondly, Jesus claims that he does not seek his own glory. But the glory that the Father seeks for him, in verse 50, we see that it's his father that seeks his glory, that seeks to exalt his son. And he is the judge of all mankind, Jesus says. You see, there are thousands and thousands. of religious leaders in the world today of all different denominations and religions and stripes who are actually serving themselves as they supposedly serve the Lord. It provides status, in some cases, wealth, respect, perhaps a comfortable living, all the while they claim to be serving God But they are actually serving self. This was the implication of his words about these men who were speaking to him. There's a third way that Jesus responds. He claims that he has power over death. Verse 51 is a very interesting verse. Notice it begins with the word. Truly, truly. Jesus says, truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death. This is an amazing thing. Jesus is dealing with people who are very resistant to him. He has given them the gospel again and again. He has told them the truth. patiently again and again and they have rejected and resisted it and yet here even in the height of their debate where perhaps their faces are red and they are angry He still is giving them this invitation, which also includes a warning He says that a person who keeps his word will never see death. Now I like to mark things in my Bible themes so that they jump out to me, and this is a theme of this chapter. The steam of the word, of Jesus' word. Let me point this out to you. Look at verse 31. Jesus said to the Jews who had believed him, if you abide in my word , You are truly my disciples. Now skip down to verse 37. I know that you are offspring of Abraham, yet you seek to kill me because my word finds no place in you. And then verse 43. Why do you not understand what I say? It is because you cannot bear to hear my word. And now verse 52. 51, excuse me, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death. What does it mean to keep his word? He means it to essentially to embrace the gospel by faith. To obey the call to salvation. And he refers to life here. In context, we know that he is not saying that a person who trusts in him will never die. Because many thousands of Christians have died in the history of the world. And apart from the rapture, we will die as well. But John often in this gospel records the words of Jesus to refer to life and eternal life synonymously. For instance, in John chapter 5 and verse 24, he says, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. For John 6. 40. Everyone who looks in the Son and believes in Him should have eternal life. Or John 11, 25 and 26, these famous verses. I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he dies Yet shall he live, and every one who lives and believes in me shall never die. And then John 14, verse 6, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. So life, eternal life, is found in Christ, in trusting in Him and following Him. We see here that even as Jesus refutes these false religious leaders, he exhorts them to seek eternal life, not death. And that brings us to our second point. Here, Jesus reveals that he is greater than Abraham. This is the climax of this entire debate at the end of chapter 8. Look with me at verses 52 and 53, please. The Jews said to him, Now we know that you have a demon. Abraham died, as did the prophets, yet you say, if anyone keeps my word, he will never taste death. Are you greater than our father Abraham who died and the prophets died? Who do you make yourself out to be? They misunderstand his reference to death here. They think of it as physical death. But he is referring to spiritual dealt. And so they point out that Abraham died and the prophets died. So they say, again, you must have a demon. That is, you must be insane. What are you saying? And then we come to this very significant question that they ask. Are you greater than Abraham? And this question expects a negative answer. They expect him to say, No, I'm not greater than Abraham, because who would say that they're greater than Abraham, the father of the Jewish people? This reminds me of the question of the Samaritan woman at the well in John chapter 4 and verse 12. Do you remember what she asked Jesus? She asked him, Are you greater than our father Jacob? And now these men ask, are you greater than Abraham? Now John in his gospel has chosen to record these questions that were given to Jesus because He wants the reader to think about those questions. Is Jesus even greater than the patriarchs? Is Jesus greater than Abraham? Is he greater than Jacob? Did not misunderstand me. Abraham was a great man. He was the very first patriarch. He is the key person in the book of Genesis. The book of Genesis can be divided up into two halves. You had chapters 1 through 11, and then you have chapter 12 to the end of the chapter, which is all about Abraham and his descendants as the God's covenant with them continues to be fulfilled. He's the only person who's called a friend of God. He's called the father of the faithful of all those who believe. And think of this, he is the Old Testament character that Jesus refers to more than anyone else in the Old Testament. And his name is mentioned 11 times in this chapter. But I want you to know that Jesus was much greater than Abraham. And it's demonstrated in three ways in our text. First of all, Jesus defeated death. Abraham lived for 175 years and then he died. Genesis 25, 7 says that he died in a good old age, an old man full of years. Jesus did die on the cross, but he rose again the third day, defeating death. Abraham did nothing like this. In verse 53, they ask this question, thinking that Jesus is being arrogant. Who do you make yourself out to be? Once again, they're implying that he's delusional and arrogant. And then we come down to verse 54. Jesus answered, if I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say he is our God. He's saying that if you truly follow God and you truly know the Father, then you would know who I am. Because he glorifies me. There's also a subtle implication here of what these men were doing, and that is that they were serving God for the glory that they received in their positions. It's made earlier in this text as well. I've talked to counselors before and they have told me that so often when a person accuses someone of having wrong motives Of doing something for the wrong reason, they often are telling on themselves They often are saying what would be their motives if they were in that situation, or what is their motives actually in a similar situation. In other words, these men, because they were serving God, because of the glory that they received, they're accusing Jesus of doing the same thing. But it wasn't true. But now we come to a second way that Jesus demonstrates his superiority to Abraham But actually I want to back up to verse 55. Look at this indictment. Jesus says, but you have not known him. I know him. If I were to say that I do not know him, I would be a liar like you. But I do know him and keep his word. These esteemed religious leaders claimed to know God. But it was a lie. It was a show. But Jesus knew his father perfectly and followed him in joyful obedience. But now look at the second way that Jesus is superior, and that is Jesus' coming was the joyful anticipation of Abraham. Look at me at verse 56, please. He says, your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad. Now a lot of ink has been spilt over how to explain what this means that Abraham rejoiced to see my day. What is that referring to exactly? Let me give you a few ideas that theologians have come up with over the years. Some scholars take this to mean that Abraham was watching the life of Jesus from heaven, but I don't think that's valid at all. Other scholars think that this is a reference to Abraham's understanding of the promise of blessing. In Genesis chapter 12, where it says, and you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. That is a reference to Jesus. But I don't think that this verse is referring to that verse. Others would say it's the ratification of the Abrahamic covenant when Abraham was counted as righteous in Genesis 15, 6. Other scholars would say it's a reference to Abraham's joy at the birth of Isaac in Genesis 17, 7, because he rejoices here and he is rejoicing there. Others point to Isaac's Near sacrifice on Mount Moriah. Remember how Genesis 22 Abraham takes up his son Isaac, his promised son. and obedience to the Lord, and he's about to slay him when God stays his hand and shows him a ram that he has provided. And some would say that Abraham knew and understood the gospel and the cross And that's what it means he rejoiced to see his day. But the most likely answer, I think, is that it's not referring to any specific event in the life of Abraham. But it's simply saying that in the revelation that Abraham received throughout his life from God, in types and in symbols and in conversations , He was with joyful anticipation looking forward to the coming of the Messiah. Now look with me at verse 57. So the Jews said to him, You are not yet 50 years old, and you have seen Abraham? Now, Abraham lived almost 2,000 years before Jesus. That's a long time. And Jesus' last comment gave the impression that Abraham saw him. So how can that be? You're not even 50 years old. Some People have read into this to mean that Jesus looked older than he really was, that perhaps the burden of ministry, the burden of going to the cross made him uh age prematurely and so he looked like a man who was almost fifty years old when he was really, you know, 33 or 34. I think that's reading into the text. I think they're just picking out a number. 50 years old was when Jewish people believed that a man was mature. That's when the priest would retire from their service. By the way, you have a mature pastor. Just wanted you to know that So I don't think it's saying that Jesus was older. But they're saying you couldn't possibly be a contemporary of Abraham. You're not even 50. And then we come to the climactic verse of this chapter, verse 58. Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am. I want you to notice that he begins this statement with truly, truly, this was his way of gaining their attention. What I'm about to say is really important, so listen carefully. He doesn't mumble this out of the side of his mouth. He gathers their attention. I want everyone to hear this. And he says, before Abraham was, I am. I want you to notice that Jesus doesn't say before Abraham was, I was. It would have been true because he existed before Abraham, but it didn't go far enough. He's not just claiming that he by a few years existed before Abraham. No, he uses this divine expression, I am. He has already used this twice in this chapter. Look with me at John chapter 8 and verse 24. He says, I told you that you would die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am he, you will die in your sins. And then verse 28. So Jesus said to them, When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am He, and that I do nothing of my own authority, but speak just as the Father has taught me. Now, in both of those cases, in verses 24 and 28, there are people that will say, well , he's not exactly saying he's God there. It could be that he is just expressing who he is, but he's not he's not really trying to use I am in that way. I think those people are wrong. But verse 58 There's no other possible explanation for it. It's absolutely crystal clear Jesus is claiming that he is the unchangeable God, the great I am Of course, this title comes from Exodus 3. 14, when Moses is at the burning bush and God reveals himself in that bush that was consumed , was on fire, but was not consumed. And that fire was symbolic of God's holy presence. And he's told to take off his shoes because he's on holy ground. And that's when God calls him to go back and deliver his people. He is the great I am. So this is the third way that Jesus is greater than Abraham, the ultimate way. Jesus not only existed eternally, but he is the Son of God. Abraham, if I could put it this way, was a man of God. But Jesus is the God-man. And the Lord's audience knew exactly what he was claiming. Look at verse 59. So they picked up stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple. Stoning was the appropriate response to blasphemy. In Leviticus 24, 16, it says, Whoever blasphemes the name of the Lord shall surely be put to death. Just using the sacred name Yahweh in a flippant manner, without reverence and without proper respect , Could bring the death penalty. But in the minds of these Jewish leaders, what Jesus was doing was ten times worse than that because he was claiming to be God. And indeed, if what he said was not true, he was worthy of capital punishment. And so these religious men pick up stones to execute him. By the way, let me just answer something. Sometimes I'm going to come back to this in a second. Sometimes scholars and skeptics and liberals and cultists will say, well, Jesus never claimed to be God. You know, if somehow they misunderstood him here, don't you think he would have said, wait, wait, wait a minute, guys. I didn't mean it that way. I didn't mean that I was God. But he doesn't do that because they knew exactly what he meant, and he was clearly communicating the truth. Now, it says that Jesus hid himself. What does this mean? It doesn't mean that he ran like a coward because Jesus was the bravest man who ever lived. Some have suggested that Jesus became invisible for a few seconds, but that's just speculation. I think it means that somehow he supernaturally evaded their capture because his hour had not yet come. And then the final words of this contentious chapter are that Jesus went out of the temple. It's a reminder that this discussion and what we've been looking at in chapter 7 and chapter 8 took place in the temple precincts at the Feast of Tabernacles, but it might also be an indication That the glory of the Lord had departed forever from this temple. Now I want to point, just make a few points of application Number one, it is impossible to worship, honor, or glorify God except through Jesus Christ. In verse 54, Jesus says, it's my Father who glorifies me. In John 5. 23, he says, whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father. Christians must never accept the popular pluralism of our day. I think most of you know what I mean by that. It is the very politically correct and ubiquitous view That we all worship the same God. You might be called by different names, different cultures do it different ways, but we all worship the same God. And so we should not have any disagreements between us and other religions because we all essentially are on the same team. That cannot square with what Jesus says repeatedly in the Gospels. Those who do not honor Him, who do not receive Him, As the Savior, as the Son of God, do not honor the Father. And so all religions that reject Distort or ignore Jesus are in fact false. Jesus is the only way to the Father, the only way to know God Number two, we must never exalt some religious leaders if they are greater than Jesus. To these Jewish leaders, Abraham was the ultimate spiritual model, but Abraham was a flawed man. This is how every cult starts. A charismatic leader gathers a group of followers and convinces them that they have received revelation from God. And so people like Joseph Smith or Mary Baker Eddy gather a following and lead people astray. But to a lesser degree, this can even happen in the Christian church when people exalt a writer of the past or some famous historic figure. or even some celebrity pastor. And what they say is always regarded as gospel truth. We must beware of that. We must always measure what any person says by the word of God. And the best of men are flawed. And every great preacher and leader has their blind spots. And there are inconsistencies, and so we should not exalt some person as beyond question Finally, all those that say that Jesus never claimed to be God are either ignorant or intentionally lying. This is a popular claim by both secular skeptics and cultists But as I hope you have seen today in our text and in many others, this simply cannot hold water. It's simply not true. The next time a Jehovah's Witness comes to your door and makes the comment that Jesus was the Son of God, but he never claimed to be God, you should turn them to this verse. John 8. 58. There is another incident that's very similar to this. In Jesus' trial before his crucifixion, when he stood before Caiaphas the high priest, he was asked, Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed, or the Son of God? And Jesus said, I am. Mark chapter 14 verse 62, and the high priest tore his garment and accused Jesus of blasphemy. Because he knew that Jesus was affirming that he was and is the Son of God. So, who is Jesus to you? Is he your Lord? Is he your Savior? The one thing I said many times before is you cannot consign him to just a really good man, a really great teacher, a wonderful moral example, but some man who is not God because If he is not God, then he was a deceiver and a liar or a lunatic. And neither one of those would be a model that you would want to follow. So you either must come all of humanity to just completely reject him Or accept him as who he claimed to be, and as he demonstrated he was the Son of God, the Savior of the world. And if he is indeed God in flesh, then he is worthy of your trust. He's worthy of your obedience and of your loyalty all of your days. And I remind you of this promise that he gave to this antagonistic group. Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death. And those words uttered long ago are still true today. If you come to trust in him and follow him, you will never see eternal death. You will never be condemned, but you will have the gift of eternal life. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for giving us a great Savior. We thank you that He was not just a great man. But he is our God, God in flesh, our mediator, our savior, who is even at your right hand today Thank you for this wonderful truth. I pray that your people would rejoice in it, that we would have great confidence. In whom we believe. And Father, for those who are here who are yet lost in their sins, who have not come to a full understanding of the identity of Christ or come to commit and trust in Him, I pray that today. Would be their day of salvation, and that you would break down the strongholds in their life so that they would come to trust in him and him alone. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.