Give your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Matthew chapter thirteen? Matthew chapter thirteen. I didn't announce last Sunday that I was starting a new series, but I think you will see that today we are. We're going to be embarking on a study of the parables. the larger parables, longer parables, not every little parabolic saying. And today we'll continue with a parable in Matthew 13. Have you ever noticed that things aren't right in the world? The world is filled with violence, injustice, and suffering. And yet the Bible teaches that God is a God of justice, peace, and righteousness. It also teaches that God is sovereign, that He is an absolute control. It declares that he is omnipotent, that he is Almighty God, and that no power or authority in earth or heaven can challenge or stop him. And so if all of these things are true, why doesn't God make everything right in the world? Why doesn't he punish the wicked and vindicate the just? That is the question that our Lord addresses in this parable this morning. And it's one of the oldest theological questions in the history of the world. We find elements of this question in the ancient book of Job. Why do the wicked prosper and the righteous suffer? In Psalm 73, we read of the spiritual journey of a man who nearly lost his faith because of the prosperity of the wicked. But the problem of evil is not just an ancient conundrum. It is still a question that affirms the doubts of atheists and agnostics in the modern world. I don't know if you've ever had an open discussion with someone who's an agnostic or an atheist. But this issue of evil will come up, and usually it's the very first thing that they will provide is evidence that there is no God. I mean, just look at the world. Let me just say that the Bible provides good answers to these objections in a variety of passages. And one passage that you may never have thought of that does address this issue is known as the parable of the wheat and tares. In Matthew chapter 13, Jesus began a new phase of ministry in which he began to teach imperables. There were two reasons that he adopted this new method of instruction. They are mentioned here in Matthew chapter 13, verses 10 and following. And the disciples came and said unto him, Why speakest thou unto them in parables? He answered and said unto them, Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given For whosoever hath to him shall be given, and he shall have more abundance, but whosoever hath not from him shall be taken away even that he hath Therefore speak I to them in parables that they seeing see not, and hearing they hear not, neither do they understand. The first reason that Jesus gives why he speaks in parables is to conceal the truth from those who had only a superficial interest in the truth. When the Lord spoke these words, his popularity was at its height. People were coming in groups of thousands to hear his teaching and to see his miracles. But most of them were not really interested in the truth. And so Jesus spoke to them in parables, and they would scratch their head and they would say, you know, I can't really make heads or tails out of what he's saying. And they would leave. The Lord was thinning out the crowds when he began this new phase of ministry. But there was a second purpose in this new method of teaching, and that was that parables reveal the truth to those who sincerely want to know more of the truth And I hope that that is true of all of you. I trust that you are here this morning because you're eager to learn more truth from the Word of God. Now last week I gave you a brief definition of a parable. In that brief definition, there are four elements. A parable is a concise, real-life story that uses an extended comparison to teach a profound spiritual lesson. Now last week we considered the parable of the sower, and this morning we're going to look at another parable that shares some similarities with that parable. First of all, they're both kingdom parables. They're found here in Matthew chapter 13, which has a collection of seven kingdom parables. Number two, they are both interpreted by Jesus, and that's unusual, nearly unique. They both use agricultural analogy of a sower scattering seed that would have been so familiar to our Lord's hearers. And fourth, they both reveal that there is opposition to God's word. In the parable of the sower, we read of the birds coming and snatching away the seed. And here today we're going to read of an enemy who sows cares in the field. And they are both parables in which we read of a harvest. But there are also some significant differences in these two parables, and we have to be careful that we don't read one parable into the other and miss the points. First of all, the emphasis in the parable of the sower is on the planting. But the emphasis in the parable of the wheat and cares is on the reaping. And it's very, very important that you understand that distinction. In the parable of the sower, the seed represents the word of God or the gospel. But in the parable of the wheat and tares, the wheat, the seed, represents believers, Christians. And finally, in the parable of the sower, the focus is on the hearts of people that are represented by the four types of soil, but in the parable of the wheat and tares, the focus is on the opposition. Now the parable that we are considering today comes with a key interpretational problem And we have to address this up front because the way you decide that is going to affect how you look at this parable. The parable is this. What is really represented by the field? Now, many preachers over the centuries, in one way or another, have suggested that the field here is actually the church. Going all the way back to Augustine and some of the reformers and Puritans and many other fine writers and preachers, they would take this Interpretational perspective, they would say that within the Church of Jesus Christ there are true believers and there are false believers. And the devil has sowed them in the church to create confusion and disruption. And sometimes it's very difficult for people to tell the difference between the two. And to be honest with you, this is the way I've always heard this passage preached. And the one time that I did speak on this passage, many moons ago at another ministry when I was a youth pastor. And I was speaking to the young people, that's the way I applied it because that's the way I'd always heard it But there's one major problem with saying that the field is representative of the church. And you know what that is? Look with me at verse 38. Jesus says the field is what? He says it's the world Sometimes preachers joke, it's a bad joke, but sometimes they joke and say, don't you hate it when the Bible gets in the way of a good sermon? Because it makes a really powerful message to preach about the wheat and the tares, the church being having tares, and who's who's the tear here today? And and makes for powerful preaching, but that's not what Jesus was talking about when he gave this parable. Another problem with the view that it represents the church. Is that the owner of the field does not want the servants to remove the tares from the field. But Jesus, in just a few chapters later in this book of Matthew, Teaches the importance of removing unbelievers from the church. So that would seem to contradict that So I'm going to go with Jesus on this and say that the field represents the world The parable of the wheat and tares is not about the world in the church, it's about the church in the world. It is true that the church contains a mixed multitude. We read of the 12 disciples that there was a Judas that was there. That is true. But that's not what Jesus was trying to convey in this parable. So with that background information, I would like us to examine the parable of the wheat and tares, and I want us to understand that The underlying premise and question that this parable addresses is why does God tolerate the wicked? Why doesn't he bring immediate judgment on those who do really wicked things, who persecute his people? who who who harm others, who are murderers and thieves and rapists, why doesn't God just instantly rain down judgment on them? That would seem very just and it would really get people's attention. This parable is going to answer that question in an indirect way. Let's first of all consider our Lord's description of this parable that begins in verse 24. Look with me at Matthew 13, verse 24. Another parable putting forth unto them saying, the kingdom of heaven is likened unto a man which sowed good seed in his field. But while men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat, and went his way. Let's be sure we understand the meaning of this parable , the parable itself, before we jump to the meaning of the parable. This farmer has acquired good seed, that is, it's healthy seed. It's not mixed with with other kinds of plant seeds. It's pure, it's good seed. There's nothing wrong with the seed. And he plants the seed in his field, and it looks like he's ready for a good harvest. But that night, a person described here as his enemy comes and plants tares in the field. This is known as agricultural sabotage. Perhaps it was a rival farmer or a disgruntled employee What is clear is that this was done as an act of malice. Now you may have never heard of such a thing And some people have criticized this parable and said this could never have happened. But that is not true. In my study this week, I read examples of this very phenomenon happening in India. in Ireland and Canada. In fact, it was such a common problem in the ancient world that the Romans had laws in place to punish those who would do such a thing. Now look with me at verses 26 and following. And when the blade was strung up and brought forth fruit, then appeared the tares also. So the servants of the householder came and said unto him, Sir, didst not thou sow good seed in thy field, from whence then hath it tares? For some time people were oblivious to what this individual had done. But when the grain began to produce uh uh a head on it, uh a grain head, they could see a very distinct difference and they could see that that uh that there was a problem, but there were cares in there with his wheat. And so they come to the owner of the field and ask him about this. And their thought is, hey, you must not have bought brought uh good seed because it must have been a mixture in there with good seed and bad seed, and that explains why you have this harvest. And he says No, that is not the explanation. Look at verse 28. He said unto them, An enemy hath done this. The servant said unto him, Wilt thou then that we go and gather them up? But he said, Nay, lest while ye gather up the tares, ye root up also the wheat with them. Let both grow together until the harvest, and in the time of harvest I will say to the reapers, Gather ye together first the tares and bind them in bundles to burn them, but gather the wheats. So the owner explains that the explanation is not that he bought bad seed. There is another explanation, and that is there is an enemy at work. This helps us to understand the big picture in the in the first parable, the parable of the sower, we read of the good seed being planted, but that's not the only seed, the only information that's being planted in the world. There is opposition to that, and we read about that here. So these servants have a suggestion. They said, let us go out and just uproot all of those tares and pull them out of the field. But the owner says, no, don't do that. And that's because the roots of the wheat and the tares would be intermingled, and if you rip up one plant, you're going to rip up the others. And you're going to destroy the crop. He says, let them come to maturity, let them come the day of harvest. And then we will separate the wheat from the tares. The tares will be bundled up and burned, and the wheat will be put safely into the barn. Now I want you to notice That the action of the enemy, that sabotage of planting that weed, did not ruin the crop. Now the the wheat in light here is probably something called darnal. It's a plant that looks very much like wheat. And it grows to about the same height and it produces some type of grain, but if you eat that grain, it will make you sick. It's a noxious weed And it's a real problem in some parts of the world. And so that's what's in view here. And although the enemy may have assumed that he had destroyed this farmer's crop, he was mistaken. So I want you to notice that everything leads to the harvest that is the focus of this particular Parable. Now let's look at our Lord's interpretation of this parable. Now, between the giving of this parable and the interpretation of this parable. We have two brief parables. The parable of the mustard seed and the parable of the leaven. I'm not going to go through those today. and explain what that means and apply all of that because we're only looking at the larger parables. But all these parables were addressed to the multitude which included the disciples. Now look with me at verse 34. All these things spake Jesus unto the multitude in parables, and without a parable spake he not unto them. That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophets, saying, I will open my mouth in parables, I will utter things which have been kept secret from the foundation of the world. Then Jesus sent the multitude away and went into the house, and his disciples came unto him, saying, Declare unto us the parable of the tares of the field. Matthew here quotes from Psalm 78, which refers to the parables as timeless and mysterious truths, truth that we would not know without God's revelation. And just like the parable of the sower, the disciples asked for an interpretation of this parable. It's interesting they didn't ask about the parable of the mustard seed or the parable of the leaven. Perhaps because they were brief and simple, they did not need an explanation for those parables. But they did not understand what the Lord was conveying in this parable of the wheat and the tares. So if you're here today and you're saying, as we just went through that briefly, I'm not sure what Jesus was saying. Well neither did the disciples know. But we are so blessed that we have this infallible interpretation given to us by our Lord. It's interesting to note that the disciples call it the parable of the tares. Because that's what stood out to them. They discerned that whatever this parable is about, the focus seems to be on those tares that were sown in that field. Now, Jesus begins by giving a very factual identification of seven elements in this parable. This is almost like a little chart that he gives. And he says, the sower here is the Son of Man. That's a reference to himself, to Jesus, our Lord. His favorite self-designation of himself was the Son of Man, taken from Daniel chapter 7. And then he says, as I mentioned earlier, the field is the world. And he says, thirdly, the good seed are the children of the kingdom, true followers of Jesus Christ. The tares or the darnal are children of the wicked one. The enemy that sowed the seed is the devil. The reapers are the angels, and the harvest will take place at the end of the world or the end of the age. Now it's interesting to note that Jesus does not explain every detail in this parable. He makes no point about the farmer sleeping. He does not identify the servants who came to the owner of the farm. And had their request to pull up the weeds. Jesus doesn't talk about that because that's not the focus of the parable. Jesus' entire focus is on the eventual judgment of the tares. If you'll look with me at verses forty through forty two, he says, as therefore the tares are gathered and burned in the fire So shall it be in the end of this world or the end of this age. The Son of Man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend. and them which do iniquity and shall cast them into a furnace of fire, there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. Now it is true that these verses are followed up with a verse about the reward of the wicked in verse 43. Then shall the righteous shine forth as the son in the kingdom of their father who hath ears to hear, let him hear But the focus is not on that. Clearly, the focus, both in emphasis and in space given to it, is in the judgment of the tares. So Jesus is explaining to his disciples why the Lord does not immediately judge the wicked in the world. Why does he allow them to live side by side with his children in this world? Why does he allow his church to be persecuted? Right now, today, all over the world, there are people meeting in secret. There are Christians who are going to be arrested, and some are going to be killed today because they gathered in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Why doesn't God stop that from happening and bring judgment on their oppressors? Why does God allow the pornographers, the pedophiles, and persecutors to continue to live in this world? Well, the Bible gives many answers to those difficult questions. Some of them are alluded to in this parable. I want to mention. Five reasons very quickly before we move on to application. One reason why God does not bring immediate judgment on the wicked. is because if he did, none of us would be here. Because we all do what is wicked and wrong. And there was a time when we were on the other side. Every one of us. No one is born a Christian. No one is born as a child of the kingdom. And so if God were to bring judgment for every serious sin that any human being ever commits instantly, there would be nobody left. So that's one very practical reason why God is tolerant of the wicked. Number two God is patient with the wicked because his plan of redemption is not threatened by the children of the devil. Let me remind you that the farmer was not alarmed by the efforts of the enemy. He didn't say, Oh, what am I going to do now? My crop is ruined. Everything that I've been working for is gone. No, he seems calm and deliberate, and he has a plan in mind. And he's not going to lose any of his wheat because of the efforts. of the wicked one. You see, the devil is no match for the Almighty Creator of heaven and earth The Lord can be tolerant of the wicked because they are no threat to his kingdom. Sometimes Christians talk as if there are two gods. There's the Lord and then there's Satan. They're kind of like evenly matched. That is dualism. That is pagan philosophy. That is not what the Bible teaches. The devil is no match for the Lord. He does not have the attributes of God. He cannot be everywhere at once. He is not all-powerful. He does not know everything. He's more powerful than we are. But he's not even a close second to the Lord. And we need to remember that. When we see the encroaching powers of wickedness in the world that we don't think, you know, that it's kind of like a toss-up as to how things are going to go at the end of the world. That is not the case. Number two, or number three, excuse me, God is patient with the wicked. Because he has a definite day of judgment set for the wicked. God has a timetable Some of you have daytime and calendars, and maybe you keep it on your phone or you keep it on your wall, but some of you I know are very careful and you're very orderly and every day. You've got a list of things to do and and you've got everything programmed into your life. Some people are not so much like that. Some people are. You know who you are. Can I say this? God is very organized. God has a definite date set for the judgment of the wicked. And their doom is sure. How do we know that God has a definite date set for the wicked? Well we have Declarations and inferences of this from Scripture. I'm always amazed at this passage in Genesis 15 when God revealed to Abraham For the Lord will tolerate the wickedness of the Amorites for four generations, because their iniquity was not yet full. But when their iniquity was fulfilled, then God would bring judgment upon them. God can be patient with the wicked. Because there is no danger that they will ever escape his judgment or ever in some way rival him. You know, we have to be careful. Whenever a king in the ancient world would come to the throne, the first thing he would do would execute would be to execute anyone that might have some right to the throne, that might try to stage some kind of coup and take over his kingdom. And they were very paranoid and very insecure. God's not like that. He's not concerned about the wicked. They read several times in scripture, especially in Psalm 2 He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh. God is amused by the feeble efforts of wicked men to stop his royal reign. A fourth reason that God is patient with the wicked is because they help to accomplish his purposes in the lives of his people. Sometimes you might think, wouldn't it be world if great if the world was like a utopia and everyone was a follower of Christ? There was no sin and no evil in the world and there was no opposition and no suffering and no illness and and everything like that. But but how would we become the Christians that God wants us to be if that were the case? God uses the persecution that comes from the wicked to purify his church. God uses the presence of the wicked in the world to bring us to our knees in prayer and depend more upon Him. God allows us to live around the children of Satan so that we can be a witness to them. You see, ultimately the wicked are not this great hindrance to God's work of redemption. They are actually a help. The Bible says God uses the wrath of men to praise him. Fifth and finally, God is patient with the wicked because he is giving them ample time to repent. And be saved. The Bible teaches that we were all children of wrath before we were converted. by the grace of God. Whether you know it, whether it was very evident in your life or not, the reality is you used to be on the other side. Colossians chapter 1 and verse 13 says, Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear son. And Peter, in his second epistle, says that this is a reason why the Lord has not returned Sooner. He says, the Lord is not slack or slow concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but as long-suffering to us were not willing that any should perish. But that all should come to repentance. So these are some of the biblical reasons that the Lord tolerates the wicked in the earth. But now I'd like to make some direct application from this parable. Seven brief applications. Number one. We should never be discouraged by the apparent success of the wicked. Does it ever seem to you when watching the evening news that things are going in the wrong direction? That the powers of darkness are winning, that everything that is godly and righteous and good is being defeated and destroyed. I'm sure you have felt that way. It's easy to conclude that the darkness will envelop the lights, but that is not the case. God is in complete control. The Bible says the Lord hath prepared his throne in the heavens and his kingdom ruleth over all. Isaac Watts had it correct when he said, Jesus shall reign where eer the Son doth his successive journeys run. We need to take our focus off of what's happening in the world and look more to the word and see how the story ends. And rest in the promises of God. My second application is this, we should leave the judgment of the wicked. To the Lord. Sometimes, especially long ago, Christians have taken up arms and attacked those who are not followers of Christ. Some believers in the past have sought to advance Christ's kingdom with violence, condemnation, and coercion. But this is not God's will for his children. We have not been called to pull up the weeds in the world, but to shine the light of the gospel into the darkness. We are to live peaceably with all men. And to overcome evil with good. The third application I would like to make is this We should seek to be a righteous influence wherever the Lord plants us. In this parable, we read that the Lord has scattered his people all over the world. This is part of God's providential plan for all of our lives. Every one of you live in some community. Many of you work at a place where there are very few Christians. God wants you to be salt and light. wherever he has placed you. You should not think of that as just some coincidence where you happen to be working or some accidents. No, the Bible teaches in providence. God opened that door for your employment. God brought that to pass and he has you where he wants you to be. At times, the fact that you work around unbelievers may be unpleasant. You may feel as if you're under attack. You may be belittled. And the danger is for Christians to just band together in like little communes and little refugee camps. And commensurate with one another so that we don't have to be out there in the wicked world with the children of Satan. But that's not God's plan for us. He has scattered us and spread us out so that we will be lights wherever we find ourselves. And I don't just mean, I certainly mean that we are to be witnesses, and that is evangelistic, but but we should be a blessing to those wherever we are. I've said this to you before, but you should be the best employee where you work. You should be a blessing to the people that are there Your community where you live should be a better community because you're living there. You are the children of God. You are light. You are salt. It should be a better place because you're there. When you're at work, you should have the reputation for your character and for your godliness and for your concern for others, so that When someone loses a relative and they're struggling to cope with it, they instinctively come to you because they know that you will have answers. Or when something disruptive comes into their life and their marriage falls apart and they're going through a messy divorce or one of their children commit suicide and they know that there's got to be answers somewhere. They come to you because they know that you're going to turn them to a Bible verse. And you're going to speak to them because you care them. You're going to speak to their heart and you're going to help them. That's what he wants. That's why he's scattered us throughout the world. so that we would be rays of light, so that we would be a beacon of hope to those lost and dying worlds. The Bible says, let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. Number four, we should recognize that all of humanity can be divided into two distinct groups. This is not the way we naturally think, and this is a little distressing to us. But this is exactly what the Bible consistently teaches from cover to cover. The very beginning of the scriptures, we read of the way of Cain and the way of Abel. The Bible speaks of the righteous and the wicked, the foolish and the wise, the blessed and the cursed the godly and the ungodly. He who builds his house upon the rock and he who builds his house upon the sand. The Bible does not speak of any third way, of any middle grounds We have a natural tendency to want to be somewhere in the middle of things, don't we? You have the extremes on this side and you have the extremes on this side and I'm somewhere there in the middle. It doesn't work in this regard. Everyone is either one or the other. That's what the Bible consistently and clearly teaches. Everyone here this morning, everyone here in this community, everyone in the world at this moment is either a child of God. Or a child of Satan. That sounds so offensive and so shocking That you may wonder how anyone could say that someone is a child of the devil. Well, I want you to know that's exactly what Jesus said. to the religious leaders in John chapter 8 and verse 44, he says, You are of your father the devil, and the lust of your father you will do. The reason why they hated him and wanted to murder him is because they were reflecting the attributes of their spiritual father. And he said these to religious people who were obsessed with keeping the Torah, the holy law of gods. And yet they were not what they appeared to be. Everyone here is a child of God or a child of Satan. Number five, we must never forget that there is a real place of judgment for the wicked. This is a truth that we find very inconvenient to consider. And I just want to be clear, I don't enjoy preaching about hell. But Jesus did, and so must I. We have one of those pictures of hell here in this parable this morning. Verse forty, and as therefore the tares are gathered and burned in the fire, so shall it be in the end of this world. The Son of Man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend and them which do iniquity. Notice that hell is a place of fire. It's mentioned twice in those verses that I read at the beginning in verse 40 and again in verse 42. Hell is a place of fire. And hell is a place of absolute misery. Did you notice the expression that is used here? It speaks of There shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. I want to ask you to just take one minute with me and look at several other passages in this one book of Matthew. Look with me at a little later in this book at chapter 13 and verse 50. This is the conclusion. Of another parable. And it says, And shall cast them into the furnace of fire, verse 50, and there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. Same expression. Look with me now at chapter 22 in Matthew's gospel. Matthew chapter 22, please. I want you to look with me at verse 13. Then said the king to his to the servants, bind him hand and foot, and take him away, and cast him into outer darkness. There shall be weeping. And gnashing of teeth. Turn with me ahead to chapter twenty-four. Chapter twenty-four, verse fifty-one 24 verse 51 It says , And shall cut him asunder and appoint him his portion with the hypocrites, there shall be weeping. and gnashing of teeth. And finally chapter 25 and verse 30. 25 and verse 30. And cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. You see how this is a repeated refrain. Let me ask you this question. Who said every one of those expressions? It was Jesus. If you have a red letter edition of your Bible, you saw that every verse that I just read for you was in red. These are the words of our Lord Jesus Christ. He is the one who warned about hell again and again. In fact, our knowledge of hell would be very scant. If you removed all the teaching of the Lord Jesus Christ, He's the one who kept bringing it up and talking about it and preaching about it and describing it and warning people about it. And therefore, to simply dismiss hell out of mind because it's more comfortable for you to do so is to clearly reject The teaching and authority of the Lord Jesus Christ. You may say, what's disturbing to me? It's disturbing to me as well, but there's many things that are true that are disturbing. Hell is a place of fire, it's a place of absolute misery, and it's a place for the wicked. Turn with me back to Matthew 13, please. Look with me at verse 41. It says, The Son of Man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend and them which do iniquity. Now the word offend here doesn't mean people get upset or get their feelings hurt like we often use that term, but all who promote wickedness and cause others to stumble and to be trapped in sin. How many people make their living off of the sin of others? And then them which do iniquity, or those who practice lawlessness. These are people who live as if there is no God. They live by their own code of ethics. They do what they want to do. They live as if they are the ultimate authority, that they do not need to answer to God. God says that is the people that will go to hell. Many of those people might be our neighbors, they might be our friends, they may be responsible, hardworking. patriotic citizens of our nation, but they live as if they are the end of all things and that there is no God to whom they must answer. And we need to remind ourselves of what our Jesus warned about so often. Number six, we should always remember that there is a heavenly home for the people of God. So glad this passage ends with verse 43. Then shall the righteous shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their father who hath ears to hear, let him hear In contrast to the wicked, the righteous will shine like the sun. This is a reference to Daniel chapter 12 and verse 3, which says And they that be wise shall shine as as the brightness of the firmament, and they that turn many to righteousness as stars for ever and ever. These verses are expressing the fact that in heaven Christians will be glorified. But our glory will be all of grace. It will be a reflection of the glory of our Savior. My final application is this: we should all examine our hearts. to see if we are wheat or tares. Notice how the Lord concludes this parable, the last phrase in verse 43. Who hath ears to hear, let him hear. And if you look earlier in this chapter, Matthew 13, verse 9, At the conclusion of the parable of the sower, he says the same thing. Who hath ears to hear, let him hear. What does he mean? He means that you need to carefully question and reflect on the implications of the parable that I have just told you. But he's saying that we must do more than just listen to these profound truths. We must understand them and believe them and obey them. I think that in context here, Jesus is calling the reader to consider if he or she is like the wheat or the tares. And there are two clues in this passage as to how one could tell the difference between these two Number one, what is the fruit of your life? The wheat could be distinguished from the darnal when it came to grain. It could be examined, and it could see that there was a clear difference. Sometimes in our lives, it's not so clear. None of us are perfect. We all come short of the glory of God. Every Christian has flaws in their life. But what is the fruit of your life? Does your life exhibit more of the works of the flesh that are condemned in Galatians 5 or does it exhibit more of the fruit of the Spirits? Jesus said Earlier in this book in Matthew chapter 7, he says, by their fruits ye shall know them. He was referring to the false teachers. How could you tell if someone is really speaking for God? Look at their fruits. And verse forty one We read that the character of those who are sent to hell is that they are workers of iniquity, those who practice lawlessness. They live by their own standards. They habitually practice sin without being grieved or burdened with a guilty conscience because they have established what is right and what is wrong. And a person can be very religious and be this way. Turn with me, if you would, to Matthew chapter 7, the Sermon on the Mount, the conclusion. of that great sermon. Matthew 7, verse 21. Jesus said, Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven, Many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works. Then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. Look at this. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity, those who practice lawlessness. And he says to them, you should have known that you were not my child because you were never practicing What was right and true, you were living by your own moral code. You were living as if you were the God who establishes what is right and wrong. But also we see in our text, in Matthew 13, 43, he says, Then shall the righteous shine forth as the sun. This is those who go to heaven. They are described as righteous. They are called righteous. The Bible teaches the only way that sinful people like us can be considered righteous by God is when the righteousness of the Lord Jesus Christ is imputed or credited to our account We call that transaction justification, where God, on the basis of Christ's righteousness Declares us who are sinful people to be just and not guilty. The judge of all the earth does that. It's only those who come to realize that they are not righteous who can ever be declared to be righteous. So let me ask you this morning, have you placed your full dependence on Christ alone? Can you say, My hope is built on nothing less? than Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean on Jesus' name. On Christ the solid rock I stand. All other ground is sinking sand. All other ground is sinking sand. These are those who will be saved. who will spend eternity with our glorious Redeemer, those who find their righteous standing in Him and Him alone. Let's close in prayer this evening. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it is clear. We thank you that it is compelling. I pray that you would speak to those who are yet in their sins even. this morning that they would not be able to rest until they come to rest in Christ alone. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.