If you have your Bibles, please would you turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 2, towards the very end of your New Testament This morning we're going to celebrate the Lord's table. We're doing this because the Lord has instructed his people to remember him in this way. When Jesus instituted the Lord's table with his disciples, he said, For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he come. What does it mean to proclaim the Lord's death? Well, a concise answer would mean would be to preach the gospel. Wonderful passage that explains the meaning of the death of Christ is 1 Peter 2 verses 24 and 25. Peter is writing to suffering Christians, and he's just explained to them about Christ's great example of enduring suffering, unjust treatment Look at what it says in verses 21 and following, for to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you. leaving you an example, so that you might follow in his steps. He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued in trusting himself to him who judges justly. And then Peter goes on to explain that Jesus suffered and died so that we might be saved. And what he focuses on And especially verse twenty-four is Christ 's death for us There are different theories that theologians have espoused over the years to explain the meaning of the atonement. One that became very popular about a century and a half ago was that Jesus died as an example And one of the texts that they would use would be this text because Jesus' response to injustice is set forth for us here as an example of enduring suffering. Something that would really register with believers who were suffering persecution And indeed, Jesus is an example for us, but that is not the meaning of the atonement, as verse 24 explains for us. The Bible reveals from cover to cover that a monumental transaction occurred at the cross. Atonement was made. Countless symbols of the Old Testament and explanations in the New Testament tell us the meaning of the cross. To reduce the death of Christ to an inspiring example is to miss the clear design of Scripture and the very heart of the gospel. So let me ask you this morning, do you know the gospel? Do you understand the meaning of the cross? My message this morning is going to be very simple. It should be very familiar to you I'm going to preach to the gospel, and I hope you're not disappointed, because the gospel is what sinners desperately need to hear. Both those who are saved and those who are yet lost. When Peter wrote these words, although they have been used undoubtedly to bring countless people to Christ, His intention was not so much to evangelize, but to edify the people of God. The gospel reminds us of who we are. It reminds us of our Savior, that we have been bought with a price. It reminds us of our destiny. It reminds us that we are part of a group of people, the church. I'm going to preach to you this morning briefly on the significance of Christ's suffering on the cross. There are many, many biblical reasons for why Jesus did, died. I want to mention three that are found in our text this morning. First of all, Jesus died as a substitute for sinners. Look at this first phrase in verse 24. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree. There's a lot packed into those words. It's interesting to note that in the Greek text, the first word is sins. It's placed emphatically at the front. It would sound strange for us to read that phrase in English with that at the front, but that is placed there at the beginning. The reason that Jesus needed to die is because we are sinners who are perishing. We are all sinners. And we have all inherited our sinful nature from Adam, the very first human being. When Adam fell in the garden with his wife Eve. All of their offspring, all of their descendants, through all of the generations have inherited a sinful nature. We are all sinners by nature and by choice. So every baby is born a sinner, even my adorable grandson. The Bible says, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Notice the word sins here is in the plural. Speaks of the variety. And the many sins that we have committed. The idea of sin has just about disappeared. from our modern secular culture. If the word sin is used, it's almost always used in a humorous way For the Bible says that this is our biggest problem. The Bible defines sin as the transgression of the law. God's law is not a list of some arbitrary rules, but a reflection of God's holy character. And so to sin against God's law is a personal affront. That brings his judgment. The Bible says the wages of sin is death, separation from God. It's this first hurdle that keeps many people from inquiring into the gospel any further. This is where so many people get tripped up. Because most people naturally and honestly believe they're not that bad. They've committed a few sins, undoubtedly. But even the sins they've committed are understandable if you knew their circumstance and background. They're really not that bad, and so they the good news doesn't sound so good. It doesn't sound compelling and necessary because they are a good person. Just ask their family and their parents and their good friends. They'll tell you he's a really nice guy. She's a great girl. And so when they hear the gospel preached and they're told that they are sinners who need a savior , it doesn't appeal to them. In fact, there might be people here this morning right now, and you're thinking to yourself, I'm not I am a really good person. And I really don't think I need a savior. I mean there's some people, you know, drug addicts and immoral people and so forth that those people I suppose need some help, but I frankly don't need it. My life is pretty good But the Bible says that our sins have separated us from God and it has affected every aspect of our lives and every aspect of our being is fallen. And we don't see things the way they really are. Notice that verse 24 gives the good news. that Jesus bore our sins. He carried our sins. This is here Peter alluding to that famous verse in Isaiah 53 verse 6, all we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. This verse emphasizes that when Jesus died on the cross, he died as a substitute and place of sinners. This is one of the lessons the sacrificial system was intended to teach. If you were a Jew and you sinned against God's law, you were to bring an animal sacrifice. and you would put your hands on the heads of that animal and you would confess your sins. And this was a picture of imputation of your sins are now transferred from you to that animal. And then you would see that animal slaughtered in a very violent and graphic way. And the body would be burned. And that would be, I think, a little disquieting and unsettling. My sin caused the death of this animal. Why once you know that your sin caused something much greater than that? It led to the death of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. So often we think of this in an abstract way or in a theoretical way. Probably most Americans could say that they know that Jesus died on the cross for sinners. I suspect that most would say, yeah, yeah, I know that. But they don't know it in a personal way. I'm always reminded of John Wesley, who went to the New World as a missionary down the Savannah area. Faced a lot of difficulties and problems, was coming back, and there was a great storm. And there were Moravians on board who were Christians and they were not. They were not in distress. They were at peace, even though it seemed likely that they were all going to perish. And he couldn't understand. And he went and he spoke to this man. And this man said to him, Well, don't you know the Lord? Don't you know that your sins have been forgiven? And he says, I know that he is the Savior of the world. And he said to him, yes, but do you know that he is your Savior? And that's what John Wesley didn't know at that moment. And several months later, he was gloriously converted. Notice the personal nature here in the text. It says He himself bore our sins in his body. Emphasis is that this was a real historic person who died a brutal murder, and he had a literal physical body And his our sins, our guilt, our punishment was placed on him. This is a wonderful truth. This is something that's at the very core of what it means to be a Christian and of the gospel, and we must never ever deny it or ignore it. It's interesting to note that Peter refers to the cross here as a tree. He also does that in his sermons in Acts chapter 5 and chapter 10. Why does he do that? I think it's because he's referring back to Deuteronomy chapter 21 and verse 22 that says, if a man has committed a crime punishable by death and he is put to death, you shall hang him on a tree. What is the significance of this? Paul interprets this in Galatians 3. 13. Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree. If you were living In Old Testament times, and you saw someone hanging on a tree, you could be sure that they were a criminal who had been condemned. You see, when Jesus died on the cross, many things occurred. He took the curse of God against sinners. Upon him that we deserve. He absorbed the wrath of God, the just wrath of God. That we have earned. He absorbed that. He took that. He satisfied that And he endured that isolation, that separation from God, and those three hours of darkness on the cross when Jesus cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And because he endured that separation from his father, we no longer need to fear that someday we will be separated from the Father eternally in hell. Because he took that abandonment for us, that wrath for us, that punishment for us. You see, it's only through the death of Christ that sinful people like us can be justified by a holy God. In Romans chapter 3, Paul says it's the only way that God could be just. And the justifier. There had to be a righteous one, a perfect man who died as a substitute in our place. And this is the glory of the gospel. This is how God can forgive wicked people like us. This is the beauty of the gospel, the just dying for the unjust. This is the great exchange. We give to Christ our sin and our guilt, and he gives us his perfect righteousness. This is something that Christians need to remember and dwell on. Lost man instinctively thinks that he can earn God's merits This is what lost people always think. I can clean up my act or I'm already good enough. It'll be okay. And sometimes even Christian people start lapsing back into this old way of thinking. And so They they they think of their relationship with God as based on their performance. And if they happen to be having a good day or a good week, they feel like God is pleased with them. and he accepts them and they can have fellowship with him and they can pray with him. But if they're not having a very good week, then they feel that God is angry with them and he's he doesn't want to hear from them and he doesn't want to talk to them. And they begin to think that somehow he has abandoned them. And it's because they have forgotten the gospel. The gospel is for Christian people. And we must constantly remind ourselves, no, it's not based on how I am doing or how I think I am living or how pure I think I am. It's based on my on Christ's death for me And that brings me to my second point. Jesus died so that we would live for him. Look at this next phrase in verse 24 It says that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. This is a purpose clause in the Greek text. This is why he died This is where we talk about the doctrine of sanctification. The Bible teaches that in one sense We have died to sin because of our union with Christ. Romans chapter 6 brings this out in some detail Because we were with Christ in a mystical spiritual sense when he died on the cross, we died when he died, and we rose when he rose. And therefore we have died to sin. And Paul says, therefore, we shouldn't live any longer in it. The power of sin has been broken in our lives. We are no longer slaves to sin. One of the lies that Satan tries to tell even believing people is that they are still slaves to sin And I can't help it. It's just the way you are. If you had a better background, if you had better training, then maybe you would stand a chance. But because you didn't You're just going to always have to live with these besetting sins that weigh you down and bring you guilt and keep you from God. That is a lie. It's not true. You're not a slave to sin. Its authority has been broken in your life if you're truly born again. But just that side of the equation might make you think, well, then I can just take it easy. Because I I died when Christ died, and so sin doesn't enslave me, so I guess I'm good to go. No, because the Bible also says in Colossians chapter 3 and verse 5 and other places that we are to put to death what is earthly in you. Unlike our justification We are active in our sanctification. There are things that we have to do. We have to strive. We have to fight. We have to work. We have to discipline ourselves. We have to renew our minds in the Word of God's. We have to fellowship with the brethren who provide accountability and help for us. We're not passive. We're active. And so we are all, if you're born again in the process of sanctification, we are dying each day to our sin and seeking to live more righteously for Christ. And this is given here as the reason that Jesus died on the cross. You may have thought that he just died so that you could go to heaven instead of hell. And then you could live life on your own terms. Not true. He died that you might bring glory to his name by showing and exhibiting that you are different now, that his grace has made a profound difference in your life. This is the consistent teaching of Scripture. We have been called to set our minds on things above, not on things of the earth. We have been called not to be conformed to this world, to be transformed by the renewing of our minds. We are to walk, it says, in newness of life. We are told that if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. You see, Jesus came not just to save us from the penalty of sin, but from the power of sin. And therefore our lives should get evidence. That we're different. We're not what we used to be. And we're not like the lost people around us. They can see something's different about that guy. Something's different about that lady. And all of this is because of the death of Christ This is why it's appropriate for us when we celebrate the Lord's table to examine ourselves. We have a time of silence where we can quietly pray and reflect and confess. And if you say, I don't often, I don't really, to be honest with you, think I have anything I need to confess or anything that comes to mind, then you probably shouldn't be partaking of it. Because the Lord's table is for sinners, not for perfect people. We have this beautiful expression here in verse 24, the last phrase, by his wounds. You have been healed. You see, sin is like a deadly disease, and the only cure is the blood of Christ. What a wonderful picture of the benefits that we enjoy because of the Lord's suffering. The Bible speaks of many wounds that he received at Calvary. His route was pierced with thorns. He was beaten with 39 stripes. And he had nails driven through his wrist and ankles. But the great paradox of the gospel, and there are many expressions like this in Scripture, is that through his broken body we are made whole Through his shed blood, our sins are washed away and we become white as snow. That brings me to my third point I wish to make this morning. Jesus died. that we might be his people. This is the result that's mentioned in verse 25. For , word of explanation. You were straying like sheep, but have now returned the shepherd and overseer of your souls. This answers the question of why do we even need to be healed? Because we were like stranged sheep. This again is a reference to Isaiah 53. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. You see, the reason why many people never come to Christ is they don't think they're lost. They don't need a shepherd. They can guide their own affairs, thank you very much. They don't need someone to protect them. They can protect themselves. They don't need someone to provide for them or to feed them. Or to comfort them their self-reliance. This is a very accurate picture of lost humanity. The fact is we were all once like wandering sheep without any direction in life. Every human being has a desire for happiness. And significance. God made us that way because we're made in his image to find meaning and significance in life. And so where do people turn? They turn to idols. They turn to the things of the world. And they undoubtedly will become jaded and disappointed and disillusioned because those things of the world can never fill the human hearts. They turn to false teachers and fake religion and worthless philosophies. What they desperately need is a shepherd, a shepherd who will guide them. Jesus Saw this in his earthly ministry in Matthew 9, 36. He says, and when he saw the crowds, he had compassion for them because they were harassed and helpless like sheep without a shepherd. The clear implication is that everyone needs a shepherd. The shepherd is also described here as an overseer. One of the words for pastor, of course, if you didn't know it, the word pastor means shepherd. There's a great deal of overlap here. We need someone who will provide care and protection and guidance, and that's what Christ provides for his people. This phrase, but have now returned to the shepherd and overseer of your souls may give you the false impression that we were once with the the flock of God and we went astray now we've come back. But that word return is being used in the sense of of to repent or to turn or to be converted. It describes the moment of salvation. Conversion is a turning away from sin and a turning to God. It's like a person walking in one direction and turning around and headed now in the other direction. You see, salvation is not a minor adjustment. It's not the proverbial turning over of a new leaf. It's a radical change. That's taken place from the inside outs. We all need a shepherd. One of the most famous pieces of poetry in the world is Psalm 23. Hundreds of millions of people can recite it. The Lord, it starts, is my shepherd. And all the wonderful benefits in that poem given by the Lord to his people sound so comforting What most people don't realize is none of those promises are true unless you are truly can say, the Lord is my shepherd. So let me ask you this morning, can you say the Lord is my shepherd? That's one thing I know for sure. He is my shepherd. How could you know that Jesus is your shepherd? Well, in John chapter 10 and verse 27, he said, My sheep hear my voice, I know them. And they follow me. And when he says I know them, he doesn't mean that I know about them. I know their name. I know their facts. I know where they live. He's not talking about information. He's talking about a personal, intimate relationship. I know them, and they follow me. Christians are not perfect, but we do know the shepherd, and we seek to follow him. And one of the things that our Savior has called on us to do is to remember him at this table We need to remember that he died to save us. He died to sanctify us. And he claims us as his own people. Jesus is the Savior who bore the crushing burden of guilt that we have earned. He is the suffering servant who absorbed the wounds. that should have been ours. And he is the good shepherd who found us wandering away and brought us graciously to himself. Let us remember him this morning. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you. That Jesus is worthy of our trust and devotion. Thank you for the gospel. Thank you that he died for us. He died that we might not be slaves to sin, and that we might be his people, who live under his care. Help us, Father, to rejoice in the gospel. And I pray that these words would prepare our hearts to receive Communion that we are about to enjoy as a body of believers. Thank you for this time that you have given to us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.