If you are Bibles, please turn with me to Luke chapter nineteen. One of my favorite preachers of the past was a Scottish preacher named Robert Murray McSheen. He had a brief but significant ministry in Dundee, Scotland. In the early 1800s. He died at the age of 29 of tuberculosis. He was known for preaching the gospel with great compassion. He often wept when he urged sinners to flee from the wrath to come. He once wrote , if ever we are to preach with compassion for the perishing, we must ourselves be moved by the same views of sin. and righteousness which moved the human soul of Jesus. This may sound like a strange way to begin a sermon on Palm Sunday. This is the day that the church celebrates the triumphal entry of Jesus into Jerusalem. And usually these sermons are filled with positive upbeat. thoughts of praise and glory to God. And indeed that is appropriate because there is much to praise God for. But in Luke's account, and only in Luke's account, we read that on this festive occasion, Jesus came and wept over the city of Jerusalem. Every tourist to Jerusalem knows that there is a magnificent view of the city that comes as one travels on the main road into the city. many foothills that kind of obscure the city. But as you're traveling in one of the tourist buses, you finally come up over a rise and there you see The old city of Jerusalem, the Temple Mount. And it is a magnificent sight. In some ways, in my estimation, the view is tarnished somewhat because the most central, the most dazzling thing that you see is the dome of the rock. Which of course is a Muslim building there with its famous gold dome. But where that is located, at one time there was the incredible Temple of Herod, and it was marble whites. The rabbis considered this to be the most beautiful view in the world. And it's the same road and the same view of that mount that pilgrims have traveled on for 3,000 years. And it was the path that our Lord took on that Sunday before the last Passover. And on that triumphant day, Jesus wept at the sight of the city. Now there are some factors that make his response all the more striking than they would be otherwise. First of all, these were the tears of the bravest man who has ever lived. Jesus was not a sentimental man who was given to emotional outbursts. We only read on three occasions of Jesus crying, and they were interestingly enough all during the final weeks. of his life on earth. We find, of course, of him weeping at the death of Lazarus. Every child knows the shortest verse in the Bible is Jesus wept. And then we read of Jesus weeping in the Garden of Gethsemane. We would not know this from the accounts of the four Gospels, but in Hebrews chapter 5 and verse 7, it says that he offered up prayers with strong crying and tears. And then the third occasion is on Palm Sunday that's recorded here in our text. Another factor that makes this weeping thought-provoking is that this was done by the Son of God. Jesus' reaction on this occasion provides us with a valuable insight into the heart of God. How does God the Father feel about sinners? Does he have any compassion for them or any love for them? Well, this response of our Savior reveals that indeed he does because Jesus said in John 10, 30, I and my Father are one. And in John 14, verse 9, he that hath seen me hath seen the Father. But what is really unusual about our Lord's weeping is the context in which it occurs. It occurs on a day of jubilation. Look with me at Luke 19 and verse 37. It says, and when he was come nigh, even now at the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice. for all the mighty works that they had seen, saying, Blessed be the King that cometh in the name of the Lord peace in heaven and glory in the highest. And some of the Pharisees from among the multitudes said unto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples. And he answered and said unto them, I tell you that if these hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out. And when he was come near He beheld the city and wept over it. Right at the crescendo of this emotional Jubulation we have, our Lord weeping. I suspect that there were many people that wept that day, but they were weeping tears of joy. But that was not the case with our Savior. I'm sure the disciples were filled with joy. This was the day they had been waiting for for three years. Perhaps one said to another, it will be worth it all, all the hardship and toil and difficulty that we have experienced being away from our families. Traveling around with our Lord, sleeping on the ground, but it's all worth it because this is the day of coronation Finally, the people have seen that our master is indeed the Messiah, and they are going to crown him as their king today. They were coming on this festive occasion, singing their hymns, feeling as one mighty nation. They were coming to the city the Bible describes as the joy of the whole earth. And as Jesus made his way towards Jerusalem, some people began to cut down branches. and placed them in this path, and others laid their robes on the dusty road. These were all symbolic and traditional gestures of allegiance to a king. And the people began to shout out, Hosanna, which means, save now. This is the day we have been looking for. And others cried out, Quoting scripture, blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord. It didn't seem like it would ever get better than it was at that moment. But in the midst of that fanfare and that expectation and that overwhelming sense of joy Of everything coming to fulfillment, Jesus wept over the city. Now there are different Greek terms for crying and weeping. There's some words that refer to the fact that when your eyes just well up with tears when you're moved over something. There are other words that describe when the tears flow silently down your cheeks, but neither of those terms are used here. The word that is used here refers to an audible sobbing. It refers to what even could be described as wailing, the kind of sorrow that was expressed culturally at a Jewish funeral. Jesus is weeping over these people as if he's at a funeral. This must have seemed very odd to them. They may have questioned one another, why is Jesus weeping and crying like this? What moved him to this profound emotional response? Before we seek to answer this question, I want to mention something that I want you to just put out of your minds. It was not because in five days Jesus was going to die on an old rugged cross. That's not why he was weeping. Do you remember what he said to the women who were crying as he carried his cross to Calvary? He said to the daughters of Jerusalem, Weep not for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children. No, Jesus wasn't crying for himself. He was crying for others. And his tears that day reflect the heart of God for sinners. I want to speak to this morning on why Jesus wept for the city. And I want to find from our text this morning three answers. First of all, Jesus wept for the city because he loved the people in the city. We sometimes forget that Jesus was Jewish and that Jerusalem was their capital city. Jerusalem held many precious memories for him. How many times did he come with his family? To celebrate the Passover. We don't know. We know of at least one occasion when he was twelve. I suspect there were many, many others. Every son of Abraham was proud of the white marbled city that was set on Mount Zion. This was the city of David. This was the home of this great temple that Herod had built, which was something that people all over the region of the world marveled at. This was, in their estimation, the city of God. But the verses that follow, help us to understand that it was not so much the city that he wept over as it was the people in the city. I think that our Lord's response here is very similar to the response that we read earlier in the Gospels, where we see Jesus looking at the multitude, thousands of people. And the Bible says that his heart was moved with compassion. We read that expression several times in the Gospels. Especially being elicited by large numbers of people. On one occasion it says he was moved with compassion because they were as sheep without a shepherd. They did not have a spiritual guide. They were wandering around, lost in their sins, and his heart was moved with that. Why would this move him to the depths of his being? The answer is because he loved people. You ever thought about this? Jesus loved people more than any person who has ever lived. Why do I say that? Well, because he was the perfect manifestation of his father. And one of the things the Bible tells us about our God is that he is love. And this, of course, is consistently what Jesus taught his disciples. That they were to what? Love one another. And that they were to love their enemies. And Jesus perfectly embodied what he taught. But what is really striking about his love for the people in the city of Jerusalem that day is that these were the people who would in large part reject him And yet he loved them. John 1. 11 puts it this way, he came unto his own, and his own received him not. It was this city, the city of Jerusalem, that housed the religious establishment that would orchestrate his murder. In just five days the people of the city would cry out in mass, crucify him, crucify him before Pontius Pilate. They would crowd the narrow streets to jeer at our Savior as he carried his cross to Golgotha. And they would walk around the cross and mock him, saying, Let him come down from the cross if he be the Son of God. And Jesus knew all of this perfectly well. Because we're going to see his prophetic powers, his omniscience here, even in our text. And although he knew that they would reject him and they would mock him and they would jeer at him. And they would consent to his unlawful crucifixion and murder. Yet it says that he wept for them because he loved them. It is true that God has a special love for his children, but it's also revealed in Scripture that God so loved the world That he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life I always marvel at the Mark's account of our Lord's meeting with the rich young ruler, this man who seemed so full of promise, who came eagerly before our Lord. And only Mark records That Jesus looked at him and loved him. He studied him carefully, and it says that he loved him. Now, now what does that mean? How would the writer Mark know that? Well, We know historically that Mark very likely got his information from Peter. And I think that Peter that day saw in the eyes of our Lord perhaps with the tears welling up in his eyes, that he genuinely cared for this young man. And sometime later he told Mark, let me tell you what I observed that day. And Mark put it down in his gospel. Jesus loved the rich young ruler, even though that man, it seems, loved his money more than the Savior and rejected the Lord's offer of salvation. Jesus knew this would be his response, and yet he loved him. And I would suggest to you that we must follow our Savior's path. We must love those who reject the gospel. Let me ask you this morning, do you care for people who are different from you? If I were to ask you if you were a loving person, I suspect everyone here would say, of course I am. You love your parents and love your brothers and sisters, I hope, and you love your children, you love your spouse You have some good friends that you love. It's not hard really to love people who love us. But as we all know, Jesus calls on us to go far beyond those boundaries. Jesus loved people who were very different, who were antagonistic towards him. He loved both the downtrodden outcast of society And he showed love even for Pharisees who were filled with pride and with contempt for him. So do you care for people who are different from you? How do you respond to people who are obvious slaves of sin, the sexually immoral, the drug addict, and the thief? Do you interact with them? Do you weep for them? Do you pray for their salvation? Or do you avoid them and denounce them in your heart? I think it's important for us to ask ourselves this question, do we respond to sinners the way Jesus did or the way the Pharisees did? I think far too often, if we're honest, we respond to people the way the Pharisees did. Jesus wept for Jerusalem because he loved the people. And secondly, Jesus wept for the city because they had rejected Their Savior, the Messiah. Look with me at verse 42. Jesus gives an explanation. He says, if thou hadst known even thou, at least in this thy day the things which belong unto thy peace, but now they are hid from thy eyes. This sentence sounds somewhat awkward and incomplete. Because Jesus was very emotional, and perhaps he never really finished his complete thought here. But notice that Jesus gives us a clue here as to why they rejected him. And it was due to their ignorance, he says, if thou hast known. He says later in verse 44 at the end, because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation. They rejected him out of ignorance. But how were they ignorant? The greatest Old Testament scholars in the world lived in the city of Jerusalem. Jesus performed, we know, many miracles in the city of Jerusalem. We know that Jesus spoke to people at length one-on-one, people like Nicodemus who came to him by night. We know that Jesus taught daily in the temple They had a city that was given over to the study of the Old Testament scriptures, and those Old Testament scriptures all point in a thousand different ways to Jesus Christ. And they had the premier interpreters of that book dwelling in that city. And if that wasn't enough The very fulfillment of all those promises and symbols and pictures came to their city and preached in their city. and taught in their city and performed miracles that authenticated his person in their city. And he even died right outside the city walls. And yet they rejected him. You see, their ignorance was not due to a lack of information, it was a willful ignorance. Often I've encountered people in witnessing to them who would say, you know, I'd believe in God if He gave me more evidence of His existence. This may sound reasonable and sophisticated to them, but it's nothing but an excuse to live as if there is no God. The fact is that God has left himself with a multitude of witnesses. The Bible says the heavens declare the glory of God. And the firmament showeth his handiwork. Every day, when we get out and we get up and we look up at the sky, we see evidence of the glory of God. The stars, the sun, the moon, they all point to the fact that we have not made ourselves, that this is not some great Event happening by chance, but it's all been carefully designed by a great creator. We see that in the stars at night. All of creation testifies to its maker. And if the external environment around us does not point to God, we have internal witnesses God has made all of humanity in his image. We all have a sense of right and wrong, a sense of sin, a sense of guilt. Our need for forgiveness, we have a conscience to bear witness that we are hypocrites, that we do not live according to what we even believe to be rights. And God has left Himself a witness in the gospel and in his word. And in the Spirit of God. No, we have a multitude of witnesses. And like those residents of Jerusalem, if we ignorantly reject the Savior today, it is not because we have not experienced a day of visitation. We have had the truth come into our midst. There was a great Puritan preacher by the name of John Howe. He wrote a little book that I read earlier this year entitled The Redeemer's Tears, and it's based on our text, Luke 19, 41. And he says in that classic book, it shall finally be seen to all the world that every man's destruction was entirely and to the last of himself. So let me ask you this morning, what revelation has God granted to you? What spiritual privileges do you enjoy? You ever thought about that? Do you own a Bible? I think everybody in here has access to a Bible. You have it in the pews in front of you. You probably have it on your phone in your pocket. You might have it in your lap. We have Bibles everywhere. Have you ever heard the preaching of the gospel? I suspect you've heard it many times. Do you know any Christians? Of course you know Christians. Did you come from a Christian home? These four questions that I've just asked, I think most of you could say yes to. And yet there are many millions of people who would say no to every one of those. They don't own a Bible. They've never heard the gospel. They don't have Christian parents, and they don't know any Christians. We are so privileged, but we should never assume that because we enjoy all of this revelation and all of these blessings and privileges that that means we're good with God because the people in Jerusalem had all of these privileges. Of all the cities in in the world that have ever existed, it was their city that Jesus came and ministered to and preached. And it was in their lifetime. They say came so close to the truth, and yet they missed it. There's something here that's very ironic. Jerusalem, of course, means the city of peace. And the Lord speaks here in verse 42. He speaks of the things which belong unto thy peace. But now they are hid from thy eyes. The Hebrew word, of course, for peace is one of the most famous Hebrew words, the word shalom. It's a greeting. It means more than what we think of with our English word peace. It also includes the idea of blessing or prosperity. But then he says that this peace that has come, which essentially is salvation has tragically passed by, says, but now they are hid from thy eyes. What is the implication? The implication is that God's day of grace was coming to a close for many of them. Jesus, their Messiah, would soon be taken from them. I want you to keep a finger here and turn with me to John's Gospel, John chapter 12. John chapter 12, I want to begin reading at verse 34. This is John's summary of the end of our Lord's public ministry. John chapter 12, verse 34, he says The people answered him, We have heard out of the law that Christ abideth forever. How sayest thou, the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is the Son of Man? Then Jesus said unto them, Yet a little while is the light with you. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness come upon you. For he that walketh in darkness knoweth not whither he goeth. While ye have light, believe in the light that ye may be the children of light. These things spake Jesus and departed and did hide himself from them. But though he had done so many miracles before them, yet they believed not on him. The saying of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spake, Lord. who hath believed our report, and to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed. Verse 39. Therefore they could not believe because that Isaiah said again, he hath blinded their eyes and harden their hearts, that they should not see with their eyes, nor understand with their heart, and be converted, and I should heal them. These things said Isaiah when he saw his glory, that is Jesus' glory, and spake of him. These verses remind us of a very sombre truth. And that is that there is a day of grace. There is a day when the Spirit of God brings revelation to us, brings witnesses before our paths where the Spirit of God might convict us of our sin, and we begin to be a little curious, a little concerned, perhaps have a little bit of interest in things. But that day of grace can come to an end. And we slip into a spiritual slumber and hardness, and we no longer have any interest for spiritual things. With that in mind, I want to address our young people for a little bit. A lot of times people, especially young people, fall into the trap of thinking, yes. I know these things are true. I believe there's some validity to this, and someday I'm going to receive Christ. Someday I'm going to become a Christian. But I want to enjoy my life for a while. I want to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. And then someday, when I'm mature and older, I will come and I'll make things right. And I will make sure that I'm going to heaven someday. But what they don't realize is that their heart will not be at the same place. And their youthful interest and conviction will fade away, and they will become hardened and set and resolute in their sin. And that softness will disappear. There are some young people here, I believe that know that they are unsaved. Perhaps you said a prayer as a child to please your parents But you know that you've never been changed on the inside. You hate coming to church. You love the world But you come out of consideration and obligation to your family. I would say to you, do not presume that you have many years ahead of you When you can decide for Christ. Because your heart does not stay the same. The more you reject the truth, the harder it will become. Do not assume that there are many other services while you will experience conviction. You have no guarantee of that. I can think of some individuals right now who years ago came to our church. I remember a young man specifically and he was obviously under conviction. He was very concerned and I spoke to him after the service. And he mentioned to me how that he knew that he was a sinner. He knew that he was heading to hell. And these things really bothered him, but he wasn't quite ready. He wasn't ready to make any kind of commitments. And I didn't see him again for some time. Finally, several years later, decided, I want to go out and visit that man. And I finally found where he lived, and I went and I spoke to him. And I remember I went into his kitchen and there he was standing there, and we talked for a few minutes, and he mocked the gospel. And he laughed at the fact that three or four years earlier he was actually concerned about those things. But he assured me that they didn't bother him at all now. And he assured me that he would we would never see him again because he had decided he was going to live life the way he was. He no longer believed there was a God, that there was a heaven, that there was hell, that there was right, that there was wrong. He was living life on his own terms. The softness that he experienced that one Sunday morning was gone. And now his heart was hardened to the truth. I've heard people say to me, one of these days I'm going to get saved. Well, what if today is God's final call? What if today is the last time that the Holy Spirit will come and prick you of the need of a Savior? Someone wrote years ago, there is a line by us, a line unseen, which crosses every path, the hidden boundary between God's patience and his wrath. And third and finally, I want to suggest to you that Jesus wept because these people were facing certain destruction. There are some Bible scholars who see this section in Luke as a reference to Jesus' prophet, priest, and king. And if you have not turned back to Luke 19, I would encourage you to do so. And the triumphal entries he's marching in and people are saying, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord, we see the Lord Jesus Christ as our King. Later in this chapter, we read of Jesus going in and cleansing the temple. Who had the authority to cleanse the temple? Well, it was the priest. We see Jesus in his priestly work there, and here we see Jesus as our prophet. Jesus here in his weeping is fulfilling, in a sense, the symbolic ministry of Jeremiah, who was known as the weeping prophet. Jeremiah 9. 1 talks about a fountain of tears coming from his eyes. He wept for the people because the city of Jerusalem was going to be destroyed by the Babylonians, and many were going to be carried off as captives. And he warned the people about this again and again, and they would not listen to him. And he knew the destruction was coming. And he wept for the city. Here in verses 41 through 44, we see him as the ultimate prophet. He not only wept, but he warned for the people. Let's consider what these verses have to say. Early in the book of Luke, we read of a similar prophetic response of our Savior in Luke chapter 13. We're not told that Jesus wept on this occasion, but he was obviously moved. And he said this in Luke chapter 13 and verse 34, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem which killeth the prophets. and stonest them that are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings, and ye would not Behold, your house is left unto you desolate, and verily I say unto you, you shall not see me until the time come when you shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. In verses 43 and 44, we have prophetic details concerning the coming destruction of Jerusalem that would take place about 40 years. from the triumphal entry. It would take place in the year A. D. 70 under the Roman general Titus. The Lord predicts five things that would occur with astounding accuracy. First of all, he says that they would cast a trench about the around the city. These were fortifications to protect them. from any arrows that would come from the walls as the Jews were trying to protect themselves. Then he says they would compass thee about, that is, that they would encircle the city. They would cut off any supplies coming in or anyone going out. This is how you waged war in the ancient world You would lay siege to a city. You would surround it. And then he says, and you would be kept in on every side. This is exactly what the Romans did. They came in April of that year. And they cut off all supplies coming in. And for several months, for April and May and June and July and August, there was no food that came into the city. And they ate up all the supplies that were there, and then there was widespread starvation. The historians tell us that people were walking about the city like skeletons. It was a horrible scene. And then finally in September, they came and they broke through the fortifications of that city when everyone was weak. and could not bring much resistance. And they completely leveled that city. He says they would lay thee even on the ground and thy children. There was wholesale slaughter without regard for women or children. Anyone who was found there was killed on the spots. And then he says that there was no stone left upon another. This is a proverbial saying, but it was basically literally fulfilled because as they burned the temple, the temple was filled with gold. And the gold would melt and would fall down between the cracks and the crevices of the rocks. So the Roman soldiers came in And the spoils of war, of course, were theirs, and so they would tear all these rocks one from another, looking for little pieces of gold that they could take for themselves. And in their avarice and greed, they literally left not one stone upon another. They leveled and spread out the city. And the only remnant we have of that city today is the Wailing Wall. The Jo the historian Josephus gives this account while the sanctuary was burning Neither pity for age nor respect for rank was shown. On the contrary, children and old people, laity and priest alike, were massacred. And people who tried to escape and resist were crucified. The general Titus ordered that crosses be erected all around that city, and there was finally the entire city was circled with a layer of crosses, and then there was another layer, and then another layer, and they kept crucifying people until they ran out of woods. Because he wanted to send a lesson. Do not defy the Romans This was the destruction that was coming on those people who rejected our Savior. But why did this great disaster occur? Look at the last phrase in verse 44. Thou knewest not this the time of thy visitation. Israel had rejected their prophet, priest, and king, and now they would face the consequences. But I think that Jesus wept that day, not simply because in forty years time many people would die in a horrible way in that city. Because the chances are that most of the adults in that city would have died before that day would come. No, Jesus wept because those who rejected Christ and perished would go to a place called hell. I'm told that most Christians, most Americans, excuse me, today, do not believe in the biblical health. Seventy-some percent of Americans say, no, no, no, I don't believe that. Many people today will say, well, hell is is what people experience on this earth with the difficult lives they have and the broken homes and the physical suffering and the poverty they endure. That's their hell. Why won't you know that hell's much worse than any experience on Earth Jesus is the one who spoke the most about hell in our Bibles. If it wasn't for Jesus and his pronouncements, we would have only a vague understanding of this place. Of torment, but Jesus spoke and warned about it often. He described it as a place prepared for the devil and his angels, Described as a place of fire and torment where the worm dieth not and the fire is not quenched. It was a place of darkness and isolation, a place of misery and regret. But the most horrible thing that Jesus ever said about hell is that it is forever. He called it everlasting punishment. This is the most disturbing thought imaginable. And therefore it's not surprising that it has been greatly attacked by theologians and philosophers over the years. They tried to find clever ways of denying it. They would speak sometimes of conditional immortality. That when people are saved, then they become immortal. They will live forever somewhere. But lost people who are never saved, who die They simply go out of existence. That's it. When they breathe their last, that's the end of their existence. No more life after death for them Of course, there's many, many Bible verses that contradict that. Others would teach something called annihilationism, and that is that the lost When they die, they are cast into a place called hell, but instantly they are burned up, and that's all of their suffering. It lasts but a moment. Many cults teach this. And then there are others who've even come up with clever ideas that God will put people in hell for a while. And then he'll bring them out and give them a second chance and ask them if if you want to profess faith in Christ now. And of course, everyone would say yes. And the only problem with that, there's no verses that support that. People have no problem with believing that there is an eternity of bliss for the people of God. They have no problem with the eternality of heaven. But we all wince at the prospect of the eternality of hell. I want to suggest to you that Jesus wept that day in Jerusalem because hell is real and he knew that it was real. If we could see hell the way our Savior did, we would weep for lost sinners as well. One of the most effective evangelists in the 1800s was Dwight L. Moody. He was somewhat of an enigma to many people. He was not a Bible scholar. He was not very educated. If you look at transcriptions of his sermons, they are filled with grammatical mistakes. He slaughtered the King's English And yet people were saved in large numbers wherever he preached, whether it was in America or in England or wherever else he went to preach the gospel, people were saved. Their lives were changed. Why was that? Well, one reason was because it reflected the love of Christ whenever he preached. He could not speak of hell without weeping. People were touched by his preaching. They listened to his preaching. He preached with authority, with conviction, with earnestness And many were saved. Now there's very little preaching today on the topic of hell. Even evangelical churches rarely ever mention that name or even refer to it. But there was a place there is a place called hell according to our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. But I want to end on this positive note There is great hope in the tears of Jesus. His tears remove the fear that often persists in the hearts of sinful people where they say, I failed God so much. I have sinned so much. I've degraded my life so much. There's no way that He will receive me. There's no point in me coming. Because He will certainly turn me away But we have the wonderful promise in Scripture, where Jesus said, All that the Father giveth me shall come to me, and he that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out. We have the beautiful picture of the prodigal son returning and his father waiting and looking with eager anticipation and embracing him. God is ready to receive sinners. Will you come? Today might be the last time you ever hear the gospel I have not spelled out the specifics of the gospel. But you've heard enough here this morning to know that Jesus is the Savior of the world, that he died for sinners. And that our only hope of salvation is found in Him. And that He desires that people be saved. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, I pray that you would use your word to draw sinners to the Savior. Think of those here today, Father, who have been convicted, who have been troubled. I pray, Father, that they would not push aside those thoughts, those cares, but that they would seek you while you may be found. Pray, Father, for those who are here who perhaps are members of their church but have never but have never been changed internally, Lord. I pray that today they would seek you. I think of young people who have been brought up in this church who have heard the gospel preached hundreds of times but have never really listened. I pray, Lord, that you would break their stubbornness. And I pray, Father, that they would respond to the free offer of the gospel. I pray that they would seek you, Father, today and be saved. And know the joy of walking in newness of life. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.