If you have your Bibles, would you join me in John chapter 3? We are making our way slowly through the Gospel of John. And today we come to two very significant verses. One of the most Stressful and fearful positions a person can be in is to be on trial for a capital offense where the consequence is death This is less common in our society, of course, today, but there was a time when it was very common. The tension is something that you can feel in the air As the trial goes on, as arguments are made for and against cross-examinations, witnesses are called And finally, the case goes to the jury. And after a period of deliberation, the jury comes back with a verdict, and the jury foreman reads The counts on the various charges and the sentence of guilty With its consequential death is an overwhelming situation. Perhaps you have seen actual footage from trials where people have been found guilty and they completely collapse And they have to be carried out of the courtroom because the sentence is so heavy. Today we come to a familiar text where the term condemn or condemnation is found three times. Look with me at verses 17 and 18. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. There's a cluster of terms that are found in these familiar verses. We have this word condemned. We also find the term world. used four times in verses 16 and 17. Why does John use this term world? Because the good news of salvation is to go to all the world. And then the third key term is this word, this verb, believe. We find it five times in verses 15 through 18. Notice this with me. Verse 15, that whoever. believes in him may have eternal life. Verse sixteen. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. Verse 17. For God did not send his son to the world to condemn the world. But in order that the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already because he's not believed in the name of the only Son of God. It's very clear that the path to salvation comes through believing in Christ. So the message of these two verses is very simple and easy to discern, and it is that those who believe in Jesus will be saved, and those who respond in unbelief will be condemned or perish. Let me remind you of the context of this. Jesus has been speaking to a Jewish religious leader named Nicodemus, and he tells this man repeatedly that he needs to be born again. And that conversation comes to an end, most scholars believe, in verse 15. And what we have in verses 16 through 21 is John 's reflection on this event many years later. And what John is impressing on the reader from this incident is that they must believe, because this is known as the gospel of belief. The term believe is used 98 times in this gospel. And at the very end of this gospel, he gives the purpose of this book. And it's this, these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you might have life in his name. The Gospel of John is essentially an extended Gospel tract that again and again encourages the reader to trust in Jesus Christ. Now the doctrine of salvation is a very rich doctrine. There are many facets to it. I believe that God is sovereign in salvation. I do believe in the doctrine of election And we will see this very clearly when we come to chapters in this gospel like chapter 6 and chapter 10 and chapter 17. If you are saved this morning, it's entirely due to the grace of God. But the Bible also teaches that man is responsible to believe. This is the truth that John is pressing home in this passage this morning. And so this will be the emphasis of my sermon as well. John does not present the gospel as a life hack that's worked well for him. No, he presents it as the only way of salvation. And the whole thrust of these two verses is this. Why you should put your faith and trust in Christ alone. There are three reasons I want to bring out of these two verses as to why you must trust in Christ. Number one , You should trust in Jesus because he is the only Savior that God has provided. Look with me please at verse 17. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world. That's the first half. but in order that the world might be saved through him. Now I want you to notice that verse 17 begins with the word for. Just like verse 16. And that is, it is again a word of explanation and clarification. So we have a chain of logic here in this section. In verse 14, we read that the Son of Man must be lifted up. This is a reference to Jesus' crucifixion Well, someone might ask, why was he lifted up on an old rugged cross? And the answer is found in verse 15, that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. Then the question could be asked, well, what motivated the father to send his son to die? And the answer is given in verse 16. He was sent because of the father's love for lost sinners. And then the question would be, what was the intent of Christ's mission to earth? And that is clarified in verse 17. And it is that they might come to believe. Now, I want you to notice that verse 17 provides the negative and the positive side to this answer. He begins here in verse 17 by saying, why the Father did not send his son. He didn't send him to condemn the world. In the Greek text, the word not is actually first. So it could be rendered like this, not for condemning was he sent. That's not why he was sent. Now, why does John feel his need to point this out? I doubt there's anyone here that's saying, you know, I thought the reason he came was to condemn people. But the reality is the original audience of this gospel, there were many Jews Who believed and were taught that when the Messiah would come, he would come to condemn They saw the coming of the Messiah as the time when God would bring vengeance upon the pagan Gentile nations for their idolatry and other sins. But John writes here saying that's not the purpose of his first coming, of his first advents. He came to save. Now, if you know your Bible well, you may wonder how this squares with another verse in this Bible. In John chapter 9 and verse 39, it says, Jesus says, For judgment, I came into the world. That sounds like the exact opposite of what verse 17 is saying. So how can we reconcile this apparent contradiction? Well, in two ways. Number one, Jesus did come to save, but when people responded in unbelief, like the Pharisees and others, their hearts were hardened and they were condemned. It's been said that the same sun that melts the wax hardens the clay. Or to use another analogy, the sun was designed to give lights. But when the sun shines and gives light, it also produces what? It produces shadows. It's an invariable consequence of the shining of the sun. And so the invariable consequence of Christ's coming to earth is that people, some would reject him to their own condemnation. There is great danger in responding in unbelief to the preaching of the gospel. But there's another reason that John can say that Christ did not come to condemn the world, and that is because the world was already under the condemnation of God. All people are sinners, the Bible teaches, and therefore all people are justly condemned. The world would be condemned if Jesus never came. But no one would ever be saved if Jesus did not come. Now notice with me the positive aspect of this verse. The second half of verse 17, it says, but in order that the world might be saved through him. This does not mean that the whole world will be saved. The very next verse makes this very clear. The phrase that the world might be saved expresses the mission. the purpose behind Christ's coming to earth. Jesus came in love on a mission of mercy. This is the truth found repeatedly in Scripture. For instance, in Luke chapter 19 and verse 10, it says, For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. But I want to show you how this mission of salvation is mentioned at the very end of our Lord's public ministry in this Gospel of John. Turn with me, please, if you can, to John chapter 12. John chapter 12, verses 47 and 48. This is Jesus' final invitation. of his public ministry for people to come and trust in him. Look with me please at verse 47. Of John 12. If anyone hears my words and does not keep them , I do not judge him. For I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge The word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day This is a powerful, powerful statement. Did you understand the implications of that? It's saying that if you're here this morning and you hear the gospel and someday and you choose to reject it, that's not for me And someday when you are judged by God, this sermon will be like exhibit A, that you are without excuse. Because you heard the gospel and yet you turned away from it. Now I feel compelled to say one thing You should not take from that the inverse that if a person does not hear the gospel, then they are saved by default The Bible does not teach that. The Bible teaches that in Romans chapter 1, that all human beings are without excuse. because they can tell from creation that there is a creator that they are accountable to. So Pastor Nathan had our our song, a choir sing today about revelation. The general revelation of creation is not enough to save a person. It doesn't have enough detailed information there. But it's enough to condemn a person. This is why we send out missionaries to difficult parts of the world. You know, if if a person was saved simply through ignorance. Then the best thing that we could do would be what? Never tell another living soul. And don't ever send out any missionaries. But because that's not the case, because they will perish if they do not hear, we have sent out missionaries to dangerous places because they are condemned already. God has provided a savior, and by his grace you have heard the good news. This brings us to a second reason why we must trust in Christ. You should trust in Jesus because God has promised incredible privileges to those who believe in him. Look with me now at the first part of John chapter 3 and verse 18. Notice this wonderful promise. Whoever believes in him is not condemned. The connection between verses 17 and 18 is this word. condemned. Those who believe in him, and notice its present tense, they continue to trust in him. It's not something that they did way in the past and they've long forgotten about. No, it's a way of life. They live by faith. They trust in Christ. That individual will not be condemned. That's a wonderful truth. It doesn't say the person who lives a perfect Christian life will not be condemned Or a person who follows God perfectly all their days can have this confidence. No, it's simply the one who believes The one who continues to trust in Christ alone. So how does a person escape the holy wrath of God? Well, the answer is found in verse 18 three times. Can you pick up on this? Look at verse 18. Whoever believes in him is not condemned. But whoever does not believe is condemned already because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. I hope that you saw the answer. If you don't see the answer There's a problem because it's so obvious. You must believe. You must believe. You must trust in Christ and his sacrifice for your sin. What an incredible blessing this is. And this is brought down, this reminds us of something that sometimes people bristle about, and that is that all of humanity is found in two different categories. The Bible teaches this from the very beginning all the way to the end. We talk about all the divisions in humanity of ethnicity and race and and other things and gender, but the the main difference is our relationship with God There are those who believe and those who do not believe. Those are though who those who are who condemned and those who are not condemned. Those who are spiritually alive and those who are spiritually dead. The Bible puts it in many different ways. But it's a reminder to us that everyone here this morning is in one category or another. Everyone under the sound of my voice and everyone outside of this building, everyone in the world. is either right now in a state of being condemned or you're not condemned. There's no middle ground. It's sort of like death. You're not kind of dead or sort of dead. You're either dead or you're alive. Either saved or you're condemned. Now there's another way that the Bible puts this, especially the author Paul. What's that other term for? Not being condemned. It's the word justified. It's the word justified. What does that mean? It is when God, the judge of all the earth, declares that you are not guilty, but instead you have been credited with the perfect righteousness of Christ. That's the glory of the gospel. It's God 's declaration: you are not guilty, but righteous in Christ. You may ask, how can he do that? The answer is because the sinless Son of God died in your place. That's the only way Romans 3 says that God can be just and the justifier. The reason you are not condemned is because Jesus was condemned in your place. He bore God 's curse. And his perfect obedience was credited to your account the moment you believed. So you don't need to go through your life wondering and waiting to see how things turn out. I hope that when I appear before the judgment seat, I hope things are going to be okay. I hope that I will hear not guilty but righteous, but I don't know. No, my friends, that should not be the way we view it as Christians. We've sang two songs today. That bring out the confidence and the joy and the assurance that believers should have. No condemnation now I dread. And then bold I approach the eternal throne. And then, yea, justified, O blessed thought, and sanctified, salvation wrought. This is the great confidence and joy of the believer. And sometimes people think when they see that assurance and that confidence , that that that it's it's not really right. And and and whenever I encounter that with people and they think it's almost like um uh a a badge of of honor humility to say, well, I don't know. I hope I go to heaven, but you know, I don't know. I know as soon as I hear that from people, it's because they still think they can work their way to heaven. You see, if salvation is by works, the great problem is, have I done enough? All right? A lot of times people say, well, I've done my best. Well, was your best good enough? The answer is no, it was not. And so that path, that common path, what most people believe, that being a good person, trying to do your best. That that is the path to salvation. That path will never bring assurance because you've never done enough. But the gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ gives confidence and joy because it's not based on what we have done or in our performance. But what Christ has done for us. This is why in John 5. 24 we read, Jesus says, Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into c judgment, but is passed from death unto life. And Romans chapter 8 and verse 1, there is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. Now let me ask you, does that truth thrill your heart? It should. You know why it doesn't thrill us more? Because often we did not ever think of ourselves, at least in its fullness, of being under God's condemnation. For some of you, you came from Christian homes and you came to faith in Christ at a very early age And so the idea of God's just wrath being upon you, and the sense that indeed you have earned that Has never quite fully gripped your hearts. And the reason why we don't rejoice more in our salvation is because We don't have a full comprehension of what we have been saved from. But if you were like that accused on trial for your life and the verdict comes back not guilty what relief what joy you would have Because you knew the consequence of the other verdict would be death This is the way Christians think about their salvation. We read the sang the words of Charles Wesley the Son. this morning. No condemnation. Now I dread Jesus and all in him is mine. Alive in him my leave living head and clothed in righteousness divine. And because of that, bold I approach the eternal throne and claim the crown through Christ my own. We don't come boldly out of arrogance and pride. But we come in grace and humility because the Word of God has promised that this great gift of eternal life is ours through the work of Christ. This is where we should find our assurance. For so many Christians, this is a struggle. They some days feel like they're Christian and other days not so much, depending on how that day has gone. So for instance, when they have a day when they've had their devotions and they've spent time in prayer with the Lord And they haven't fallen into some besetting sin, and perhaps they've even shared the gospel with someone. They feel like I am really acting like a Christian today. But tomorrow might be a different story. They might get up late and not have their devotions and then they say things they shouldn't say and they do things they shouldn't do and it just is a horrible chain reaction and before you know it The accuser of the brethren is saying things to them, and they start saying, I might not even be a Christian. Look at how I've lived today. Look how far short I've come of God's glory. But my friend, your salvation is not based on your performance. It's based on what Christ has done for you. Now we turn to the third reason why you should trust in Christ. You should trust in Jesus because God has promised condemnation. To those who respond in unbelief. This is the negative part, the other side of the coin in verse 18. Those who believe are not condemned. But whoever does not believe is condemned already because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. The person who does not believe is condemned already. How can this be? This doesn't sound like the way most people think. If you were to ask a large group of people if they are condemned, I think you would find very few people who would say that they were. Almost all people, especially in a nation like America, believe they are Christians and that certainly they're accepted by God. And they might have, they might even use the argument from a superficial understanding of verse 16 and say, well, God is a God of love, so I don't think he would condemn anyone. Well, look at what it says two verses after that. It says that he will condemn anyone who does not believe in his son. So what does he mean that they are judged or condemned already? Isn't judgment day in the future? Yes, it is. We'll see a lot of that in John chapter 5 But what this is saying is that everyone is naturally condemned because no one is born neutral. Do we understand that? No one's born neutral. We're all born with a sin nature that we inherited from our parents and they from their parents going all the way back to Adam and Eve. We sin because we're sinners. That is our identity in Adam. This is why you don't have to teach a little child to be selfish or to lie. or to do many other sinful things. They will come by that naturally, and they got that from you. And you got it from your parents, and so on. And so every human being is born in a state of being condemned. In Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 3, it says that all people are initially the children of wrath. We are under the just wrath of God because we are born as sinners and we continue to act like sinners. This is why the person is condemned already. Hearing the truth of the gospel and rejecting it only compounds their guilt. It doubles their culpability. The idea here is of one who hears the gospel repeatedly and yet persists in unbelief. This is the same idea we find in the very last verse of this chapter, chapter 3. Look at verse 36. Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. Whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life But the wrath of God remains on him. If you are here this morning and you are not trusting in Christ as your Savior, the Bible says in plain English that you're right now under the judgment of God. You have the sentence of death upon you. You're like the person who is going to trial. They've been found guilty And they've been sentenced to die for their crime. And right now they're waiting execution on death row. And the date's been set. And it's coming closer and closer. There is good as dead because the governor is not going to issue a stay. He's made it plain and clear. That is the situation of everyone who will not trust in Christ. You are doomed and headed for destruction. Now you may ask, how is it that God can condemn me for not placing my faith in Christ? That's what the last phrase in verse 18 explains to us. Look at it, please. Because He or the one has not believed in the name of the only Son of God He's speaking here of every individual. This is true of every individual. Who will not believe. Now the expression name here sounds a little odd to us. It's often used by John to denote the person or character of an individual. In John chapter 1 and verse 12 we read, But all who did receive him who believed in his name, he gave the right to become the children of God. What does it mean to believe in his name? To believe in Christ, in his person and his character as revealed in Scripture. And notice how Christ is described at the end of verse 18. The only son, it says in our version. Some of you have the only begotten. John uses this special description of Christ four times in his gospel. It's used twice in the prologue, chapter 1, verses 14 and 18, and now here in John chapter 3, verses 16 and 18. There is a sense in which when we become believers that we are the children of God, that we are the sons of God. But not in the same sense that he is the Son of God. He is the only begotten Son. And so the reason why a person must trust in Christ to be saved is because that's the only savior that God's provided. There is no other option. There is no other way. We're going to read in chapter 4 that he is called the Savior of the world. It's also found in 1 John 4. 14. He is the only savior that God has provided for the world. The question is, is he your savior? Read once a story of a man who was in a high-rise building and there was a fire. He could not go out into the hall. There was no way of escape, but right outside his bedroom window, there was a fire escape. This old metal staircase that would fold down and bring someone to safety. But this man looking out, he really didn't like heights very much. And that looked like it had never been used and it was a little bit rusty. And he says, you know, I don't think I'm going to take that way of escape. I'm going to wait here and hope that another way presents itself. And that man perished from smoke inhalation. Because when the engineers designed that building, they designed just one way of escape. And that was the fire escape. And he chose not to take it. And it cost him his life. I want to make some brief applications here in conclusion this morning. Number one Christians should find great assurance in the promise that whoever believes in him is not condemned. God 's acceptance of you is not based on your performance. I've said this many times before, that when you were saved, the Lord knew exactly how the rest of your life would go. And all the ways that you would fail him. And yet he still saved you. He's not surprised. You may be surprised, you may be shocked, but he's not. He saved you for eternity. His love for you is not based On how well you do. His love for you is based on his love for his son Do we understand that? And he has a perfect love for his beloved son. And so if you are trusting in Christ and you are in Christ, as Paul puts it, then you are good. Because he has an unending love for his son. The second application is this. There's only one way that a person can be saved, and that is through Christ. This is the clear teaching of Scripture. We live in a pluralistic world today. with people of different cultures, different ideas, different religions. And there are many people today, many educated leaders in our world today, who would say. I wish you wouldn't say that. I wish you wouldn't say that Jesus is the only way. That's bigoted. They're fine with you saying that Jesus is a way to God. They're fine with you saying this is what I believe. But when you say that it's the exclusive and only way, that sounds so narrow and so out of step. It's bordering close on hate speech by those who are politically correct. But my friends, we can never concede this point. Because it's clearly what the Bible teaches. John chapter 14 and verse 6, Jesus says the night before his death, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. In Acts chapter 4 and verse 12, Peter says, There is salvation and no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men which we must be saved. And 1 Timothy 2. 5 it says, For there is one God and one mediator between God and man, the man, Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all. So we must hold fast to what the Bible teaches. There's only one way. Number three, nothing so provokes God to wrath as those who reject his beloved son. God, through his amazing love, sent his beloved Son to the sin-cursed planets. To be despised and rejected of men and to die on an old rugged cross. And the person Who knows that, who hears the gospel, who hears this incredible story of which there is nothing like it in the history of the world and says, no thanks. I don't think I need that savior. That person is provoking the wrath of God because they have turned away from his beloved son, who is altogether lovely. Number four. Christ is coming again to bring judgment on the world to those who reject his son. We read that in the first coming Christ came not to judge, but to save. And you might Wrongly assume that this means that Jesus will never come to judge. But this is not what the Bible teaches. The Bible teaches that in his second coming He will come with power and great glory. It says in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, verses 7 through 9. Listen to these words. When the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels and flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God. On those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, they will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of His might. We often fail to mention this when we speak of Christ's return. But it's plainly taught in Scripture. He will come in judgment on those who have rejected him. And then finally, I come back to what I have said already. Everyone here, under the sound of my voice, is either right now in a state of being condemned or a state of being not condemned, but justified. The question is, in which group are you in? And if you've been paying attention at all, you know that the answer is I have put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ and continue to depend on him alone for my salvation. If that is true, and that's not just that you have this intellectual idea that he died for you. But that is what you're trusting in. If that is true of you, then you have this wonderful promise. You will never be condemned. But you will be accepted in the beloved. But if it is not true, if you say, well, you know, I s I kind of believe that that I've done my best and I believe that uh that God knows my heart. He knows that deep down inside I'm a nice person. I'd give you the shirt off my back and and he knows that and so he says I'm okay. If that's the way you're thinking, then I have I want to say something to you. You are right now under a state of condemnation. What you are saying is to the beloved son that God has provided, no thank you. I don't need your death on the cross. I can save myself. And that will invite the judgment of God. So let me ask you this morning, which group are you in? Are you with those who are condemned or those who are not condemned? I want to ask that Every head would be bowed and every eye would be closed. This is not a theological lecture. This is not a religious talk. Everyone here is more responsible to believe because you've been here and heard the gospel today. You can never say, I didn't know, or I never hurt. So my question to you is simply this. If you're here this morning, I'm not going to embarrass anyone, I want to pray for you, but if you're here this morning and you would say Pastor, I think it's likely or I believe or I'm afraid that I'm in that category of the condemned. I would ask that you raise your hand. I'm not going to point you out. I just want to pray for you. Anyone like that? I think I am condemned. Okay. Anyone else? Let's pray, Father. I pray That you would open the eyes of those who are here and did not raise their hand and yet they are condemned. And yet they still think they're okay. And Father, for those who have raised their hands, I pray That you would help them even today to trust in Christ alone and his supreme sacrifice on the cross Would you do this, Father, for your glory? Would you bring joy to their hearts when they understand that there is no condemnation. They need dread. Thank you, Father, for your gospel. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.