Have your Bibles. Would you join me please in John chapter 5? John chapter 5. Lord Willie, we'll conclude this chapter today and we'll begin chapter 6 next week. In the summer of 2023, I flew out to Colorado to participate in Jacob Larson's ordination service. And on my way out, I was seated next to a young college student student from Asia. And as is my custom, I was reading a book And after a few minutes he asked me what I was reading, and I said, Well, I'm glad you asked. I'm reading a book about Christian ministry Because I'm a pastor. And that started a discussion about spiritual things. I discovered that he was a Muslim, and we talked for the next two hours. And I shared the gospel with him, which I tried to explain also that it was the core of Christianity. And uh and he said exactly what I thought he would say. He said that he believed that Jesus was a great prophet. And the New Testament was a great book. However, Christians had corrupted him, especially in the parts about Jesus being the Son of God. and him dying on a cross and rising from the dead. This, in case you don't know, is a Muslim talking point. If you ever talk to a Muslim and share the gospel with them, this is precisely what they will say to you. It's what they've heard all their life. And I asked him how he knew that Christians had changed parts of the Bible. I said, what is your evidence? And that caught him in his tracks and he had to think for a while and he said, well, it's what I've always heard. And I said, there's not one shred of evidence that that has happened. There is no ancient manuscripts where Jesus doesn't die on the cross. There are no manuscripts that say he is really just a man and not the son of God. They don't exist. There is no ancient Bible where Jesus doesn't die on the cross and doesn't rise from the dead at the very end I said, in fact, all four Gospels are structured and point the reader to what the emphasis is, which is the death of Christ and his resurrection. You take those things out, and there's really nothing that holds the gospel record together. And I said to him, the reason that you don't believe this is because all your life you've been taught that this could not have happened, that this is not true. I said, but that is a belief really in just man's word. There is no evidence to back that up. I urged him to read the Gospel of John. We traded contact information. I reached out to him many times, but I never got any response from him. Now there are many reasons why people do not respond to faith in the gospel. This morning, as we conclude our study of the Divine Son discourse, we're going to see three reasons. Why people do not respond and come to Christ. This teaching was all started by our Lord's healing. of a man at the pole of the Thesda on a Saturday. And of course that was the Sabbath. And these religious leaders were very upset about that. And they confronted the Lord. And he defended his actions, and his comments revealed a claim to deity, and this so angered them Then in verse 18 we read that they were seeking all the more to kill him. And so Jesus addresses this. In the Divine Son discourse, an address really given to his antagonist. And in this teaching, he shows that the unity of the Father and the Son, the authority of the Son of God, and the witnesses that verify his claims. There were many witnesses that were given. God the Father was a witness. We have the witness of John the Baptist. We have the witness of Jesus' miracles. and the writings of the Old Testament. So how could these men who were men of the book miss the main point of the book? That is an obvious question that comes out of this passage. And I think the answer is found, at least partially, in verse 40, yet you refuse to come to me that you may have life. The problem was not a lack of evidence, but the wickedness of their own hearts. They did not want to trust in Jesus. They did not want to become his disciples. But this reality requires, I think, further explanation. How could these men who saw the miracles, who heard his words, who had to recognize the fulfillment of prophecy in him, still not acknowledge Jesus as their Savior. How could they remain in unbelief? The reality is we still see this phenomenon today. People can be brought up in a strong Christian home where they've heard the gospel preached hundreds of times. where they've seen God work in the lives of individuals and answer prayers, and yet they can still walk away. They can still remain in unbelief. So I'm going to preach to you on why do people refuse to come to Christ? And I think our passage touches on three reasons. The first one is this, because they seek the Lord with false motives. I want you to notice that the key word in verses 41 through 44 is the word glory. We see this in verse 41 and then twice again in verse 44. It has the idea of praise, a recognition of status, or admiration And what we will see is there's a contrast between the glory that Jesus sought and the glory that these religious leaders desired. Now verse 41 is an unusual verse. It causes us to scratch our hands. Look at what it says. Jesus says, I do not receive glory from people. Now if you're a careful reader of scripture, you should say, but he did kind of receive glory from people, didn't he? He had people worship him and bow down to him and ascribe deity to him, and he did not forbid them from doing this. Well, the idea here is that he he didn't receive glory just for himself He wasn't serving the Lord because of the admiration that people gave him. He came to serve the Lord. And in them glorifying him, they were glorifying his father as well. Because in John 17 and verse 1, we read, glorify your son, that the Son may glorify you. And so we must always compare Scripture with Scripture. Jesus was not in the ministry for the praise that he received, but to do the will of his Father. And we'll see in the very next chapter that Jesus intentionally will drive the crowds away who are superficial followers because he was not trying to gather a crowd, he was trying to make disciples. Now in verse 42, Jesus makes a shocking claim. Look with me there, please. But I know that you do not have the love of God within you. This is what Jesus says to these religious leaders. How could he say this? You and I have to be very careful of assuming we know what's in people's hearts. Because we don't know people's hearts. But at the end of chapter 2, you may recall that Jesus says that he knows what's in men's hearts. He knows what we truly feel and believe. despite what we might say. And so he knew that these religious leaders who were the elite in the nation as as as leaders of the people that they really did not love God And the reason why this is so significant is because this, the love of loving God, was at the very core of the Hebrew faith. The most well-known portion of the Old Testament, what's been called before the John 3. 16 of the Old Testament, is known as the Shema. Shema is the Hebrew verb for to hear. And it's Deuteronomy chapter 6, verses 4 and 5. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one, and you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. This was words that every Jew had memorized and knew in their heart. It was the core of their faith. I want to mention later something called phylacteries. These are those little boxes that they would wear on a strap on their wrist. And in that would be a little scroll with these words written from Deuteronomy chapter 6, verses 4 and 5. They would put these words up on the little box on their door post as well. It was to govern every aspect of their lives. So at the very core of their life, he says to these men who are the epitome of the Jewish faith, you guys don't love God. A very strong statement. Jesus makes other statements like this throughout his ministry. In Matthew chapter 15, verses 7 and 8, he says, You hypocrites! Well did Isaiah prophesy of you when he said, This people honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. This explains how these religious men, whom the people considered to be the paragons of virtue We 're plotting at this very time to murder the Son of God. Jesus goes on to explain how they rejected him and accepted others. Look at verse 43. I have come in my own Father's name, and you do not receive me. If another comes in his own name, you will receive him. The first part of verse 43 is the proof that they do not love God the Father because they rejected his beloved Son. If they love the Father, they would receive His Son. But they did not receive his son because they did not love the Father. However, they did Receive others in their own name. Now, what does that mean? This requires a little bit of explanation. We know that after the death of Christ, and also before his death. There were many false messiahs who came on the scene. Josephus tells us there was something like 64 that came in the hundred years after Jesus' death. that gained followings, that people, hundreds of people would follow them and say, this is the Messiah. And in some of those cases, the religious establishment, that is, the high priest and other members of the Sanhedrin, endorsed these individuals and say, yeah, we do think this is the Messiah. Perhaps the most prominent example happened about a hundred years after Jesus' death in A. D. 132. There was a man named Simon ben Kosiba. He claimed to be the Messiah. He gathered many thousands of followers. And he was supported by the most famous rabbi of his day. And many of the Jewish leaders endorsed him and said, yes, to the people, we think this man is the Messiah. And many of his followers went up to fight against Rome, and they were brutally slaughtered, and all who supported him were discredited. Now, why would these leaders support such would-be messiahs and yet reject the true Messiah when he comes into their midst? Look with me at verse 44. How can you believe when you receive glory from one another and do not seek the glory that comes from the only God? These false messiahs did not challenge the religious leaders. They supported them. It was a mutual admiration society. These false messiahs preach the gospel of political and material deliverance. The prosperity gospel has always found an audience And when the Jewish religious leaders saw that it was beneficial for them , To follow a popular Messiah, they followed because they received, and then that Messiah would say wonderful, flattering things about them And they would both like be supportive of one another, and they would be able to benefit from the wave of enthusiasm that a false Messiah might have. That was not the case with Jesus because he challenged them. And he spoke the truth to them. He didn't flatter. And there was no deal to be made. A key verse cross-reference for this is John 12, 42. where we read they love the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God. Throughout our Lord's ministry, he condemned these leaders For doing their religious deeds to be seen of the people. Some of the things that we read of, like in Matthew chapter 6, are just humorous. We read of them sounding a trumpet in the streets to let people know that they were about to give some money to the poor. So everyone pays attention. We read about them praying in the street corners in a very prominent place where there was a lot of traffic. And they would raise their hands to the heavens and they would pray out loud. and a very eloquent prayer so that everyone passing by would hear it and see it and be impressed. They would fast. We know historically they fasted on Mondays and Thursdays twice a week. And when they did They would disfigure their face and look very solemn and sad and like they were in pain because they wanted everyone to know I'm super religious. I'm really, really spiritual. See how miserable I am They wore elaborate garments with tassels at the bottom, which spoke of their religious stature And this was given by Moses, but over the years the tassels and the intricacy of it became more and more prominent and ostentatious and showy. They took the symbolic reference to phylacteries of having the Word of God, as it were, on your hands and on your head. which is symbolic of the fact that what you do should be governed by the word and what you think should be governed by the word. They took it literally and had these boxes on there with the word of God in it. And over the years, they got larger and larger so that no one could miss it, and it was very impressive. Please don't be offended by this, but this reminds me when I was in college, we used to use this joke about people enlarging their phylacteries when they had really large Bibles. That it was like a sign that they were super spiritual. They had a Bible that looked like a suitcase, you know, it was just huge. And they carried them around. And please don't be offended if you have a large study Bible. I'm not saying there's something wrong with you. But it it was it was the idea of, it was very prominence. And they did all these things, and then they had all of these greetings, these honorific greetings of one another. as one rabbi would pass another in the streets, they would try to outdo each other with all of the superlatives and flattery that they could give to one another. And it was all designed to impress people. I a really important person. And I'm really close to God, and I have a lot of power and a lot of stature. In a society that was intensely religious, this was the top of the leadership. But there was only one problem. They had no love for God. And they had no faith in his son, the Messiah. Amazing. It's so easy to serve the Lord with false motives and with hypocrisy. But there's another reason that people refuse to come to Christ, and that is because they place their hope in a false Savior. Look with me, please, at verse 45. Jesus says to them, Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father. There is one who accuses you, Moses, on whom you have set your hope. Jesus says that he will not be the one who accuses them or condemns them. No, it's Moses who will accuse them. This statement would have shocked them because they had very high regard for Moses. Moses accusing them? They regarded Moses as their hero. He was the giver of the law. He was this person who's called, I think more than anyone else in Scripture, a man of God. He was the one who went up on the mountain and he had such close communion with God that his face was glowing when he came down. And people said Put a veil over your face. We can't look at you. It hurts our eyes. Moses may have been a human being who saw more of the glory of God than any other human being who's ever lived. He was a great man. But you know what? He wasn't a savior. He wasn't a savior. The Jews over the years, over the centuries, had built up the reputation of Moses beyond what the scripture teaches. They taught that Moses was an intercede intercessor or a mediator between God and man. Because in Exodus 32 we read him , uh interceding for the people with the golden calf incident. And so they believe that he was in heaven interceding for them. Remind you of someone It's what Jesus does for us. But nowhere in Scripture are we told that this is what Moses does for us But here Jesus tells these men that Moses isn't praying for you, he is accusing you. Now it's very important that you get this in your mind. You may assume that Jesus here is referring to the final judgment, that Moses will be their accuser, but that's not what he's saying. In verse 45, he says, there is one who, notice this, accuses you, present tense. He's right now accusing you. Not that he will someday accuse you. He's right now accusing you. How is Moses accusing them? I think the Lord is definitely referring to some of Moses ' final words that he gave to the people. Deuteronomy chapter 31, verses 26 and 27. He says this. Take this book of the law, put it by the side of the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord your God, that it may be there for a witness against you. For I know how rebellious and stubborn you are. The law that was given by Moses would accuse them and condemn them. And it was doing just that. What is the most famous part of the law of Moses? Thank you. Ten commandments. Ten commandments. Let me ask you this question. Were these men breaking the Ten Commandments? Oh yeah, they were. How did Jesus summarize the first four commandments? Love the Lord your God with all your heart, your soul, and your strength. He's already said that they don't love the Lord their God. They've already violated that because if they loved the Lord their God, they would have loved his son. What's the sixth commandment? Thou shalt not murder. We read in verse 18 of this chapter that they're plotting to murder him, and they will eventually murder him. These religious men are orchestrating a murder, violating the sixth commandment. And what's the last commandment? Thou shalt not covet. We need to have a class in Ten Commandments here, I think, maybe. I don't know. Thou shalt not covet. You know what Pilate says? He says that for envy they delivered up Jesus. They envied the fact that Jesus had so many crowds and so many supporters. Oh, I wish I had that kind of popularity. I wish that people would say those things about me. They were envious of that. They were coveting what he had. They were violating the last commandments. This is how Moses would accuse them. His law would condemn them, would expose their guilts. And then notice how Moses is described by Jesus here. It says, on whom you have set your hope. On whom you have set your hope. The tense of this verb indicates that they set their hope on him in the past and that that continued to be their hope. He continued to be their hope. Now if you ask them, who are you trusting in, they would say, we trust in the one true God, Yahweh. But their real model was, in Moses we trust. We find this fact in this very Gospel of John. In the very next chapter, John chapter 6, verses 32. And 33, Jesus says, truly, truly, I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. Jesus is saying, you should not be fixated on Moses. but on the Son of God that the Father has sent. And in chapter 9, when Jesus is dealing with the religious leaders about the healing of a blind man, they say to Jesus, We are disciples of Moses. We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man that is Jesus, we do not know where he comes from. God did indeed speak to Moses. But Jesus was the Word of God incarnate. In the prologue of this gospel, we read, the law was given through Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. John 117. You see, the law of Moses never saved anyone. They took the law of Moses and they distorted it into a system of self-righteousness which they believed they could achieve in their own effort. And it was a false gospel. They were following the wrong Savior. You see, the law of Moses was never intended to save anyone. It was only meant to expose their sin and their need of a savior. You ever thought about the fact that in the world today of 7 billion plus people That most people who are lost are lost because they have set their hope on the wrong person. They are trusting in the wrong Savior. In other words, most people in the world are to some degree religious. They believe something. They follow something. We don't get a sense of this as much in the West because we have so much secular atheism. But that is an anomaly. That's not the way people normally have been in the history of the world. Nearly two billion people. are trusting in a false prophet named Muhammad. I mentioned this man I spoke to earlier on the plane. They would say that of course they're worshiping the one true God, Allah. But they're doing so through the word and the teaching of Muhammad And I want to be crystal clear, though this is very politically incorrect, the God who's revealed in Scripture and Allah are not the same. The attributes of God that we find in Scripture are very different from the attributes of Allah that are found in the Quran. Very different. It is a works-based system. And their God is not a God of love and compassion and mercy. Read the Quran from cover to cover if you would like to verify that. I think you will see that But nearly two billion people are on the wrong road because they're trusting in the wrong man. They're depending on the this truth. that Muhammad was the ultimate prophet and that he spoke for God. And that everyone who came before him, they may have been good, but they didn't have it quite right. And that is where they have set their hope, and that hope will lead to destruction. There was a man named Taz Russell, Charles Taz Russell, but everyone called him Taz. He lived in the Pittsburgh area. And he started a Bible study in 1870. And he thought he had some real novel beliefs, although they were just ancient heresies, like that Jesus is not really the Son of God. He was a created being. Salvation by works. We call his followers today Jehovah's Witnesses They would all claim to be followers of the one true God Jehovah, but they're really following a false prophet named Charles Taze Russell. and how he explained God and taught about Christ. And it's absolutely wrong. And then there are the Mormons. Who again would claim to be followers of Jesus Christ, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They don't like to be called Mormons anymore. But they're not followers of Jesus Christ. They may be upstanding citizens. They may be politically conservative. They may abstain from a lot of bad habits. Doesn't make them Christians. About three years ago I had some two Mormon missionaries come to my house. I was out in the yard on a Saturday working. And of course I saw them coming a mile away. And I knew exactly what they were doing. One of them was 19 and the other was 20. And they started into their talking points and everything. And I just said, guys, listen, can we have a real conversation instead of just your sales pitch? So I spent about 10 minutes or 20 minutes maybe talking to them about where they came from, about their families, and why they embraced Mormonism, which because their families were Mormon. and talking to them about what they really knew about biblical Christianity and what they really knew about the life of Joseph Smith. We had a very good conversation. And I told them, you are placing all of your hope in the word of one man. A man who is not worthy of your trust. I'm going to be politically correct again. You can study the life of Joseph Smith. All of his contemporaries where he grew up there in New York said he was not a trustworthy person. He was a con man. He was very good at convincing people and selling people and things But he was a liar and a fraud and not someone to be trusted. But millions of people are trusting in his system and his teaching and his book, the Book of Mormon and other books for their everlasting salvation. And we must not think that because they're nice and conservative and well-off and look like all American people, that they're just like us They are trusting in a false Savior, my friend. And they desperately need the gospel. But there's another reason that people will not come. And that is because they have a false understanding of Scripture. Notice verse 46 begins with the word for. It's a word of explanation. Jesus is going to explain why Moses is their accuser and not their savior. Look at verse 46, for if you believed Moses, you would believe me. How does that follow? For he wrote of me Despite what they would say, they did not truly believe Moses' message. How can Jesus say that? Because if they truly believed or received Moses ' writings, they would have trusted in Christ. Because Moses, he says, wrote of me. Now, I don't think that Jesus here is referring to some passage in the first five books of the Bible I think he's referring to the totality of what we call the Pentateuch, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, that when properly understood, they all point. To Jesus. It was Moses in the book of Genesis who wrote about the seed of the woman that would crush the head of the serpent. This Moses who revealed that from a descendant of Abraham, all the nations of the earth would be blessed At the end of Genesis, we read that the Messiah would come from the tribe of Judah. In Exodus, we read of the Passover that speaks of Christ delivering his people from the bondage of sin. In the books of Exodus and Numbers and Leviticus, we read of the priesthood and the need of people for a representative and all of this is picturing and leading the reader to consider the perfect priest because all of the priests that we read of in scripture were imperfect, including the founding one, Aaron. Showed their need for a true priest. In the book of Deuteronomy, we read of this great man of God, Moses. A truly great prophet, but even Moses had his flaws and failed to take the people to the promised land because of his own sin. And in Deuteronomy chapter 18, beginning at verse 15, Moses talks about an ultimate prophet that's coming someday. who would say all that God gave to him. And he's referring there to the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, the Old Testament reveals the need for a perfect prophet and priest and king, but all that God had sent to Israel were all flawed and failed to do what God had called them to do. And so the reader is given this sense of if only there was an ultimate prophet, priest, and king, and that of course is found in the Lord Jesus Christ. And there is so much more that I could say about Christ in the writings of Moses. Now look with me at this final verse, verse 47. But if you do not believe his writings, that is the writings of Moses. How will you believe my words? This is a classic rabbinic argument from lesser to greater, because the words of Jesus are greater than the words of Moses. He's saying, if you don't believe his words, how are you going to believe my words? How are you going to believe my claims? And what's interesting here is that they would have argued vociferously, we do believe the writings of Moses. But yet part of the reason they didn't understand is because they didn't truly believe. And so they rejected their Messiah. The Bible teaches That the Word of God is a closed book to lost people. Did you know that? So often lost people will take up the Bible and they'll read it and they'll just put it down and say this make any sense. Talked to a lady last year I gave her a Bible to read, and she read John chapter 1, and she just said to me, this doesn't make any sense to me. I can't make heads or tails out of this. It's a waste of time for me to read it. And the reality is the Bible is very confusing when you don't have the eyes of faith and you don't have the Spirit of God to illumine your mind. This is what Paul says in 2 Corinthians chapter 3, their minds were hardened. For to this day, when they read the old covenant, that same veil remains unlifted. Because only through Christ is it taken away. Yes, to this day, whenever Moses is read a veil lies over their hearts. But when one turns to the Lord, the veil is removed. Now maybe you're here today and you would say the Bible makes no sense to you. Try to read it, you just don't understand it at all. The reason is probably because you are still blind and you've never turned in faith to the Lord. You desperately need the Spirit of God to open your eyes so that you might see. Now I'd like to conclude with just a few words of application. Number one Number one, beware of seeking God as a means to an end. This is the very core of the prosperity gospel, which is a false gospel. Do you know what I mean? Seeking God as a means to an end? In other words, people don't really want God They want him to give things that they want. They want to have A strong marriage. And so they turn to God. They want their children to be brought up with morals and values that are appropriate. And so they turn to God. They want their cancer to be healed. And so in a moment of crisis, they turn to God. And let me just clarify here, I have known people that have come to Christ who initially sought him in all of those ways. But as they were seeking the Lord and praying and asking for help and coming to church and they discovered the gospel and they came to believe. But we don't seek the Lord just to make our life here on earth better. We don't come to him to fix our problem, and then when it's fixed, we go back to where we were before and say, thank you very much. Appreciate it. I'm going to go live life on my own terms now. Now we seek the Lord because we love the Lord and we fear the Lord and we trust in the Lord and He is our all And so even when really, really difficult things come into our lives and our whole world is turned upside down, we still cling to the Lord. Because he is our all. This is why the prosperity gospel is so blasphemous, because it's using God or attempting to use God. instead of really seeking the Lord. Number two, beware of becoming a religious hypocrite This passage should serve as a cautionary tale. How could these religious men who were held in high esteem and faithfully read and explained the Torah, a few minutes later planned to murder Jesus The answer is simply because the human heart is desperately wicked. This is not unique to them. In recent years, unfortunately, we have seen a number of prominent, well-known gospel preaching men fall into disgrace. I have many books in my library written by these men. I have to tell you that after they fall, I can never bring myself to read them again. It is a tragedy, is wicked, is horrible. Brings disgrace and dishonor upon the name of Christ. But you know what I never say to those things? I never say, like, how could that happen? Because I know how easily that can happen. I know how easy it is to compartmentalize things in our mind And to become a religious professional, as it were, where you go through your duties, but privately you're someone else We are very, very good at hiding our sin and quieting our conscience. And this is not something that just happens with pastors. It happens with all human beings. How many people I've known over the years who have been a part of this assembly and I thought we're walking with God and then there was some revelation of sin, horrible sin that was rampant in their life for years and years. And somehow they were comfortable living as a hypocrite. And they come to church and they serve the Lord with a smile on their face. And yet the rest of the week they're doing the most disgraceful things. And they've come somehow to be comfortable with that. That, my friend, is a dangerous thing because God will not be mocked. And then finally be certain that you're trusting in Christ alone. This is the gospel of belief, remember. And this verb believe is found five times in our text this morning. The Lord says to them, your hand Putting your hope in Moses, you're putting your hope in the law, you're putting your hope in your own works of righteousness. But that will fail you. This is where so many people look to find their savior. They look to themselves, I can do it. I'm good enough. I can earn my way. I can please God. I can gain his forgiveness. But my friends, if you were to live every moment for the rest of your life in perfect obedience to God, it would not bring atonement for what you have done previously. And of course the fact is you can't do that. You won't do that. You can't trust in yourself. You must not trust in some false religious leader. And you must not trust in your parents' religion. You must have a personal relationship with God through Jesus Christ, the only Savior that He has provided. And unless you come to trust in him, though you might be religious and be well thought of, you will perish eternally. Because he is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. May God help you to trust in him. Let's close in prayer. Father. How wicked is the human heart How quickly and conveniently we conf we conf we excuse our sin and we trust in ourselves. And we seek to use our service for you as a means to get glory. And admiration for ourselves. Oh Father, keep us from these all too common sins. Help us to be pure and sincere Though we are flawed people, yet we do love our God and we love our Savior and we trust in Him alone. Oh Father, keep us from being hypocrites And being filled with unbelief, help us to find our help and our hope in Christ alone. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.