Give your Bibles, please, would you join me in John chapter 3? We are making our way through the Gospel of John And today we continue our study of that interesting conversation between Jesus and Nicodemus. Several years ago, the New Yorker magazine published an article about a resident of Long Island. This is long before the days of computers and satellites and meteorologists who could tell us the five-day forecast. So this man bought an expensive barometer. And when it arrived in the mail to his home, and he opened it up and took it out of the box He was disappointed because the needle appeared to be stuck on the sector-marked hurricane. And yet it was a beautiful day. He shook the instrument and tapped it again and again But the needle would not move. And so he sat down and wrote an irate letter to the manufacturer about his faulty equipment. The next morning he went into New York City to mail his letter of complaint, and that evening he returned to Long Island to find that not only was his barometer missing, but his home was missing. The date was September the twenty-first, nineteen thirty-eight, and the hurricane became known as the Long Island Express or simply the Great Hurricane of 1938. This resident of Long Island did not believe the warning, and it cost him dearly. This morning, as we continue our study of the Gospel of John, we come to this intriguing conversation. Nicodemus was undoubtedly very experienced in engaging in theological debates. But this discussion was apparently very short-lived. In verse 9, we hear the last of Nicodemus. He asks a question, how can these things be? And then the dialogue becomes a monologue. The master of Israel becomes silent before the master teacher, the Lord Jesus Christ. Once again, we see the Lord taking the conversation in an unexpected direction. Earlier we noted that in verse 2 that in Nicodemus's compliments to Jesus, he is essentially inquiring about his identity. But rather than Jesus answering that question about his identity, he says, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. And after a question from Nicodemus, the Lord repeats the substance of what he has just said to Nicodemus. He says in verse 5, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. And then the Lord, in case he misses the point, says again in verse seven, You must be born again. And Nicodemus's response to this is, how can these things be? Or how can this happen? How is a person born again? What are conditions for entering the kingdom of God? This is the sort of question that rabbis dealt with all the time. His legalistic mindset is ready for a list of things that a person must do in order to gain favor with God. But Jesus does not give him a list. Instead, he actually gives him a rebuke. Once again, the Lord goes right to the heart of the matter. And in this section of this conversation I think we see how the Lord deals with those who are doubters. And seekers who have part of the truth, who have an interest in Christ, but have yet to put their faith and trust in Him. And here I think we see why People reject the gospel. Now there are many reasons given in Scripture. Today we're just going to look at three of them. And the first one is this. People reject the gospel because they do not understand the gospel. Look with me, please, at verse 9. Nicodemus said to him, How can these things be? He uses the word can, which speaks of power or ability. Nicodemus is saying, I don't see how this is possible. The whole concept of the new birth seems impossible to him. And there is a sense in which Nicodemus is right. Being a born-again is not something that you do. It is something that God does. We noticed last week that lost people, apart from the working of the Spirit of God, believe that the gospel is foolishness and they will reject it. But this does not mean that they are not responsible to seek the truth and responsible to believe. It's interesting to note that in verse 9, when Nicodemus says, how can this be, the Lord does not answer him right away. The Lord doesn't say, well, first Nicodemus, you must repent of your sins and receive me as the Son of God your Savior. He doesn't say that Instead, we find this rather startling rebuke in verse 10. Jesus answered him. Are you the teacher of Israel, and yet you do not understand these things? Now in verse 2, Nicodemus has complimented Jesus by calling him a rabbi that is a teacher. And now Jesus, in a sense, is returning the compliment, except it's not a compliment in this context. It's a rebuke. I want you to notice that you have the definite article. It says, are you the teacher of Israel? Nicodemus was not only a Pharisee and a member of the Sanhedrin, that is the governing body of Israel. But here Jesus would seem to indicate that he is the most well-known religious figure in all of Judea. Everyone knew about Nicodemus. And yet this theologian does not know the ABCs of theology. Now, I want you to stop for a moment and just think about how much of a rebuke this was. Men tend to take pride in their profession. We get a sense of our self-worth From what we do. That's the way God has made men. I don't want to go into diatribe and talk about how that women tend to have a different focus than that, but that's for another day. But for instance, let's say that you are here and you are a doctor And another doctor says to you, you mean you don't even know that? You don't even know how to do that? Make you feel pretty bad. Or let's say that you're a drywall man and another drywall man says, you mean you don't even know how to fix that seam? It would probably make you kind of angry. Maybe want to show them that you do actually We don't have any response from Nicodemus that's recorded here. I don't know if he was stewing. I don't know if he was angry. But let me just say the Lord was not going out of his way to insult this man, but he was shaking him up out of his self-reliance. As a popular, respected religious leader, he may have assumed that he knew everything there was to know about the Bible. And Jesus says, you don't even know the foundational truths. Jesus said this in love. And I suspect the reason he said it is so that Nicodemus would be driven back to his Old Testament scriptures to say, where does it talk about? Being born again, the new birth, having a new heart. The fact is That just because a person is well educated and very religious does not mean that they know the most important truths of Scripture When I was about 20 years old, I was walking in Baker's Park in Frederick, Maryland, where I grew up. And there sitting on a bench was a Roman Catholic priest. I knew that because of the garb that he was wearing. He was a distinguished-looking man in his 60s. So I sat down and began to talk to him. He was seminary educated and highly respected in the community. And I told him that I was preparing for the ministry. He mentioned to me that he was responsible for the spiritual welfare of 2,000 families. So I asked him, how is a person saved? And he told me that that was a very difficult question to answer. He then proceeded to provide a laundry list of good works and church exercises that one must perform in order to be saved, but only with the hope that they would be saved, not with the assurance. This was not some unique, strange situation. There are many, many educated religious leaders who don't know. what it means to be born again. What Jesus' rebuke implies is that Nicodemus should have known from the Old Testament scriptures. He should have known that this foundational truth, that a man must have a new heart. He should have understand that all of our righteous deeds are as filthy rags. He should have known that the just shall live by faith. But instead he sought to establish his own righteousness. And he rejected the gospel because he did not fully understand the gospel. Secondly, people reject the gospel because they refuse to receive the gospel. Look with me please at verse 11. Truly, truly, I say to you, we speak of what we know and bear witness to what we have seen, but you do not receive our testimony. This is the third time that Jesus uses this introduction verily, verily, in this interview. He's saying, Nicodemus, what I'm going to tell you is of the utmost importance. Now what is puzzling about the statement that causes people to scratch their heads is he uses this This pronoun we. Who are the we? Notice what he says. We speak of what we know and bear witness to what we have seen. So it could be that Jesus is referring to John the Baptist and the other Old Testament prophets who we read in the Old Testament scriptures were always preaching the truth. Or it could be the other members of the Trinity, the Father and the Spirit, but most likely the we is referring to all true believers. That this is what all true believers have come to understand. They have seen the truth. They have received the truth. The Lord is, in a sense, matching what Nicodemus once again said in verse 2 when he says, we know that thou art a teacher. come from God, and that we would suggest that there were other Pharisees and religious leaders who were beginning to question and wonder who this Jesus was This was a part of the message of the apostles. They say in Acts 4. 20, for we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. And he says, we speak what we know and bear witness to what we have seen. He's saying, Nicodemus, I'm not giving you my interpretation or my take on things or my opinion. I am giving you what I know to be true. I'm giving you objective fact. What I have experienced and what I have seen. It's very easy in our pluralistic world for people to think of the gospel as just Somebody's opinion. I've shared the gospel with a number of people over the years who would say, well, that's your opinion. That's what Christianity says. But you know, all these other people, they have other answers. But the gospel did not come from men's opinion. It came from the revelation of God. And it's based on historic facts. It's based on what on a person named Jesus of Nazareth who lived in the first century of Judea and whose description and lifestyle and customs that are explained in the Gospels perfectly fit with what we know was transpiring at that time in the world. We read of the rulers and the governors and all of these other names and those things are all verified by history and those places and those locations you can visit them today The gospel is not someone's wild idea. It is the revelation of God that is grounded and rooted in history. And it has transformed the lives of millions of people over 2,000 years. There is abundant reason to receive it as God's truth. I 'm reminded of The early 20th century evangelist named H. A. Ironside, a name that some of you know. In his early ministry, he was preaching on the streets of San Francisco. And once while he was preaching on a street corner, a famous agnostic came up to him when his sermon was finished and said to him, I challenge you to a debate On the existence of God. We will have it at the science hall tomorrow. And he said, I accept. And he said, You bring two people whose lives have been transformed by your teaching. And Ironstein said, and I will bring a hundred people whose lives have been changed by the gospel. And the man looked at him with a wry smile and said, nothing doing, and walked away. Because he knew that he would lose that encounter. There are a number of questions that sometimes people honestly struggle over Why is there so much evil in the world? What about those who have never heard? How do I know that the Bible is true? How can I believe in a God who would send people to hell? These are good and reasonable questions, and there are good answers to them. But those who are true skeptics are never satisfied with any answers that you give. Because they will not receive the testimony of Scripture. And if you reject the testimony of Scripture, the revelation of God , Then there is no higher court in which you can appeal to. Sometimes people will think, if only I could see something sensational Then I would accept the truth of the gospel. Let me remind you that this man, Nicodemus , saw the miracles of Christ at that Passover season. We read about that at the beginning of chapter 3 and the end of chapter 2. He saw the Lord do astounding things that could not be explained away. And here he has a priceless privilege of having a private interview with the Son of God. Not many people in the history of the world had that privilege, but he did. He saw the miracles, he heard the words of the Savior, and yet he still did not believe or receive what he had to say. We see the same truth confirmed in the story of the rich man in Lazarus. Remember the rich man Request that God send Lazarus back from the dead so that his five brothers will believe. He's convinced if they see this man come back from the dead and hear him say this, then they will all believe. But the Lord replies that if they will not hear Moses and the prophets, that is a reference to the entire Old Testament, neither will they be persuaded by one who rose from the dead. And that would be played out in the life of Christ because after he rose from the dead, did everyone believe? No, they did not. So when a person says, if only I had something more than scripture to go on, They are revealing, as it were, a heart that will not receive the truth And that brings me to my third point. People reject the gospel because they will not believe the gospel. Look with me, please, at verse 12. Jesus says to Nicodemus, if I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things? Now this again has caused people to wonder exactly what he means by earthly things and heavenly things. I'll give the two leading ideas. One is that the earthly things are the illustrations that Christ has just used, like the human birth and the wind. And so the Lord is saying, if you can't even grasp these analogies from nature, how are you going to understand things like the new birth? And that's possible. But most scholars believe that he means that if you can't understand basic truths like the new birth, how a person is born again. And this of course takes place on earth. How are you going to believe heavenly things, more advanced truths like the kingdom of God's? He is saying, Nicodemus, your problem is not primarily intellectual. It is spiritual. And John is going to say this later in this chapter. Look with me down at chapter 3 and verse 19. And this is the judgment. The light has come into the world, and people love the darkness rather than the light, because their works were evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light, and does not come to the light, lest his works should be exposed. But whoever does what is true comes to the light so that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God's So often the reason that some people are skeptics is because they want to remain in their sin. And they know that to come to Christ means they must part with their sin. They must repent of their sins, and they love it too much to let it go. Now look with me again at verse 12, and I want you to notice that twice the Lord mentions this term This key word in the Gospel of John, believe. He says, if I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things? The purpose of this book is that the reader would come to believe that Jesus is who he claimed to be John 20, 31 says, But these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you might have life in his name. But at this point in his spiritual journey, Nicodemus has not come to trust in Christ. He thinks he's a great man. He thinks he's a wonderful teacher. He thinks he does miracles by the power of God. but he will not fully receive Jesus' testimony that he is the Son of God. People struggle and refuse to believe Now in verse 13, Jesus is going to give a compelling reason why Nicodemus should receive his testimony and believe. Look with me in verse 13. No one has ascended into heaven except he who descended from heaven, the Son of Man. Now, once again, you might scratch your head about this and say, what about Enoch and Elijah? Didn't they go up to heaven? Well The Bible never speaks of their entrance into heaven in the terms that are used here. Only Christ ascended into heaven as a monarch coming back to his heavenly throne. The same one who would someday ascend into heaven is the one who has descended from heaven in a unique way The Lord may be making reference to a very common legend among the Jews was that Moses, the lawgiver, ascended up into heaven and that he was the ultimate way to God's. And Jesus is saying, no, Moses, the giver of the law, is not the ultimate way to God. I am the ultimate way to God. I am the Son of God who has come down and will yet return to heaven I am the only one who can speak authoritatively about heaven. It is where I came from. It's where I'm going. It is my true home. So Nicodemus, when I speak to you of heavenly things, you have no valid reason to respond in unbelief. But Nicodemus at this point is still not ready to receive his word So what excuse do you give for rejecting Christ? Ultimately, it comes down to whether or not you will accept his testimony. Often people do not believe because they don't want to believe. Because of the implications of their faith. Now I'd like to turn to two points of application before we conclude this morning. The first thing I want you to see is that sharing the gospel with others often does not produce immediate results. The clear implication of this conversation is that Nicodemus went away an unbeliever who was unconvinced And still trusting in his own righteousness. And yet, the greatest giver of the gospel the world has ever known, the Son of God, the Savior, has been talking to him. And yet he responded in unbelief. But there is hope, I think, in this model that we have before us. Nicodemus is mentioned two more times in the Gospel of John. In John 7 and verse 50 we read of Nicodemus defending Jesus before the Sanhedrin And in John 19, 39, we read of Nicodemus bringing spices to the grave of Jesus before his resurrection. Although it cannot be proved, most Bible students see evidence in this act that Nicodemus had come to trust in Jesus as his Messiah. And many of the individuals that are named in the Gospels are named there because people in the Christian community would know these individuals and would say, yeah, I know Nicodemus. I've met him before, and they in a sense could could corroborate the stories and the record that is here So we don't know exactly how it happened or when it happened. Perhaps it was not for another two or three years that Nicodemus was born again after this encounter. But there does seem to be some credible evidence that in time he did come to trust in Christ as his Savior. My point is that we must not become discouraged when people reject our witness. Often the Lord will use our words in ways that we cannot imagine. We must simply be faithful and sharing the good news and allow the Spirit of God to use his word To bring people to himself. Often we are just one in a chain of people and events that will bring a person to Christ. And so we should not be discouraged or think that we have failed or that our efforts are worthless because we've shared the gospel and there was a rejection of the gospel. No. Most people don't receive the gospel the first time they hear it. And so we must be patient and faithful in sharing the good news because the gospel is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. And secondly, if you are still struggling to believe and filled with doubts, you must seek the Lord in his word. What should you do if you don't understand the gospel? What should you do if you're filled with doubts? If you really are honestly searching for the truth? The answer is you must search the scriptures. Because faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of Christ. I haven't mentioned this thus far in my teaching on this. But I will now. Do you know what the Lord uses to regenerate lost sinners? The Bible says he uses his word. In the parable of the sower, the seed that is sown represents the word of God. And it is this seed implanted in the heart of a person that germinates and in time brings forth fruit. James chapter 1 and verse 18 says, of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth. And 1 Peter 1. 23 says since you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God. So if you're here and you're filled with doubts and you're filled with questions , You must continually seek the Lord in his word. Jeremiah 29, verse 13 says, you will seek me and find me when you seek me with all your hearts. So that means practically you need to put yourself under the preaching of the word There's something about the proclamation of the word of God that God often uses to bring people to Himself. It means that you should read the Word. For yourself. And you should study it carefully. And you should compare it with other scriptures. And you should ask God to open your heart to understand what He has revealed in His Word. And it may mean that you need to ask other Christians to help you and to have a Bible study with you to show you and to help answer your questions about the Word of God. You must continually seek him, and you must seek him in his word. Because the word of God is powerful It is not just information. Sometimes people ask me Can you prove that the Bible is the Word of God? And I know all of these classic arguments that can be used, and they can be helpful to remove some of people's objections. But the ultimate evidence that the Bible is the Word of God is that when people read it, it speaks to them. It is self-authenticating. So I don't tend to give people a bunch of fancy arguments that I learned in seminary. I say, why don't you read the Bible for yourself and shut out all the other information? Don't go on YouTube and watch one video where the guy supposedly points out all these problems in the Bible and then another video where a guy supposedly answers all these problems And go back and forth and become hopelessly confused. No. Read the word of God and let God speak to you in his words. And I believe that if a person honestly does that, they will come to believe that Jesus is the Christ. the Son of God. Let's close in prayer. Father, thank you for giving us your word Thank you for revealing yourself to us.