If you have your Bibles, you can turn with me to Matthew chapter 2. In 1865, one of America's most famous preachers was a man up in New England named Philip Brooks. That year he spent Christmas in the Holy Land. And on Christmas Eve Philip Brooks climbed over, climbed up on a hill that overlooked Bethlehem. And there under the starry night sky, he meditated on what that first Christmas Eve must have been like. He wrote that he never forgot that evening. It left an indelible impression on him. Three years later, he was asked by his music director if he would consider writing a hymn. For their Sunday school Christmas program. And so his mind went back to that starry night, and he took up his pen and he wrote, O little town of Bethlehem. Bethlehem, of course, is known the world over as the birthplace of Christ. You can hardly sing a Christmas carol. Or read an account of the birth of Jesus without a reference to Bethlehem. And every child old enough to attend Sunday school knows that Jesus was born in Bethlehem. And consequently, Bethlehem is one of the most popular tourist destinations in Israel. It attracts over a million visitors every year. Bethlehem sits on a ridge about 2,300 feet high, six miles southwest of Jerusalem. It's no longer a little town. In fact, it's a small city of over 20,000 inhabitants. And one of the major industries in this town is Olive wood carvings, especially nativity scenes. Some of you have olive wood carvings At home, I bet, and if you look carefully, you would find that they were carved in Bethlehem. There are shops everywhere in Bethlehem that carve those You may not know this, but Bethlehem is in the West Bank. It's populated by Palestinians, both Christians and Muslims. And the reason that tours flocked to Bethlehem is to visit the supposed place where Jesus was born. Which is underneath the church of the Nativity. This is one of the oldest church buildings in the world going back to the 300s. It was built after the Roman Emperor Constantine converted to Christianity. The church is built over several caves that tradition says were the place where Jesus was born. There is a 14-point star on the floor of one of these caves that supposedly marks the exact spot where Jesus was born over 2,000 years ago. People line up by the thousands to see the star, and many people kneel and kiss it. You might think that the place where Jesus was born is irrelevant. But the fact is the Bible places a great emphasis on the fact that Jesus was born in Bethlehem. We see this. In Matthew chapter 2, look with me at this familiar story, Matthew chapter 2, verse 1. Now, after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born, King of the Jews? For we saw his star when it rose and have come to worship him. When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Israel with him And assembled all the chief priests and scribes of the people. He inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. They told him in Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the prophet. And you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah, for from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people, Israel. Notice that these scholars knew exactly where Jesus was to be born. They could turn to this rather obscure verse in the prophet Micah. to inform Herod of this. And then the familiar Christmas story, if you'll turn over to the book of Luke, chapter 2. The story that is so often read on Christmas Day by many families. Luke chapter 2. Look with me at verse 1. This should sound very familiar to you. In those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. This was the first registration when Quyrenius was governor of Syria, and all went to be registered each to his own town And Joseph also went up from Galilee from the town of Nazareth to Judea to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David. to be registered with Mary, his betrothed, who was with child. And while they were there the time came for her to give birth, and she gave birth to her firstborn son and wrapped him in swaddling clothes. and laid him in a manger because there was no place for them in the inn. Now why has Luke recorded this? in his gospel. He's explaining how Jesus, whose parents were from Nazareth How he came to be born in Bethlehem. And it was literally a decree from the most powerful man in the world, Caesar Augustus, that brought this about. Have you ever considered why God's son came to earth to be born in this little village? Why not Rome or Jerusalem? Why did God choose this obscure place for this priceless honor? And what does this choice reveal about our Savior? To answer these questions, I'd like us to examine the prophecy of Jesus mentioned by the prophet Micah. So if you can find it, would you please turn with me To the book of Micah. As Pastor Aaron said, you go to Matthew and you back up. Not that many pages, but it's in the minor prophets. Micah, then you have Naam, and then Habakkuk after that Why Bethlehem? What can we learn about the Savior from his birth in Bethlehem? I want to mention four things. Number one, Jesus' birth in Bethlehem reveals the humility of Christ. Micah lived About 700 years before the time that Jesus was born, his name means who is like Yahweh? He lived at the same time as the prophet Isaiah. He ministered during the reigns of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah. Although some of these kings were good, the times were filled with idolatry and foreign alliances. The book of Micah is primarily a book of judgment. The message of this book is the Lord, the righteous judge, who scatters his people, will also forgive and gather them. This book is divided up into three prophetic oracles. These sections are easy to identify because they have the same wording at the beginning of each section, and it's the word hear you. Look with me at chapter 1 and verse 2. You read, Hear you people, and then he goes on to warn of coming judgment to Judea and Samaria. He's speaking here about the Assyrian invasion. And then in chapter 3 and verse 1, he says, Hear you heads of Jacob, this is a warning of coming judgment upon the leadership of Judah. And here he will go on to talk about the Babylonian invasion and coming captivity. And then in chapter 6 and verse 1, he says, hear what the Lord says. And here we find a declaration that Judah has sinned against God's gracious blessing. So Micah is in most people's estimation a dark book. It's filled with promises of coming judgment. But there are rays of hope. There are like an oasis of water in the desert. Verses that are filled with promises of good things to come. Look with me now at chapter 5, Micah chapter 5, where we find our text Notice verse 1 says, now muster your troops, O daughter of troops. Siege is laid against us. With a rod they strike the judge of Israel on the cheek. This verse speaks of judgment, that foreign nations will come in, will lay siege to them, and their leaders will be struck without any ability to fight back. But notice verse 2 begins with the word but. This is a word of contrast. In contrast to this bleak prophecy of judgment, God will someday send a great king to deliver his people. This verse is really the theological heart of the book. It is the basis of all the hope that we find in the minor prophets. God is going to intervene into the affairs of men and fulfill his great plan of redemption. Only here in verse 2 of all the verses in the Old Testament. Do we find that Jesus would be born in Bethlehem? Now notice what it says in verse 2. But you, O Bethlehem Ephrata , Why does he have the second name here? Well, it's because there were two Bethlehems in Israel. And so the prophet specifies by saying Bethlehem Ephrata. Ephrata was a region in Judah. In the south, and Bethlehem was a little village in that region. In the north, in the tribe of Zebulun, there was also a Bethlehem. Bethlehem means house of bread. Ephrata means fruitfulness or fullness. It speaks of the fact that this was a place where wheat and grains were grown. It was like the bread basket of Judea. And so he goes on now to talk about the small Unimpressive town of Bethlehem. It says, you who are too little to be among the clans of Judah. Now many of you have memorized the King James Version of this verse. I know I did when I was a kid. That speaks not of the clans of Judah, but the thousands of Judah. And that is a literal translation of the Hebrew text. The expression the thousands of Judah has reference to the early days of Israel's conquest. in which the twelve tribes were further divided into various clans who settled in various towns. And each clan was supposed to contribute 1,000 fighting men when Israel went to war. But not every clan propagated at the same rate to provide the same number of fighting men. And this town of Bethlehem Could never come up with a thousand men. It was just too small. In Joshua chapter 15, when the towns of Judah are catalogued , 115 settlements or towns are mentioned in Judah, which is not a huge region. But of the top 115, Bethlehem does not make the list. In Nehemiah chapter 11, we have another list of towns after returning from the Babylon in captivity. But again, the town of Bethlehem is missing because it was just too small and insignificant to make it on the list. Bethlehem was an obscure and insignificant village in an obscure and insignificant country. Israel was essentially a land bridge surrounded by powerful nations like Egypt and Babylon and Assyria. And they would march to and from this land bridge, barely taking notice of this little strip of land between other great empires. But it was to these people that God chose to reveal himself in a special way. In Deuteronomy chapter 7 and verse 7, we read these words: The Lord did not set his love upon you or choose you because you were more in number than any people, for you were fewest of all people. But because the Lord loved you. This should not surprise us because we find this pattern again and again in Scripture. God delights. To reveal themselves and to use weak, unimpressive people. We see this pattern In the New Testament as well. It was a common Jewish peasant that God selected to be the mother of our Savior. And Jesus, of course, was not born in a palace. He was born in a stable and laid in a manger. And the Lord chose common shepherds who were looked down upon by people to herald his birth. And Jesus for most of his adult life worked as a carpenter. And when Jesus began his ministry, he called twelve men. But they were primarily fishermen. They were common men. They were not impressive men. They were not the kind of men you would select to turn the world upside down. But God's ways are not our ways. And when those apostles and those preachers went forth to the ends of the earth preaching the gospel , They often found the most receptive audience to be the marginalized of society, the poor, the slave, the weak, the oppressed. And God still delights to use insignificant people to herald forth his gospel and to do his work. Paul describes this as jars of clay that hold the treasure of the gospel. In 1 Corinthians chapter 1, we read at the conclusion of this chapter these words, for consider your calling, brethren. Not many of you were wise according to worldly standards. Not many were powerful. Not many were of noble birth God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise. God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong. God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring nothing. to nothing things that are, so that no human being might boast in the presence of God. Jesus' birth in Bethlehem reveals his humility. But second, Jesus' birth in Bethlehem reveals his Davidic royalty. Look with me again at Micah chapter 5 and verse 2. It says, and from you shall come forth for me one who is to be ruler in Israel. The term ruler has the idea of a sovereign or a king. You see, the infant that would be born in Bethlehem would not just be any child but a king. In fact, he would be a Davidic king. This fact is stressed in all the birth accounts of Jesus. The gospel writers, whether it be Matthew or whether it be Luke, they want the reader to know that Jesus was of the line of David. Let me show you how often this is emphasized and the unique ways in which it is emphasized. Turn with me to the very first page of the New Testament, Matthew chapter 1, please. Matthew chapter 1. I want to look at verse 1, the first verse of the New Testament. This is how Matthew begins his book and the beginning of the New Testament, not the way we would begin a book. The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Now Let me ask you a hard question. Who came first? David or Abraham chronologically? Abraham, okay. I'm very convinced by your your strong response there that you knew that. So so Abraham was around a thousand years before David, more than a thousand years. But We read in the text that the son of David and then the son of Abraham, why did he do it that way? Why didn't he keep it in chronological order? Because everything else here is in chronological order. It's because he's emphasizing that Jesus was the son of David. He wants to underscore that. And then we have a very interesting Arrangement. Look with me down now in chapter one and verse seventeen. So all the generations from Abraham to David were fourteen generations, and from David to the deportation to Babylon, fourteen generations, and from the Deportation of Babylon to Christ, 14 generations. Now, scholars for centuries have puzzled over these words. He's obviously arranging this to make a point. Most scholars think that Matthew was using Hebrew numerics. To remind the reader of King David because there were letters that corresponded with numbers, so D was like the number four, V is the number six. And then D is the number four. And if you add up four, six, and four, you have fourteen. And you have the three consonants in David's name, D, V, D. And guess where David 's name is found in this genealogy? He's the 14th one. All of these things are trying to point the reader to the fact that Jesus was a descendant of David. And then we see his name mentioned in verse 6 And we see it again in verse 17, and we see it in verse 20. It says, as this angel appeared to Joseph, but as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. And I feel certain that was the first time that Joseph in his life had ever been called a son of David. But the angel is emphasizing his Davidic lineage. And we see this again in the book of Luke. I'm not going to take the time to look at Luke chapter 1, which really emphasizes this in Luke chapter 2 that Jesus was born in the city of David. It seems that both Joseph, Jesus' adoptive father, and Mary were descendants of David. That's somewhat disputed. We know that at least one of them was a descendant of David Mary. But many scholars think that they both were. But what we see here is that Jesus was a descendant of King David, and this was an essential part of his messianic credentials because everyone in Israel knew That the Messiah would be a descendant of King David. And so the gospel writers go to some lengths to demonstrate that indeed he was. In John chapter 7 and verse 42 we read, has not the scripture said that the Christ comes from the offspring of David and comes from Bethlehem, the village where David was? You see, Jesus' birthplace was essential in establishing his connection to King David and his claim to be the promised Messiah. God established a covenant with David and promised that one of his descendants would someday reign forever. The real central point of this covenant is found in 2 Samuel chapter 7, where God says to David, I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. In Psalm 89 and verse 3, we read, I've made a covenant with my chosen one. I have sworn to David, my servant, I will establish your offspring. forever. And in Isaiah chapter 11 and verse 1 we read, There shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse and a branch from his roots shall bear fruit. And Jesse, of course, was the father of David. And so the Old Testament was very clear in numerous passages that the Messiah would be a descendant of King David. God's covenant with King David was that one day a physical descendant of his would be the ultimate king. He would be the king of kings and lord of lords. He would far outsurpass anything that David had ever accomplished. And he would reign in righteousness, and he would reign forever and ever. The birth of Christ reminds us that God always keeps his promises. What a comforting truth this is to the people of God. We can rest in his promises. We can put our full weight upon them because he keeps his promises. We have wonderful promises. Like those who truly repent and believe will be forgiven. They will be saved, and that God will never leave us or forsake us, and that the one who has begun a good work of grace in our hearts will complete it. We can rest in these promises. And we have a wonderful example here of God fulfilling his promises. So Jesus' birth in Bethlehem reveals his humility, it reveals his royalty. And thirdly, Jesus' birth in Bethlehem reveals his eternality. Look with me again back, if you would, please, at Micah chapter 5 and verse 2. It says whose coming forth is from of old, from ancient days. For all of us, our birth, or I should say our conception, was the very beginning of our existence. But this was not true of Jesus. The second person of the Trinity. Existed from eternity past, long before he was born in Bethlehem This is what Jesus taught. Remember, we've been going through the Gospel of John in John chapter 8 and verse 58. Jesus says to his adversaries, before Abraham was, I am. And those religious leaders took up stones to stone him. Why? Because they knew that he was making a divine claim. They considered it blasphemy. And this text in Micah goes on to speak of the ancient of days, which is a reference to eternity. This person has always been and always will be. This is why Jesus is called the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. And of course, the idea of the Alpha and Omega is that he is also every letter in between. How else could the Father exalt someone To this degree, unless he was equal with the Father, the eternality of the Son of God is taught throughout Scripture. We find this again and again in Isaiah chapter 9, verse 6, a very familiar Christmas text that talks about the everlasting Father or Father of eternity, a reference to Christ, and it's not mixing the members of the Godhead. The Father is the Father, and the Son is the Son. But the Son is also a father in the sense that there would be many that would come to believe through him, and they would become the children of God. Isaiah 45 in verse 6 says, Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of thy kingdom is a right scepter. You see, Christmas is much more than just a celebration of the birth of a baby. It is all about the incarnation of the Son of God. It's a profound truth. John chapter 1 and verse 14 says, And the word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. You see, Jesus was much more than a great teacher or an incredible example. He was the Son of God. Who came into this earth and lived a perfect life and died a sacrificial death? And he is the one who is coming again and he will be the judge. of all mankind. He is the one to whom we must answer. That baby that was born in Bethlehem neither 2,000 years ago is the King of Kings, the ancient of days. And the judge to whom we must all give an account. And fourthly, Jesus' birth in Bethlehem reveals the gracious redemption by Christ. I mentioned to you earlier that the book of Micah is filled with warnings of coming judgments. This is a characteristic of all the minor prophets to one degree or another. Many, many years ago, I was speaking to a lady who struggled with Depression and she said she wasn't getting any comfort from her Bible. And I said, well, where have you been reading? She says, well, for several months. Every day I read a chapter from the minor prophets. And I told her, maybe try the book of Psalms. Because the minor prophets are about judgment and judgment and some more judgment. This is not to say that there's no hope in the mind of prophets. There is hope, and the hope is spectacular because it's Surrounded by darkness of judgment. Most of the verses in this book are predictions of God's coming judgment. Micah predicts that great suffering was ahead for the land of Judah. In fact, there were seven centuries of judgment The Babylonians would soon come and conquer the land and take the exiles to Babylon. Centuries later, Antiochus Epiphanes would come and would desecrate the land. And then the Romans would subjugate the people under their iron yoke. There would be century after century after century of humiliation. The people were all longing in every generation that maybe the glorious days of King David and the glory of Israel would return. But they were disappointed again and again and again. Notice what the prophet says in verse 3 of Micah 5. Therefore, he shall give them up until the time when she who is in labor has given birth. In other words, he's going to give them up to judgment and disappointments till the time. That Jesus would be born. And this is exactly what would occur. In fulfillment of his word, God would graciously intervene in an obscure village called Bethlehem. It's not that the people had turned to him. It's not that the people had suddenly gotten rid of all of their idolatry and now they were all trusting in the Lord, and so the Lord rewards them by sending The promised Messiah, no, no. They were still estranged from God. They were still filled with unbelief. They had turned the laws of the Old Testament in a legalistic way of self-righteousness in many respects. But in the fullness of the time, Christ would be born. And the result of his birth would be, notice it says, the rest of his brothers shall return unto the children of Israel. Some of the Jews that is, would come to see that Jesus was indeed the promised Messiah, they would believe and they would be saved. The whole Old Testament prepares the reader for the coming of Christ in the New Testament. There are multitude of prophecies that Jesus fulfilled He was the seed of the woman that would crush the serpents. Genesis 3. 15 In Genesis 12, we discover that the hope of the world would come from a descendant of Abraham. That is, that he would be Jewish, he would be Semitic. At the end of Genesis, when Jacob is giving out his blessings, we find in chapter 49 that he would come from the tribe of Judah. We read in the book of Numbers that he would be the star of Jacob. We read in Deuteronomy chapter 18 that he would be even a greater prophet than Moses. We read in 2 Samuel chapter 7 that he would be the ultimate son of David who would reign over all forever. And we read in Isaiah 7. 14 that this promised one would be born of a virgin. And in this hard-to-find little book of Micah, we discover that the promised Messiah would be born in Bethlehem. These are just a few of the details that Jesus fulfilled in his coming. The evidence is clear and convincing. These prophecies that were written hundreds of years before the coming of Christ Prophecies that he could not have manipulated facts to fulfill himself, like being born of a virgin, like being born in Bethlehem. You see, there's plenty of evidence to believe that Jesus is who he claimed to be, the promised Messiah, the Son of God. This book of Micah is a book of judgment. But it ends with a wonderful promise of forgiveness. Would you turn with me to Micah chapter 7? Micah chapter 7 and verse 18. These are the closing verses of this little minor prophet. Look with me at Micah chapter 7 and verse 18. Who is a God like you, pardoning iniquity and passing over transgressions for the remnant of his inheritance? He does not retain his anger forever because he delights in steadfast love. He will again have compassion on us He will tread our iniquities underfoot. You will cast all our sins into the depths of the sea, and you will show faithfulness to Jacob. and steadfast love to Abraham, as you have sworn to our fathers from the days of old. Isn't that a wonderful ending? This dark book that's filled with judgment and judgment and judgment concludes With this wonderful promise rooted in the very character of God, that God is a God who delights to forgive, who delights to show mercy. A God who likes to have compassion on us and to fulfill his promises that he has made in the past. So how can a just and holy God forgive sinful people like us? How can he make this offer of pardon? The answer is that the Father would send his only Son to die in place of sinners like you and me. A baby named Jesus would be born who would save his people from their sins. He would fulfill all of these promises, all of these detailed prophecies. He would fulfill to the letter. And it's only through trusting in him, the Father's provision, For our rebellion and sin, that we can be forgiven and we can enjoy the pardon and the steadfast love that God offers. To all who believe at the end of this book. I began this sermon with a reference to the famous Christmas carol, O Little Town of Bethlehem. In the third verse we read this phrase, where meek souls will receive him still, the dear Christ enters in. Let me ask you this question. Has Christ entered your life? Have you found forgiveness in him? Is he your king and your Lord? And have you been born again? It is only through the promised Messiah that you can be saved. And you can have the assurance that your sins, all your sins, have been forgiven. May God help you to trust in Christ today. Let's close in prayer Father, we thank you for this prophecy that we've considered this morning. I pray that you would encourage our hearts, remind us again of our great Savior. And Father, for those who are here, Who are still stuck in unbelief and have not come to trust in Christ, they pray that today their eyes would be open and they would come to believe that Jesus indeed is the Christ, the Son of God, the Savior of the world, their only hope of redemption. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.