If your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to John chapter 4? John chapter 4. I'm tempted to have you get up and do some jumping jacks. When it is dreary out, people 's spirits become very sedate. And some of you look like you're settling in for a nice long nap. I'm going to do everything I can to interrupt that. And to give your attention. John chapter four. I wonder if you've ever heard the name of Meltrotter. He was a man who lived 120, 130 years ago in the city of Chicago, and he was a horrible drunk. He knew he had a problem, but he seemed unable to stop when he would get paid. On the weekend, he would go out and spend up all of the family money, and so his wife and daughter lived in absolute poverty, barely having enough food to survive. His small daughter became seriously ill and needed medication, so a friend felt sorry for them and gave him some money so that she could get the medicine that she desperately needed. And so he went to the pharmacy, but on his way to the pharmacy, he passed a bar and he went inside and he spent all of that money. And in time, his daughter died. You might think he couldn't get any lower than that. Someone gave money so that she had a nice dress and beautiful shoes. for the funeral and the night before her viewing he snuck into the funeral home and took off her shoes and sold them on the street so that he had some more money for alcohol. Although he was very sad about his deeds He seemed absolutely unable to stop. But on January the 19th, 1897. He went to the Pacific Garden mission and heard the gospel preached and was saved. And his life changed completely. He gave up drinking. He became sober-minded. He had a burden for people who were just like him, and so he entered the ministry. And in time he started 67 rescue missions throughout this country. To help men and women who were addicted and far from the Lord. The Bible is filled with examples of notorious sinners coming to Christ. We read of Matthew, the crooked tax collector who became one of Jesus' disciples. We think of Zacchaeus, whom the Lord sought in Luke chapter 19, who was also in the same profession, and perhaps even worse in his dealings with people. We're reminded that the thief on the cross was a dangerous terrorist, but he was saved while being on the cross next to Jesus. And Paul, the leading apostle, murdered and imprisoned Christians before he met Jesus on the road to Damascus. But today I want us to consider another notorious sinner, an unnamed woman who met Jesus by a well one day. and was never the same. This morning as we continue our study of John, we come to the opening verses of chapter four. These verses provide the setting for our Lord's conversation with the woman at the well. There's a connection between this chapter and the previous one. I want you to look with me, please, at chapter 3, verses 25 and 26. Now a discussion arose between some of John's disciples, that is John the Baptist disciples. and a Jew over per purification. And they came to John and said to him, Rabbi, he who was with you across the Jordan, to whom you bore witness, look He is baptizing and all are going to him. There was a rivalry that was developing between the disciples of Jesus and the disciples of John the Baptist. John the Baptist was once popular, and he was drawing huge crowds out into the wilderness. He was an eccentric man who had an unusual diet and strange dress, and he seemed to remind them of prophets of centuries earlier. And they were coming out to hear his fiery sermons where he denounced sin and called people to repentance. But now in chapter 4, we read that Jesus' popularity has come to the attention of the religious establishment. More and more people were coming to hear Jesus, and fewer and fewer people were coming to hear John the Baptist. So look with me at chapter 4, verses 1 through 3. Now when Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John, although Jesus himself did not baptize but only his disciples, he left Judea and departed again for Galilee. This is the setting that describes the fact that Jesus was leaving Judea where he had been ministering and now going back to his home region of Galilee. We read here parenthetically in verse 2 that Jesus himself did not baptize, but only his disciples. And the reason for this is probably because people would have been proud and perhaps arrogantly so that they were baptized by Jesus and not one of his disciples. or not some other individual. And so Jesus did not baptize, but only his disciples baptized in his name. So why is it that Jesus left Judea? Well, it could be that he did not want to create continuing conflict with John the Baptist and his disciples, but more likely he left because the Pharisees or the religious establishment heard of his growing ministry, they were concerned, and he knew that hostility would erupt. And although he was not afraid, his time had not yet come. Eventually, these men would conspire to murder their own Messiah. But that would happen on his timetable and not theirs. Now in verse 4 we read that Jesus had to pass through Samaria on his way to Galilee. Look at this brief verse. And he had to pass through Samaria. That little sentence is actually the key to our sermon this morning But I'm not going to go into it right now. Now look with me at verse 5. So he came to a town of Samaria called Sikar, near the field that Jacob had given to his son. Joseph. Sikar is probably the modern village of Askar that you can visit to this day. This is an historic location. It was near the field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph. We read of this in Genesis 48 and verse 22. And outside of this village, about a half mile, there was a well that Jacob, the patriarch, had dug himself. And about a quarter mile from that, there was a marker that today marks the burial place of Joseph. Now Jesus comes to this well on this day and he sits down. He's tired. He has sent his disciples into town to buy some food. Now certainly it didn't take all the disciples to buy food, but he has sent them there because he wants to have an uninterrupted discussion. with this woman who will soon come to this well. Those of you who have witnessed to people and given the gospel to people know that it's very difficult to share the gospel with people when their family and friends are present. It changes the whole dynamic of the conversation. They don't want to be candid. They don't want to be embarrassed. And so it's very difficult. But when you have a one-on-one conversation, it's very different. And that is what the Lord desired this day. Now what we have is one of the most complete and personal conversations. recorded in the Gospels here in chapter 4. And this event takes place from chapter 1 all the way to verse 42. And Lord willing we'll be covering this conversation in the weeks to come. But today I want us to understand the identity of the woman who would come to that well that day, this Samaritan woman. Because as we understand her identity we will better understand the identity of Jesus who spoke to her that day, and we will see that Jesus is indeed a friend of sinners. So who is the woman at the well? First of all, the woman at the well is a Samaritan. Look with me at verses 7 and 8. A woman from Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink. For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. We read here that this woman was a Samaritan. It's not surprising because they are in the region of Samaria. Now what do you know about the Samaritans? You probably know some things. Hopefully, I can give you more information that's going to help you to understand this woman and who she is because this is an important part of her identity. Samaria was politically and geographically a region of Judea. But racially and religiously it was like its own place. We understand this, it's still like this today. There are different parts of our country. Where that are very different from other parts of our country, even though they're in the same country. There are places in our state that are very different from other places in our state. religiously and ethnically and in many other ways, and yet they're in the same state of Maryland. And so this is not a difficult concept for us to understand. Now, where did this place of Samaria begin? How do we understand this becoming its own little entity? Well, there was a king in the northern tribes of Israel named Amri. And he was not a good king. In fact, none of the kings of the northern tribes were good kings. But he decided to find a new capital and name it Samaria. We read about this in 1 Kings 16, 24. And in time, it became not just a name for that little city, but for the entire region. This region was a strip of land that was between Galilee in the north and Judea in the south. In 721, the Assyrians captured Samaria and took the people of any importance with them back to Assyria, and then they settled the land with other foreigners. that they had conquered. This was part of their way to disrupt their enemies so that they could never come together and fight against Assyria. They would scatter people and move them all around. So it seems likely that the Jews that were left behind in Samaria were poor peasants. They were not the upper class. They were not the finest because those people were taken into captivity. And in time, as you would expect , They intermarried with the foreign people who had also been brought there against their will and had settled in that region. Now it's important for me to let you know that the Samaritans reject this assertion. They did not believe that they were a mixed race. To the Samaritans, they were pure-blooded Jews. But to the Jews, they regarded the Samaritans as Gentiles because they believed them to be of mixed race. One of the things that's difficult about finding accurate information about the Samaritans is that almost all of the ancient records we have come from the Jews who hated them. And so it's difficult to know if everything is exactly as accurate as as we might find. We do know many things, however. We know that they believed that they were the true temple of gods. And they believed that they were the true people of God, and they built their own temple about 400 B. C. And they established their own priesthood and their own high priest, and they offered sacrifices according to the law. And they believe the people to the south of them were actually the impostors. There's evidence that they tampered with the actual text of Scripture, making not Jerusalem a place that God should be worshipped, but Mount Gerizim. And there they established a temple and their own priesthood. Point of fact, there are still Samaritans alive today in this region of the world. There are several hundred of them. They still have their own priesthood. They still have a high priest, and they still offer animal sacrifices there to this day. They believe that only the first five books of the Bible are inspired, the Pentateuch, the Books of Moses, everything else they reject. I mentioned that they had built their own temple in 400 B. C. Well in 128 Jews came and destroyed that temple because they believed it was paganism and was offense to God, and so they destroyed it. That did not help relations between these two peoples. And so many of the Samaritans being weaker and so forth, they resorted to terrorism. And periodically there would be terroristic events that would happen in Judea. We know around the time that Jesus was born, some Samaritans desecrated the Jewish temple in Jerusalem by scattering bones all over the precincts. And this, of course, made the Jewish leaders furious. And the tension between these two groups would often break out periodically to violence. This is not difficult to imagine. Just think of the Middle East today. There's great violence and turmoil there, and it was like that in the time of our Lord. So for the Jews, the lowest of the low were the Samaritans. In fact, the term Samaritan had became like a racial and religious slur. In Romans chapter 8 and verse 48, where we have one of the most tense exchanges recorded in the Gospels between Jesus and the Pharisees. They call him a Samaritan. Not that they actually thought he was from Samaria, but it was about the worst name they could think of to call him. And so there was great tension between them One ancient Jewish prayer calls on God not to remember the Samaritans in the resurrection, which is essentially praying for God to send them all to hell. Another rabbi warned that for a Jew to eat bread that was given by a Samaritan was as bad as eating swine's flesh. We all know that the Jews hated the Gentiles, but their hatred for the Samaritans was even more personal. and intense. It was part of Jewish culture. And therefore we should not be surprised to know that this is the way the Lord's disciples felt as well. In Luke chapter 9, we read that a Samaritan village did not receive Jesus. And so James and John, that's the John who wrote this book. Ask Jesus if they could call down fire from heaven to consume them. You can tell they were really burdened for their souls. And Jesus, of course, turned and rebuked them. In John chapter 4 and verse 9, the writer of this gospel informs the reader in case they do not know that the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans. So let's summarize the identity of this woman as a Samaritan. She was regarded by the Jews as racially, religiously, and socially inferior. She had a distorted theology. The Samaritan religion is sort of like a cult of Judaism Every major religion in the world has its own cults. A cult, you may never have thought about this before. But a cult is a religious group that splinters off of a larger religious group but has significant differences with them. And yet they still want to sort of be a part of it. There are Christian cults. like Mormons, Jehovah's Witnesses, etc. There are Hindu cults, there are Buddhist cults, and there are Muslim cults. This was a Jewish cult. They also had an embarrassing heritage. One of the reasons we believe that the Samaritans didn't believe that any of the rest of the Bible was really the Word of God. And they only stick to the first five books is because in the historical books, it doesn't paint a pretty picture of the Samaritans. They were idolaters And they intermarried with the other people and they broke God's law again and again. And that wasn't very flattery. So they said, oh, the Jews wrote all they made all that up. That's not true. That's not really the word of God. And they had a marginalized existence. So this woman had a distorted theology, an embarrassing heritage, and a marginalized existence. This was her status. From the perspective of the Gentiles, the Samaritans were a weird little people group inside of another strange little people group. that had no status, no power in the world. And yet Jesus goes Makes it a point to go and talk to this Samaritan woman Now the second thing I want to bring up about this woman's identity is that this woman at the well was very different from Nicodemus. You remember Nicodemus in chapter 3. One of the ways to really understand a person or topic is through but comparing and contrasting with other things that you know. And scholars have often believed that there is like an intentional contrast between the religious man Nicodemus and this unnamed woman at the well in the very next chapter. They both illustrate the fact That God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. So let's highlight the differences for just a moment to help us to understand her. First of all, Nicodemus was a Jew, and she was a Samaritan. The Jews were the people of God. The Samaritans were under the judgment of God for their idolatry and their disobedience. Another obvious difference, Nicodemus was a man, but she was a woman. In the ancient world, in virtually every culture and society, men were considered superior to women. This is not what the Bible teaches, but it's what the rabbis taught. They should have known better because they had the word of God But their culture and their society influence them more than God's truth. This is something, by the way, we always have to be careful about. Our society is constantly giving us messages. And sometimes without us even realizing it, we begin to adopt them and believe them. But they may not be in line with the Word of God, even though virtually everyone you may know might think they're true. It doesn't make it true. We know that there was an ancient rabbi whose prayers recorded that would say, I thank you, God, that I am not a woman. They believed that women were inferior to men intellectually, morally, and in every way imaginable. This was what people thought of this woman as well, although it's not what Jesus thought. Thirdly, Nicodemus was educated, but this woman was certainly uneducated. It's very likely that she could not read or write because in this society, in this culture, women were not taught to read or write unless They had a very wealthy father who had status and would insist that his daughters were taught. And as we're going to see in this conversation, she seems rather simple and superstitious. She has a clever mind, but she's not an educated person. Nicodemus, on the other hand, was a very educated man. He could probably read and write in several languages. And he'd gone as far as a Jewish man could go in his education, having been taught for many years by the rabbis, knowing Greek and Hebrew and Aramaic. And perhaps Latin. He was an educated man. And she was not. Nicodemus, fourthly, was the epitome of a religious person, while she was the epitome of a notorious sinner. Nicodemus lived by the law of God's word and all the minutiae and all the details that Jewish rabbis had built up around God's law over the centuries. But she had a wicked reputation. We read in John 4. 18 in this conversation that indeed she was an immoral woman. She'd been married five times, and the man she was currently lit living with was not her husband. Fifthly, Nicodemus was certainly wealthy while she was poor. With political power comes wealth. Nicodemus was a member of the Sanhedrin. He was one of the most well-known leaders in the country. He is called the ruler of Israel. He had political clout and power. He came from a powerful family. Nobody knew anything about her origin. She was poor, probably living hand to mouth And so there's that great contrast. And perhaps this is even more significant. Nicodemus was respected. While she was rejected, Nicodemus had status. He had fine clothes. When he walked through Jerusalem Everyone would greet him kindly, and people would whisper to their neighbor, that's Nicodemus. But this woman, when she was out in public in her community, I suspect that people yelled insults at her or avoided her. And they might whisper to their neighbor, that's that woman I was telling you about. In the ancient world, women could not file for divorce, but men could, of course. And so if a woman had been divorced five times, it would mean that she would be rejected five times. By five different husbands. Why? We are not told. Perhaps she was very difficult to get along with. Or perhaps she was an adulteress. And so she was rejected again and again And this is perhaps not sound as astounding to us, but divorce was much more rare in this culture than it would be in our community. And so the fact that she had been married divorced five times, I'm sure would have been something like a record. I'm sure there was no one else in her community that had been divorced more than her, and perhaps no one was even close. And of course, cohabitating is commonplace today. It was not in this culture. For her to be living with a man who was not her husband was the height of scandal. And so this woman was not respected. She was rejected. And this probably explains why she comes, it says in our text, to the well, the sixth hour. The Jews reckoned the day began around 6 a. m. The sixth hour would have been 12 noon. Throughout much of third world countries today, women still carry the water to their homes And they usually do it either at dawn , beginning of the day, or at dusk, the end of the day. But they don't do it in the middle of the day. That's when it's hot. That's when it's more difficult. So why does this woman come in the middle of the day? We can't say for certain, but probably because she wanted to avoid the other women. Because when the women would come to gather water, it was a social event. They would come in groups and they would talk at the well and they would catch up on the day's news of what was going on. But she was not welcome in their circles. And if she were to come when they were there, they would undoubtedly either give her the silent treatment or perhaps hurl insults at her. Because in every language group and in every culture of the world there are nasty names for immoral women. And she heard them all on a regular basis. Another fact I want to bring up here is that Nicodemus is named, but this woman is unnamed. Perhaps this means nothing. But I think it may reflect the fact that she had absolutely no status. No one really knew her or cared to know her. She was simply that woman that you were to avoid. But there's one final contrast I want to make. And this is the most interesting one of all. Nicodemus, the religious leader, came to Jesus by night seeking answers. This woman does not come to Jesus. Jesus travels to her. to engage her in conversation, to reveal himself to her that he is indeed the Messiah, the Savior of the world. This is An amazing truth, not that Jesus valued her soul more than the soul of Nicodemus But that Jesus would intentionally travel to see her and to talk to her. This is the height of condescension that he would come to this woman that the world rejected and avoided. And this leads me naturally to my final point. about this identity of this woman. The woman at the well is a sinner whom Jesus came to seek and to save. And verse 4 we read, he had to pass through Samaria. I think the King James says he must needs pass through Samaria. Now we know that some religious Jews, in order to avoid any contamination Just would not travel through Samaria. They would go around on the other side of the Jordan River, and then they would cut back across the Jordan River when they got to Galilee. Others would take the coastal highway right along the coast to avoid going into Samaria. But the fastest route was to go directly through Samaria, and that's what most Jews did. But this isn't just saying that Jesus went the fastest routes. No, because the word that's used here that's translated had to in our text is a verb that expresses divine necessity, or we might say a divine appointment in John's gospel. Let me give you some examples. In John chapter 3 and verse 14, it says the Son of Man must be lifted up, and it's that word must that's used here. And John 12, 34, the crowd asked Jesus, how can you say that the Son of Man must be lifted up? And in John chapter 20 and verse 9 it says, For as yet they did not understand the scripture that he must rise from the dead. Jesus' death and resurrection were certain to occur. They were part of God's great plan of redemption. And it was also God's providential plan that Jesus go through Samaria and meet this woman at noon by the well at Sychar. But Jesus was not going to meet some important dignitary. He was going to reach a woman that the world regarded as trash. Human debris. And I believe that when he arrived at the well at this hour and sent the disciples to get food, He was doing so so that he could have a private, uninterrupted conversation with this woman. He knew that this woman would come, and he was waiting to speak to her. Now this conversation that he has with her does not strike us perhaps as unusual or out of place, but it was completely against social norms in at least three ways. And I'm going to point this out to you. Number one, Jesus was talking to a woman. Jewish men generally did not speak with women in public. This was particularly true with religious Jews and rabbis. Many of them would not even speak to their wives in public. Their wives would walk behind them. The idea of strolling along holding your wife's hand was not done. And by the way, there's still countries in the world, you can ask Pastor Aaron about this, where they consider that very inappropriate. I'm not saying there's anything wrong with it. I'm just saying these are cultural differences. So the fact that Jesus was talking with a woman was completely against their social taboos. We know that there was A group of Pharisees, I'm not making this up. It's in all the literature. That were known as black and blue Pharisees Because they were so careful about maintaining purity that when they were out in public and they saw a woman, they would close their eyes, but they would keep walking. And they would run into things or they would stumble over things and they would get all these bruises and injuries on them, and they wore those wounds as a badge of honor. I want you to notice what the disciples said to Jesus when they returned from their errand to get food. Look at chapter 4 and verse 27. It says, just then his disciples came back, they marveled that he was talking with a woman. But no one said, what do you seek or why are you talking with her? They come and they see Jesus talking to this woman, and they're all looking at each other like, what is he doing? He's talking with this woman. None of them had the courage to bring it up, but that's what they were all thinking and their looks were communicating. You know how you have a friend and you can communicate with them just with your eyes? That's what they were doing. The other factor that made this conversation remarkable was that Jesus was speaking to a Samaritan. The woman picks up on this. Look at verse 9. The Samaritan woman said to him, How is it that you, a Jew, asked for a drink from me, a woman? of Samaria. And then John adds this explanation. For Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans. This woman was amazed that this Jewish man spoke to her. But he not only acknowledges her existence, he asks her for something. With something that the Jews never did with the Samaritans. They never asked them for help with anything. And so she is shocked by this. He wants my help. He wants me to give her water. Now notice this expression that John gives. Where he says in the end of verse nine that the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans Literally, when it says no dealings, it means that they do not use the same utensils as the Samaritans. In other words, you don't drink out of the same cup. You don't take bread out of the same container because that would make a Jew ceremonially defiled. Kind of like their sin is a contagion that you can catch. Now, this matter was not something that was really taught in the Word of God, but it's something that the Jewish rabbis had extended. and taught over the years. And so this woman knows Jewish law. And she's like, this guy is going to take water from my vessel that I'm drawing this water from? Doesn't he know that's going to make him ceremonially unclean? Now let me be absolutely clear. Jesus did nothing wrong. He broke no law of God, but he did break cultural taboos. The third thing that he did, of course, was that this was not just any woman of Samaria. This was the most notorious sinful woman in this community in Samaria. I suspect that there were people, Samaritans looking at a distance and saying to themselves, I tell you what, if that stranger knew who that woman was, he wouldn't be talking to her, he wouldn't be asking her for water. But guess what he knew all about her? At the end of John chapter 2 we read that Jesus knows what is in the heart of every individual. And we're going to see a little bit later in their conversation where Jesus says to her, yes, I know. that you don't have a husband. You've been married five times and the man you're living with now is not your husband. He knew her life's history He knew how wicked she was, and yet he engaged her in conversation. Why did he do this? Because God 's love extends to the whole world, not just to respectable sinners like Nicodemus. And this is exactly what the narrative is intended to communicate. Look with me at the very last of this. This narrative ends in verse 42. And if you look at the last phrase, you hear this testimony from the Samaritans who came out to him. They said, We know that this is indeed what? The Savior of the world. And they didn't say the savior of the Jews or the savior of respectable people. He is the savior of the world. This is exactly what we find in Scripture again and again. In Luke chapter 19 and verse 10, when Jesus was going And took the gospel to Zacchaeus, we read, for the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost. So let me ask you this morning. Have you encountered the Savior? Have you come to believe that he is the Son of God, the Savior of the world? I want to conclude with several points of application. Number one We should rejoice in the fact that Jesus was and is fully human. There's something here in this passage That speaks to his humanity. Did you see it? Did you catch it? He says that he was tired He was tired. Doesn't mean that Jesus was like pretending that he was tired, but he really wasn't. No, he was tired. He probably began his journey about 6 a. m. And with his disciples, he'd been walking for about six hours, and he's tired, and he's thirsty. That should not bother you at all. Jesus is the Son of God. He is the omnipotent, everlasting God, the creator of the universe. But he's also the God man. And so we read in the Gospels of him getting growing weary and being sleepy and being thirsty and being hungry. This should help us to rejoice. Because Hebrews tells us it means that we have a sympathetic high priest. He can relate to us. He understands what it's like. He's known what it's like to be tired and to be weak and to be weary. Have you ever been so tired? You got up one morning or something and you tried to have your devotions and you tried to spend some time in prayer. but you're you were so exhausted and so weary that it really wasn't very effective. You know what? Jesus understands what it's like to be tired. And he's sympathetic to you. The second application I want to make is this If we are going to be like Christ, we should be taking the gospel to people who are notoriously wicked. I'm afraid that most Christians tend to think more like the Pharisees than Jesus on this point. We like to keep our distance from people who are not like us, who are living an openly wicked lifestyle. Who are loud rebels, who are like the prodigal son. We much prefer the company of the older brother types that are responsible and hardworking. Rather than those who squander their resources and have a long list of addictions, who seem to have no discipline Who seem to violate God's even natural laws. It's easy for us to despise them in our hearts and condemn them and see them as the problem in our country. They were just like the woman at the well. But Jesus traveled to see her. and revealed the truth of his identity to her. So often we like to play it safe. We like to surround ourselves with people who have middle class American values who are just like us. And we pretend that immoral people, drug addicts, homosexuals, homeless people are not really in our communities, and we avoid them like the plague if we ever encounter them. But let me remind you that Jesus was a friend of sinners. And so if we are going to have the heart of our Savior, we must not just have a heart for respectable sinners, but for sinners who are rejected even by the world and who need desperately to hear the gospel of God's saving grace. Number three, we should never, no one should ever think that they are too sinful to be saved. Satan has many effective lies, and many of them are incoherent and inconsistent. He says to most people, oh, you're a really good person. You don't need a savior. I'm sure God will receive you the way you are. You're not that sinful. You don't do that many bad things. You know you're better than most of your friends. You're a moral, upright, upstanding person. You don't need Jesus. You don't need to be religious. Just do your best. But then he says to other people who have failed and rebelled, he says to them, you're too far gone. You're too sinful. You've wallowed in the trig in the pig trough too long. Church is not for you. God is not for you. God doesn't want to save someone like you. He wants respectable people like Nicodemus. Not someone like you. So don't ever think of turning to him. But the gospel works with all kinds of sinners. It's the power of God unto salvation to everyone who believes. The blood of Jesus can wash away the darkest stains, the sins of immorality and murder and homosexuality and drug addiction and pornography. There is no sin so dark that his blood cannot cleanse it. Isaiah chapter 1 and verse 18 says, Though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be white as snow. Though they are red like crimson, they shall become like wool. Charles Wesley had it right when he put in his great hymn, his blood can make the foulest clean. His blood availed for me. That's a wonderful truth. That gives hope to everyone. You're not too far gone. You're not too sinful. Yes, you have done horrible things and you've rejected perhaps the gospel a hundred times, but you can still be saved if you will come to him in belief. And so I want to encourage you this morning, if you're here and you've been listening to lies of Satan, reject them and turn to the Savior. And if you're here and you know the Lord as your Savior. And you know that your sins have been washed away, I want you to know that some of the most open and right people to receive the gospel are the most wicked people that you ever encounter. Because you don't have to convince them that they're sinful. You don't have to convince them that they've messed up. You don't have to convince them that they need a great savior. So let us have the heart of our Savior and reach out to the lowest of sinners. Let's close in prayer. Father, We thank you for your word. Thank you for this wonderful example of our Savior, who sought that woman at the well And gave her the words of eternal life. Father, help us not to allow Our societal rules and the thoughts of other people keep us from being faithful and sharing the good news of the gospel with those who desperately need to hear it. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.