It's good to have you here. Would you turn in your Bibles to John chapter 3 , passage that we read together this morning? One of the few pictures that I have hanging in my office is a drawing of George Whitfield. George Whitfield was not born into a Christian home. His parent parents were the keepers of a tavern. And he kind of raised himself, did not have any sense of God, any Christian training at all. But by the grace of God, through a series of events, in 1735, he was born again, and his life was transformed. He quickly began to preach the gospel in the Church of England, but he was turned out of the church buildings because of his radical message. The message that so disturbed the establishment was from this text, you must be born again. And so he began to go out and preach in the fields wherever people would assemble. Preachers within the very stay Church of England began to attack his preaching as dangerous doctrine I want to read the excerpt of a sermon by a high church preacher by the name of John Wilder that was preached at Oxford University. He said, we find in his writings, that is in Whitfield's writings, that the new birth is a conversion and change wrought in the mind of a man by a sensible operation of the Spirit of God, and that those who have not experienced some sensible change in their hearts are not born again, nor in a state of salvation. He says, if this be true, how few of all the millions of the professors of Christianity are there that have been or will be saved? Did you note what he was saying? He was saying if what Whitfield, this radical, is saying is true, then our churches are filled with lost people. But Whitfield would not relent. This remained his standard sermon as an evangelist. We know from his journals that he preached it over 300 times. He would go from town to town and out in their fields, and there he would preach. And one time a man came up to him who'd heard this sermon before, and he said, Why do you always preach about The new birth that you must be born again, he said, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. That is why I keep preaching that message. This text is found in our Lord's conversation at night with a religious leader named Nicodemus. Look with me at the first two verses of chapter 3. There was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. The same came to Jesus by night and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God, for no man can do these miracles that thou doest except God be with him. The very first thing the Bible tells us about this man, Nicodemus, is that he was a Pharisee. The Pharisees were an elite religious party that most likely developed after of the return of the Jews from the Babylonian exile. They sought to preserve their Jewish heritage against the rising threat of paganism that was causing many Jews to be assimilated into this worldly culture. Josephus, the historian, tells us that the time of Christ, there were about 6,000 Pharisees in Judea. They had a zeal for the law, especially the hedge about the law that the rabbis had added as cautions. and uh guards against people even getting close to violating God's law. And this would was growing over the centuries of writing. Nicodemus was a card-carrying member of this religious sect that put a great emphasis on religious externals. He's also described in our text as a ruler of the Jews. That is, he was a member of the Sanhedrin. The Sanhedrin was a representative body of about 70 men who ruled on matters religious and civil. Those who gained this coveted post were usually from powerful aristocratic families. They were well connected. The Sanhedrin would be sort of like our supreme courts. This would indicate that he was a professional scribe and interpreter of the Jewish law. And in the Greek text where it says he was a ruler of the Jews, there's actually a definite article, so it could read that he was the ruler of the Jews. That is, he may have been the most famous and influential member of the Sanhedrin. This man is the epitome of a religious person. I'm certain that he had memorized vast portions of the Old Testament, if not the entirety of it. And he comes at night to ask questions of the Lord He comes, as you notice in the verses that I read in a very polite fashion, being very commendable of our Lord, making a reference that he has come to him from God. And Jesus says unto him, in a very blunt fashion, in verse 3: Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. And again in verse 5 he says, Verily, verily, I say unto you, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, He cannot enter the kingdom of God. And in verse 7, marvel not that I say unto thee, ye must be born again. You don't have to be a preacher to discover the theme of this paragraph. You must be born again. And it's amazing that Jesus said this not to some down and out sinner who was despised by all, but to a man who was esteemed by all, a religious leader. A man steeped in the scriptures. What exactly does this mean for us? Why does God require That a person be born again in order to enter into heaven. I believe we find in this paragraph four reasons why everyone Who is lost needs to be born again. I want to speak to you on the absolute necessity of the new birth. And the first point that I want to bring out of our text is this. Everyone needs to be born again because no one can enter the kingdom of God through human effort. Now look with me at verses 3 and 4. Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born again. He cannot see the kingdom of God. You'll notice the Lord says almost the identical thing in verse 5, except he doesn't say see the kingdom of God, but he says, enter the kingdom of God. So there is a little bit of disagreement among some scholars about whether or not we should see a distinction between seeing the kingdom of God or entering the kingdom of God. The term see, of course, can mean to perceive or know. And some would say that John is saying here that a person is spiritually blind and therefore they need to be born again by the Spirit of God before they can perceive anything. And indeed there is a text. that lends credence to this interpretation. 1 Corinthians 2. 14 says, But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him. Neither can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. That is why sometimes when you witness to people, they think what you're saying to them is absolute nonsense. And it doesn't matter how earnest you are or how careful you are, they just don't grasp it. However, I don't think that is what John is saying here in verse three Nearly every commentator that I have consulted points out that John is using the terms see and enter in verses 3 and 5 interchangeably because this is what he tends to do. In fact, you see an example of this in the last verse of this chapter, this famous verse 36, where it says, He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. And he that believeth not the Son, notice this, shall not see life. But the wrath of God abideth on him. So you have these two parallel expressions Having eternal life and seeing life. Are they two different things? No, they're not. They're the same thing. He's just expressing it. in a slightly different way. And I think that's what we have here. Now, this phrase, the kingdom of God, that he mentions in verse 3 is a very significant theological concept. It's used in different ways in Scripture. And here John is using it as a virtual synonym for eternal life. So let me boil down everything that I just said to this. Jesus is saying to this proud religious leader that salvation is not something that you can achieve or earn. It is something that God must do in your hearts. And that's not what he wanted to hear Look with me at verse 4. Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter the second time into his mother's womb and be born? I've heard many preachers preach from this text and they enjoy beating up on Nicodemus as a man who's a little dense because he doesn't understand what Jesus has just said to him. And they will say that somehow he thinks that he has that Jesus is saying that he has to enter back into his mother's womb as a grown man. But I don't think that's the case at all. Remember that Nicodemus is a very educated rabbi who is very familiar with the use of symbolism. We know from rabbinical writings of the time that this imagery was used among by Jewish religious leaders for the conversion of Jewish proselytes. People who were of other faiths that were intrigued and interested in Judaism, and sometimes when they did finally become sons of the law, they were considered to be born again. So this is not the first time that Nicodemus has ever heard anything like this before. No, Nicodemus is simply answering a Lord's symbolic language. Using the same analogy with his own symbolic language. He's as if the Lord is speaking in a different language, and so Nicodemus says, well, I'll switch to that language then. When he says in verse 4 that he cannot possibly be born again, he can't enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born, he is saying, I can't Follow what you're asking me to do. I am not willing to start over. I've spent my whole life in this religious system. Being very careful to follow the law of God, I have risen to a position of great prominence. I'm respected by all. There's no way I'm going to start over And your way of doing things. That is what Nicodemus is saying here. And what we find here is the invariable thinking of a lost person. Lost people always believe that salvation is something that a person can earn. It doesn't matter what faith tradition they're from. It doesn't matter if there's someone who attends church regularly or there's someone who never goes to church. Lost people tend to have this idea. If they believe there is a God, if they believe that there is a heaven and a hell, they believe that they can Achieve for themselves favor with God by being a decent person. And if you're here this morning, and that is the way you think , I want you to know that is a clear indication that you need to be born again, because this is the way people who are lost invariably think. No one can gain eternal life through human effort. The second point I want to bring to you from our text comes from verse 5. And that is that everyone needs to be born of the Spirit in order to enter the kingdom of God. Look with me at verse 5. Jesus answered, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born, This is a very interesting conversation. So This religious man who's very used to debating theological things raises an objection, and Jesus just does the same thing essentially again. Maybe you didn't hear me, Nicodemus. I'm going to say this again. You must be born again. Now there's a great deal of debate, as you may know, about what the Lord meant when he said that he must be born of water and of the Spirit. Let me try to condense a great deal of theological argumentation and conjecture into just a couple minutes. Let me give you some of the best suggestions that theologians have come up with over the centuries. Some would say that the Lord here, when he says born of water and of the Spirit, that he is saying that the born of water is a reference to natural physical birth. And the idea is that the water would be a reference to amniotic fluid, as we would call it today. fit with the idea, of course, of being born again. And so essentially under this view, the Lord would be saying, you have to be born of water, that is physically, and you have to be born spiritually. If you want to enter into the kingdom of heaven. And those who would hold this view would say that verse 6 confirms that because Jesus says that which is born of the flesh. is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. But there are some real problems with this view. We cannot find any ancient writings of this time period that refers to amniotic fluid as water. That reference that is very common to us perhaps in the modern world was not something that they knew about or discussed. And so it's unlikely that that um Nicodemus would have understood the Lord to say this. It's also very redundant. If you're saying to a man who needs to be saved, and you say to him, Well, first of all, of course, you have to be alive. You have to be physically born if you want to go to heaven. That's kind of a given because he's talking to a person, and it's not a very qualified statement to make. It's true of every human being. So I don't think, although that view is popular with many, I don't think that's what Jesus is saying here to Nicodemus. Secondly, There are many who believe this is a reference to baptism. Those who believe in baptismal regeneration. Take this view. This is the official position of the Roman Catholic Church and the Orthodox Church and a few other smaller churches. But there's nothing in this context that would lead Nicodemus to know that Christ was speaking of baptism. That's not what's under discussion here. And the fact of the matter is that Christian baptism had not been introduced at this time. So why would the Lord be bringing this up? But I think the the real factor that shows that this is not what the Lord is saying is why would the Lord say to a man who his whole life has been doing things and performing rituals to be right with God, say to him, there's one more ritual you need to do. You need to be baptized. That wasn't his problem. That wasn't what he needed to hear. And it doesn't comport with everything else the Lord is saying here. Thirdly, there are some scholars who understand the water here is a reference to the baptism of John the Baptist. And you remember that the baptism of John the Baptist was a baptism of repentance. So some would say in a symbolic way, the Lord is saying to Nicodemus, You must repent. You must turn from your sin as those who went out in the wilderness to see that prophet in the desert. But that seems to be a bit of a stretch that the Lord would think that Nicodemus would certainly understand when he says you need to be born of water, that you need to be repentant. I think if the Lord was calling him specifically to repent, he would have said, you need to repent. And of course, inherent in a later part of this passage And trusting in Christ inherent within that is a call to repentance. But I don't think that's what the Lord is saying here in this passage. I think what the Lord is saying here, and this is the view that is held by the vast majority of evangelical gospel-believing scholars, is that he is saying that you must be born spiritually. And he is using the water and the spirit not to speak of two different things, but really of one thing. And we see this for several reasons. First of all, you'll notice that he says in verse 3 that you must be born again. And in verse Five, he says, except a man be born of water and of the spirits. He's using this to speak of something that must come from above, something that must come from God. But perhaps more importantly, is the Lord expects that Nicodemus will understand this symbolism. Notice how he says in verse 10:Art thou a master of Israel and knoweth not these things? His expectation is that Nicodemus will know what he's saying here and what he's referring to the fact Is that in the Old Testament, the Bible often speaks of the work of the Spirit of God as like the cleansing of water. The key text on this, so you can turn with me if you would like here, is in the book of Ezekiel. Ezekiel chapter 36. If you don't want to turn there, you can just wait and I will read it for you. Ezekiel chapter 36, verses 25 through 27. The prophet says this, then will I sprinkle clean water upon you, and you shall be clean from all your filthiness, and from all your idols will I cleanse you. A new heart will I give unto you, and a new spirit will I put within you. And I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will give you a heart of flesh, and I will put my spirit within you. And calls you to walk in my statutes, and ye shall keep my judgments, and do them This is a wonderful portion of God's word, and we see there in that passage a reference to both water and the work of the Spirit and an internal, internal change that God creates. So the Lord is saying to Nicodemus, you need to be cleansed by the Spirit of God. You need a new heart, a new birth, a new beginning. You've got to start over, and God must do this work in you. This is a message that we desperately still need to hear today. There are many people that I've spoken to over the years who in one way or another have been seeking the Lord. And sometimes they fall upon this common misunderstanding. They will say to themselves, Pastor, I fully intend to get saved, but I've got to clean up my act first. There's a lot of things in my life that I'm embarrassed about, a lot of habits that that I have, a lot of things that I'm not proud of in my past, and I really want to get my house in order. I want to straighten things out. I want to start doing some some new things in my life. And when this occurs, then I will come to Christ and I will be saved because I want to be certain That I can continue this path of a better life. And what they don't realize is how much pride and self-sufficiency there is in that. The fact of the matter is you can't really clean up yourself. You can reform a few things and start a few disciplines and perhaps drop a few habits, but you can't really change your hearts. You are helpless to do so. You have to come to Christ as you are. You have to come with a sense of desperation that Lord, I can't stop This kind of lifestyle. I can't save myself. I can't give myself a new heart. You must do it. That is why we need to be born again. There's a third point that I want to bring out of our text this morning. And that is that everyone needs to be born again because no one can go into the kingdom of God in his natural state. Look with me in verses 6 and 7. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirits. This verse is a further explanation of what Jesus has just been saying in verse 5. What does he mean by this? He is simply saying that like begets like. You could put it this way: a dog gives birth to dogs. Cats give birth to cats. You've never seen a dog give birth to a cat. I don't believe the Lord is using the term flesh in the way that Paul does to refer to our fallen nature. However, it is true. That because we are all fallen, that which comes from flesh is flesh. It is sinful flesh. This is again one of the fundamental differences between the way people naturally think and what the Bible reveals. What do people naturally think about humanity and people? They think that people are basically good, but some people lose their way. And some people because of their bad associates and friends and their abusive environment they grew up in, you know, developed bad patterns in life, but that people are essentially good. That is what most people think. If you don't think so, go out and ask people about it The Bible says that's not the case at all. People are born with a sinful nature. And this is something that is verified by observation. You want to know if that's the case or not? Ask any parent. Is your child perfect? Does your child have the sinful nature? Has your child ever exhibited any antisocial behavior and you never taught them anything about that? You know, we think of children as being so precious, and indeed they are an innocence. But as soon as they are able to exhibit their own will , You see the inherent selfishness and sinfulness that they possess. They don't want to share their toys with others. Everything, there's a phase where everything belongs to them. Everything is mine, as someone was telling me recently. This is mine, what I have is mine, and what you have is mine. Everything is mine. Now no parent sat down with their child and said, let me teach you something about ownership. No parents ever given that advice, but why do children feel that way? Why do they naturally come to that? Why is it that they insist and they throw tantrums to get their own way? And to get their parents to comply with their every wish. It's because they're fallen. They're born with a sin nature. And you know where they got it from? They got it from you. And you know where you got it from? You got it from your parents and their parents, and it goes all the way back, the Bible says to Adam and Eve. Romans 5, 12, wherefore as by one man Sin entered into the world and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men, all people, for all have sinned Let me ask you a question this morning. What does a person need to do in order to go to a Christess hell? Many people think that they'd have to be like public enemy number one. They'd have to be the kind of low life that murders people and abuses people and tortures people. And does horrible things and hell is reserved for people like that. But you know what the Bible answer is? You don't have to do anything. Because you have been born with a sinful nature And therefore, you will choose to sin throughout your life. You will live as if there is no God, and you will earn the judgment of God. Through your sinful ways. So that would be the state of every human being who has ever lived Except for the intervention, the gracious intervention of God's. This is why Jesus said to this religious man who had accomplished so much in his eyes and in the eyes of others, you must be born again. You have to have the Spirit of God at work in your life. Now look at verse 7. Jesus says, Marvel not that I said unto thee, you must be born again. He is saying. Nicodemus, this is the only logical conclusion when you consider all the facts. You are blind, helpless, and dead in your sins. And therefore, the only way you can be saved is by the work of the Spirit of God. And that brings me to my fourth point. And that is that no one can enter the kingdom of God apart from the moving of the Spirit of God. Look with me at verse 8. The wind bloweth where it listeth, or where it wills, and thou hear's the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth So is every one that is born of the Spirit. In order to help Nicodemus understand, the Lord gives him another illustration. Perhaps as they were speaking there at night, There was a gust of wind that stirred among the olive trees. Often in the evening in the Middle East, there's a pleasant breeze that comes. dispelling the heat of the day. And perhaps that's what's occurring right now. And so the Lord uses this wind as an illustration of the Spirit's work. It's very interesting to note that both in Hebrew and Greek, the word for wind or breath is also the word for spirits. It's kind of like a universal illustration throughout different cultures of the Spirit. Now the Lord here helps us to understand the working of the Spirit of God. He says, just as the wind blows where it listeth or where it wills. Now we know of course the wind doesn't have a mind of its own, but it certainly seems like that. And I think we find in verse 8 three important truths about the work of the Spirit of God. In salvation. First of all, the Spirit's work in salvation is uncontrollable. Now let me explain what I mean by that. I don't mean that it's like wild and arbitrary, but I mean it cannot be tamed Cannot be harnessed, as it were. Even today with our modern technology, we cannot ultimately control the wind. This last week, we had some really cold breezes come through here. I mean it wasn't just windy, and it's almost always windy out here where our church is located, but it was an Arctic blast. And if you watch the weather, you know that for many days before this wind came, we were warned about it. The meteorologists can predict these things. But we don't have the power to stop it from coming. We can't do that because the wind is uncontrollable. Many times when there is a change in weather, you know, sometimes the forecasters will give us a prediction of what their weather will be, and the next day it doesn't turn out that way. And almost always is because there has been a shift in the wind patterns, an unexpected shift. They could not predict that this the wind patterns were going to shift that direction. They didn't see it coming. Even with all their satellites and their radar and all these people on the ground, they could not really predict it would happen. But it did happen. And it caught them off guard. It's the same way in the spiritual realm. We cannot manipulate the work of the Spirit of God. Some well-meaning Christians Who very much want to see people saved fall into this error. They use psychological pressure and salesmanship to get people to make a quick decision. And of course, we're not against people witnessing because no one's going to believe unless they hear the gospel. But we need to recognize that the Spirit of God must do his work. And that we can't just manipulate people in such a way that there's a fail-proof way that if you just follow this, you know they're going to get saved. It doesn't work like that. We're not trying to give away free fire insurance. We are pointing people to the Savior, and it's the Spirit of God that points people's hearts to the Savior. Secondly, the Spirit's work in salvation is not only uncontrollable, but it's unpredictable. He says you cannot tell whence it cometh or whither it goeth. We can't always tell what the weather is going to do, as I just mentioned, and neither can we always tell what the Spirit of God is going to do. To people in the ancient world, the weather was a complete mystery for most. And it's that way with the moving of the Spirit. Have you ever felt certain That someone was going to be saved because they showed some interest and because they listened carefully to you and they went with you sometime to church. And you thought in your mind, I just know it. That person is going to get saved. I can see it's going to happen. And they didn't. They walked away. And have you ever been with someone and you met them and they were so hard and so brazen in their sin and so antagonistic to your Christianity that you said to yourself, that person is never going to get saved. And lo and behold, they come to the Lord and they believe. You can't predict the work of the Spirit of God. So we need to yield to the Spirit of God. And I want to make one application of this Sometimes because people are ignorant of this, people who have heard a little piece, a little bit of the gospel, I run into more than one person who reasons this way, and sometimes they've even said it to me out loud. And they think to themselves, this, you know what I'm going to do? I am going to live my life for the devil, enjoy all the sin I once. And then at the end of my life, I will pray and I'll get saved and I'll go to heaven. And I'll have the best of both worlds. I'll have the world and heaven too. You can't control the work of the Spirit of God. We have the example of the thief on the cross, but we have only one example of a man being saved in his final hours. lest any presume that that is the path to take. The fact of the matter is the Bas Majority of people who think that way do not realize that they will grieve the Holy Spirit as they continue in their sin and when they come to their dying day, there will be no moving of the Spirit. There'll be no conviction of sin. There'll be no sense that this is true. And they will think of the way they thought when they were a young person was somehow a bunch of nonsense. They will have no desire to be saved. because their heart has become hardened by a lifetime of sin. So I would say to you, if there's anyone here this morning who's thinking like that, someday I'll get saved, someday after I've had a chance to live a while and to really enjoy my life the way I want to. Then I'll get saved. That is a delusion. That is a lie of Satan You must seek the Lord while he may be found. And the only time he can be found is when the Spirit of God is convicting you of your sin. Thirdly, I want you to notice the evidence of the Spirit's work in salvation is recognizable. He says, you hear the sound thereof. What is Jesus saying? He's saying that you can see the effects of the wind blowing, even though you can't see the wind blowing. You can see the tree branches move. You can see the leaves being blown around. You can see in a very strong wind things being blown over and destroyed. But you can't see the winds. But wherever the wind has blown with any power There is always something that is present, and that is there is a change. Things change when the wind blows You see, you can't see what God is doing in someone's heart, but you can see the results in their life. Let me just be quick to say the results are not always the same in every person. Some people come to Christ like the Apostle Paul, and it's very dramatic. And it's very powerful. And there's this huge overnight change. It was that way with George Whitfield. But for some people it's not that way. It's more gradual. It's not as dramatic. It's more slowly. But there is A change. There is evidence that the Spirit of God has been at work. So let me ask you this morning Is there evidence that you have been born again? Notice what Jesus says at the end of verse 8. He says, so is everyone that is born of the Spirit. That is, there's no exceptions to this. You might be tempted to say, well, you know, with some people there's a change, and other people there's not a change. No. Jesus said, so is everyone that is born of the Spirit. It is Evidence that the Spirit of God has made a change in their life. There's been a change in the very depths of their being. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creation. Old things have passed away. Behold, all things have become new. This is why everyone needs to be born again if they want to go to heaven. Now I want to conclude this message by making four applications. Number one, do not mistake Christian conformity to regeneration This is a huge danger. Churches are dangerous places. Sometimes people think that because they don't commit the most scandalous sins Because they faithfully go to church, because they're thought of as a good guy. That therefore they are on their way to heaven, that they are saved, that they are definitely a Christian. And there are many churches and many places where the gospel is not clearly preached, where people there think of Christianity as a sort of moralism. Where if you were to boil down the sermon of these so-called churches, it would be reduced to this, be nice to other people. Live the golden rule. Be sacrificial in your love for others. Try to be a blessing. Now, are those things good? Yeah, those things in the Word of God, yes, they are. But that's the fruit of regeneration, of new life in Christ. It's not what the new life is. And it's so easy for us to fall into the trap of moralism. This is very much an issue with people who have been surrounded by Christianity their whole lives. Maybe you were born in a Christian home. And your earliest memories are of being taken to church and going to Sunday school and learning right from wrong and and learning to read your Bible and to pray and your parents pressure you they want you to conform and and so you conform and and and you try not to be rebellious and and you're basically a pretty compliant person. And so you get in line You get with the program. You come every Sunday, but you don't really want to be there. You don't really listen to what's being said. You zone out during the preaching of the word. The singing of the hymn seems foolishness to you. None of this registers with you. None of this touches you and you say, this is who I am, this is what I believe, this is what I want to live for, this is what my life is all about. You just go along with the motions. And maybe people tell you that you're a good Christian boy or a fine Christian girl because you look nice. And you know the language to use in church. And everyone thinks everything is great, maybe even your parents. But my friends, you must be born again. Being a good Christian in the minds of some people will not avail you in the day of judgment. You have to be radically changed. By the Spirit of God. I pray for the young people of this church. You know, one of the most common things I pray for them is, Lord, Don't let them be satisfied with a vague moralism. Don't let them think that because their parents come to church, that therefore they are a Christian. Don't let, and I pray this so often, Lord, let me, let others see signs of spiritual life in them. That this is not just their parents' faith, but this is their faith. This is what they believe. This is the way they're going to live their life. That these truths about Christ and the cross and his resurrection are the greatest realities to their life. Because if they're not, if they're just something you nod your head, I suppose they happen, I want you to know you have not been born again. Secondly, I would say this. Do not rest if you suspect you have never been born again. Perhaps you're curious, but not that concerned about your spiritual deadness. My admonition to you is to cry out in desperation for God to work in your heart and open your eyes to the truth. If the way I just the way I was speaking describes you a moment ago, cry out to God. Oh Lord, would you work in my heart? Lord, would you open my eyes? Would you show me who I really am? Because, my friend, you are in danger of perishing eternally. And you cannot be saved apart from the working of the Spirit of God. My third admonition to those who sense that they are dead, is to seek the Lord in his word. The Bible tells us that God uses his word To bring people to life. Listen to First Peter 123 being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the word of God which liveth and abideth forever. James 118 says, Of his own will begat he us with the word of truth. Romans 10. 17 says, Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. That is why I am preaching the Word of God to you today. Because God delights to use His Word to work and to convict like a sharp two-edged sword. into the hard hearts of sinners. So I would say to you, if you say, you know, I really don't think I I really don't think I've come to that place. Well, then you know what? You need to go to every service you possibly can where the Word of God is preached. You need to ransack your Bible and you need to read your Bible. As if everything depends upon it. You need to seek the Lord in his word. Because God delights to use his word to open the eyes of the blind. And perhaps you would ask this question, how could I really tell if I've been born again? There are many evidences given in the Bible, especially in the book of 1 John, of course, the same author of this passage we're looking at this morning. And that leads me to my fourth application. And my fourth exhortation is the exhortation of the gospel, and that is that you would put your faith in Christ. alone. Look at the conclusion of this conversation. Verse 14, and as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish. but have everlasting life. For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. He that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. You see, those who are born again are those who put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. These two things always go together. John says this earlier in this book. In chapter 1, he says, But as many as received him, to them gave him power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. All of those who are born of God believe. And in 1 John 5, 1, John writes, Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born. of God. Let me be quick to add that this faith that's called that's called for here is not intellectual scent. It's not simply someone saying, you know, I suppose there was a Jewish carpenter who died about 2,000 years ago. No, it's a lot more than that. It means that you have come to see the wickedness of your sin and your great need of a savior. recognizing that you cannot save yourself, recognizing that Jesus died in your place on the cross and that he rose again and that he is who he claimed to be the Son of God. And it means that you are putting your everlasting reliance in him and in him alone, not in your good deeds, not in your track record, not in your Christianity, but in Christ alone. It means that by the grace of God you have come to believe that Jesus died in your place, that he took upon him all your sins, past, present, and future. That he paid a debt that you could never pay, and that he took your sin and that he gave you his righteousness It says, for he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. So let me ask you, have you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ? I didn't ask if you have some vague belief that there was this guy who lived 2,000 years ago named Jesus. No, have you come to know him and trust in him and love him as your Savior and Lord? Have you passed from death unto life, from darkness to the lights? Is there evidence of spiritual life in you? Virginia Afgard developed what is known as the Apgard test in 1952 to assess a baby's health right after birth. And they made it an acrostic. Her last name, Afgar , stands for appearance, pulse, grimace, activity, respiration. All on a scale of 1 to 10, some of you who have recently given births were probably given an apgar score. And these relate to the life of the child. Let me ask you, is there evidence that you have been spiritually born again? I didn't ask if you come to church. I didn't ask if you've complied with some particular Christian community. Is there evidence in your life that you're alive, that you have a spiritual pulse, that there's spiritual activity that you have new life in Christ? Christ. I'd exhort you to seek the Lord while he may be found, to search your heart, to look at your life. And to never rest until you come to the full assurance that Jesus Christ is your Lord and Savior. Because everyone needs to be born again. Let's close in prayer. Father. Pray that you would keep us from playing church, from being respectable. But not being born again. I pray, Lord, that you would use your word, as you have said you would do, to bring sinners to new life in Christ. I pray that you'd work in our midst even this morning, Lord 's In Jesus' name we pray, Amen.