Listen to what he says in Mark 9. He says, Truly I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God after it has come with power. This verse speaks not to the conclusion of the gospel or the second coming, but to his transfiguration. That's where all three synoptic authors put this exact line. It's actually right before the transfiguration account. It points to the glory of Christ manifesting the kingdom itself in himself. It's the kingdom on display. He's the very embodiment of this kingdom reality. Whatever is true in him is true of the kingdom. And being asked by the Pharisees when this kingdom of God would come, he answered them, The kingdom of God is not coming in ways that could be observed, nor will they say, Look, here it is, or there, for behold, the kingdom of God is in the midst of you. Speaking of himself. Additionally, in Acts, when it says of Philip, that Philip preached the good news about the kingdom of God and the name Jesus Christ. It's speaking more to to just an act of rule, but actually the name of Christ in the kingdom becoming one. Yet we can't press this this kind of uh analogy or press this idea too far and think that the kingdom of God is just a a synonym for Christ. Because Christ used it himself in many different implications. Even as he spoke, he spoke a lot about a future kingdom. He spoke that there be one that would appear suddenly But he also talked about one that was realized already in some fashion now in his ministry, even as he walked on earth. It'd be something beyond a spiritual reality, but it would still be a dominant reality in the world. We're going to hopefully get to this aspect a little bit later. Yet many of the teachings of Jesus, again, were all about the kingdom. In many ways, he taught us how to understand it. He taught that the kingdom of God cannot be tied directly I'm sorry. The kingdom of God cannot be hastened by doing battle with God's enemies, meaning we can't eradicate evil and see that the kingdom is going to come. This is what the zealots of his time hoped would happen. The kingdom of God cannot be forced to appear by some meticulous observation of the law, like we're going to do some moral or social reform and keep good works. This is what the Pharisees hoped, but it wasn't true. Jesus taught us that we can only await it with confidence and patience, like many of the kingdom parables in Matthew 13. Well, to say all this is that Jesus is the king of the kingdom. He is the ruler over it. He is the manifestation of it. He is the power and the authority within the kingdom and its reign. Man is the subject. Christ is the king. Christ is the king. The kingdom, in a sense, is Christ in his alone. That's the first facet The second facet is that the part of the kingdom is now, is already. As we understand Christ's manifestation of the kingdom as he walked on earth, but through his teaching, he taught about two realities of this kingdom, a part that is now and a part that is to come. Theologian George Ladd has famously defined this tension in the description of the kingdom as the already not yet. There's this tension. A part of it is already, meaning it's present now with us working, and a part that is not yet or is to come. Now it's guaranteed, but not yet. His language helps capture this idea. We talk about the kingdom of God has been inaugurated at his first coming, but it will be consummated at the second coming. I think we all know what inauguration is. Politics are kind of a thing that we talk about in America. But inauguration is obviously when a political leader takes their office, when they start their charge or start their governance. That is what Christ did when he came. He inaugurated this kingdom. There's many ways he talked about this. The kingdom is already announced in some way present. In Matthew 3, he says, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand, meaning it's close, it's readily accessible, it's not distant. Or in Matthew 12, he says, But if it's by the Spirit of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. He did cast out demons, demonstrating the kingdom power had come to earth in Christ. Matthew 11, he says, from the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven has suffered violence. Here he's implying that the kingdom of has existed, at least beginning with John the Baptist. But also what's suggested in this verse is that even though God's kingdom is present, not everyone is aware or acknowledges it in the present age. Christ also declared that his reign came into effect of this kingdom, and it even continues now. Obviously, we know in Matthew 28 where he says, All authority in heaven on earth has been given to me, Christ has been given all authority. for this kingdom. But before his crucifixion in Luke 22, he says, But from now on, the Son of Man will be seated at the right hand of power. He is seated at the right hand of God, the Father reigning now over the kingdom that is inaugurated at his first coming He doesn't say that when he comes back he's going to be king, or he doesn't indicate that a kingdom had departed when he left. A part of the kingdom is established in Christ's life, death, and resurrection. Another aspect that lets us know the kingdom is now is that it can be received in faith. Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it, that childlike faith that's required to receive it. The parable of the sower, Jesus talks about sowing the words of the kingdom, something that can be done now into believers. Both the parable of the sower and the mustard seed and the leaven in Matthew 13 all point to this small implanting of the kingdom of God that flourishes by God's power in hand. It's a flourishing that only opens as the kingdom spreads and grows. And this spreading and growing that works inside of those with faith, Matthew really teases this out actually in his gospel. He ties this idea of the kingdom of God almost to a kingdom ethic. And it brings this teaching that really this ethic is one of right doing, this righteousness that comes from a right being. Countless times in the gospel, we're encountered with what we should be doing. Yet Jesus informs us that we can't do this because of works, like the Pharisees. but from right being in a heart devoted to God in faith. Matthew 6, 33 says, But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and these things will be added to you. The implication here is that some aspect of the kingdom can be found in faith and righteous living becomes a response, something we can see of the kingdom of God. There's a walking out of the kingdom in the reality of our lives. Now in the power of the Holy Spirit, the same Spirit that rose Christ from the dead is now the power that presents itself in believers, and we can see aspects of the kingdom. See, it's important that we have this connection to faith and walking out righteousness in life, because the kingdom of God in the scriptures is never used in a spiritual sense alone. It refers to things in the public world, things that we can see. The kingdom of God is not just a spiritual reality, but it's something that will flow out in actual reality. It's not a private experience, it's a public one. But it's something we do through the power of the Holy Spirit, and we participate now in some kind of outward manifestation. It's a doing, and there's a presence of the kingdom in that doing. And Paul says in Philippians 3, but our citizenship is in heaven and we wait for our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. He's highlighting that tension, that being in this world, living, working, breathing every day, yet our true home is in a kingdom, not of this world. We're called sojourners, citizens of a kingdom that exists, and we act and live as those from that far country, yet we await for his returning to bring it into fullness. But we can rest assured the kingdom of God is here, breaking into the world to the person and life of Christ, now working the Holy Spirit, bringing forth righteousness in his people, preparing us. for the consummation of all things. So we've learned that the kingdom has a king and it's Christ And there's a part of the kingdom that is now, this already happening in the lives of believers, manifesting itself in the world. There's one more facet. And that is that it will consume. It will be completed. The third facet is the kingdom to come. The not yet part of the already. The already and the not yet. The phrase entering the kingdom of God as Jesus taught was one of looking forward to a future time. And Mark 1 he says, Kingdom of God, it is near. You need it's coming. It hasn't fully arrived. Where Matthew 8 says, many will come from the east and west and recline with Abraham in the kingdom of heaven. This future tense speaking of a future happening even reconciliation with Israel. Matthew 25, when he starts speaking about the second coming, he says, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. When he comes, he will separate the sheep from the goats. The sheep will inherit the kingdom, the goats to the eternal fire, speaking clearly of the second coming and the judgment. In Mark 9, he says, it's better for you to enter the kingdom with one eye than with two eyes be thrown into hell, speaking of what we must sacrifice now for the entry in the kingdom in life to come. See these verses, as well as many other in the Old Testament and the New Testament, speak to the reality of a kingdom that is yet to be fulfilled. When it comes, King Jesus will be presiding in full glory, visible to all men and dwelling with us. When it does come , We will be free of all of our cares. Like the birds of the air and the lilies of the field. Peace will reign. The lamb and the lion will lay down together. There'll be no more want, rich or poor, no more crying, no more death, no more pain. We know this also because when it talks about the kingdom coming, there's a clear connection between that kingdom and also eternal life. In that same verse in Mark 9, he says this, if your foot causes you to sin, cut it off. It's better for you to enter life, speaking of eternal life, than with two feet be thrown into hell. And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out, it's better for you to enter the kingdom of God making that connection with one eye and with two be thrown into hell. Or even the rich young ruler. The rich young ruler comes to Jesus and he says, What must I do to inherit eternal life? But with Jesus' challenge and his rebuke, he sends them away, and Jesus turns to his disciples and he says, How difficult will it be for those with wealth to enter the kingdom of God? Scripture points to this reality of a kingdom of God with eternal life and that will come with Christ's second coming, a kingdom consummated. A kingdom completed, where all the promises of God all brought to fulfillment in the last time. This part of the kingdom, the part is the not yet, the part we wait on, the part that weighs heavy on our prayers. as we wait for this second coming. Yet before I finish this third facet, even in my own studies, and maybe this is hitting you even tonight , A question might be coming to your mind. Well what's preventing the kingdom from coming then anyway Well without going this was a huge rabbit trail in my study, so I'm going to make it real short for you in this. Without going to particulars of all the eschatology, there is nothing preventing God from coming beyond his own will. Satan was defeated on the cross. There's no evil that impedes God's coming and his action. No work of man that must be completed before Christ comes. Jesus even emphasized that we don't know the time. God does know. Yet Peter gave us this comfort. In 2 Peter, he says, but do not overlook this one fact, beloved That with the Lord one day is a thousand years, and a thousand years one day. The Lord is not slow to fulfil this promise, as some count slowness, but is patient towards you, not wishing any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. God 's kingdom will come at the time appointed before all time. It is sure and it is unimpeded. So I hope these three facets have at least just cracked the window, so to speak, on the glory of the kingdom of God. It is rich and deep. These three facets, the rule of Christ. The already aspect of the kingdom wrought in the Holy Spirit and salvation that's working now and this third part of the promises to be fulfilled that will be when the kingdom of God comes in full consummation. So now we know at least a little bit about the kingdom. So, the second objective. What does it mean then to pray, come? For this kingdom. I have four points to cover for this. One is that we pray for the kingdom to be consummated, to be completed. We are affirming that our deepest desire is that kingdom would come to completion. We await it. Even this verb here in the Greek is like a final coming, like a consummating coming. Not keep on coming like the kingdom is this this process. No, it will come and it will come final when it comes. But as we pray for this consummation, we're praying for two things. First, we're praying that God continue to do his work of bringing salvation to the heart of unbelievers. That all that are given to him come and that he continue the sanctifying work in the kingdom that has already begun. This is the already part of that kingdom we can pray for. That this kingdom would grow, that more people would know him, love him, and walk in his ways, that that righteousness would grow. Yet we're also praying praying Maranatha, which is our Aramaic for Lord come That the fullness of the kingdom and its promises would be consummated at the end of this world and the beginning of the one to come. This puts our mind's eye on God's working, his long-awaited promises, how quickly we can become selfish in our prayers. Praying, Your kingdom comes brings our thoughts to God's eternal plan and promises. It's the cry of cries, the deepest of prayers and thoughts, and deepest longing of his people that this kingdom we await for come. That the promises be completed. That we can forget our life. We can forget our worries. We can forget our failing bodies, our bills, our conflicts, our car troubles, and yes, plead with the Lord that his kingdom come. And it be finished. We are not praying that Christ be given more power or dominion like something stands in the way of this kingdom. Christ's reign is sure and it is complete and is from the foundation of the world. We're not praying that he would be king or that whatever power is preventing him from finishing up this work. Christ reigns Unopposed and he reigns mightily. Second, we pray for God to do this work. See, God alone is the king of the kingdom. It does not involve man's kingdom. Because man's kingdom is of this world. Which means we pray for the kingdom to come. We are not praying for Christian government. We're not praying for moral reform in our nation. We 'll not solve the world's problems by some realized kingdom here on earth. Like we're going to create some kind of human government or power structure that's going to break sin 's back. No, Christ alone is the Savior from sin. Surely a Christian government or these things can be a blessing, just as any Christian leading from Scripture over a group of people would be a blessing. But it's not going to usher in the kingdom. This view is akin to an eschatological view that things are just going to get better and better and better in the world until Christ returns and kind of walks into a kingdom fully perfected. But I believe this view fails to address many of Jesus' own teachings. For example, he says, you will always have the poor with you. In other words, there's going to be no working of man, even well-intentioned Christian men, that are going to do the work of ushering in the kingdom. They're not going to fix sin in this world. Only Christ can do that. As if God's sitting around passively waiting for all of us to get together and just push the wheelbarrow of civilization over the last hump. No, when it comes, it will come suddenly, quickly, and all of him when it comes. This is the same theological thinking that's led the liberals to the impotent social gospel. Focusing on the ills of society rather than saving lost souls with the gospel. When we pray, kingdom come, we are putting all of our hope in Him and His work. In this world and the work in the world to come. Thirdly, we pray in confidence and patience. Our prayer is for the coming of the kingdom in full. It is by this already aspect, the dwelling of the Spirit in us, that through the victory of Christ on the cross, that we cry Abba Father. That we have this high priest as our intercessor. This facet of the kingdom that's here, but we pray for the arrival of the kingdom in full, but we pray in complete confidence. Knowing that it will be happening. We know that there's nothing that impedes the kingdom of God from coming, then our prayer is humble Submissive, but constant in what he's going to do. There's not wondering or wishing that it comes, or maybe that it will, but we pray in patience. Knowing that it will come, and that yet we petition the Lord that it would come now because that's the thing we want most of all when we pray. You see, if the idea of praying for Christ's return right now, today, even right now, on Mother's Day Seems like not the best timing for your life or your agenda. My friend, you don't know about the kingdom If there's anything in this world that would cause you to delay the coming of the Lord, maybe see you go on vacation or see your kids get married or have your freshman year of college, you don't really know what the kingdom is like As Jesus said, repent, the kingdom is near. And lastly, if you are here tonight , And you have not repented of your sins, and you do not trust in Jesus Christ as your Savior, you are not on the path to this kingdom. There will be a day that you will not escape. God has made clear in his word, in the Bible, how he will judge all men on that day. When the kingdom comes, it will not be good for those outside the kingdom. His word is clear. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Stop burying your head in the sand of sin and lies. That restlessness in your heart that drives you to all sorts of evil You're looking for life, but you're not finding it. Fall on your knees and confess to God that you are indeed a sinner. And you need a savior. The word says, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. Don't be fooled by contemporary philosophy of this age. You're not going to heaven when you die. You're going to judgment. The faithful to the kingdom, the unfaithful to everlasting fire, and there will be a lot of good people burning on that day. Jesus' own words are fairly stark. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the Lord my Father who is in heaven. On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, give me not prophecy in your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in your name. And I will declare to you, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. Until the fear of God and the bitterness of your sin haunts you, you will not enter the kingdom. But you can know the Savior today. Your kingdom come. Three words, but a mighty, mighty prayer. The words of great longing for those who await the Lord in the consummation of his promises. We pray this in alignment to the central working of God in this world. The lost, it's a dire warning. Yet for those who are saved, it is a prayer of great reverence, humility, and hope, and confidence that our Lord is coming. Let me close tonight in a word of prayer. As citizens of the kingdom, we can pray for him to come. Let's do that together. Lord, if you would show your mercy again to your servants, let your sovereign power, the fullness of your kingdom, with all its blessings and reality, come now. If it is your pleasure to do so. Until then we serve you, our King, with the benefits of your citizenship as your people, the new men and women in Christ, raised from death to life. With the Spirit dwelling in us, and the inheritance waiting for us in the kingdom. As sojourners, Father, we long for our home. We know it in our hearts This is not where we belong. We were made for the king and for the kingdom. So we ask, let your kingdom come Let it come with all splendor and majesty of our High King who is worthy of all praise. Let it come in judgment, in trembling for those who openly reject you. Let it come in reshaping the creation that you promised, the new heavens and the new earth as you declared. And let us cast our eyes upon the precious Lord. in your glory, having every earthly fear and worry turn torn from our hearts and have death depart and be flooded with the fullness of our hope and riches of mercy a thousand times more. Yes, Lord, your kingdom come. Your kingdom come. And we ask this in your son 's name. Amen.