Father, we thank you for the gathering of the saints tonight that we can come under your word. Father, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be pleasing in your sight, Lord. Help us to reckon our lives with your word. That it may be for your glory in our lives to serve you. And we ask all of this in your Son's name. Amen. So everyone in this room is likely familiar with the name Pete Rose. P. Rose is baseball 's all-time hit leader with 4,256 career hits. which is about a hundred more hits higher than Ty Cobb. If you don't know who Ty Cobb is, I can't help you. There are no current players even close to this record. The closest is 1800 hits behind this record. And with the modern changes in baseball since that time, it's likely that no one will ever beat this record. But that's not why people know the name Pete Rose. While Pete Rose was a player manager for the Cincinnati Reds, Pete engaged in a violation of MLB's Rule 21. Rule 21, which is posted in every clubhouse, says this. Any player, umpire, or club official or employee who bets on a game in which he has a duty to perform shall be declared permanently ineligible. Yet with this clear moral obligation on what he walked by every day, surely Pete bet on games. Oh dude, boy, did he bet. Many games, his own team's games, other games. And even after the investigation and the conviction, Pete still denied his involvement for fifteen years. before finally admitting it in his book, My Prison Without Bars. Pete knew what was right Yet he failed to live up to it. And it had consequences. Despite his record, he is permanently ineligible for the Baseball Hall of Fame. You see, Pete's story is like many stories of the human race. As fallen creatures Who by our own nature we always seek our own wills, our own desires apart from God. Many seek their own way, and they have their own consequences. They will never enter the hall of faith in heaven. Yet for Christians, as we reckon our fallen nature, we must pray. We must pray for the power of God to live by God's will here on earth with great urgency. As we turn our attention to the Lord's Prayer tonight, we must then pray like this. We must pray for God's will to be done on earth As it is in heaven. But see, you can't pray this prayer haphazardly. God, who tests the heart, knows our thoughts, has given us the great revelation of his word. commands us to pray then like this, and if we are to pray for his will to be done, we need to know what we are praying about. So naturally, as we think about this command, there are three questions that arise from our verse tonight. Firstly, what is God's will? Again, if we're praying for God's will to be done, we should know what it is we are praying for. Second, what is his purpose in praying this, or why does the Lord ask us to pray for this will? You see, so many questions arise when we think about God's will being done on earth, especially when we come into tension with us being the subject of his God's will, praying for his will to be done to us, something we may already consider done because of his sovereignty. So, why are we asked to pray like this? And thirdly, our last question, with the knowledge of these two questions being answered as we move along, If we are now standing before God praying for his will, this final question comes to us. In a sense, what is his will for us? And how do we submit to it? What an example of hypocrisy it would be to pray for God's kingdom, for his will to be done in our prayers, but not then reconcile what it means for us to live that way here on earth. This is what I hope to share with you tonight in this message as we navigate through these questions. Again, what is God's will? How do we, or why do we pray for it, and how do we submit it? If you're not already there, turn with me in your Bible to Matthew chapter 6, verse 10. See, I realize we're coming into the fourth message in this series on the Lord's Prayer, and it's been a while since I've preached this series. So I want to give a brief recap. If you've not heard any of these messages, we can kind of catch up to why we're already into the prayer, if we can flow into our sermon tonight. The Lord's Prayer is broken into two parts, each part with three petitions. The first three are about God and his sovereign reign, his glory, and his purposes. His purpose is for man, and really all of God's desires, in a sense, all these petitions point to the reality of who God is. We are on the last of these three petitions tonight. The second three petitions are a reflection of our dependence on God, really who we are as man, dependent on our needs. all these things coming under God. So as I worked through this series, the first message we talked about an orientation to the Lord's Prayer. And really the Lord's Prayer, if you remember, coming out of Jesus' teachings against the Pharisees and how they prayed. You see, the wrong kind of prayer had two errors. It had a focus on our own exaltation. In a sense, it was a prayer for the admiration of those hearing us pray, for the personal social gain of those who were praying, rather than a focus on God and his glory. There's also, the second error, was a type of formalism in the prayer. A type of praying that the prayer itself had some kind of power to it. As if we pray in the right format, we use the right words, that God would hear us better or be more wonderful to God. It is the same belief that if we pray on our knees, it's better than our prayer in the car on the way to work. It wrongfully takes the power of prayer from God and brings it to us as if we do the right pious thing. It's better to God. In the previous messages, I've also discussed the necessity of prayer in our lives and the purpose. But as we got into the petitions, I talked about hallowed be thy name as we get into our section of where we are tonight. This petition that God's name be revered, that God be given the glory and whole of creation, because he is the one true God. This provides an intimacy to our prayers as we can speak to the one who is holy, where God is first. And the last message Just I think five short months ago, I addressed your kingdom come. I reviewed the power of the kingdom through three facets of the kingdom. One, that the kingdom is Christ's kingdom. Second, that part of the kingdom has come, and thirdly, that a yet part is yet to come. As we pray for that kingdom, though, we are praying ultimately for its consummation. For it to come in fullness, the completion of that kingdom and Christ will come again and reign with all of his power and glory. You see, but our prayers can't hasten that. Yet we pray in eager expectation for that day that has already been secured in the work of Christ on the cross. So as we reach the tail end now of verse 10, we have the last petition. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. The last of these three to God in the Lord's Prayer. So this is where we've caught up to, where we're going to jump into tonight. So let me turn back now to this first question as we think about your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. If we're to pray like this, we must know what is God's will. Matthew six ten. Your will be done. The will of God is his eternal sovereign Infallible, unchangeable, specific, comprehensive a mysterious plan that he reveals through us through purposes in time. His will is manifest in the moral fabric and all of creation. All pointed towards the completion of his redemptive plan in Jesus Christ and calls his people to live in accordance with his ways. God 's will rules over human will, Proverbs 19. It rules over creation, Romans 8. Over evil, Genesis 45, Isaiah 65, and Romans 9. God's will is pleasing, perfect, and good. Romans 12. When we are speaking of God's will, we are speaking in one sense of the expression of all of the glorious attributes of God in this character that are ultimately manifesting in a direction of the character of God. Yet in one sense, it also operates in concert with his attributes. With his character. It expresses his desire for mankind in the revealed purpose and the redemption of man in Jesus Christ. I'm going to stop there before we get too theologically lofty. But even in the rich depth of the will of God, it is both readily understandable and a great mystery. Scripture points to the truth that God has one will, even affirmed in our verse. Yet theologians break it into two categories. A revealed will that is plainly revealed through us, through his word, through creation, through history, and a secret will that involves aspects of his will that we will never know, because he is God. Paul says, O the depths of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments, how inscrutable his ways. As God's creatures, we can only ever help to wish to see God's revealed will, and it is revealed for us in a few ways. One way in which God's will is revealed is through his word in the scriptures. It is a special revelation of God that reveals his will and his character to us through the pages of Scripture We learn what God has intended for his creation, his people, and the redemption of man. But God's will is also revealed in history In time, in events, in his providence. See, God's will extends beyond just his word because he is the one sovereign over all things. That he is working out all the events of time, all under his providence, all part of his will, to display his mighty hand working. His will is also revealed to us through the Holy Spirit in the lives of believers. In his providence and guidance in the Spirit, His will is done through the Spirit, through people of God throughout time. That guiding Holy Spirit impacting the course of events and driving us all to accord to his good ways. But it's also revealed in Christ. His purposes for this world and our salvation. These are the ways in which we see God's will revealed. As his creatures, this is what has been revealed to us, and all that we will really know this side of glory. But there's one more layer to this onion skin. We know God has one will. We know there's a secret part and a revealed part. We put that secret one aside and we take that revealed will. There are also two ways in which the Bible speaks about his will. The first way is his will of decree, or what's called his sovereign will. This is the way of speaking about God's will that is unchangeable, sovereign, that decrees the things in history that will always come to pass. There's ways that scripture talks about this, and it's from the biggest events of time to the smallest details. Matthew 10, it says, not one sparrow falls to the ground apart from our Father in heaven. Or Proverbs 16, where it says, a lot is cast into lap, but every decision is from the Lord. But what's also important about this sovereign will, that may take us a little by surprise. Is that this will of decree includes the sins of man? Acts 4, 27. It says, For truly in this city there were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pilate, Pontius Pilate. along with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, to do whatever your hand and your plan had predestined to take place. You see, it's necessary for us to know this because under God's sovereign will, he allows for the suffering of his people and the sins of man. 1 Peter 3 says, for it's better to suffer for doing good if that should be God's will than to do evil. God will do things to come to pass that he hates to fulfill his purposes. Think of his own son on the cross The sovereign will of God cannot be changed, cannot be broken. It always comes to pass. Daniel 4, it says, He does according to his will among the hosts of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth, and none can say of his hand or say to him, What have you done? It's a sovereign will. But the second way he speaks about the will in the Bible is his will of command or his moral will. See, this is God's moral code or his desire for his creation to live in accord to that will, but that will doesn't always come to pass. It's different from the sovereign will. In 1 Thessalonians 4 it says, For this is the will of God, your sanctification, that you abstain from sexual morality. But how much is that not done on earth? Or 1 John 2, and the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever. You see, some do the will of God, some don't. This will of God does not always happen But it's clearly revealed in his word, this will, and obeyed by us through the Spirit. God's moral will is his and involves our obedience and our holiness. That is our connection to this moral will. So if we look back at our verse now, your will be done on earth and it is in heaven, we have a different lens to look at this. When we're speaking of God's will here in Matthew 6, even considering the last clause of this verse, which we'll get to, this is one of God's revealed will. God would not ask us to pray for his secret will. What we find in this verse is a prayer is both a cry of desire for his sovereign will and a humble submission to his moral will. to be done. But we need a bit more to finish this thought. So the answer to the question though, what is his will? The will of God in this verse is his revealed will, his perfect commands and purposes for creation. So now if you're tracking so far, I would assume that you're already thinking and building up tension with the will of God and your own life experience. See, we don't have to look long into the mirror of our lives to see this reality that we do not always walk in accordance to the moral will of God. Even as believers, and surely the world does not walk in that way. This tension ultimately brings us to the next question. The verse itself clarifies this tension by saying, Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. The implication is that God's will is not done here on earth. And that's really speaking of this moral will. So it brings us to the second question. How do we pray, or why do we pray, sorry, for God's will to be done? Why? Why is Jesus asking us to pray this way? The verse says your will, meaning God's will, be done. Grammatically, this done is a past tense imperative. It's a command, but when you put it in a prayer, it's a request. But it depends on who is being requested. In this verse, the structure of God is the agent who would make that will, in a sense, be done to be consummated here on earth. In simple English, we're praying that God make his will completed. It both has a present and a future implication. But if everything we've said is true so far about God's sovereign will, why would we be praying for the sovereign will to come true if it's an inevitable conclusion? A prayer like this may seem like we're rooting for God to succeed, as if something's impeding him. In part, this is the same issue we had last lesson with praying for God's kingdom would come. We cannot hasten the kingdom of our prayers, but we do pray for it in eager expectation. and the reception of that will for our lives. But yet inherent in this question as we wrestle with it is the interpretive possible mistake of this verse You see, if we view ourselves praying to God for God, I think we've missed it. For a sovereign will to be done alone, we have wrongly interpreted the intent. I believe when it's rightly understood, the intention of the prayer is that we are praying to God for us. Not to make God do his sovereign will. But he would make his moral will come to bear to be done on earth through us, his creatures. Why do I think that? Let's look at the next part of the verse. on earth as it is in heaven. By implication, God's moral and sovereign will is done perfectly in heaven. There's a real sense of this clause that actually applies to all three parts of this petition. Because in contrast of heaven and earth applies to this whole verse. If you're looking at your scripture, you see God's holiness is perfectly revered in heaven, but it's not on earth. God's kingdom is fully consummated in heaven, but not on earth. And his moral will is perfectly done in heaven, but not on earth. There's also a theological connection to the previous part of this verse. To pray for the kingdom in effect is to use parallelism found throughout the scriptures, that his will would also then be done too. The kingdom is more than, but does not preclude the very reality that God's will be done in his kingdom. You see, we cannot pray for the kingdom and not pray for his will to be done at the same time. They are not exclusive, but inclusive petitions But the contrast here is it brings us to the reality that in heaven God's will is done. You see, in heaven Heaven is a state of being as well as a place where the Father's will is done with absolute perfection and joy by his preachers. His will is done because they are without sin. You see, it's the nature of sin and its power that drives man to pride and defiant self-will here on earth. But that's not the case in heaven. You see, in heaven, there is a state of perfect union between God and his creatures, others in God, and utter contentment in his presence free from sin. In heaven exists a community of creatures where they are living in a wholeness and complete unity of wills with God. One do we do not experience here on earth? There is abundant joy from his creatures as they serve him and his moral will in heaven. Heaven is called a city, Revelation 21, a banquet. Matthew 8. A worshiping congregation in Hebrew 12. All these point to a unity and togetherness that is experienced in heaven that is free from any sin that's in our earthly experience. Where God's moral will is done by his creatures. You see, but there is a place where God's will is not done by his creatures here on earth. Here in fallen humanity, here in our nation, here in our church, here in you, in me. His will is not done. Not that it's not done by God, but in that it's not done by us. The implication in this prayer is that there is a cosmic disconnect. God's will is being done in heaven, but it's not being done on earth, and the finger points here. There was a perfect moral will of God on earth. Yet then Lucifer, the fall of man, independent wills emerged, earth became darkened, man's desires for his own way grew, and Satan purposes to destroy, all came. So when we are praying for God's will to be done on earth as is in heaven, we are acknowledging that we are not doing his will. And that he would work in his providence and through the Spirit, through means of his revealed will, that we as creatures would fall under submission and obedience to that will, to the will of God. It is the prayer of desire and a prayer of submission that Father your will be done on earth. You act to bring us under your will in us and in history. But there's no better example of this kind of prayer Then turning to our Lord in the Garden of Gethsemane. Turn with your Bibles to Matthew 26, starting in verse 39. If I'm going to make the case that when we pray, we are praying for us to come under God's will. The Lord Himself has given us a moving model of this kind of prayer. You see, here in Matthew 26, verse 39, we'll see our Lord is praying for this very thing. The Lord perfectly obeyed the Father, but it does not mean that that submission was simple. But we find in the Lord's Prayer for God's will over his human will. Verse 39 And going a little farther, he fell on his face and prayed, saying, My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me, nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will Now, if we step back from this text and we read it merely as a pattern of fact. or purely God's sovereign will coming to bear, we see Jesus conforming to the will of God But as humans, we cannot escape the context of this verse and the understanding of what is happening in Jesus' life right here. He's about to be handed over to death on the cross for all of mankind's sin. Prophecy for centuries in the scriptures, wicked, horrifying, gory death, and excruciating pain In one hand, he is speaking out of his human will, his very real human will that recoils at the idea of pain and death and what's about to happen to him, especially the death he knew he would face. On the other hand, his unwavering commitment and obedience to his father and accordance with his divine will. This is where Christology gets real. But let us not be tempted to get distracted with the theological questions of whether or not he could have disobeyed or if this was some kind of sin. We knew from Hebrews 5 that it says he was tempted as we are, yet without sin. And what we're talking about here is not sin. We're talking about the natural human reaction of recoiling to avoid pain and suffering. But let us look at the example. When have you faced death and said, not my will, but thine? Daily we choose our own will over God's and rebellious in so many ways. How quickly we jump to considering the theological merits of this, yet reviewed, not looking at Christ. Look, look at him on the cross, obeying the commands of the Father for you. Sweating drops of blood for you, following the Scriptures, commands for you, sweating drops that he was nailed to the cross for you, all in perfect obedience to God's will. One scarcely dies for a righteous person. Yet perhaps for one good person one would dare to die. But God showed his love for us that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Don't miss the point here. He says it again. Look at verse 42. Again for the second time he went away and prayed, said, My father, if this cannot pass unless I drink it, your will be done. What we see is submission to obedience to the Father's will, his eternal purpose and plan revealed throughout the Old Testament, but not of a casual nature. But of an exceedingly great cost. A cost that we will never know, and by God's grace we will never have to know, because of Christ's payment for us, his sacrifice for us. Because he's the one who humbled himself, becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. You see, when Christ is teaching us to pray like this in Matthew 6 , He modeled it for us right here in the garden. The weight and the cost of following God's will. This is the same when we pray this, that we would have obedience of the highest degree, that we would no longer feel a tinge of self-desire and will, but full submission to Him and His will for us. Why do we pray this way? We pray that we might be conformed to the revealed will of God in the perfect way it's done in heaven Robert Law wrote, Prayer is a mighty instrument, but not for getting man's will done in heaven, but for getting God's will done on earth. By implication of this, we must be available to God for living out his will on earth if that is our prayer. We are speaking of a unity that was rooted in joyful obedience with God and his will, and there was perfect unity with God and man in the garden, and we know the fall changed all that. If we pray like this. This prayer becomes a vital cry for that kind of unity once again. That we desire his will to be done That we be transformed into a people that will do his will. And the joy that exists in doing his will would be ours to the fullest We know that will is good. Psalm 33 says the counsel of the Lord stands forever, the plans of his heart to all generations. God's will comes from his heart. It is good. But we also pray like this because it helps us avoid the error of James 4, when James says, you ask and do not receive because you ask wrongly to spend it on your passions. By praying this way we no longer pray for our own kingdom, our own needs, our own wants, our own desires. We're praying for No longer our own will, but his will to be done. We pray in accordance to the kingdom that we might perfectly live here on earth in obedience. Luther expounded this prayer in these words. He says, Let thy will be done, O Father, not the will of the devil or of any of those who would overthrow thy holy word. Or hinder the coming of thy kingdom, and grant that all we may have to endure for its sake may be borne with patience and overcome. so that our poor flesh may not yield or give way from weakness or laziness. We are praying for his will to be done right here in our own hearts and lives. So that it's done in our church. So it's done in our communities. And it's done in the world. The more we pray for God's will to be done, the more we yield ourselves to it. But of course, this is no simple task because it involves dying to self. So now that we've grasped a bit of God's perfect will, And we're praying for not for God to be successful, but for us to be submitted to God. Well, the next question that flows out of that is, how do we submit then to the will of God? Our last question. Our Lord said in Matthew 4, Man shall not live by bread alone, but every word that comes from the mouth of God. It is a life of the Christian to live in submission to the word of God, every word of it. So as a form of practical application, I want to give you a course of direction on living out the will of God in your life, or at least seeking it. On one hand, we've clearly covered in the message tonight that this is to obey the expressed will of God in the scriptures. Do what the Bible says. It's pretty straightforward. That can fill us with a lifetime of sanctification and growth, and it is a great prayer of obedience in our lives. Lord, help me to do your will and your word. Love my enemies. Love God. Do it all with one good heart. And one of the other thousand commands in the New Testament. This would surely be God's will for you on this earth. But what about God's will in other areas of your life? We know that the Bible is complete for life and godliness, but what about the other aspects of our lives? His will for your job or marriage or tough decision? I believe this kind of dichotomy is a false one, though. As the passage fully taught us, we should be in prayer for the submission to God's will in all areas of life. And I believe his revealed moral will and his commands are enough if we only obey just that. Think about it. How many decisions in your life would be clearer if you just lived out the commands of God unencumbered by your sin? Philip Riken says this very pointedly. He says, the first question is not, what is God's will for my life? as if you have to read God's mind to know what you ought to do. The first question is really, am I willing to do it? There is no sense in asking God to reveal his will for your life unless you're committed to doing what he once done. So to that end, I want to give us some guidance in submitting to the will of God based on this passage inclusive of obeying the Word of God. And how I'm going to lay this out is in three distinct kind of phases or actions. Pray, discern, and act. First, we must be a people of prayer. Modeled for us right here in the passage, we're going to be praying for God to work in us through prayer, through the Holy Spirit. And there are four kind of petitions that should be in that prayer. The first is that we're praying for wisdom leading to discernment. This was Solomon's petition, and the Lord was pleased with it. All wisdom is God's wisdom, and when we pray for wisdom, we are seeking to have our minds to be made like Christ's. through understanding and discernment of his word. But second, we're also praying for a disposition of godliness in that process. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, the abundant fruit of the Spirit to be working in us. Psalm 27 says, wait for the Lord. Be strong. Let your heart take courage. Wait for the Lord. How many times have you been trying to navigate God's will or make a decision and you can look back now? And know that you were not abiding in the fruit of the Spirit. Maybe you were anxious and you missed an opportunity. Maybe you were not trusting in the Lord's provisions and you rushed without a sense of patience. Maybe you're indecisive because of fear when you were not given a spirit of fear. We must abide in the Spirit in Christ if we're to rightly discern his will, and we need prayer for that. Thirdly, we are also praying to accept his will, no matter what it might be. Our prayer should be one of submission to the Lord's will, not simply petitioning for our desired choice. or the best outcome, but that our hearts will be fully yielded to his will no matter what. And fourthly We are praying that he make us willing and able to do that task. In other words, we are praying for obedience. No matter the direction of his will, we be found in a willing spirit enabled to do the task. He give us the abundant spirit to do that task. So I have to share with you, this is much of my prayer right now for our lives, for my life, for our families. That the Lord would give me a willing spirit for the work needed for the church plan. That he would enable me to do it, do it all, because I am insufficient for this task. But as the prayer that I'm asking, Lord, make us willing and able to do this task. And we pray this because prayer is the fountainhead of our life in Christ. Without being submission in submission to obedience in prayer, how do you think you will ever operate in submission in obedience to anything else in the Christian life? It's a barometer. We should be praying for God's will to be working in our lives and to be able to be obedient to it. Betty Scott Stamm was a missionary to China. Betty and her husband John were captured by the communists. Stripped, half naked, marched in chains through the streets of their village. Betty was forced to watch as her husband had his head chopped off. Then she was beheaded. Many years before her horrific martyrdom, Betty Scottsdam wrote the following prayer. Lord, I give up all my own plans and purposes, all my own desires and hopes. And accept thy will for my life. I give myself, my life, my all utterly to thee, to be thine forever Fill me and seal me with thy Holy Spirit. Use me as thou wilt. Send me where thou wilt, and work out thy whole will in my life at any cost Now and forever. That is a prayer of surrender and submission to the will of God. So as we pray, we pray this way, but then we must discern Let us not forget that the Holy Spirit works in your own mind and your own heart to transform you. Philippians 2. 13. See, your God has given you a mind, a power of reasoning and consciousness, all under the Holy Spirit. And it is a vital tool to discern the will of God. But we should look to four things as we are discerning the will of God. Well, first we look to the Word of God for discernment. His word, his promises, his commands, there is a desire in the believer to know and follow the word. So we should live into that. This helps us know the explicit commands of God, which would never contradict his will for you. But it also helps us discern the character of God. For those things that are not so clear. The Bible is complete and sufficient for life and godliness, but not explicitly created to help you determine your job, your spouse, your career, your ministry move. Yet by knowing the character and desires of our Lord, we can better discern the path if that path before you is pleasing to him. Have you ever considered that he is not pleased with your decisions? Or that the potter does not care if the pot is pleased with his will? Also, we should look to your conscience, which is trained in the Word and pricked by the Spirit. See, as a Christian, you are indwelled by the Holy Spirit, and He's working in your life at this point, and that working is not in vain You have a horse in the race, as they say. And the Spirit's work in you. But thirdly, in the same way, his providence has already been working in your life, creating your character, your experiences, and your desires. Do not forsake his work for fleshly gain, but seek to discern the patterns of the work he's been doing in your life and is part of his will for you. Except the way that God has made you, your strengths, your weaknesses, everything about you, you are his creation. Think about it. His will for you didn't begin right now at this decision, at this time in your life. He's been working it out ever since. He's been leading you up to this point. You cannot forsake what he's been doing for the next situation, the next decision. You must weigh that decision carefully in light of his providence. But fourthly, in the same way, he's been working in other people, and he gives us godly counsel and godly men and women. It's a great tool of discernment for us. Proverbs 18 says, Whoever isolates himself seeks his own desire and breaks out against all sound judgment. Where there is no guidance, people fall, but an abundance of counselors there is safety These are all good tools for discernment, to discerning God's will. But do you know what's not a good tool for discerning God's will? Emotions. Our emotions are not a safe guide. We must always have a healthy suspicion of a voice that speaks of ease and safety. Finances are not a good tool. Don't scoff at the health and wealth of the gospel and then seek the Lord's will only when it points to you financial gain or security for you. I'm not saying be foolish with money. Scripture speaks against that. But God rarely factors your financial status into his plans. And thirdly, signs and mystical experiences are not a good tool of discernment. These are far from normative. In Matthew, Jesus rebukes a whole generation that looks for signs when the word made flesh was standing right in front of them. You see, the main line, evangelicalism, is infused with a nascent Pentecostalism that overly stresses the personal experience of the Spirit In one extreme, people have claimed a revelation from God about topics that contradict the scriptures. This cannot be so. In other cases, people might claim a revelation, a word from God that may be completely undiscernible from their own consciousness. It's not a mystical experience Yet to sit and wait for God to speak a miracle into your mind about a decision is to potentially neglect the Word of God, the work of the Spirit in your life, in your mental conscience, and the mental faculty God has already given you reasoning, thinking, and working out a solution. All of these are tools you can use to discern the will of God in your life, but once you discern, you must act. The last is to act. After all is said and done, there's a reality that God does have a will, and it's explicit in character and intention and desires, and if you truly die to self in your will , The paths become more clear to act. Act by seeking what glorifies God the most. This might not always be what helps you the most. It may be the opposite of our desires, but it glorifies the God you serve. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Pray then like this. I charge you, Christian, to take these words to heart. Our Lord in his grace has given us the Lord Prayer as a model of how we should pray. Part of that desire is that we would be praying that his will be done on earth, done right here by those who know him and love him. Yet he says in heaven to arouse a hope in us that there is a perfect peace that transcends and to set our hearts upon a heavenly reality. Pray then like this. Pray that the Lord would conform you to the knowledge of His will in His Word. Pray that he would transform your heart to desire his character wrought in the Spirit for His will today as a future taste of glory in heaven. Pray like this gives you praying like this gives glory in this life and the next to God That you desire to see him hollowed, that you desire to see him part of his kingdom and for his glorious will to be done. Pray that you be yielded to his perfect work, to go and do whatever he is calling you to, with no regards to your status, to your wealth, to your claims, to a good life here on earth What will we take with us into heaven? But the record of faithfulness in our lives. Pray that you would submit to him in everything in your life, like the pearl of great price, forsaking everything for that great pearl. Pray for humble hearts to accept his will and to live it with joy with eyes gazing into heaven. Let's close in prayer. Father, may your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us hearts that desire your perfect will and way. Free us from the power of sin, then we might live lives in greater obedience to your perfect will. Father, give us eyes that are fixed upon heaven, the perfect union of the saints with our God, that the things of earth would go strangely dim. And Father, we confess that we are prideful. Living for ourselves and our security. Do work in our lives, Father, that this prayer would be the prayer of our very hearts. That we would go, do, and lose everything for gaining your glory. And I ask this in your son's precious name. Amen.