I'm here I I this is oh wait a minute. Oh I have a phone call, isn't that nice? Do this. Well you know actually it's gonna say turn in your Bibles, but you don't have to, it's right here. So we can get you can see what I'm gonna share with you Before I do, I do want to just give you these statistics. I was thinking about this uh earlier and um So um as as Tim was up here uh uh you know sharing with us, these statistics came to my mind as he was giving out some statistics. Did you know in the Bible If I were to ask you how many chapters are in the Bibles? Anyone take a guess? There's 1,189 chapters. I'm referring to the King James Bible, 1,189 chapters. How many verses? Thirty-one thousand one hundred and two verses. Um and then um How many words? 788,280 words. And how many letters in the King James Bible? 3 million 556,480. So what are you gonna do with that? I have no idea. It's just an interesting statistic. uh what your bible is comprise. That's like a w see I I have here a w a salad. This is like a word salad. I'm giving you a number salad, just throwing these things out. So today we're going to talk about a gospel salad. That means just picking a verse here, picking a verse there, picking a verse there. Normally I just go verse you know verse by verse. But I thought this may be a nice change just to go through God's word and actually these are words verses as I've shared which which have helped me in my own personal ministry over the years. These verses come up Either in counseling or in evangelism or in some part of ministry, these verses in my life and in my ministry have come up to answer questions, to teach and so forth. So I thought I'd share with them Share them with you today. So the first one here is very obvious, Joshua 24, 15. None of these are very well known verses. But just to meditate on God's word for a while, it's very interesting. Proverbs 24, 15, as you all know, this choose you this day. And my other question I would say is, how many of these verses do you have memorized? Um as I say, I have most of them. There's a couple I don't have memorized, but most of them aren't you know I do. And so these would be good verses if you're looking for something to memorize these words because you use these verses all the time in ministry Again, as you're witnessing the people or counseling people, these verses, at least in my life, has come up quite often. Proverb or Joshua 24, 15, choose you this day whom you will serve Make that choice. But as for me and my house we will serve the Lord. Isn't that beautiful? And here's an invitation. Choose who you're going to serve. Make a decision. And I would say that to you today. I'm assuming you've already made that decision, but you may have other decisions in your life that things are going on in your life. You know, living in this world is not an easy place to live. And so you may have s some kind of decision to make in your personal life. Well let this sort of speak to you. Choose you You have a decision to make. Who are you going to serve? You're going to serve the world, the flesh, the devil, or the Lord? That's usually the enemy, right? The world, the flesh, and the devil. Unless we're choosing the Lord, you're going to be serving one of those other three. Choose you this day. Make a decision on this. Is there some area in your life where you're sort of wishy-washy or you're compromising here, compromising there? Well deal with that compromise today Confess it to the Lord and make a plan not to go back to it. In other words, I'm telling I'm telling you, choose make a choice You're gonna live for Jesus? Now I know you come to church every Sunday. I see you people every and that's a wonderful thing. That's good. But I also know you're not perfect. You're a human being. You're in the flesh, right? If you have flesh and blood on you, you get you get a Battle. So make a decision. Maybe somebody here needs to make a decision on something. You're compromising here, compromising there, and you need a decision. To say I'm putting this behind me or The Lord I know wants me to do this. I haven't done it. I won't do it. But I'm going to do it. I'm going to make a decision to do what the Lord calls me to do. So here Joshua calling us to a point of decision. Choose. Choose you this day who you're going to serve. And then what a wonderful closing to that verse. But as for me and my house, we're serving the Lord. What a beautiful attitude that is. And I hope I could say that to you. I'm encouraging you, make decisions. But you know what? If you don't, if all of you decide you're not going to do it, okay. But you know what? I am. I don't care what you do, ultimately I'm going to serve the Lord Now whatever that means, could be, I don't know, difficulty, rejection, hostile. I don't know what it means. But what it does mean, I'm serving the Lord. And my service then doesn't depend on you. Now you can make it easy on me. You encourage me, but I want you to do the same thing. You need to be that same mindset. I don't care what the rest of the people do Me and people under my authority in my house, we're going to serve the Lord. Now what does that mean? Does that mean suffering rejection? If it does, so be it. I'm going to serve the Lord So we could spend more time on this, but you see there's a number of verses here. I don't think we're going to have time to talk about all of them, but these are some, as I say, interesting verses in my own life That have been pertinent in one way or another. So here's Isaiah 26, 3. Look at this. What a if or excuse me. whose mind is stayed on thee because he trusteth in thee. Here's your decision or your your roadmap to having peace. Look at that. And now do all of you have peace in your life? I'm uh obviously I don't know. And I think, well, you can come to church every Sunday. That's good. Yeah, that's good. That's a good sign. But I also know doesn't necessarily mean you're going to have peace in everything. So this may maybe this is speaking to someone. That will keep them in perfect peace whose mind. It stayed on thee. You I know in my own life, you know when I get in trouble? When my mind is not on the Lord. It's on something of the world, of the flesh, of the devil, and it it goes off. And you being like me, you pinch your skin the skin, skin and blood there, we're all human, we all stru struggle with these things. But look at this promise. That will keep him in perfect peace. Anybody here needing peace, maybe you've come here and you know have peace for whatever reason. Maybe this is the verse the Lord will deal with you today. Now we'll keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on thee, because he trusteth in thee. So what does our mind focus on? What do you think of when you're alone or when you just have some free time? You're driving down the road and it's just you and you've got a ways to go. What's going through your mind? Keep your mind on the Lord and of course on his word. And uh now a good way to do that would be I would suggest you memorize these verses. Probably most of you have these are common verses and Maybe there's some here that you don't have memorized. They can be very helpful to you. Alright, let's look at another one here. Here's Psalm 118, verse 24. This is the day which the Lord has made, and we shall rejoice and be glad in it. You know what's a beautiful thing to say that when you get up in the morning? First thing you say out of your mind, this is the day that the Lord has made, and we're going to rejoice and be glad in it. You know, focusing on this is that this is what the Lord has for you today. You've woken up, you have health, you have life, you you've got a a roof over your head, you have a job or a car, what have you But whatever you have or whatever whatever you don't have, it's a day the Lord's given to you, and what? He's making a decision. We will rejoice and be glad in it. You know, a lot of times Happiness, as they say, or contentment is really it's a choice. You can choose to do the things and to think on things which will give you delight and happiness, or you can complain all day And I'm sure we all know people who even Christians spend a lot of time complaining. That's dumb, but but it happens a lot of time. And then once you start complaining, you then you get down and out, get Short-tempered everybody, you get angry with the Lord, you're just out of sorts. So here, if you struggle with that, here it is right here. Psalm 118 verse 24, this is the day which the Lord has made, and we will rejoice and be glad in it. Make this a good day today when you go home and Well while you're here. But also when you go home for the rest of the day. Make it a positive day. Make it something where you have joy in your heart That you're giving thanks to the Lord. And then building up the people with whom you're living, your husband, your wife, children, whatever, be a positive force. You know, so many times we can be down and out and angry or complain and all this and oh man I gotta hear this. Don't be that kind of a person. Be positive person. How can we help that? If we have the Lord in our heart and we have all these 1189 chapters here of wisdom and God's word How else can we help but to be optimistic and happy and have a purpose in our life? Proverbs, look at the next one. Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. We all know this, right? Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Lean not to your own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy path. Now just think of just break that down for a minute Trust in the Lord. Of course, you know, that's what we want to do. That's what we're told to do. That's what Scripture tells us to do. But do it with all your heart. That's that's a big statement. Trusting in the Lord with all my heart. Not just for this little thing over here and everything else is like just in my under my control. No. Trust in the Lord with all, that's there's a reason for why that word all is there, with all thine heart. Now, I confess to you, here's my struggle with this verse, next phrase, lead not to your own understanding. And probably we all have this. We all tend to lean on our own understanding. And many times, if you're a wise person, that can be good. Many times it can lead you down to drain, too. And you know, whenever you have a competition between the Holy Word of God, between the 1,189 chapters in here, if we reject this or resist this, you're going to end up in trouble. And that's why we're told here, trust in the Lord with all your heart, lean not to your own understanding. Maybe you have a decision to make. And the decision is, you know the Lord wants you to do this, but you want to do this. And now if you're anything like me, you'll start rationalizing. How can I make it? How can I make this sound like this is the Lord's will and I'll go over here like this? You know, you've got to avoid that. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Don't lean on your own understanding. But in all thy ways, acknowledge him. Now how can that be in all your ways? How can you acknowledge the Lord in all of your ways? How how are you going to do that? Well I think of, well, one, you know, I carry tracts around and pass them out. That's that's one way, but there's many ways. Being a person of prayer, being in prayer as you're going through the day You may help a a poor person. Maybe you know somebody that's struggling financially and you can help them out f financially and tell them about the Lord. There's many, many ways. If you think creatively How can I get the word of God out? And be creative. But make it an issue. Make it an issue. The people who know us, the people that we talk to, get the word of God out. If they like it, good. If they don't, okay say they don't. Who cares? I mean the bottom line, who cares? Get it out. And if they reject you, then you're rejected. So what? I'm sure we've all all of us have been rejected from time to time. I can tell you I could be here for hours telling you how I've been rejected here or there. But that's okay. If it's for the Lord, I could care less. In fact I'd rather be rejected than to be in the wrong environment. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Don't lean on your own understanding. I'll say that one more time because maybe somebody here today, you're leaning on your own understanding. You're discontent. About something, maybe you're angry with your husband, your wife, your father, your mother, what have you, and there's things going on here. And scripture is telling you don't lean on your own understanding. But here's a remedy In all thy ways acknowledge him. In all your ways, not some some of your ways, all of them. In all of your ways, acknowledge him. What's going to happen? He shall direct thy path. I start start thinking here about my brother as I as I'm reading this. You know, my brother, I'm sure I've told you this story before, but you know, my brother and Neil have an older brother. And um for many years he was not saved and we you know I would witness to him and he I don't want to hear that stuff, and it's pretty harsh. And then there would then there came the day when um He called me on the phone and and Neil called. What do you call me for? You never call me. What are you calling me for? I thought maybe dad had died or something. What's the matter, Neil? He said, I want to tell you That today Sunya and I got saved. I said, what? Sunny and I got saved? That's his way. Sunny and I got saved today. And he said, I want to thank you for all the time you witnessed to me and all that. Now I know what you're talking about. For the longest time I didn't know what you're talking about. I just thought just a lot of religious garbage and all that. And you know what? Since the day he got saved They got active in a church and they're still active in a church right now. I know right now he's in the church right now serving, you know, serving. And it was a wonderful thing These things happen, you see. And all thy ways acknowledge him, and he will direct your path. So who needs their path directed today? Maybe you have decisions to make in the future? You go this way or that way, and we want to have the Lord's direction. Here's one way of getting it. Trust in Him with all your heart. Lead not to your own understanding, but in all your ways acknowledge Him. And here's the promise He will direct your path. And isn't it wonderful to know that as you're going about your life, you are in God's will. You are in His plan. He is directing your life Because when you have that understanding, that peace that peace that comes with this, it's a beautiful thing. It gives you courage, gives you desire to go on when maybe you may be defeated. Powerful verse right there. Alright, let's move on here because I have a couple more here to share with you. Of course, John 3. 16, we all know this. But think about that. Break that down. For God so loved the world So that God has a love for the world. Now that word world is the word cosmos. It means the created, organized, substance that God has made. That is the word world, coming from the word cosmos. And all the for God so loved the world What did he do? He obviously gave his only begotten son. We all know this, Jesus. And then here it is, whosoever. That's any miserable wretch, isn't it? Any person, regardless of race, creed, code, whatever, no matter what you've done, whosoever believes in him. Now what is that word? Belief? Means to trust in, adhere to, rely upon. Whoever believes in him, Jesus Christ. Well not perish. And the word perish is talking about hell. A lot of time, you know, we don't talk much about hell. I guess that's a good thing. You don't want to be n negative and talk about hell But on the other hand, too, you don't want to deny hell there, waiting for the unsaved. And certainly you don't want any part of this, but maybe uh Maybe you have a relative or friend you know it's not saved, a parent that's not saved. You want to pray for them and figure out how you can get you know ha get the word of God in them and they will receive it. For God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believes in him. And again that word whosoever, which I love to share with people, because there's some miserable people in this world who have done terrible things And yet, if that miserable wretch repents, means that changes mind and believes in the Lord, there's forgiveness and a home in heaven. Isn't it wonderful? For God so loved the world Not just white Americans, everybody in the world, he gave his only begotten son. There's Jesus on the cross. Whosoever think of the miserable wretches believes in him. Should not perish but have everlasting life. It's a beautiful thing. And that once we need to meditate on, think on, get that word of God out. Alright, moving on here. Because we're never going to finish all these, I don't think, unless you want to be here until about dinner time. I don't think you want to do that, but all right, let's look at a few more here. Therefore they Therefore they that were scattered abroad went everywhere preaching the word. And this is one of the first or second persecutions of the church. And so the so the believers scattered. for their own safety. But here's but here's the joy of this. As they went, they preached the word They didn't wait till they get to their desk destination and preach the word. Actually, as they went out, they preached the word. They gave it here, there, there, as they're going. Where you might think, oh, I'm gonna go preach the gospel in I'm gonna be a missionary in Africa and and uh you know preach the word there. But but you wait till you get to Africa to preach the word No, give the word as you're on the way to Africa. You know, as you're on the plane or as you're preparing and all this. As you go, give forth the word of God. I think that's the force of that verse there that as they go. Therefore they were scattered abroad, went everywhere, preaching. They're in the process of preaching as they're going everywhere. And of course, you know, that would speak to us, wouldn't it? Maybe not going on a missionary journey. Maybe it's um As you go to the store. As you're going to the store. Give forth the word of God. You know Tarry Track. I hope I have it. Hope I did something. I hope I didn't do it. I got my phone here and I have my wanted to have a tractor to show you that I do actually do this. Not as I should. At times I don't do it But I usually do. Do I have a track here to show you? No, I don't. No well. So don't follow my example. What's that phrase? Don't do as I do, do as I say. Get God's word out. Okay, let's look at another one here Well, we have Acts chapter 20 and verse 7. And upon the first day of the week. When the child when the disciples came together to break bread, of course that's when they came together to worship the Lord. And it's done on the point is it's done on the first day of the week. Why are we doing it on the first day of the week? Because they did. The first day of the week, Sunday. That's what we call the Lord's Day. A day that we reserved, should reserve for rest and for worship. So now what are they going to do when you go home today? Cut the grass, paint the house? No. And you know what this is one of the things I learned over the years. This which has been a great blessing to me. On Sunday I do nothing. I worship I worship the Lord and I go home and I don't do any the you know I don't work around the house, I don't cut the grass, I don't do anything on Sunday. But you know what That's something I look forward to. Oh good. I may have a lot of work to do around here, but you know what? On Sunday I'm doing none of it. I'm gonna worship the Lord and we'll re- enjoy the day And that has been a great blessing in my life. That has been a tremendous blessing. So it's not only it's not negotiable. What am I going to do on Sunday? See, coming here, I have no competition like I couldn't come because I have to go do no Sunday is reserved for worship. If I do anything else, okay, I may or may not, but I know this. I'm worshiping the Lord. I'm going to church and worship him on Sunday And once that gets in your mindset, nothing will get in your way. You know, hey God, we're gonna go to the Phillies game, but we've got to leave early on Sunday. I'm not gone. I'm busy I'm gonna be in church. Oh come on, you can skip it that we can't let's go. We'll have a great day. I got some tickets here. Come on, have a great time. Uh maybe you didn't hear me. I can have church to go. I'm not going. I want to worship the Lord. I'm not gonna go to Philly's game if I have to leave really and miss on you. I'm not doing it. That's a wonderful thing. Keep that in your life. Let nothing get involved between you and your worshiping the Lord. I think sometimes we as Christians take this too too lightly. Okay, I can skip church because you know I've been there last week. I was there the week before, and so I can go do this, I can go do that. No, you can't. If it's Sunday, you can't. It's worship, it's the Lord's Day Preserve that. And that will be a great blessing in your life. That, as I say, in my own life has been a great blessing over the years. And the kids. See, my wife, my kids. knew although I may be busy doing this, doing that, but when Sunday came, they had me. You know, time with the kids, time with my wife. So they all they always knew that at least on Sunday we got dad. We may not see him too much during the week, but on Sunday we got him. And that has done so much for my married life, did so much just for relating to the children Save Sunday. Worship the Lord. Get up and worship the Lord and use the rest of the day to rest and to worship the Lord. Rest. Enjoy your family and rest. But you I got I gotta make some extra money. Boy, don't ever go down that trap, and I've seen many Christians do that. I'm just gonna have a part-time job on Sunday. It's only a few hours That always leads to trouble. It never solves a problem, especially for a Christian home, because a Christian should know better than this. And you know there were times, let me think this just come to my mind right now, there were times going way, way back when What was I doing? I was doing something that got laid off. I think working for the union or some something. And and so we needed some money. And some beating the door down trying to get it and and Somebody called up and Don, I think I have a job for you. Okay, good. What is it? And it was something I liked and okay. When do I start? Uh start this Sunday Sunday? Yeah. Can't take the job. What do you mean you can't take the job? I don't work I can't work on Sundays. And and it w you know it was a time when we were like in desperation for for money and all this, and I'm turned and it was a good job. And I'm turning this job down. But you know my wife understood, my wonderful wife This is my first wife, Faye. You know, God, you know, you all knew one how wonderful Vicky was. And I'm a very fortunate man. My first wife, Faye, was just like her. Just a lovely, beautiful, love love the Lord. And um so Faye says, did you take the job? No. They wanted me to work on Sunday. And she said, oh good, I'm glad you didn't take it. Reserve the Lord's day. Make that a habit in your life. It's not negotiable. I worship the Lord and I rest. I'm around the house or with my family. And that just be such a blessing. It's a long-term blessing. Honor the Sabbath day. Moving on here. Now here's a verse. I I didn't I may say I discovered it my I discovered m one of these verses people taught me, but this one is I think I sort of dug out my own you know, uh research and so forth. First Corinthians fifteen fifty eight. When I read this, this is tremendous. Therefore, I may My beloved brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord's. Think about that verse. There is so much in that verse. Look at this Therefore, my beloved Brennan, be steadfast and unmovable. So this pulpit is pretty small steadfast. Look at it. I can, you know, try to shake it around. It doesn't move too much So I could say that, but this is the way we are to be for the Lord. Steadfast, but it uses two words to get this point across. Be steadfast and unmovable. You know, don't compromise over here or compromise over there? No, you'd be steadfast and you'd be unmovable. And then look at the look at this language here. Next phrase, always, not sometimes, not when it's convenient, always abounding in the work of the Lord. So what what what's the work of the Lord? You know that's a long list of things. It comes under the work of the Lord. Obviously we think of you know witnessing for the Lord, prayer Worshiping in church, all these things are good to do, but there's many other things that you can do for the Lord. Helping a neighbor. Make friends with your neighbor and do something help up helping a poor person. And when many, many, many things, when you think and pray and ask the Lord to show me, what can I do for you to keep me busy and doing the right things? Be steadfast, unmovable. Always abounding in the work of the Lord why, for as much as you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. I'm sure we've all had jobs where we labored and you didn't get paid for it, or you got paid very little But that's not the way it is with the Lord. Whatever you do for him, there will be great benefit for it, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. So What what's going on here around the church? Any work need to be done here around the church? And you know, you say, I don't have time, I got dah-da, blah, blah. You know, whatever you do for the Lord, it has great benefits to it Maybe you have a friend who's sick. Go by, visit them, and share the Lord with them. There's many, many things. You start to think creativity. What can I do for the Lord? To get the Word of God out, to help get the gospel out. Many, many things. Think creative and do it. Alright, look. 2 Corinthians 5, 17. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, oh this is beautiful, look. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things become new. Isn't that beautiful? A person who is in this is like conversion. If a man is in Christ. So here you have a guy that's in the world. He's in the flesh. He's doing all kind of, you know, he's miserable to everybody and he's miserable himself. And then by the grace of God he gets saved. And now all this misery, all this nonsense is left behind, and now he has a whole new life. Learning about the Lord, following the Lord, having the Word of God open to him, being involved in a church, making Christian friends and so forth. That's what this is all about. If any man is in Christ, he's a new creature. He's not the same thing just warmed up. No, he's a new creature. He's altogether new Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things, all the garbage, all the baloney has passed away. Behold. A new world opens up to him. All things become new. This is the glory of conversion, of being saved. Take this miserable wretch out of his misery. And and let 'em come to c come to the Lord Jesus Christ. Trying to think of somebody. Who was that person I wanted to talk to you about? Oh, yeah, my buddy, I I I I I've told you this before in in time's gone by. In my my college roommate, I I I told you about him, so I won't go in that again But it's a beautiful thing to see people come to Christ and then they're then their life, their attitude, their joy, these things change. Alright, moving on here. I'm getting long-winded. I have a lot to do. I'm not gonna go all I won't do all these, but um I'll do just a few more here. 2 Corinthians 5. 21. Look at this wonderful thing here. For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin that we may be made the righteousness of God in him. And that's what salvation is. God the Father made God the Son to become sin for us. And Jesus is on the cross. He has sin for us. For he hath made him be sin for us who knew no sin. Jesus knew no sin, yet he finds himself on the cross, taking the sins of all his elect upon himself. If any man is in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things become new. And then going back to verse for he hath made him be sin for us who knew no sin. that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. And you know I sometimes use an illustration with this thing here. So I say this to the man. So this hand represents me, especially if I'm talking to somebody and they're looking at me like Huh? What's he talking about? Then I revert to this thing here. So this hand represents me. My wallet represents my skins. And what does the Lord tell us? He loves me, but he hates my sin. I can't go to heaven as long as I have this sin. Let this sin represent Jesus. Never sinned. Obviously there's no sin on him. So when he's on the cross, what does he do? He takes my sin on himself. So how many sins do I have to answer for? None. And that's how I'm able to go to heaven. Now this goes into an effect when I believe in Christ, when I trust in him, when I receive him, this is what happens. And so I go to heaven based on what the Lord has done for me. And so therefore, 2 Corinthians 5. 21, he has made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Moving right along here to Galatians chapter 1, verse 10. And Paul says, for do I now persuade men or God? Or do I seek to please men? For if I yet please men, I should not be a servant of Christ. Did you get that last phrase here? This is the hard part of the gospel, I find, quite honestly. Because in my nature, I want to be a man pleaser. I want to please the people around me. But you can't be that and make any stand for Christ. And and that is to say, we don't want to please people if it's you know going contrary to scripture or leading them in the wrong way. You have to learn how not to do that. Deny yourself. Because we all want to be liked. We want like to have friends But if you have to compromise on what you believe, compromise on the truth of the gospel, for this person to be your friend, forget it. Get another friend. But look at this, Galatians 1. 10. Do I now persuade men or God? You know, who am I going to please? And we have that decision to make every day. Am I going to please God, my Savior, or am I going to please Joe Blow here? Or do I seek to please men? Then look at this statement here. For if I yet pleased men, I should not be the servant of Christ. You want to be a servant of Christ, then you cannot have as a number one goal in your life, please men, be a man pleaser. And you know, I know I believe I know preachers who in a way they're like men pleasers. They're always trying to keep everybody happy so that they'll come to church and then you know keep everybody happy. But that's not your job. As a preacher, your job is to preach the word Now if they're happy about it, good, praise God. And if they're not, so be it. Preach the word. Don't compromise What a powerful verse. Galatians 1. 10. Do I please do I persuade men? Is this my job to persuade men? Or that is to say, make them my friend? No. My job is to live the gospel and to proclaim the Word of God Otherwise, I'm not going to be a servant of Christ. Alright, let's do another one here. Ephesians chapter 2, verses 8 and 9. We all know this, right? For by grace. Are you saved through faith, not of yourselves? It's a gift of God, not of works, thus any man should boast. Now all these verses, thus far I would assume that you already have these memorized. You should have these memorized, I would think. You know, because most of the people here I'm looking at are we're I'm probably the oldest one here. So we're sort of older And we should have um these things memorized. I would if you don't have these memorized, I'm not sure you don't have them all, but maybe most of them should be. If not, make it a point. Commit these things to memory Alright, so Ephesians 2. 8-9, I think we know this, for by grace are you saved through faith, not of yourself. It's a gift of God, not of works, thus any man should boast. Isn't that pretty clear? We're saved? Saved from what? Saved from hell to heaven. How's it done? Through faith. And it's not of yourselves. Now you know what's not of yourselves? I think if you go back to the Greek rendering here, what's not of yourselves is the faith. The Savior is not talking about your salvation is not of you. No, it's the faith it's not of yourself. Saving faith is not of you. You realize that We have faith. I have faith in my car when I when I go out there it's going to start up and take me home. I have faith in that. I don't know for sure what it will do, but I have that I have a faith But that's not what the Bible is talking about when it says faith here. This means to trust in Christ and to believe in him. And you know what? To do that, that's something God gives you. And if he doesn't give it to you, you're not going to have it. You won't muster the faith up for this. Now you know that by looking at other verses which talk about conversion, salvation, faith. But look at this, for by grace, now what's grace? Undeserved mercy, right? You're getting something good you don't deserve. That's grace For by grace are you saved? Saved from what? Obviously, in the context of the Bible, saved from hell to heaven. For by grace are you saved how? Through this thing of faith. Now look. It's not of yourselves. See this faith we're talking about is not of you. And it goes on to make it what it is. It's a gift of God. That's what God a gift is something God somebody gives you. And that's what faith is. For you to have saving faith in Christ, to be here today and truly believe in Jesus, that's a gift God gave to you. And if He didn't give it to you, you wouldn't be here. You'd be out in the world and you know doing your worldly thing. It's not of yourselves. It's a gift of God. In verse 9, it's not of works. You know when you talk to a pagan, try to give the gospel to him, what does he know first of all, what what does he think? Well, I guess I gotta go start going to go to church. Well I guess I gotta stop. Doing this, doing that, whatever. And you show them, you know, salvation is it's not a matter of what you do. It's a matter of what Christ has done for you. You simply receiving what Christ has done for you It's not of works that any man should boast. If your salvation was of something that you did, you could boast. You know, hey, I'm saved. I did this. That idiot couldn't do it, but I can But the gospel is not anything to boast about. What about this? I don't hear this preached often. It's a great verse. Philippians 2. 13. For it is God that worketh in you. Now it's two things. God does two things to you, both to will. and to do of his good pleasure. That's a powerful concept. It is God working in you to do two things, both the will And then t so one's the will, next and next is to do, doing things. And it's God working in you making these things happen. And if he didn't work in you, you wouldn't do it. You wouldn't do any of this. You'd be too busy fulfilling the lust of our own flesh. But no, Philippians 2. 13, it is God that worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Why are you here today? You had the will to be here today. How'd you get that will to do that? You're a sinner by choice and by nature. Why are you here? God put that in you. He gets all the praise and glory. Philippians 2. 13. Wonderful verse there. Philippians 4. 13. And um I wanted to stop here, but I'll just throw a couple more in here. Making sure you get your money's worth. So Here it is. Philippians 4. 13. I think we all have this memorized, don't you? I can do all things through Christ that strengthens me. Now honestly, this verse brings tears to my eyes how this verse has helped me out. It meant so much to me. As you know, most of my life is my young life was spent in athletics. So so, you know, in in in a football game you get sort of scared before the game starts. And the thing he kind of look at the size of his lime here, like you're playing LSU. You know, their tackles like 270 and 285. And oh this guy's gonna kill me You sort of get a little timid. But you know what? Then I start reciting to myself Philippians 4. 13. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. I can block that guy. I can run over there and I can do this. And once you get that thought in your head, and that becomes your reality, you can do great things that you normally can't do I've done things I know I couldn't do it. Somehow it got done. I know when I'm out there I can say this guy's gonna kill me. But no, I say I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Okay, buddy, come on, because I can and so forth. But that can help you whatever whatever you're doing. Get that verse in your head and say it often. Know it Especially when you're being challenged. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. So don't tell me I can't do it. I can do it. And I'm gonna do it All right, look, I'm going to stop soon. But look at this. Colossians 3. 1. If you then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above. Where God sits on the right hand, or excuse me, where Christ sits on the right hand of God. And then get this verse 2. Set your affections on things above. And it goes on to make the point, not on things of the earth. Think about that. Our thought life. What's important to us Things of the Lord. Set your affections on things. You know, because when we set our affections on this earth, you're not going to be content You'll never have enough. You'll never have exactly what you want, and then you'll be disturbed, dissatisfied, and all this. But you know what? Put your affections on things above, not on things of the earth That as to say, your affection on the Lord, pleasing him, knowing his word, doing what he would have you to do. And if you learn to do that, that would be a wonderful thing. But if your affections are on here on this earth, I mean I need a new car, look at that junky thing I drive, I need My house needs this, I need a new suit, and that's you're never going to be happy. You set your affections on the earth. And there are Christians who do that. They say they believe in Jesus, but their affections are on the earth. And they're never going to be happy. Not content. Put your affections. on the Lord. All right, look, I gotta stop, I know. I can tell you getting tired of this and I want to get on. I don't want to keep it too long. Uh can we do one more? I can sneak one more in here. Don't throw me out. I keep going too long. But okay. Wait a minute. Where where did Paul preach he got thrown out? Didn't didn't Paul just get preached thrown out of somewhere? Anybody know can think of that about that? He went he went too long. No, somebody what happened? He was preaching he went too long and something happened. What was it? Did somebody die? What happened? It fell out the window, yeah that was it, yeah. Okay, nobody's near the window. Okay, you're safe. All right, okay, then go on here for a couple more and then I'm gonna stop. Alright, but look, Colossians four six. Right? Colossians four six, let your speech Be always with grace, seasoned with salt. But get this last phrase that you may know how you ought to answer every man. That's a powerful verse. Especially when people come to you who challenge your faith or say, I don't believe the Bible. You believe in Jesus? I don't believe in Jesus and all that. They give you that nonsense. Look at this But your speech has to be right. Season with grace, in other words, know how to answer. And there's another verse. What's that verse? Well, it's right here. You know how you ought to answer every man. And that's a skill because people come at you sometimes, they're disrespectful, they can be threatening. I had a guy hold a knife at me one time And so don't worry, I didn't get killed. But anyway, you know, I mean over the years things will happen to you. And um yeah, a guy was holding the knife at me, he wanted to kill me. I said, Hey, I'm gonna tell you how you can go to heaven. But that's another story for another time. Okay. But let your speech always be with grace. You know, talk kindly to people. And I'm not, you know, I've been appalled sometimes you think a Christian talks harsh to this person, unnecessarily harsh. Or using wrong, you know, uh offensive words. I'm thinking, how are you going to win this guy to the Lord if you're harsh to him? Or you're using nasty terms And this is like common sense. Let your speech always be with grace, seasoned with salt. That you know, this means the approach people as you ought to approach them. We have we have I still have them in my in my church when I was in the in um Glenn Mills, one of my elders, Mitch Pennington, what a this guy has such a skill in talking to people. And he could he could talk to you and when he's done, you love him. He had this this And he was really effective in witnessing. A lot of the time we go into a home, you knock on the door, get visitation, and Mitch and I would go in and I would get in and say, Mitch, you'd do the talking. He just knew how to lay things out to pee he was a salesman, very successful salesman, but he knew the Lord. And he knew how to talk to people and make them comfortable and yet give them the truth I'm gonna bring him someday. I'd like you to know Mitch. What a wonderful guy he has been. Great helper in my own life personally. Okay, moving on here. Let's do one more. What about 1 Thessalonians 2. 4? But as we were allowed of God to be put in trust with the gospel, that's a powerful statement right there. Even so we speak not as pleasing men. There's that thing again. You can't be a men pleaser and follow the Lord That's not gonna happen. I know you want to. You don't want to offend people. I don't want to offend them. But I can't I can't uh wanting to be a man pleaser You're not going to do anything if you're concerned about pleasing men. You've got to be concerned about pleasing the Lord, giving them truth, and then what happens, happens. Sometimes they like it, sometimes they don't But God which tries our heart hearts. For neither at any time use we flattering words, as you know, nor a cloak of covetousness, God is witness. In other words, You're talking to people properly about the Lord, not using deceitful words, not trying to set the guy up, but being honest, but speaking with respect, but yet honesty And um it's a booth, you know, good one for us to know there. 1 Thessalonians 2. 4. And that verse again always reminds me of my good friend Mick, because he just God gave him that gift and he uses it. He uses it for the glory of God. He's in his church now doing something. Wonderful man of God. I'll bring him sometime. Alright, look. First Thessalonians two twelve. And I'm gonna do f uh first this and the next verse, then I'll stop. Okay So of course you can get up. I've had this happen too. I'm going on and on, people just get up and walk out. 1 Thessalonians 2. 12, that you should walk worthy of God who has called you unto his kingdom and glory. Notice that word called. That's the word means that's the word colo, to call. And there we find Before people come to Christ, the Holy Spirit calls them. They receive a call of the Holy Spirit. And that's why they come to Christ. That's the word coleo here. That you would walk worthy of God who has called you. That's why we're here. Each of us have received a call of the Lord. And here's the other thing: the call of the Lord is effectual, it always works Because that's God. We can call, but that work may work, may not. But when God, the Holy Spirit, call you to Christ, you will come. And that's why you're here now. That you would walk worthy of God who hath called you into his kingdom and glory. We've been called into his glory, in this kingdom. And into his glory. It's a beautiful thing, you see. And you know this, of course, scripture makes this clear. None of us deserve this. None of us deserve to be called of God. We deserve to be rejected. But what? Here's that wonderful, what is that word? That wonderful word, what we call grace, G-R-A-C-E I'm trying to think of the word it comes to. It's on the tip of my tongue. Anyway, I will just stick with grace. Okay. And one more here, 1 Thessalonians 5. 18. And then maybe next time I'll finish this up. 1 Thessalonians 5. 18. We all know this, don't we? In everything, give thanks in all things, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. You know, it's so important for us to have a grateful heart. To be grateful for the things that the little things, thank God for the little things. You came to church or you got in the car and drove here and made it here. Thank God for this. You could have been in an accident. Who calls? Many things could happen But every day God sees us through every day and gives us graces, grace and mercy. And that's in everything give thanks. I hope we are people that has words of thanksgiving coming off of our lips often. You want to be a positive person. You want to be someone who's giving thanks to God, first of all to God. To others too who are helping you and important to your life, but always make sure your prayers are full of thanksgiving. Review today. Lord, thank you for letting me drive to church safely and getting home safely. Lord thank you for food I will eat today. Have a grateful heart. In everything give thanks for this this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. And you know what? Let's have a time of prayer giving the Lord thanks right now Our Father, we want to give you thanks today that you've loved us, that you've brought us irresistibly unto yourself. We know that you will never leave us or forsake us. What a glorious thing this is. And yet, lo Lord, we're here today to serve you. And we've come here today that we might worship you, that we may give you praise, honor, and glory. But also we want to Be used of you as we deal with our fellow man, that we may be bold in sharing the Word of God, helping someone, showing the love of Christ. That we may be active in studying your word, getting to know you better through the written word. And there's so much, Lord, you've given that we have good health here, and Lord, we know that if we we could visit a nearby hospital. And we would see people laid up in the bed and give everything they have to be able to walk and talk and see and hear and feel and think. Everything we take for granted. People would give die for this And yet we have it every day. You've been gracious to us. You've been merciful to us. How glorious is this, our Father. So we're here to say thank you for this. We say here here's my time, talent, money, my intellect, my body, whatever I have, it's yours. Use it the way you want to and use it until you take me home. And um so That would be my prayer and thank you for bringing us together today. We pray for this church. Oh Lord, we pray for your blessing on it. We pray for the leaders, we pray for uh the the new members, the older members, we pray for the people in this church. God, this is a special church, oh Lord. I've often always sinced this is a special church And I'm so happy that I can sense your hand in this, in the people, in the leadership, in the guidance of the people here is a glorious thing. protect them and help them to keep it going because we know that the world, the flesh, and the devil will do all they can to bring discouragement, sadness, failure. Because we are in a war. We are in a spiritual war, O Lord. So fill us mightily with your Holy Spirit that we may go forth saving souls, building up believers, bringing glory to your name. We pray this through Christ our Lord. Amen.