Although these all all thirty five of 'em, so at least we hope not, or it'll be here for a long time. I don't think you'd want to do that. Maybe maybe soon, maybe you would. But anyway Let's have a prayer and then we'll look at some of these things and see what the Lord has for us. Our Father, we again want to say thank you. Here we are, a room full of sinners who earned and deserved hell and were getting heaven. How can we understand this except through the work and doing of the Lord Jesus Christ on our behalf? So we are here to say thank you for this. to turn over our life unto you if we haven't done it, to give to you our time, our talent, our intellect, our money, whatever we have, we want to give it to you. And use it as you tell us to use it. And now, Lord, I pray that you will guide us as we look at some of these Bible verses from the Holy Word of God. We pray the Spirit of God will actually be the real teacher and drive the verses home to our heart that will actually make a difference in our living, make an improvement in our living. Perhaps there's a brother or sister here today who's discouraged. They may come in here and they have smiles and very pleasant to be with, but yet really in their heart they're hurting. We pray that you will minister to that person. Perhaps someone's looking for your will in their life. We pray that perhaps something said here will speak to that need. You know all the needs that are represented here, O Father, so we pray that you'll take these words and then use them to minister to your flock. We pray through Christ our Lord. Amen. So we have this little pamphlet here, and um so I'm just going to pre code off of this and preach these ver just share these verses with you and just have a a a comment on them I collected these verses um over time. These are ver I I've preached in all these verses from one time or another, and they sort of stood out from you know all the verses of God. Because you know in the Bible, how many How many chapters are in the Bible? 1,189. How many verses are in the Bible? 31,102. Uh how many m how many uh letters? 788,280. So there's quite a volume in this, what we call the King James Bible here It's all kind of information. So of all that information, I've selected these 35 or 33 verses here. I'm not going to have time to go through all of them, I don't believe Uh unless we could um be here for a while, but you d I think y you'll start getting a little bit impatient and all that, and then I'll notice stuff when when you do that. Excuse me. Excuse me. If I just take a little sip of this water here, then that will help me. So these these are verses over the years which have ministered to me in my life, whether in my personal needs or in counseling others, that sort of come up time and time again And so I've often said, you know, I'm gonna c collect all these verses that play a major role in my ministry and then just preach on them. So finally I did it. And now, you know A while back I w I took a missionary journey to Africa, to Ghana, Africa. And this picture that you have on the front of this pamphlet here, it looks just like, isn't this what Africa is like, just like this. At least gone to Africa was the thick, thick vegetation. You know, and then you well should walk in down the street or down the that Dirt road and and you're in you know in Africa, wild animals are all over the place, so you think you better be careful. But here's the thing most of the animals In the daytime they're asleep. You don't even see them because they're in the bushes and everything. But at night when you have to when the sun starts to go down, then you gotta go home. And y this is a true story. When I was there Um I wanna not knowing what I just told you about when the sun's going down, you don't want to be out in the jungle. Well, I w as I say, I was there for a missionary journey. I thought I've never been to Africa before. I want to, you know, take in all that I can. And we're waiting for dinner, which is served like around six or seven, as the sun starts to go down. I thought, well I'm waiting, I'm going to take a walk down this path. And the path looks just like this The path I was I wonder if the same thing. So I'm walking down a path that looks like that, you know, and I've never never been to Africa before, so I'm taking all this in. And and you know you hear some of the birds and all kind of noises And um so as I'm looking around, I'm going for my walk, and may I walk maybe 20 minutes, maybe a half hour at most. And so coming back, what I didn't realize as I was going out for my walk, the path merged. It was actually two pairs and the pairs merged, became one. I didn't realize that. So when I turned around to go back to my base where I was staying, that appeared like a split in the road, and I thought, I I don't remember this this path splitting. I'm thinking now if I take the wrong one, they may never hear from me again. Oh Lord, show me which path. Do I turn to the right or do I go to the left to get back to our base Well obviously made the right decision because here I am. Because once that sun just starts to settle a little bit, that play that comes Becomes a total different place. I mean creatures are all over the place, animals, you hear all kinds of things happening. And you don't want to be out there at night. That that's like a death sentence Anyway, that was but the people were very nice. The people were very, you know, kind and and very very gentle. And um so Anyway, that's my little story there, so anyway, got these. That's what reminds me there of Ghana, that picture there And so I have some verses here I wanted to select. And again, over the years, these are verses which I've you know used from time when in counseling or in um of my own personal need of my own life. These verses come up time and time again. So I thought I so I thought I'd like to put this in the c in in a tract and then you know use them, hand them out so other people can get the benefit. So That's what I have here. So what what I'm going to do is just go through these. Read them, comment on them, and see what we have with this So we find here, let's pray about this first. Lord, we ask now that as we look into your inspired, inerrant, infallible word, help us, Lord, to do justice to your word. And then I pray that you will apply to our heart. Is anyone here today? Perhaps they're discouraged, confused, or dealing with some issue, we pray that you'll deal with them today so that at the end of this service they will Genuinely say, yes, it is good that I came to church today. I'm so happy I made the effort to be here. Because you're touching their heart and ministering to them. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, so Josh Joshua chapter 1, verse 9. Now I'm sure most of you had these memorized. You should. I have most of them, not all of them, but most of them. And these are good memory verses if you're looking for something to memorize. Look at these words. Look at the look at the Joshua 1. 9 Have not I commanded you, be strong and of good courage. Be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest. You know, there's so much we could talk about this for an hour right here. I'll just take be quick so I can go to the next verse here. But what I see here, number one, two things to do, be strong and a good courage And isn't that just like the Word of God giving us direction? And what is the direction it tells us to do? Be strong and be of good courage Maybe someone walked in here today and you're discouraged. You're down and out about something, and we're like that as people and the ups ups and downs. And so this would be good for somebody who has First of all, you didn't listen to the Lord and stayed home. You came to church, that's good. Now get the reward he has for you, and perhaps learn from this. Be of good courage. The Lord's encourag telling us be courage be strong and courageous. That's what we should be when we're walking in here to worship or going to work on Monday morning or dealing with our family. You want to be strong And you want to be courageous. But it goes on to say this. That tells you what to do. Two things to do, and now there's two things not to do. Be not afraid. Neither be thou dismayed. So we know what to do, what not to do. And how about this thing afraid, being fearful? And I would ask, you may want to ask yourself, what are you afraid of? Do you have certain fear? Some people actually be surprised how many many people go through life They're fearful of this, fearful of that, fearful they might see this person. They don't want to see them, or fearful of, you know, whatever. And yet God's holy word is telling us not to be afraid. If we have the Lord Jesus in our heart, not to be afraid. We have the direction of God's inspired word to give us wisdom. You've got the Holy Spirit living in you. Don't be afraid. No, you want to be cautious and alert, but not to be fearful. And there's many t I I I wish I had counted this. How many times do we see in Scripture that phrase, don't be afraid? It's in there numerous times. Why? Because we tend to be afraid and not to do it Trust in God, trust in the Lord. Go forth in boldness, trusting in Him. So what aren't we to do? Not to be afraid and not to be dismayed. Why? For the Lord thy God is with you whithersoever you go. And that's what we need. That's all we need to know. The Lord is with us. I can go forward in confidence and be bold, because the Lord's with me and He'll direct me. So we can't spend too much time on each of these verses here. In fact, we're probably going to finish them all, but anyway, that's one and we could go on on and on with this, but just wanted to give you the at least initial thought here, and perhaps you might Take this home and you know go over it yourself and m m memorize these verses. These aren't too hard to memorize. If I can memorize them, I know you can do it. I don't have them all. I have about maybe 90% of them memorized, but Psalm 119, verse 11. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. I'm wondering, I'm assuming that you have that memorized. And if you don't, that may be something to work on. Here it's not long, it's not hard, but it's powerful in its thought. Thy word have I hidden my heart. Can you imagine this? Getting God's word. 1,189 chapters in your heart. Thy word have I hidden my heart, that I might not sin against thee. Because you know if we don't have God's word directing us, we will sin against the Lord. You know, we're just naturally attracted to sin one way or another. I shouldn't laugh. It's not funny. But you know, we're sinners by nature and by choice. By the grace of God, He saved us from the death penalty of hell for our sin. But thy word have I hid in my heart, this is beautiful, hiding God's word in your heart. And so can we use another word for that? I would say the word memorize memorization. And I wanted, you know, I didn't find it. Before I came today, I was looking for I wanted to find a three by five card where I put my memory versus on And that way, you know, as you're driving from one location to another, if you have a three by five card, you know, obviously you want to look at the road, but okay, if you come to a stoplight or something, you can memorize the verse And I hope you're in the habit of doing that. Memorize scripture. You got to memorize it. I'm sure some of you can do it easier than others, but you can do it. And you'll learn how to memorize if you if you make it a point to do it. Here's something that helped me many years ago in memorizing scripture. And you know what I discovered? Draw the picture of it. Whatever the verse is, draw the picture of it. As you see it. And then you can look at the picture and memory. It's easy to memorize a picture. And then you just sort of recite that picture and refine the wording of it and after all you have the verse memorized. To me I found that to be very helpful in memorizing the word of God, changing just these words and put them in a pictorial you know, picture you can look at it and then say the picture and it's the verse. I hope I'm making sense to you here. But I know that's helped me out quite a bit But again, can we stress this enough? Psalm 119 verse 11, thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. And we all struggle with sin from time to time Get God's word in your head, and really languages in your heart. Now what is the heart? In Scripture, it represents the center of your emotions, your will, your intellect. It's the whole person. That's the heart. The heart means the whole person, your brain, your emotions, your feelings. That person Thy word have I hid hid it in my heart that I might not sin against thee. Let me encourage you again to commit that to memory if you haven't done that. Okay, let's go on to another one now Psalm 118, verse 24. Here's another very common verse. This is the day which the Lord has made, and we shall rejoice and be glad in it. What a wonderful. You know what a great time to use this verse. In the morning, when you first wake up, say that verse to yourself every day. You know, as you're getting dressed, as you're going through your routine, this is a day which the Lord has made, and I'm going to rejoice and be glad in it That'll get you off to a good start. And again, what are you doing? You're hiding God's word in your in your head and in your heart as you're starting the day. Because look, don't you know the world, the flesh, and the devil Want to get in your heart and destroy dis discourage you, destroy you, confuse you. But if you get God's word in there, you know that's going to carry you through the day. But if you don't You got the world, the flesh, and the devil that and they'll have their way in you. And you look, you are a Christian. You know the Lord. You are significant people where you work, where you live. You can't afford to be Lazy or sloppy or careless. You when you step out that door to go to work, you want to know that this is a day which the Lord has made and I'm going to rejoice and I'm going to be glad in it. What a wonderful statement that is. Moving right on to Psalm 119, verse 105. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. And um I was going to tell you that Ghana story, but I already told you about that. But yeah, you're y you you know it's dark, you don't know where you're going, and um it can be, especially in the jungle, it can be very confusing, which is where I found myself a couple of times. But the word is a lamp unto my feet, it's a light unto my pit. Now, I'm sure you've had an experience where maybe you're walking in the woods or you're somewhere out at night, it's dark, you're not sure where you're what you're stepping, where you're going. You may have a flashlight, you may have, and you know what a what a light will do for you. But can you imagine you put that light out, you don't have it, and now you're in a environment you're not put you're not sure of and it's dark. Now you don't know what's gonna happen. Somebody could jump out and try to rob you, you could fall down a hole Which I did years many years ago, uh they were doing construction near our house and it was like I was coming home late after playing baseball or something and so it was dark. You know, I'm walking home, boom, in a hole And well fortunately didn't get hurt, but that can be a real problem. But you want to have a light unto your path. But don't you know again the world, the flesh, and the devil has set traps for us because we love the Lord, we want to serve the Lord. And in that trap, they're hold there holds on your spiritual walk. That's why you've got to have the Word of God, the Word of God to direct us. The Word of God is a lamp unto my feet. That's a light unto my path. Know God's word. Have it in your heart. Think about it. Memorize it. Memorize these things. I could I don't know if I told you I I probably repeat myself already or no I did. I I I I I still have a I have a big stack of three by five cards I memorize scripture with I wanted to bring one and show it to you just to prove that I actually do this. I couldn't find one of them. I don't know what happened to them. Anyway Psalm 118 verse 24. Psalm 119 verse 105, thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. What a powerful verse that is. Moving right along, we all know this, don't we? Proverbs chapter 3, verses 5 and 6. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, lean not to your own understanding, in all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy path If we take that apart for just a moment, trust in the Lord with all your heart. We all understand that, don't we? Trust in the Lord. Not part of your heart, not some of it, but the instruction is all your heart Depend upon the Lord. Trust in Him. Rely upon Him. Be in His Word. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Two, lean not to your own understanding. That's when we get in trouble. At least I know that's when I get in trouble. There's always that battle to follow the Lord or to trust my thinking. And every time, most of the time, I trust my thinking, here comes the problem. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Don't lean on your own understanding. In all thy ways, acknowledge Him. Now how do we do that? How can you what are all your ways? What is your way what is your day fulfilled? W what do you do during the day? You go to school, you go to the office, you go talk to your neighbor, you go to the store, we do all kind of things. And you know what you want to do? And all thy ways, acknowledge Him. How can we acknowledge the Lord in all our ways? That's what we've got to discover. One way, I you know, again, maybe having a track to hand to someone Or getting into a conversation and skillfully, then we should be able to do this as Christians. We've been saved for a number of years. Skillfully take that conversation and move it to the Lord Whereby, the word I like to say, stell me my friend, if you were to die today, you think you'd go to heaven? So whatever conversation I'm in, I'll try to move it so I can ask that question without being too obnoxious So I'll talk with it and I'm trying to move it over to and tell me, John, I'm glad we could talk today, but let me ask you one other question before I go. Suppose you were to die today and stand before God. Do you think you'd go to heaven? Now you're going to get all kind of quite all kind of answers. Uh uh No, I know I'm not going to heaven. Okay. But anyway, from that you can get right into the gospel That's a good open way to open up a door to get in the gospel. Because the next statement would be, well, suppose you were to die today and stand before God and he were to ask you, why should I let you into heaven? What do you think he'd say? Now how he answers that question is telling what he's reliant upon to get to heaven. Then you can, you know, then you've got to receive that and then address it So these are one way to open up various conversations and um so you know I I share that with you there and we go on with this but again I want to try to get some of these these verses, at least just comment on some of them. For some reason I thought, and I'm I'm the one that was in error here. I thought that I may have be able to do Sunday school and church and that way I thought I I can get all these in. But I you know I didn't do Sunday school so n now if I'm really rushing to try to get these in So, but you know you're you're you can read. You don't need me to explain everything, so but I I do want to move on and do the best I can. Okay, let's look here in Proverbs 4. 23. Look at this verse. Proverbs chapter 4, verse 23. Keep your heart with all diligence. For out of it are the issues of life. Think about that. Out of it are the issues of life. What's another word for that? Because out of it are the issues of life. And that is It's going to define who you are, what you do, what your values are, what are you doing with what are you trying to accomplish? How do you relate to people? How do you relate to your wife? How do you relate to your husband? How do you relate to your boss at work Keep your heart real diligent because out of it are the issues of life. Your heart, what goes into your heart, it's going to affect who you are, what you say, how you treat people. So therefore, it's telling you, keep your heart with all diligence. Keep it. Because out of it are the issues of life. Guard your heart. Guard your heart from the trash of the world. You know the world, the flesh, and the devil will put all kinds of garbage in your heart. And it will influence you. Your friends are going to influence you, who you spend your time with. It's going to affect you. You say that don't affect me. It affects you. To some degree, it will affect you. And I have to say this. My best friend from high school, I haven't seen him for a while, and he's not saved And um you know, you only you only have to be with him for about two minutes. You you can tell he's not safe. And that's a big good friend of mine and and um I'm still, you know, I have not been able to reach him for the Lord as yet But the thing is when I'm with him, what does he do? He sort of influences me. He'll influence me, you know, to do say or do the wrong thing because that's the way we are. You got to keep your heart with all diligence For out of it are the issues of life. Where are you in life? Are you happy with what you are, where you are, what you're doing, what you're accomplishing? Are you happy with this? Good. If you're not, it may be because you're not guarding your heart. You're careless with your heart. Again, when we come to Christ, we've got the three enemies, the world, the flesh, and the devil, and they're all aiming at your heart. So you have to guard it. How do I guard it? With scripture, memorize again, you know the best way to do it? Memorize scripture. Spend time with other Christians, be active in your church and Sunday school. These things will help you to guard the heart. But if you're careless at this, I mean there are many Christians who are You know, love the Lord and so forth, but they're careless with guarding their heart. And so what gets into the heart is the world, the flesh and the devil, the thinking of the world, the values of the world, the morality of the world You have to you know, you are impressionable. I'm impressionable. And so if I'm not guarding it, we become more and more like the world. This can happen to churches. So I'm I'm speaking here on an individual basis, but this can happen to a church. The church becomes worldly. You know, they don't really take God's word seriously, you know, just have a good time, be happy, love every before you know it, the church is going down. Alright, so that's a couple things there. Now, Ecclesiastes 1. 18, what should we do about this? For in much wisdom is much grief. Think about that. Much wisdom is much grief. He that increases in knowledge increases in sorrow. Well, that's so true, isn't it? That we don't think about that. But just take this apart just a moment. For in much wisdom There's much grief. Why is that? Because if you have a lot of wisdom, you you know the sin that's going on. You can see people suffering with this, suffering with that. You're aware of these things, and it makes you heart as you study Scripture and know the things of God, know the principles of God's Word And in your life you see him being violated. That gives you grief. With much wisdom is much grief, basically is what that and much wisdom is much grief. And he that increases in knowledge Increases in sorrow. And you know we gain this too. I gain this a lot in in my counseling ministry, talk, you know, talk to people about personal issues. And that can become very sad because there are Christians in your church who are going through deep issues. You know, on their on their way But really some you get to talk with them and sometimes they're really struggling. They got a serious issue going on. And and then you you m and then you know, I've had days where I would do some counseling with a person And they maybe may have another counseling session an hour later. And talk with another person and that person's grieving. And by the end of the day, I'm like, oh man, the whole church is grieving over something And why? Because this is a reality, what life is all about. With much much so you know, you want to be careful about these things. So m in much wisdom is much grief Again, you have knowledge, knowledge good, but s sad sadness comes with knowledge, because you know what's going on, and sometimes it's not a happy thing. Okay, moving on. Here's a great one here. Isaiah 55, verse 8. We all know this. God says, My thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts And that's the truth. God is totally different than us, obviously. I think we all know that. Wonderfully we have the written word of God that we can analyze it, meditate on it, think on it. And so just by nature we're totally different than God. You already know this. I'm not saying anything you don't know, but I'm just trying to repeat what's on this verse here. Our thoughts are not his thoughts. Our thoughts tend to Go into wickedness in time. And so th what this tells me is the great dichotomy between us and God and our natural state. We're totally different than God in many ways. Not only is he eternal and we're temporary, not only is he spiritual and we're physical. I mean that comparison goes on and on nothing of God in many, many ways. That's why we had to have the Son of God come down here to reveal to us what God is, what he's like. And so just something to be aware of. My thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. As the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways. So then how do we get to understand this God By being in Scripture, reading Scripture, memorizing Scripture, being in God's Word, worshiping in church as you have opportunity, attending Bible studies. You learn more and more about God, and you will learn the more The more you learn about God, the more you learn about you and yourself, how different by nature you are than God. That's what I learned. And so me standing up here preaching to you, I'll tell you that is a total act of mercy on God on this wretched sinner. Total mercy that I could be here and say, thus saith the Lord. I don't understand. I thank the Lord for it. I'm not worthy of it. I know this Thank you, Lord, for letting me in I mean I'm l I'm not living a double life. I you know I believe what I preach, I try to follow the Lord, but I'm you know far from really being being adequate for this Unless God would make me adequate, that's my only hope of being adequate. Okay, let's move on then. Why don't we look at Oh, this is beautiful. Daniel 3. 17. When's the last time you read this If it be so, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us out of thine hands, O King. Remember reading about this, Daniel? Shagram, that gets this flaming fire. But d did you ever stand in front of a fire? Were you ever close to you know a a large fire? I mean you can't get near because the heat is just overwhelming. And you can imagine like if you were in that, what what would that be like Looking at verse 18, he goes on to say, But if not be it known unto you, O King, that we will not serve your gods, nor worship the golden image which you have set up. Look at the determination here in Daniel. We're not going to do it. God, if God wants to deliver us, He can do it. But if he doesn't do it, understand this. We're not worshiping your false god. But that's beautiful. And that's what the Lord would have all of us to be that way, to be determined. I'm not going to be into the world I I would like this to happen, I'd like that, but if it doesn't understand so I'm not going with the world, not doing anything with you people. No matter what it costs, I'm not doing it. We gotta be of that that mindset And that we're not even facing a burning fiery furnace. We're just dealing maybe with some people or issues that may be a little difficult. But we we should have this mindset though. I love this. Verse 18. Look at verse 18 again. But if not, be it known unto you, O king, we're not going to serve your gods. It's not going to happen. Tell that to the the the the the devil the next time he tempts you with something where your where your weaknesses are and you're tempted. We go through temptations. Get memorize this statement and tell that to the devil Isn't that a nice thing to tell him? I'm not going to serve your gods, nor worship the golden image which you have set up. So here's a set of a determination, something to determine in your mind and your thinking. This verse seventeen and eighteen. Good memory verses. If you if you have Various weaknesses or temptations in your life, get this memorized. And when you're tempted to you know in the battle, recite this. Say what you want. I'm not doing what you're calling me to do, King. Understand that. And of course he had the fiery furnace in front of him to be a persuasion, but yet he wouldn't do it. Beautiful Alright, gotta move right along here. Much more should be said. I don't think I'm gonna be able to do all these verses, but maybe uh Maybe next time I come I'll be able to finish this up if something else doesn't happen in the meantime. Now let's go here to Mark 1615. We all know this, don't we? Mark, here's the Great Commission And he said unto them, go you into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Now I think you know this. That in some of the in some of the ancient manuscripts, this verse is not in there. In some of the ancient manuscripts, it's not there, but in other manuscripts it is there. So you may get no army. Well, that worse isn't even there. You know what? In a way it doesn't matter because this principle is everywhere else in the Bible where there is no argument about is it in the original text But again, look how that's worded. And he said unto them, Go into all the world, preach the gospel to every creature. This reminds me of two things that we need to be engaged with. One Would be evangelism, sharing Christ with others, and how do you do that? Well, and I hope we all have a plan, a way of witnessing to others. Again, you know, might you all have a different way. My have a certain track that says, Am I gonna go to heaven? I give that hey hey friend, let me give if I'm sitting on the bus and talking to someone and you know, hey, hey Joe, let me give you something to ring when you're bored Let's give him that. And it has on the cover, am I going to heaven? So I'll hand that to him and say, hey, you think you can answer that question? And you get, yeah, I can answer it. I'm not going to heaven. Or some well yeah, I think so. But what it does, it opens up the door to share Christ with them. And um Going on that's one way of going into all the Roman priests. In other words, we need to have a way to get into a conversation with others about Christ. I'm just sharing a way that I you you may have a better way. But discover one. If you don't have one, start praying about this. How can I get into a conversation with people and tell them about that in a natural way, not being obnoxious, you know, or like a religious prune or something. But in a natural way, how can I talk to the people who come across my path about Christ? Make that initial a prayer. And he'll show you what, you know, what's what's how you how you can, and you know, we we all have different personalities. We all sort of work a little differently on this But you want to find a way to get the Word of God out which you're which is natural, which is easy to defend, easy to communicate So, okay, that one there, I wanted to share that with you. That's Mark sixteen fifteen. Because we're supposed to go into all the world. That's everybody, right? Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. So there is evangelism and then there's discipleship. You all know what discipleship is, correct? That is you get with a younger Christian and try to teach him the word, teach him the faith. And now good here's a good thing to do. If you have a a Christian friend who's young in the Lord When you go out and and witness Share Christ's handout tracks, bring him along with you so he can watch you, see how it's done, and let him do it. And then you're really starting to do some real good discipleship work. That's what you want to do. So when you go out on your evangelism, bring a younger Christian Who's not sure what to do, he's scared to death, he but that's okay, let him go with and you do the talking, you do it or let him watch you, do that for a while, and then You know if you do it for a number of times and say okay okay John here you you talk to this guy coming up the street. What me I can't do Yeah, go ahead you do it just leave him there. But that's how you start. You don't start off. That's what you want to do. You want to multiply ourselves And and um get God's word out. Why? Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. That's quite a statement. You know, go into all the world. How am I going to go into all the world? Well I can I can do it where I'm at. Now we can train missionaries and send them out, which is what we want to do. This has to be taken seriously. Mark 16, 15 Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Alright, let's go on here to John chapter 10. See all these verses, these are sermons. I mean this is this is a foundation for a whole sermon. So again, I'm just touching this and moving right on. John 10, 27, My sheep hear my voice, I know them, and they follow me. Isn't that beautiful? Here's Jesus saying, My sheep hear my voice. Now here's a question. Are you his sheep? Yeah. Why? Because you heard the word and believed it. Now here's the thing. You may witness to somebody in the street. They don't believe in Christ, but they may be the Lord's sheep. They may get saved a week after you talk with him, or a month, or a year, or a couple years later. We know this. The Lord's sheep will hear his voice and they will believe it. But we don't know when. They may do it as a child, as a teenager, as an old person. But Jesus does say, My sheep hear my voice, I know them and they follow me. They will answer it. And this really has a lot to do with God's elect. That's what it's referring to. There is God's elect out there, and they are the sheep. There are people walking the streets today who don't believe in Christ, but they're God's elect. They will believe before they die. I've been already foreordained by God. That's why you believe. You realize that. That's why you believe. Because God in His mercy elected you to be saved. And hence you did it. It's a glorious thing. It's a beautiful thing. But isn't this amazing? Think of the many people who are not saved who are not going to get saved. But yet, above it all, you, that's not your problem. You were elected to be saved. And that's why you're here today, quite frankly. It's all in the hand of God Almighty All right, moving right along here. Let's look here in John chapter 20 and verse 31. But these things are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in His name. So how about this? This is a good purpose statement. If you start with a a uh Christian ministry or something, isn't this be a great purpose statement here? These things are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. That's why the Word of God is written, that you'll believe it. That's why 1189 chapters. That's why they're written To convince people that Jesus is the Son of God. And it took God Almighty 1,189 chapters to do it. And so that's why we have the wonderful Word of God. We want to know it, memorize it, preach it Defend it. These things are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in his name. So you want to be skilled in sharing the Word of God. We want to know how to answer people's questions. We want to confront them with the gospel and be as tactful as you can. So that's what you have in John 20, 31. And again, there's so much more that can be said this. I'm just touching this, making you aware of it, and then moving on. Uh but any one of these are there's a good set a sermon you could do here. Look look in Acts twenty twenty-four. Now you're worried, how long is this guy gonna go on for? I'm not gonna do them all. I think there there are like um 35 verses. I'm not going to do all thirty-five then. I'll I'll I'll finish up soon because we just don't have time to do them all. Look in Acts 2020. Oh, this is fantastic. Acts 2024 This is a great memory verse here. None of these things move me. Now here Paul is talking about all the difficulty that he had. And in light of all the difficulty, he's saying these things are not going to move me I don't care what comes up. It's not moving me. It's not going to discourage me. Look at this. None of these things move me. And number two, neither count I my life dear unto myself. Well, I'll tell you that is the words of a true evangelist. None of these things are going to bug me, neither do I count my life dear unto myself. That was not important for Paul. What was important is getting God's word out. Look at the rest of it. So that I might finish my course with joy. And the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus, the gospel of the grace of God. And you know, in that context, Paul's talking about all the difficulties that he had to go through. And what does he say? Nothing's going to stop me. Nothing's going to move me. And this is a verse we need to memorize so that when the world, the flesh, and the devil get you down and discouraged, Recite that. Tell that to the devil. Tell that to the world. Tell that to your flesh. None of these things move me. Neither can I my life dear unto myself. Boy, so you get that mentality in your head, that'll be very, very helpful. Get it in your heart. That's powerful stuff right there. Acts 20, 24. That's the attitude you gotta have. And that's what the that's what the disciples had who turned the what and they referred to what? Those that turned the world upside down. Think about that. You know, we should think more like that. We should think more about turning the world upside down. Think more about turning this community upside down. Don't we I think sometimes the world has gotten to us So, okay, so if I go to church on Sunday school, good. And that is good. That's very good. I'm not putting that down at all. Wonderful. Yet sometime we've got to realize this work this community needs to be turned upside down for Jesus Christ. We need to make it in that intent. That was the mindset I think you find with first century believers, that that was their purpose, to make an indent in this culture. We may want to think more radically in that all in that way. Okay, another verse here. Let's go here to Romans. Well we all know Romans 8. 28, right? But isn't that a powerful verse to have? You really need to have Romans 8. 28, all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. Think about that. All things. All things work together for good I must tell you that has really personally has helped me out so many times, especially when I fail or when I've done something stupid or something. And I remind myself, you know, I I don't understand it, I don't like it, I don't want it, but I do know this. All things work together for good And that will give you great encouragement to carry on in a sense of optimism, even though you suffered a failure or you didn't accomplish the goal. Because God's Word says all things Work together for good. And so this needs to be our mindset as we're going through our life. We know that all things work together for good to them and now who is it for? The whole world? No, to those that love God, to those who are the called. according to his purpose. That's another name, by the way, in scripture for a Christian. You know, they're called Christians, believers, but they're also referred to as the called. Because in fact we are called. And and you know God's call is effectual. We do not have we do not have a an example of God calling sinners to repentance and they don't do I'm not no I'm not gonna come. It's not it. God's call is effectual. Who he calls will come. And that's why you're here. You're here for that very reason. God in his mercy called you Not only does it call you, he even gives you the power to come unto him and to follow him. Alright, why don't we do one more here? Let's do 1 Corinthians 15. Act like the not like to do them all, but I'm wondering, probably gonna you probably Want to go home and do other things, you may have plans. So what I can do, maybe I'll just do the second part next time I come, next month. Why don't we do it? Hold on to this And next month, Lord willing, if two things don't happen, see I'm assuming a lot when I just said that. Number one, the Lord could re return before next next must month Or he could call me home before next month. So I'm saying, if we're all here, I could take the second half of this, because these are fantastic verses, and these are good. Let me recommend again. Memorize these things. These are significant verses that come up all the time in your witnessing. Memorize them. You can memorize them. If I can do it, you can do it. Listen, if we took, if somebody came in here now and gave us an IQ test All we all had to take the IQ test. And then it gets marked and we get our grades. I guarantee you I would be at the bottom. You guys would be way ahead of me in the IQ test. But you know what? I can memorize these scriptures. And the point I'm trying to say is if I can memorize it, you can memorize. Just a matter of effort and time. As I say, take a card with you and just look at memorize it when you have free time. You can do this. This can be done First Corinthians, this is a great verse, 1 Corinthians 15, 58. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord Now to take this apart will take another hour to do it properly. I'm just going to make a quick comment on it. But think about this. And I always think about this. I know I've I've probably shared this some of these things with you before So I don't want to be repetitive, but I probably am. I always I always associate this with uh when I was playing football. I I associate so much to that because there's so many things you can associate it with. But see that verse there, unmovable? Be s and and the word steadfast and unmovable. And you know it you know when when when years when I was playing football I would I st I broke in the starting lineup by blocking for punts It's a dirty job, but that's how you get in by doing these lousy. So and the and the f you know I'm in this, I'm a freshman, no, a sophomore at U University of Kentucky And we're playing like LSU or Alabama or something and they got these big tackles, you know, like 250, 275, and they're looking at me like they want to kill me. And I'm looking, I'm thinking, please be nice to me, don't hurt me So you know I'm walking for the punt. So here the p the punter's behind me. Bowl snap goes back and here comes this guy, about two hundred and seventy five pounds, running full speed ahead and he wants to kill I'm supposed to stop him. How am I going to stop this guy? He's going to kill me. And but I think of that when when I see this work, because I'm supposed to be steadfast and unmovable. But what he's going to do is swipe me away and I'll move line in his stands. But I'm to be steadfast, but this is the way we're to be with the gospel. Steadfast and unmovable. Do not let the world, the flesh, and the devil discourage you. Be steadfast. Right? And unmovable. See, the world wants to move you. They want you moving, want you flexible. Get out of the way. And we're finding here at the end of 1 Corinthians 15: be steadfast, unmovable. That's a powerful statement. Unmovable. And then what do you do? That's not enough. Always abounding in the work of the Lord. Now, what's that? What's the work of the Lord? Well, we have a church service like this, yes. What's the work of the Lord? As you're going about your task every day, maybe hanging on a track or sharing Christ with someone, helping a poor person? You know, knock on the door even though somebody who's hungry and you know, that'd be a good ministry for a church. I'm not telling you what to do, but I'm just thinking for a church we did this for a while When you you when you know people who are having a hard time, they don't go to your church, you just know in the community, you know, you know these things. And you just knock on a hey, hi, I'm Don Brenton on the past of the church down here and I have this grocery that I'd like to give to you Uh because we've been praying for your and here, take this and just leave. Boy, does that open up their heart to the Lord? Oh my goodness, you can do great things doing that. But that's what we're supposed to be doing Getting in there into the community and getting involved. Be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. Why? For as much as you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Whatever you do for the Lord, it does count There are many things we do, it doesn't work. The plan didn't work, doesn't count, but whatever you do for the Lord does count. It does make a difference. I'm sure every one of you Have witnessed to someone, you try to help someone, and they didn't respond the way you wanted them to. And so you're going, oh I guess that didn't work. That's what the world wants you to think. That's what the devil wants you to think. You know this, when you give out God's word, something happens. Because it's God's word. It's the inspired, infallible, and errant word of God. When you minister in the name of the Lord, when you give forth his word. Something's happening. You may not say it, but we know by the power of the word of God, what it's done to us, what the promises are in God's Word, it makes a difference. And um so I'll stop here and next time if if two things don't happen If the Lord doesn't come back, or if he doesn't take me home, we'll do the second second half of this. Because these are just and these are just we're just touching the surface of some of these interesting verses that in themselves are a whole message. Just the just the one verse. So this is a fantastic little piece of paper here. And I want to go on, but I'm I I guess I should stop here. So I'll just stop here and pick it up with 2 Corinthians 5. 17 Next time we we come together. Let's have a prayer together. Our Father, we want to say thank you for bringing us together today. Thank you for this room full of people whose heart you have circumcised Whose heart that you you drew us, oh Lord, irresistibly unto yourself. And now we're with you. We love you. We love your word. We love your church And it's it's it's a delightful experience. Thank you so much for not passing over us, but rather saving us Thank you for bringing us together today, and I would pray for this church, O Lord, and the leadership that you will encourage, that you will direct, that you will bring people here who you want to be here to hear the word of God, to get saved, to become disciples of yours. So we called down a blessing on this church, oh Lord, a great special blessing, because Lord, I can testify the great ministry these people have done to my life, to my precious wife's life, and how you've guided us. And I want to say thank you. And we pray this now in Jesus' name. Amen.