Last time we were together, we looked at the first three verses of Psalm 127. This uh Psalms, at least one of the songs of ascent or Psalms of Ascent. They listed as pilgrim psalms because they were for the children of Israel as they came to Jerusalem for the Feast of Passover or Tabernacles or Passover. And it was an ascent as they went up to Jerusalem up high, as so they sang these psalms in order as a matter of heart preparation a time of blessing and a time of joy as they look together to be with the Lord. I asked last time and again today, how do you prepare for worship today? Israel had these fifteen Psalms that were there to focus on God in their preparation. There was a long journey. No doubt they sang them over days after days as they traveled, and their hearts were prepared because they were coming to meet the Lord Sometimes as we come to the Lord's house on Sunday, it's a regular routine. We have certain patterns of things we do because that's just what we do. We gotta do it. And once we get in, well then we can still do it until the music, until Bob comes up and he says, okay, now turn off the phones and things like that and and it's it. But has there been preparation in my heart to come and to be with the Lord? Not just the preparation, well, we'll see what the pastor gives in his message, and we'll see if that worked out pretty good. No, it's the Lord is here, and we are here to worship him. In all that we do, in every aspect in our bulletin, everything is there in order to bring us to a place before his throne of grace, in order that we might appreciate who he is, in order that we might praise him for who he is and what he's done. And so these psalms, in essence, were doing that, and it ought to do that also in our hearts. Shall we pray? So, Father, the portion of our worship service this morning is provided for time to read your word. and a time to consider what it has to say, as it was done throughout the Old Testament and Tabernacle times and into New Testament church So it is today. Focus on the Word of God, because it is your Word. And allowing your Spirit to use your Word to help us to see ourselves as we truly are, sinners saved by grace. And that we stand before a holy God in thinking that we are nothing in and of ourselves save what Jesus Christ has done for us. And so we approach these Psalms with a delight to see what they sang about and what the purpose was in your presenting these words for them to sing every year. as they came to the feast in Jerusalem. May it be a blessing to our hearts. May you forgive us of our sins and allow us to grow in your grace. In Christ's name. Amen. We concluded our last message and I trust you remember the last message and it's been a few weeks, you know, we're stretching the the brain cells a little bit on that, but you do remember that nothing could be done unless the Lord was in it. He says, unless the Lord is there building the house Can't be accomplished. Unless the Lord is in protecting the city, can't be accomplished. No matter what efforts are being put in, no matter what's being done and accomplished, the Lord has to be in it. And that was the beginning of that Now the final three verses in this particular psalm leads us to the matter of the blessings of children. Obviously the same theme permeates this, and actually on into the next next psalm. But the idea that God's blessing has brought us to the understanding that He has given us such a gift. Verses three, four, and five of Psalm one hundred twenty seven says Lo Children are in heritage of the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward. As arrows are in the hand of the mighty man, so are children of the youth Happy is the man that hath this quiver full of them. They shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies of the gate. Children are an heritage of the Lord. Children. We may sit here this morning with various stations in life in far as relationship to children. Um some of you are not Sarah's who are going to expect to have children in your latter years, but the relationship, the children are still there. Children are a blessing, a gift from God. In our day, January of nineteen seventy-three, the decision from the US Supreme Court to legalize abortion For all practical purposes, really changed the heart's attitude, the legalistic attitude of our country. It was the termination of the unwanted pregnancy between a woman and her doctor, uh the whole attitude fundamentally changed the thinking in the heart attitude of what was happening And yes, the fairly recent SCOTUS ruling issued two years ago seemed to give great hope for the future. Seemed to think that all of a sudden we've turned the corner Yet in reality, the result has stirred up even greater anger and resentment for life. The godless seeds that were sown. and grew for fifty years permeated the thinking and the hearts of so many. A woman's right as is said, to do with her body as she pleases, a woman's right to murder the unborn. The attitude has grown, blossomed into something beyond belief. It's become the slogan of campaigns. It's become that which is wholly expected to be born in this country. You have such a right. From the Christian perspective, there is one thing we know for certain God has a love for children. It's part of his nature. And he d g he grieves, deeply grieves, for the children who are lost in the abortion industry The message this morning is not on abortion, and it's not my intent to enter into the national debate of the hot button topic of what seems to permeate advertisements today. For me, I know with a moral certainty that abortion is wrong and it's a grave evil. And to be honest with you, I don't think I could really accept it, even as an unbeliever Even before I came to know Christ as Savior, the the very principle of it, I think, at least at this time in my life, I don't think I could have even held such a belief So I begin with the question, how does God view children? How does God view children? If we know anything about the answer to this, we recognize that he views children, well, is a blessing or a burden. Some people view children as a burden. And yet how does God view it as such? In the big picture, you tell a lot from a society by the way that society treats children If you know your Old Testament, you'll find that the pagans oftentimes use them as sacrifice. Even Israel had fallen many times to follow along with the pagan gods. But Israel was taught, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might They taught them to take this seriously, the relationship between their children, their families, and God. Talk about them when they sit down at home, when they walked on the roadside, when they when they did whatever business there was in life, the children were to understand this holy relationship between themselves and the sovereign God. Of a certainty, our children are gifts from God, and we ought to treasure them and not take them for granted. Matthew 18. And whosoever shall receive one of these little children in my name receiveth me. Wow. Jesus' view of children is precious. And then he follows with this, but whosoever shall offend one of these little ones which believeth in me It were better for him that have a millstone hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depths of the sea. Wow. The attitude that Christ has towards children and what's done to them, he loves them. And it's a precious attitude he has bringing judgment on those who don't hold the same. Let's go back to our text, if you would. Let me read chapters 127 and 128 of the Psalm. Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain which that labor in vain that build it. Except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh in vain. It is vain for you to rise up early and sit and sit up late, to eat of the bread of sorrows, for so he giveth his beloved sleep. Lo children are in heritage of the Lord. The fruit of the womb is his reward. As arrows are in the hand of the mighty man, so are children of the youth. Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them. They shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies of the gate. Blessed is everyone that feareth the Lord, that walketh in his ways, for thou shalt eat the bread of thine hands. Happy shall thou be, and shall and it shall be well with thee. Thy wife shall be a fruitful vine. By the sides of thine house, thy children, like olive plants, round the table. Behold, that thus shall the man be blessed, that feareth the Lord The Lord shall bless thee out of Zion, and thou shalt see the good of Jerusalem all the days of thy life. Yea, thou shalt see the children, thy children's children, and peace upon Israel. Children are an heritage of the Lord. I think this has to be one of the most basic fundamental principles of life. That children are directly a gift from God. He reiterates that from Old Testament to New Testament, all practical principles that are there. The Bible tells us that God takes personal responsibility for the creation of the child, bringing him into this world. Genesis 30, 17, and God hearkened unto Leah, and she conceived, and bare Jacob the fifth son. 33. 5. The children which God hath graciously given thy servant. 48. 9. Thy they are the they are my sons, whom God hath given me. 7, Deuteronomy 7. 13, he will also bless the fruit of thy womb. From the perspectives that God laid forth in the scriptures and in life, God gave the children, heritage of blessings to mankind. From our perspective, instead of building empires, personal empires, which we as human beings are often attempted to do We need to build families. The whole principle of of gaining a perspective of well I've I'm out of that family-raising stage now. I've reached a certain age. I'm going to build my own life. Children are an heritage from God, and the way of preserving the family is for the next generation to understand these very things. All of us want to be remembered when we're gone. And I think one of the blessed ways of ri being remembered is through the family, through the children Not always is it understood, but the heritage that's passed around from another generation will be remembered because of the achievements, not what the man did, but what his family has done. Now there are times when some couples cannot have children for various reasons. The text does not say that this is a judgment from God. And we have to be mindful as we get to the scriptures that what the scriptures do not say is the pattern that we understand. What is important is to say what the Bible says and not to go beyond that. So what are these couples definitely desperately desiring to have children to do? What's their understanding? As God has not provided such, these couples have often become parents to children of the world. They minister to the fatherless, to the motherless. They become grandparents, fulfilling the duties of parents. All of these becoming, as it were, surrogates in a form of substituting what they can, what they can give, and providing the love for those children who have need And God blesses those who do it, those adults who show the love of Jesus Christ in this way. In every case As a Christian parent or as a fill-in parent, our soul's delight is when those children come up and grow up into the Lord and come to know him in a very personal way. There's a verse in 3 John 4, and the apostle is talking about his relationship to children of the church, meaning his spiritual children, but I think it fits very well with spiritual and physical. He says, I have no greater joy than to hear my children walk in truth. As a pastor to the flock, he says, I delight to know that my spiritual children are walking in the truth. And as a parent What greater delight as a grandparent, as an uncle, as an aunt, as a surrogate parent, what greater delight could we have in the light to know that that child is walking in the truth? Verse 4, he says, as arrows are in the hand of a mighty man, so are the children to the youth. It's kind of an interesting illustration because it fits best in the context of the time in which they lived, uh culture in which they had. As a boy I remembered many, many times asking for a bow and arrow. If I could just get a bow and arrow. And the best I can remember, the only ones I was able to receive are the ones with a little such cup on the end, you know. You're gonna shoot somebody, you know, not the BB gun part of shooting somebody's eye out, but you're gonna hurt somebody, you know, and it just never got beyond that point But for David and his mighty men, they understood the arrow. It was small, it was powerful, the straight wooden shaft would be carefully formed. Added feathers, a sharp tip to it, and it became one of the most powerful weapons known at the time. Think of what that arrow could do. It could stop armies. Our children are really the same. What can our children do? Once crafted and shapened under prayerful hands of a loving parent or grandparent. or a Sunday school teacher, or somebody who oversees their spiritual life, they are powerful also. Dr. and Mrs. Lindray Gordon, we're dear friends of ours. We came to live in their house when I went up when we lived in Philadelphia, and our oldest boy was three at the time. And uh Mrs. Gordon said, uh, let me teach Jeff. Let me have him under tootel each year And uh Mrs. Gordon had been a s uh a school teacher. Um she was a music teacher, she taught Bible. She was a principal in two Christian schools, and she was basically legally blind for almost all of her life. Memorized the book of Proverbs, memorized the book of Revelation. And she sat down and she opened the Bible before him and she taught him to read at the age of three and a half, out of the Bible, the very first words that were there. At Mrs. Gordon's uh homegoing at 102, testimonies from around the world came of how this lady became mother to whole whole groups in Korea, in Africa, in various places around this country itself. And still it continues on today. We know many people that were part of it. Think what they can do. Think of how the things are there to be profited. Solomon writes, train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old, he will not depart from it. No, train up a child. It's just not a child. Train up a gift from God. Train up one who is in heritage from God. Somebody that God has given. Well, which one? No. They are all from him. Train them up in the way they should go. And when they are old, they will not depart from it. But he's not my kid. Where are the parents? They're old enough to know better. When are they old enough to know better? When do they cease in training When do they come to a stage in life when they don't need to hear, when they don't need to be prayed for, when they don't need to be overseed in the spiritual life? I know better. And then they don't. We do what we can. As the arrow is shapened and sharpened, it accomplishes an intended purpose, but we must shapen and sharpen. The Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry wrote an article this last month in May. It says, children and adolescents spend a lot of time watching screens. including smartphones, tablets, gaming consoles, TVs and computers. On average, on average Ages 8 to 12 in the U. S. spend four to six hours a day watching or using screens, and teens spend up to nine hours. While screens are entertaining, they teach, they can keep children occupied. Too much of too much use may lead to problems. And this is not a Christian organization But the principle is teaching, training comes constantly. It's always before us. Where is it going to come from? Well, I give it to the surrogate parent in the school, or I give it to the surrogate parent on the streets, or I give it to the surrogate parent, you know, uh on the screens Is it whatever it is? What's my responsibility? I don't have any now. I'm they are so older. This is like this and it no the arrow can't work. An arrow can travel far. Who knows how far our children will go? Who knows how far they can go How far did Timothy go by the training of Lois and Eunice and at times the Apostle Paul note? Parents, their mother and grandmother, but also somebody who's outside the family of no relationship. How far did Joseph go? 17 years in training under Jacob. We just finished Joseph. We saw the relationship that he had in life with that. How far did Moses go? Did he hit the target with a few years of guidance under Amram and Jacobed, his parents? relinquished from the uh the the the the wife or the daughter of of Pharaoh and and said, well you take him back until he's trained. So maybe four years or so? How far did he go How about Samuel? Served as a priest and became the first prophet and the last judge of Israel. Three years with his mother, probably 15 years under Eli, the high priest. Now nobody likes Samuel. Nobody likes Samuel. Did he hit the target? Archers in Bible Times would spend countless hours preparing the arrows. carefully choosing the right piece of wood and precisely cutting and polishing and shaping the the tip as introducing new feathers to the arrowheads And they carefully aimed to accomplish their goal. I think too many Christians go through life with a minimal amount of training, hoping that their children will do the right thing. Hoping that they won't be on drugs, that they won't drink, that they won't smoke, that they won't sleep around, that they won't get in trouble. And as good as that is, it's a low expectation. I hope it'll turn out better You know, I have to think of myself too. You know, we have to think of ourselves too. You know, the child at times seems to be an inconvenience, but God says it is a gift, a heritage passed on to you Provided for you. We need to learn to aim high, to bring them to Christ. What we ought to pray for is that God would make them children of impact in this world. That they would impact the world for good. Verse 5: Happy is the man who hath his quiver full of them. And they shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies at the gate The verse kind of talks about it makes it seem like it's of great profit to have but you know what a quiver is, where they put the arrows in, you know Uh it seems like saying God is blessing when the uh the when the the large families are there. But how fo how full is full How big is your quiver, you know? How long is long hair? You know Kind of relative to the particular situation, the Bible doesn't specify how many children you are to have, but it does place and speak in the subject matter that children are always a blessing. Children are always a blessing to us. As you know, the Bible has large families and many with small families. It doesn't indicate that those with many children had more blessings than others. It doesn't speculate that couples should have quivers like shoes because they're all the various sizes and they all hold various purposes in life. And I think we need to figure out the size of the quiver that God has given us and fill it up at that time. When we first arrived in the Philippines We had just one child and we would go around and and as Irene knows or even Greg They are very inquisitive. They ask, only one child? Only one? Why only one? Is there something wrong with you? Didn't you have this? You know and I mean it was really it was frustrating and time after time after time. So we decided what we would do is say, oh, we have about three or four other children, but they're in the United States in school. And that satisfied them. Never even thought about our age if that was actually possible or not But that satisfied him. There was the idea that at that time in our life we had a small quiver. And at that time in the life God knew that one child was the right. And it took a few 14 years until later on until he says, okay, I'm going to expand your quiver and make it a little bit bigger. But, you know, we couldn't have handled more than that. Children were the biblical version of Social Security in the Old Testament. And the parent who had been provided with a large quiver and many children, you're blessed with children who would take care of them It was more secure, more financially profitable than five million dollars in the bank. He says they shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies of the gate. As you know, if you remember in the number of places in the Old Testament, but uh uh the place of the gate was the place of judgment. It was the place where the elders of the city would meet, where judgment was taken buying and selling and in relationships were established or broken officially at the gate of the city. Men would bring their adversaries there in the gate, and the father who has children as his defenders would defend him, would defend Dad in those particular situations. There is a different translation to this verse and it says, your enemies don't stand a chance against you, you'll sweep them right off the doorstep. In other words, the testimony of the children to the father at the gate, he says their testimony stands sure strong and sure to anything else that could happen because not because of an a a military mitre or of a a strong arm, but because your children represent the family in those situations. Here's a family united to defend against all attacks There's nothing said about money or power or position, but the position is happy is the family that relates to whatever troubles they have because they are there to stand together. They are there to be pounded together. Just a word about workaholics, husbands and wives. What shall it profit a man if he gains the whole world and let yet loses his own family? You know, sometimes we think in the day in which we live that's the necessity. I've got to provide, I've got to care for them. You know, I remember my dad um uh was a man who provided for his family tremendously Uh in the weekends we saw him. During the week we didn't. And uh he cared for us uh in in many different ways, but he wasn't necessarily there when I thought we needed him You'll never hear on a deathbed a man going to say, I wish I had spent more time in the office. Almost always, I wish I had spent more time with my family And that's a delicate balance, but it's putting things properly as it needs to go. This isn't an argument against uh working careers and working hard and laboring to provide But this is just a balance that needs to be understood. A plea for balance of priorities and for recapturing the highest value, home and the family. And again, we go back to the principle that is laid down in this particular Psalm. Without God, it is impossible. Of all of the achievements, the building of the house, which we talked about as a building of the family, the protecting of the city, and in an essence establishing the family, without God it cannot go as it ought to go. Now we go down to Psalm 128, verses 3 and 4. And appreciate Bob throwing that in in the in our psalm song there. Thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine by the sides of thine house, and thy children like olive plants round about the table. Behold, that thus shall the man be blessed that feareth the Lord. Children are the hope of the home In Scripture, Vines often refers to the principles of beauty and charm. The woman here stands in contrast to the faithless woman out of Proverbs 7. It says, she is loud and stubborn, her feet abide not in her house. So Psalm 128 presents this woman as attractive and as alluring. Presenting herself as a blessing to her family with a marriage that endures. There's happiness, there's enjoyable enjoyable relationships with her husband. that which will last for 20 and 30 and 40 years until the Lord decides to close that chapter. Divine makes this house beautiful. The vine grows on the side and it shades the house. It pr provides fruit and that which is a balance for grapes and other ripe fruits So she is a godly wife to her husband. She is the crown to her husband and supports him with her strength, with her character, with her abilities. Then the olive plants. I never thought of my children as olive plants, but nonetheless, this is the picture. Mature olive trees produce what? Beautiful wood. They produce fruit, they produce oil. It was a necessity in the life of those in the Holy Land at the time. They were the potential of that which is covering for the entire family in itself. That's what the child becomes. The entire picture of the family is that which God has given ultimately. I I agree that this current month that we have Pride month, you know. And and how everybody's touted to this um uh our one news channel has uh has a a feature a half hour after the news and it's things going on in Philadelphia and Yeah, there there was two guys and and they I didn't know it in the beginning, and he's he's had a little shop downtown that's a beautiful setup and you know and he says, and my husband Is there with me? And we're just delighted because we were able to find a lesbian couple who will donate their we won't go into that. But nonetheless I thought I said, this is uh you know, I'm I'm reading through this and he says, what's that child, what's the hopes of that child? You guys know about these things, how how children are being robbed and planted in situations that they will have no clue about, that they'll have no understanding how it is. I'm going to throw some conclusions in here. The first one, and again reiterate the truth, is that children are a gift from God, and happy families are a gift from God. That doesn't mean that there are not difficulties within families. It doesn't mean there are not hardships, struggles. But this is a principle that they come to understand not by human effort and not by government regulations. But it is from God. God blesses such. It's just that simple. Secondly, God's blessings are available to anybody who seeks them. The only thing God asks is that we be a people who fear him and obey his commandments. He says that offered He did it for Israel. I offer these things. It was it was in our psalm. He says, if you would only have listened, if you would only have obeyed, I would have come and done this, and I would have done this. And sometimes we say, well, why is it happening? Because we walk around with deaf ears, ears plugged, not listening. Obey his commandments and fear him. Money and worldly success are nothing measured against the joy and the happiness of a family where mom and dad and children know and love the Lord Jesus Christ. You can't rob them of such a joy that God has placed them there. Thirdly, we must embrace the high value of the family. We must embrace a monogamous marriage. We must embrace the abstinence before marriage and happy life together after marriage. Children have to be taught that by word and by principle. This is the principle upon which we are founded and graced by God's blessing. Motherhood is noble. Being a godly father is more important than being an executive and driving a BMW. The understanding of what this family is is of more value than Fort Knox. That sexual promiscuity leads only to sorrow and heartache. That the joy of our children and the love of our children and the effort that we make within the family is an investment to make that is well worth it, will go beyond generations that we still have to come. Fourth, we need to honor parents, fathers and mothers, grandparents, great grandparents, surrogate parents. And I mean that in the sense of the love and care that others give. Happy is the family where there is a godly heritage passed down from generation to generation. I got pictures of our families as did uh the uh family tree as now the oldest of the family. And seeing the relationship that they had and uh coming as church people. We had uh both my mom and my dad's side were church people, but they never knew Christ as their Savior. Never understood it until they were married. And all of a sudden there seems to be not confusion and not struggles and not hardships. They as church people But all of a sudden there's a change. And now there's people who love the Lord Jesus Christ. And it improves. After every single generation, the relationship grows. What a blessing it has become. We honor such And then fifthly we must continue to support our single parents, our stepparents, our foster parents, our adopted children, those of blended families. All too often they're left behind. They're kind of special, left out. And this is where the the the Church of Jesus Christ, where we as believers have to give them support. I think those are people who are left out and felt lonely and condemned by the world, and I think we need to be the ones to step in and show them the love of Christ. We live in a world that is downplays childhood and causes our children to grow up too fast. I listened to an interview with a fellow, and he was saying, uh Uh it was about uh uh he's a teacher, retired teacher at Lancaster Bible College, and he said uh the the the question was, what's the difference in this And forgive me about knowing generations. Generation Z or something like that. You know, and he says he says they are they they may be um uh uh all attentive to uh the the the the screens and the electronic relationships that they're that are there, but they're looking sincerely for relationships, but they're searching in all of the wrong places. They're they're hungering for something else and they want to do things, but he says they're they just seem to be lost in in trying to find relationships that are not necessarily there. They are childhood uh lost families. One final note here, verse 5. You look at Psalm 128, verse 5, look how it ends. Ye, thou shalt see thy children's children. Somewhere I read this as a paraphrase, may you live to see your grandchildren playing at your feet. What a blessing. What a joy. What a delight. I want to close with that which is probably a pinch on the questioned, but it has been around for umteen years. There was a study done by um actually it's about 40 years ago an extensive seven-year study about a person's life And how they lived with in relationship to children and so forth. The study focused upon two men, Max Jukes and Jonathan Edwards. Have you ever heard this? Have you heard this? Some have said that they've gone into it again and decided that not all was accurate, but uh I don't know, it seems to be. Max Dukes was an atheist. that believed in the abolition of laws and rules. Mr. Jukes formed an organization called the Freedom Movement that preached free sex, no laws, no formal education, and no responsibilities Jonathan Edwards was known as the disciplinarian, not because he disciplined his children harshly, but because he was a self-disciplined man. He became a preacher that believed in by leading example. He authored two books on the subjects of physical fitness and kindness. Mr. Edwards later became involved in teaching people, being responsible for their daily actions. Both of these men were chosen for their diverse beliefs, but also because they fathered 13 children. Here's the legacy left behind. Max Jukes. 1026 descendants. 300 were convicts, 27 were murderers, 190 were prostitutes, and 509 were alcoholics and drug-addicted people. Jonathan Edwards 929 descendants. 430 were missionaries. I'm sorry, ministers. 314 were war veterans. Seventy-five were authors, 86 were college professors, 13 were university presidents, seven congressmen, three governors, one vice president. Does it matter? What God promises? You're a heritage, these children, irrespective of age, you know. I mean we can we can consider all the pictures. And if these are just two examples and again there was questions as to how gay got the number of descendants and all this and other that but I think it bears bears a a principle of truth, you know. God's promise to provide. Let's pray. Our Father, we are indebted to you for all things and mindful of of the blessings that you've given. For some of us here as parents or as grandparents or as great grandparents, for some of us as as uh uh uh surrogate parents, some of us who are praying uh for other parents and some of us who's sowed the seeds in the lives of children that we haven't seen for a long time, but we remember them and pray for them of various ages and various stations in life. May the children who are here uh understand the gravity of being a child of God, that they were a gift of God, and that through Jesus Christ they have become a child born again into the family of God. And it causes us to live in a very special way. As it was in the days of Noah, so it is in the days of the Son of Man. Lord, the world around us is falling apart, and yet we recognize the grace that is provided and the mercy that is given through families of another generation. If Jesus tarries, may we be faithful to the things we've been called to, trusting and believing that without you, we cannot have a family. Without you, we cannot have a nation. Without you, we cannot have anything And so we rely upon you for all in Jesus' name, Amen.