Is to go have you turn to Romans chapter one again. Now I was here I don't know six, seven weeks ago, and I spoke on Romans chapter one, verse one What I'd like to do is to go through a book and just take it verse by verse. Of course, at this rate, it probably be about a decade we'll get through the book of Romans if we keep up the same pace. But um But there's so much you can receive out of going just going verse by verse for uh uh uh in your Bible. And so yes, uh I remember last time here we did verse one Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, separated unto the gospel of God. And we elaborated on that. So that we find there, verse number one, is about Paul. Paul identifying himself. Who is the author of the book of Romans, the human author? Now of course you all know About verbal plenary inspiration. God speaks to the writer, and the writer, Paul, writes it down. And here he's using uh Koine Greek to write this write this down. So, and that's what we call the inspiration of God, and that was his identification of himself in verse 1, so we know who writes the book of Romans by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. Now if I were to ask you a verse on inspiration, who can tell me a verse that deals with, addresses the issue of inspiration? Anybody did does a verse come to anybody's mind about Because you may be witnessing to someone and they say, Well I don't believe the Bible God's word. I think just somebody made it up. So we want to share with them. No, the Bible claims to be inspired by God. And then they're going to say, well, where does it say that in the Bible? And then you're gonna go, uh I know it's there somewhere 'cause that's what I do that's what I say. But uh what is it? Um second Timothy three sixteen All scripture is given by the inspiration of God as profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. That's 2 Timothy 3. 16. So that's a good verse there on inspiration, and that's what Paul is doing here. Today I want to go on and look now, build upon this, because we're going to find the first one is about Paul Verse 2 is about a promise. And it's about a promise made by God. And I stress that to you because what's going to happen? You're going to go home. And someone's going to antagonize you and say, oh, you went to church today? Oh, that's good. But you don't remember what the pastor preached on. Well, here it is. Here's what he preached on a promise That's the theme, a promise. So we can remember that. The pastor talked about a promise. What kind of promise? What's it all about? That's what we're going to be looking into. here for just a few moments. But before we proceed any further, let's pray and ask the Lord's blessing upon this time. Our Father, we do thank you again that we are here today. Thank you for putting something in our heart That makes us want to be here today. How else can we explain being here? For we know by nature we're lazy, we're selfish, we want what we want. And yet we're here. We got up out of our beds and and uh dressed and came here. No, why? Why would we do this? And why would we have an interest in your word? unless you did something to us, unless you saved us, unless you sent your Holy Spirit upon our heart in an irresistible manner that we would receive the Lord Jesus be born again have the Holy Spirit in us, and now we have a thirst for the Word of God. We have a desire to live it. We have a desire to share it. So we're here today giving you all glory, magnification, and thanking you for this wonderful fellowship that you have risen up and and Nurtured and blessed, we ask now that you guide our time together. And we ask this in Jesus' holy name. Amen. Well, if we build upon verse 1, Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, separated under the gospel of God, then you go on to verse 2, which he had promised afore by his prophets in the Holy Scriptures. All right, let's talk about this promise, this promise that is made by God, and there's a couple questions we want to ask about the promise. And we're not going to identify the promise yet, because I'm taking it in the order in which the Scripture gives it to us, but we will identify the promise in in in just a few moments. But let's just talk about a promise And the question is, when was the promise made? The text tells us this. It uses the word afore. You see there in verse 1, which he had promised afore. Well what in the world is a for? That means before. A a time a a time period before in in the in in past history. Now we say, well when? But it's just talking about like Yesterday compared to the when when when this was written maybe about sixty some AD? Or is it talking about Old Testament time? Is it talk what's it talking about? Well, as you begin to research this I came across an interesting quote here by John Calvin, and on this verse he says, and I quote, his gospel has been promised and expected from the beginning of the world. So he understands that going back a forward, it's going all the way back to the creation time, all the way back to Genesis So if you begin to look in Genesis, why would John Calvin write this? But then what do you find? In Genesis chapter 3, verse 15, there you see the first promise of a Redeemer. And Genesis chapter three verse isn't it amazing? As early as Genesis, you you have here a a prophecy about a Savior coming. Now it's sort of in prophetical language, so it's not clear immediately, but as you begin to study God's word and get into it, you'll begin to see more clearly what this is. You see, here's what happens If you are outside, this happened to me just recently. What was I doing? You're outside and it's a sunny day, and you're enjoying the sun, and then you suddenly come into a dark room And for five seconds you really can't see too clearly. You may trip over a chair because you're out in the light and then you come into a dark room and you can't see real clear, but eventually your eyes gravitate to the room and then you know where the chair is, the couch is. and all this. Scripture is like this. A lot of times as you for example, as you look at Genesis chapter 3, verse 15, God says, I'll put enmity between you and the woman and between your seed and her seed It shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. Well, how in the world do you get a prophetical statement out of that? Well, at first it doesn't make sense, but as you get into the Word of God And as you as you take it apart and I mean time, you're talking about years into God's Word and reading different commentaries and studying and so forth, you begin to see it gets becomes more clear, like walking into that room, your eyes adjust and you begin to see what's in the room. Well, the more you're in God's word, things at one time were difficult to comprehend and to see, eventually they they become more clear with time And Genesis 3. 15 is a clear prophecy about a Savior coming to redeem sinful men. You have also in Genesis chapter 3, verse excuse me, Genesis chapter 12 and verse 3. There that's the Abrahamic covenant, where God says that I will bless them that bless you, and curse them that curse you, and in thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed. What's that? Him saying that to Abraham, they didn't know what that was at first, but God says, In you, Abraham, all the families of the earth are going to be blessed. What is that? That's a prophecy of the coming of Christ And so you begin to see these things. Isaiah chapter 7 verse 14. I'm sure you're all familiar with this. A prophetical statement about the birth of the Lord Jesus. The Lord Himself shall give you a sign. Behold, a virgin will conceive, bring forth a son. And you shall call his name Emmanuel. Now in the Bible there's many, many men that Word of God is pregnant with these kinds of prophetical statements Letting us know a prophecy about the promise of a coming Savior to save mankind out of the mess that he has made when sin comes into when sin comes into the picture. You know it's this way. Evol let's take evolution. Um evolution. If you're sitting in an evolution class, of course the teaching is, you know, millions of years ago there was some kind of light. Now there's never an any explanation how the life became y you you got to believe that something comes from nothing if you're an evolutionist. But nonetheless, you know, they will teach you that life came out of the Nile River, some ooze, and then and it began to multiply in cells and molecules and all this and over billions of years we have the life that we have today And but the first the first Homo sapien that you know is like a like half like a gorilla, you know, uh he becomes a man. I'm sure you've seen that picture. First you have the the the half man and he walks like this and then after another million years he starts to stand up like this and then eventually you know he becomes a man and can speak English or speak language and He can see. You know what? Just the opposite occurred. The Bible tells us the very first man upon the earth was very intelligent. probably knew God better than we know him. He named all the animals. I'm talking about Adam. He was a very intelligent, the very first human being on the earth was very intelligent. However, when sin came into the world, now things start to go downhill, and you see a regression in society, in individuals, and the world becomes a mess. And therefore we need a savior, we need a redeemer, and that's what this promise, getting back here to verse two, is two about a reference to a promise is about the promised coming Messiah. Now we want to ask another question about the promise. Who made the promise? According to verse 2, he which had promised of war by his prophets in the Holy Scriptures. Okay, but who made the promise? The promise is God. God made a promise. Now, if you look in scripture, there are probably well over. 300 promises to the people of God. Did you know that God made promises to you? And now we also know that God cannot break apart promise. You and I can. We make promises all the time and we might mean well, but you break the promise you can't you can't keep it. But when God makes a promise He cannot break it. He must keep it. That is his nature. The sovereign God fulfills all of his promises. And there are well over 300 promises to the believer Of what the Lord wants to do for us, what he will do, what he can do, and how he will guide us. For example, just for example I mean you could almost again go like this and in God's word and find a promise somewhere that He will keep for you, but I arbitrarily selected one to share with you would be Matthew 1128 And there Jesus says, Come unto me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Now that's the promise. Those of you who are, you're what, you're heavy laden. Now I don't take this to be physical. I take this to be emotional, spiritual, whatever you're struggling with something. And this could be with someone here today, perhaps somebody here today. I mean we come here, we're all dressed up, we smile, we're happy, we're cordial. Good, that's the way it should be. But a lot of times you can you know have this, but yet inside you're struggling. You're you're sad or you're discouraged Maybe you had a bad week. Maybe yes maybe last night you went to bed and there was an issue going on. Couldn't sleep very well, but out of obedience you come here today to worship the Lord. And but yet in inside there's turmoil. And here's a promise by our Lord Matthew 11, 28, come unto me, all you that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. That's a wonderful promise. I'm wondering, is there anybody here struggling here today internally? And you may want to talk to the Lord about this before we're done. Jesus says, come on. How can you come unto him? We can't see Jesus. He's not here like this, but You know, you come unto him in prayer, you come unto him in confession of sin, come unto him making he what he invites us, make your request. What's that? Philippians chapter 4, verse 8, make your request unto him And let the Lord minister unto your need. Because he'll do this. Pray to the Lord about the issues that are bothering you, where you do not have peace. Bring it before God. And if he doesn't give you the answer today, bring it tomorrow and the next day until he gives you his answer. And he will, because you are his child. God the Father sent God the Son to Calvary for you Of course, that's another issue. I won't get into a depth, but we do know your salvation is not a surprise to God. You coming to Christ, oh I didn't, oh, I'm so glad that Harry can That's not it. You are saved because before the foundation of the world God called for you to be saved. And he sent God the God the Holy Spirit to convict you of your sin. He sent God the Son to to die for your sin that you would come to Christ, be saved, and be born again. So this is all from God's promises. And who made this promise that we're looking at here today? It is God. Take John 3. 16. There's another promise. For God so loved the world, you all know this, right? You could probably say it with me, for God so loved the world. He gave his only begotten son that whosoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. And if you dissect this verse, I know to me, the verse that I excites me about is that word whosoever. Think about that. The most miserable who's the most miserable wretch you ever met? Who doesn't deserve to be saved, who has earned and deserved your dismissal, and you don't care for them, you don't like them, you won't be around them, and yet you know what the Bible says, for whosoever believes in me should not perish but have everlasting life. Even that most miserable wretch should they come under the Lord repent and come under the Lord Jesus Christ in genuine faith, God will save them. That's the promise that God gives to us. And we're looking at a promise here in Romans chapter 1, verse 2. Again, another one of God's many promises. And again, we could go on looking at the many 300 and some promises that God has made to his people, but we want to move on. So what's the third thing we see about a promise from this verse? And it is this. How did God communicate the promise to his people? In other words, there was not a loudspeaker in the sky saying, you know, repent and believe the gospel. There's none of that. So how did God commute? Now here is God. Who to us we cannot see him. He is in his throne in heaven. And yet, this holy deen is to communicate to us. So how did God select to communicate to us? Well, it tells you right here, through his prophets. So he chose to use sinful men to propagate his words. Isn't that amazing? I I try to think, if I was God, of course we've all fought that way from time to time. I would not trust the gospel to a sinful man because we're unfaithful by nature and by choice many times. Maybe I might I might send an angel, an angel that could fly around the world and and present the gospel to groups of people so you could see the angel and and you you know gravitate to it and understand it. There's many ways that the gospel could be delivered, but God chose to use frail, sinful men, prophets to proclaim his holy word. That's amazing. To me it's I'm sure that shows the the the wisdom of God and my lack of wisdom, but he chose to do it through his prophets. What prophets? Well it's the prophets here. The prophets through the word of God Isaiah, Jeremiah, David, can in Psalm 22 you see in David's writing many prophecies about the Lord and promises of his of his coming and of his work. However, with this statement The statement that God will may He made his promise and he's going to communicate it through his prophets Has a very, shall we say, a subtle implication to it. Think through that. What does that really mean? If God is going to send his word through his prophets, All right. What does that mean? Okay, that means I'm receiving God's Word. In our day and age, the prophets wrote the Word of God by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. So we have it written here. But what does that say to the other world religions? It tells us that they are exempt, meaning that they're they're uh they don't they do not have the truth of God's word. It what this tells us is that God's word is exclusionary. It comes only from his prophets. And you know today this stands in the face of How many times do you hear today the word inclusion? Everything's included. Everything's inclusion. Everything everything we're attempting to make everything the same. Everybody's the same. We all live in the same kind of house. We all have the same kind. All the same. We couldn't dare have any difference about anything. That's just the atmosphere and that's the environment of the world in which we live, but the Bible stands in the face of all of this. Scripture is exclusionary. It does exclude false teachers. It excludes false gospels. For example, take the Muslim. We hear a lot about the Muslims. And of course, their their, shall we say, their sacred book is the Quran. But you know what's in the Quran is not truth. How do we know? Because it's it's opposed to the Word of God. Uh you can take the uh Patika of the of the Buddhist religion, again a lot of false doctrine We could take the Upanishads of the Hindu religion. It may be nice little verses and things such as this, but it's not truth. We can exclude it from being truth because God's truth came from his prophets. And how do I know? How do you know that, Don? How can you say that? Who are you? Well, I look here at The word of God contained in Isaiah chapter 8 verse 20. Now here's a key verse in all of this. Isaiah 8, 20 But I will give it to you, for there it says, to the law and to the testimony, if they speak not according to this word. It is because there is no light in them. Could that be any could that be any more clear? Let me say it again. To the law and to the testimony. If they speak not according to this word, meaning here, the word of God, if they speak not according to this word, it is because there is no light in them. Now I grant you that's offensive. And now in our culture, oh my goodness, if we were to offend anybody by a thought, oh, how terrible would this be? But you know what? We live in a day and age when we're here to proclaim the word of God. It is offensive. Galatians chapter 5, verse 11 speaks about the offense of the cross. So that as a Christian, maybe you hand out tracts, maybe you may say a word about the Lord here, maybe you may say a prayer in a public way or what have you. To much of the world, you are an offense And here's the thing, you can't let that bother you. And I think we're finding many of our churches are being fearful that we're going to offend somebody. So we try to make the gospel as broad a men told me this once. He said, oh, why think the gospel should be as broad as it could possibly just include everybody we could possibly include? Of course, that guy was a false teacher. I accused him of that many, many years ago, and he went on his way, because he was a false teacher. Because the Bible and the scripture and the promises of God are not inclusive They are inclusive for those who are in Christ. It is the prophets which preach the word of God. Yes. Anything contrary to this, it's not the truth. Give you a true example of this. A lady came to our church many years ago, very enthusiastic about Jesus, loved Jesus, and Eventually she brought her one of her sons and he was believing in junior high school years ago. And I'd meet her greet her at the door. Hi, hi Judy, nice to meet you, blah, blah, blah. And what about your husband? How come your husband doesn't come with you? Well he has problems with religion and all that. Okay, well, you know, hopefully someday we'll be able to see him. One particular night we were having a church dinner. And my office was adjacent to the room where we have our banquets and things. So I'm in there trying to get my last minute things done. I could smell the food cooking and people starting to come in. I could hear this, but I kept my office door shut so I could get something done before I walked into the Dining room and there's a knock on the door. Okay, come on in. So in comes and then Dressed in a white t-shirt and a black leather jacket, something like the Fond, you know, remember the Fonds? Just like the Fon. He calls in. And he says, I bet you believe in Jerry Forwell, don't you? I said, well, um I don't believe everything that Jerry Falwell says, but basically, yes, basically I do. And I said and I said, well look, I can see this guy was wanting an argument. I said, well look, here have a seat. And and we can talk about this, and I was gonna try and make a friend of him. So we talked for a while and I said, look We're going to have dinner here in just a few moments. Why don't you join us for dinner? Come and you can sit with me and my family. We'll enjoy dinner and talk with each other. So we did Okay, so that was that. The next Sunday he comes to church with his wife, Judy, as I told you about Judy. So he comes with comes with his wife, and this is good. And then making a long story short to save time here. Maybe about six months from that date I just told you about, we had a home Bible study in his house. And every Monday night we have 15, 20 people there talking about the gospel and all this So his name is is Bill, and I said, and but I'm I'm realizing I'm really not spending personal time with Bill to sort of disciple him. He's just there, which is good. I'd like to get to know him a bit better. So I said Bill Why don't you and I have breakfast one day? Come over to my house we can have breakfast and share our lives with one another. Okay, I'll do that. So I mentioned the Vicky So think if Bill's gonna come over for breakfast on Tuesday around seven o'clock, you know, can you make breakfast and all this? Now, you know, some people may say, Oh, I gotta get up and eight, six o'clock and make it oh yeah, yeah, I'll do it. Not her. She can oh she beams. Oh yeah, I can make it. Well I can make egg and bacon and pan and cakes and she's like I mean she's a great help in the ministry. She's tremendous. And and and what a blessing that is, because you know often I meet pastors that they can't stay in the ministry because they cannot get the cooperation from their wife or from their family And and God has blessed me with this wonderful woman here. I mean I wouldn't be here, I'm quite sure, without without her support and and help Even getting here, by the way. Well, we pulled up here just at the nick I think we were way to ten o'clock we pulled up. And that thanks to her we did that. But um so Uh so we're I'm dealing here with Bill. We he comes over for breakfast and I'm getting into the gospel. But we come to this part here where only the gospel is God's word. If they speak not according to this word, it's because there's no truth in them. And Bill says, no, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait a minute, Don, wait a minute. What? He says, you mean that I have to believe in Jesus to go to heaven? And if I don't believe in Jesus, I can't go to heaven. Is that what you're telling me? I said, yes, that's what I'm telling you. No, I can't accept this. My father was the nicest man anyone would ever want to know, and he didn't believe in Jesus, and I can't believe he's not in heaven and actually in hell. I said, wait a minute, Bill, because we're saved by faith alone, you don't know the last moments of your father's life. Maybe someone got to him at the last minute and share Christ, and he may have been saved at that point, so we don't know for sure that he's lost, but If he leaves this world, not believing in the Lord Jesus, that is right, he will have a Christ-less eternity, actually. And so that day, sort of, our relationship through the distance. But we did stay in contact with each other years later, Bill And his wife moved down to Florida. And they did get the report that he did go to a church and and get involved and eventually eventually he did pray to receive the Lord and was born again from what I hear. So, you know, I pray that would be the case. But the point is this when you live the gospel, when you share the gospel, you will have a degree of rejection. You're not going to be accepted by the world And here are these verses, John 15, 18. Jesus says, if the world hate you, you know that it hated me before it hated you. I mean, think of our Savior. How did our Savior end up on a cross? And if we're going to follow him to a degree, we're going to end up on a kind of a cross. And not not to think, oh, I did something wrong. Everybody hates me. Oh my goodness, why the God the Lord tells you that is the way it's going to be if we're not going to compromise. Now we can be a compromiser like so many of our churches are doing today. compromise to get the to get the smile of the world, compromise to bring all the people in and see what a great crowd we can get. But you're compromising all the way You want to stand for God's word, and if God's word means that you have two people at your worship service, but if you are doing it and not compromising, praise God, it's a glorious thing. And uh but I know it's in our nature we want to be popular, we want to be accepted, we want to look like we're a big success, and so we'll make all kind of compromises anytime to do this And uh maybe you do that in business, but it ought not to be done in the church, but it's but it's done. 1 John chapter 3, verse 13. Again, it is stated, Marvel not, my brother, if the world hate you Think about that. If the world hate you, don't be surprised. And I can look again in my own life, I've been laughed at, rejected, ridiculed, put in jail, chased. Nasty phone calls. I mean if you do this over you know period of time, you'll get this. Now, at the same time, let me just make a little balance here as well. When we share Christ, we want to be as reasonable as possible, as loving as possible, but we don't want to compromise on the truth. The truth we must give forth the truth, and then let the Holy Spirit do what he wants to do. Okay, moving on very quickly then. What have we seen? We have seen thus far That the the text is speaking about a promise given afore way back in in uh we trace it back to Genesis. Who gave the promise? God gave the promise. How did he give it? Through his prophets. And then here's the last question, and we'll conclude today. What is the promise? We're talking about the promise. Okay, what is it? Well, actually the promise goes back to verse 1 when it talks about the gospel of God. That is the promise That God is going to give give forth the gospel or or the good news of God. And I'm quite sure I said this the last time I I was here about the gospel. We're to preach the gospel, but defining the gospel, what is the gospel? Well, in a general sense, the gospel is the whole Bible. It's the good news of God the Father, His creation, loving us, sending His only begotten Son for us. But the heart and soul of the gospel is the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. That's the gospel. And unless we tell sinners that Christ died for their sins, and we don't want to make the mistake. Did you know Jesus died for your sins? Yeah? Don't leave him on the cross. Because the power of this is that he was buried into the ground, showing to us that he was indeed dead. But then he resurrected. Seen of witnesses. Seen of many witnesses. First Corinthians chapter 15 goes on to make the point. He was seen at five hundred people at one time. And then, as we all know, ultimately ascended up into heaven and now serves as our prophet, our priest, and our king. But what is that in the gospel? He saves sinners from hell to and you know often we use that word saved. Are you saved? But do we ever define save from what? Sometimes people doesn't happen often, but you know, I'll say uh Do you know do you know where you're gonna go when you die? They said, What are you gonna shoot me or something? You're gonna rob me? Am I about to die? Well not really. But what am I saved from? I am saved from hell to heaven Well, what must I do to go to hell? Nothing. You realize that. A person does nothing, he goes to hell. What must he do to avoid hell? Be born again. And that's in the hands of God Almighty, by His grace and by H and think about all of you right here. My guess is all of you know the Lord Jesus as your Savior. I I don't know if that's a safe assumption, but I you know you're here in church and uh Uh I make that assumption, but I don't know that it's a good assumption. Do you know the Lord? I don't know if you do or not. I hope so. I pray so Uh but me but if you don't, according to God's word, you have hell waiting for you. Yes, yeah, but I've been a good guy, I've been nice, I help my neighbor, I do this, I give my money away, I do a lot of this, I do a lot of that, a lot of charity work. I help the animals, I do this, I do that, that's all good, but never get any of us into heaven. We must have the righteousness of Christ to get to heaven. How are we going to get that? By believing, by receiving Christ as our Savior and our Lord, that's how we get this. Okay, let me conclude with just a couple things there. Okay, so we talked about a promise Mentioned some things about the promise. So now what to do? Okay, you're here, you heard a sermon. Uh this is a good thing about a church. You know, the best thing about the church is also the worst thing about the church. Did you realize that? And by the way, you can say that about your life. Think about the worst thing that ever happened to you. And if you think through it, it's probably the best thing that happened to you. You know, this you you suffer, but what you learn from that, you get wisdom from this and you move on. So many times a detriment becomes a real positive, a real help to you. Okay, so we're here we hear God's word, and that's good. So therefore you get a check. You came to church today and I'm my Suspicion is most of you are regular here, you come, and that's a good. That's a good thing. You came and you heard the gospel? Good. So now when the service is over, we give a benediction, we shake hands and say goodbye and go our things. We go home, we're feeling pretty good. I had to went to worship worship the Lord today. That is good. Well it's not all that good James 1. 22 tells us what? Who can recite James 122? Now in in our church there, Marcus if we memorize James the Chapter 1 in James. So James 122 says, be ye good. Yeah, very good. That's one of our be doers of our word. Be doers of the word, not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. Well today thus far you're a hearer and you're paying good attention, which is good. You know usually I get somebody who's like But but you're all sitting up paying attention, so that's that's nice. Um but you know what? Be a doer of the word, not a hearer only. So so far you've just heard the word. That's good, but that's not the end of the story for New Testament Christianity. Not only are we to be a hearer of it, or shall we say, even a reader reading God's word, and I hope you all have like a a personal devotion. Do you have that? That's just a I'm just going to throw it out there. Do you have that every day when you are in God's Word? Do you have a system of memorizing God's Word? Because that's the next thing I wanted to share with you. Memorize it. Read it Read God's word. Number two, memorize it. I know what you're going to say. I can't memorize anything. I know that. I gave you the true story of Dr. Forcetti. Here was a man whom my wife went to a a uh What it yeah, chiropractor. So she goes to the chiropractor and so she gets in uh she gets talking to the chiropractor You know, shares the Lord with him. That's Vicky's a great witness by the way. You better get ready because if she's on you, she's going to get you from the Lord. So she shares Christ with Dr. Forchetti. And he's, you know, Dr. Furcini has a lot of questions. He's not an atheist or anything, but he had a lot of questions. And Vicky says, well, you know, I can't answer all your questions, but my husband can. He's a preacher And he said, well, we'll send him in someday. I'd like to talk with him. Alright, so she drags me into the next next meet in the next appointment. Now, walk into the office and the office is full of people waiting to see Dr. Forcetti And I think he talks to the nurse and you know, I'm here for my appointment. By the way, tell Dr. Fortetti my wife, my husband is here. He wants he wanted to see my husband. So within that, maybe a minute or two later, the nurse said, hey, you want to come in here for a minute? So I we go back to the back room. And now we're sitting down talking to Dr. Forcetti about the gospel when his office is full of people waiting to see him and we're talking about the gospel in the back office. And we were there probably for a good ten, twelve minutes. He was asking all kind of questions So I said, well look doctor, why don't we do this? Because I can't answer all your questions. You got patients waiting for you. Why don't we get together for breakfast one day? We can talk about these things. Okay, okay, we'll do so we meet for breakfast Then I challenge him over now over weeks. We w met like once once a week. I said, Dr. Fortelli, why don't we plan to memorize some Bible verses. Now the doctor says, oh I can't, I'm not really good at memory. I mean the guy's a doctor. I mean he can't tell me he can't memorize these things. Dr. Fortelli, you can memorize this. Well, like what? And I said, well, why don't we do Psalm 34? Or why don't we do a verse? I just put it this way. Why don't we do a verse in Psalm 34? And what is it? Oh Lord, you've searched me and known me. Right? You know my is that what that is? You know my down city, my uprising, my understanding, my thoughts are far off. Is that what that is? Let me see if I'm quoting the right thing here Psalm number thirty-four. Oh no. It's I will bless the Lord I will bless the Lord at all times. His prayer shall continually be in my mouth. My soul soul shall make the post in the Lord the humble shall hear thereof and be glad I'm bagnified the Lord with me. Let us just go his name together. Blah blah blah. We go through it. But what I'm saying is Dr. Facetti and I learned that together. And we learned the whole we learned the whole chapter. And and the point is, you can do this, and believe me, and if I were to give you a challenge here today, probably the person here with the lowest IQ is me. I would not want to get in any contest. Who's got the highest IQ, you or me? I'm quite sure it would be you. But you know what? I can memorize these things. And I know if I can memorize them, you can do it. It's really just a matter of desire when you get down to it So I want to encourage you today. What did you get out of the pastor's message today on a practical? Now we're talking about the promise of God, but practically, what do I get out of it? Learn to memorize the scripture And don't, well, memorize a chapter through verse 1, verse 2, verse 3, and that's a good way. You begin to see things in their context, and you can do it. I think I have it out in my in my car. No, it's in the other car. Um so I think I drive Vicky to work every day or three days a week, and so I write down on a card a verse. And then, you know, as I'm driving her to work or whatever, I'll you know, I look at diverse and so I hope I don't get in an accident, because if you hear me get into an accident, I'd probably be looking at the verse and bam hit somebody. But But you know, when you come to a stop right or wherever, you get it out, memorize it, and be amazed what you can memorize in your spare time. When we waste time, get the word of God in front of you and begin to commit it to memory. It's a great blessing to be able to have God's Memorize, have it at your disposal immediately. And then the last thing I want to say, the next thing we should do, read it, obviously, like having devotional time. Memorize it, which you can all do. All of you can do this. In fact, maybe I should give out a challenge. So if I were to come back here, let's say next month And we could give you a challenge to memorize something and then we could check in on it. So, you know, that would cut give you a couple of weeks to memorize. So why don't you why don't we just say Let's go back to Psalm 34. Then they give you a challenge to commit that to memory. And if you did uh if you did um one verse a week, You could do that a week, one verse a week. And Psalm 34, Psalm 34 is a great chapter to memorize. I will bless the Lord at all times. His prayer shall continually be in my mouth. That's beautiful. Verse 2, my soul shall make her boast in thee, the humble shall hear thereof and be glad. Oh magnify the Lord with me, let us have to. See, I can do it. And I know if I can do it, you guys can do it much better than I can. And it's a wonderful blessing to have at your disposal. We talked about mem and the last thing is this. Share the Word of God. Share it with others. We talked in Sunday school. A way of sharing the gospel, a good way of getting into it, is your personal testimony. Talking to people about what God has done in your life. In a coherent, interesting way, and then therefore you have to think about how what am I going to do? You gotta think over this. How am I gonna and the right I would recommend write out your testimony And the first time you write it and read it, you say, this is boring. You didn't want to hear this. And you throw it out and you learn how to write things interesting. Be aware of events that come into your life which will dramatize biblical principles And learn that, you know, put your testimony together, but in order to do this, what helps you then is to share the word of God. Share it. Be bold. And and and isn't it it I'm gonna get on a tangent now and I gotta stop because I know you're probably is this guy ever going to stop? Well yes I will. I'll just give you one more little Word of encouragement here. Just what happens after this? Do I have my bolt in here? Do we have it do anything else? I guess I close with a prayer and as that's the end of the service. Is that what we're doing here today? Is that what you do? Another song. Okay, we'll come over here on the song in a minute. Okay, so uh so and let me just encourage encourage you here. To share Christ. And every church needs this encouragement. Share, the be bold and share Christ. Now if you're going to do it, you have to know what you're going to say. So it takes some preparation to do it. Now we've started in in in um At the Marcus Hook church little visitation thing and we said we're going to un knock on doors. And you know when you knock on somebody's door you don't know what in the world you're gonna get. I'm not uh I'm just gonna give you a quick I'm not gonna be long, but this is uh not in this area here, but another area knocked on the door and I hear behind the door, woof, woof, woof, I thought, oh my goodness, don't open that door And the lady said behind the door, uh, just a minute, so I put the dog away. Okay, it's through the door. Okay And and uh okay, so I wait a minute, and then she opens up the door. And I see her, but behind her down the hallway is that dog. And that dog is like a German big dog. Lady walked away or something here comes the dog the dog coming at me. Now what am I gonna do? So I did what any thinking person would do. I run at the door and slam the door shut. And you know, I I escaped the dog anyway Point is when you go knocking on doors, you could 99. 9% of the time people are very compliant, very friendly. We just say, hey, I'm from Marcus Presbyterians and we have a track. I'd like to give you some good news to read? Tell me, do you do you go to a church? If not, we'd like you to come visit us. It's that simple. Go to the next door, and occasionally you're going to get somebody who wants who who's in need. And they know they're in need. And you and they'll say, Well, come on in for a second. You sit down, talk to them, explain the gospel to them. Great things happen. See if you make a dedication to live for Jesus Christ, use your time, talent, money for the Lord, your life will become an exciting adventure. If you walk in these doors today and you're bored with life, you don't know what you're going to do. kind of get through this day and uh oh you know what you're you're missing you're missing it. Use your life, make it an exciting adventure following Jesus. Be a faithful witness for Christ. Be a faithful witness and if you say I'm gonna do this, that's gonna cause you to study, to learn how to defend it, how to give it, and it will change your whole life. It will it will redirect your whole life. Therefore, when you get up every day, you have an exciting adventure ahead of you. And that's what gives meaning to life And so I'm hoping we can do this till the day I drop dead. I hope I can be behind the pulpit and say, And finally, and die of a heart attack, that would be wonderful. In other words, I want to be giving out God's word to the time he takes me home Okay, let's pray. Father, we want to say thank you that we could be here today. Thank you for this church, raising it up and sustaining it. Father, we know it's one thing to raise up a church It's another thing to sustain it. And thank you for bringing these wonderful people here to to do the work of sustenance and to minister and to evangelize and to preach and not to get discouraged. These are the people here who are not discouraged. I'm sure if this is like so many churches, many people have come through here, but they get discouraged, they get distracted, the world wins their heart, and off they go. And here are the people holding, here are this thing's holding down the fort. I pray your blessing upon them, Lord. Minister to their lives, minister to their personal lives, to their families, to their husbands, their wives, their children Be with the leadership here at the church, be with Tim and the elders and the new elder that you're looking for. Lord, we pray you rise up just the right person to do this To give this church good leadership. Help us to be bold, to reach out to the community, to see souls get saved and discipled. Do a great work, Lord. And finally, I would pray right now in the quietness of this moment that each of us may examine our own heart. And as I said at the beginning of this Uh presentation. Is there someone here today who has anxiety in your heart? Maybe you've come here and you're defeated. You're discouraged. Maybe you're angry with your husband, your wife, your children disappoint you, you're hostile to your father. All these things happen, or or you're mad at the elder, or or all these things occur Lord, we ask that you will cause each of us to come unto you today with our issues. Present them to you And follow the word of God, follow the leading of the Holy Spirit to address them that we'll move forward and become mature Christians, following the Lord Jesus for His honor and for His glory And we pray this in his most holy name, amen.