Psalm twenty-three. Let's read this together. Psalm of David, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures, he leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. Thou preparest the table before me in the presence of mine enemies Thou anointest my head with oil, my cup runneth over, surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord for ever. Beautiful psalm, a psalm that we no doubt are most familiar with to begin with. I want to think of psalms in general. You read that and we understand it as um as a piece of poetry, but not as we think of it as poetry with uh rhyming words and a certain meter involved. Um for the Jews they were lyrical poems um and seems again far from what we would have it as understood that way. As the Hebrews, they were indeed a form of poetry, and as you probably know, each psalm had a story Behind it was an example of what was taking place in the life of the writer. Some were written by Moses, but most of all they were of David and an experience of being captured, an experience of being released, uh victories, uh, defeats. And in it he brings forth his own experiences of hardships and wonderful relationships with the Lord. And they contain a variety of motions. Emotions. I think maybe more than any other book of the Bible, I think you and I can sit there and as we read it, say, I I I feel that. I experience that. Uh the psalm seems to say what I wanted to say, or it gives an indication of how I'm thinking more than any others. Because they're really hard expressions of of an instance, a situation where emotions are often expressed in such a way. For the Jews, they're sung, and you have your Psalter book there, and we'll sing the 23rd Psalm as we'll close off here. And it was an easy way for memorization to be accomplished, for them to memorize the psalms as they were sung Although I would generally think there are some psalms that are not the easiest to put together in in song. You know, they're difficult topics and difficult situations that they are bought around. The 23rd Psalm, though, if you were to ask people in general on the street, what's your most familiar Bible passage? And I kind of think in general they would say probably the Lord's Prayer. Oh, I know that. I used to say it as a child and such and such. But then I think the 23rd Psalm would come up as probably the second most popular Um you go to a funeral home and they'll have the little cards, you know, and and on the back will be the 23rd Psalm. Most all of them will do that or something repeated and a lot of churches will will say it. So it's become mentally familiar It's before us on almost a regular basis. The world itself uses the 23rd Psalm. Yet, like so many things in life, familiarity doesn't necessarily mean understanding or acceptance. You can say the Pledge of Allegiance or sing the national anthem. Time and time again that it doesn't necessarily make you or cause you to think that you're a better American, because you know that You can say the twenty-third Psalm and repeat it and I didn't look around. I would didn't want to miss a word, so I read it, even though I have been memorized, you know. Uh you can say it, but it doesn't necessarily mean that I'm familiar with what it means. For as often as we go over it, it doesn't necessarily mean that I can take it in and understand it and make good application of it So by the grace of God, I want to use my pulpit time today to begin and from successive times later on to be able to go through this psalm. To take our time on it, to walk through it, to walk with David, to allow the Spirit of God to be our teacher, to see what he is saying in his experience. And again Slow down with it. You've probably heard or read many different things about Psalm 23 We don't want to make this definitive. We want to make it like a smorgasbord. Maybe something like our lunch, you know, you go along and you get this is good and this is good and this is good and this is good. We'll just put a lot of pieces together, but walk away. satisfied. Walk away and say, ah, I feel good. I feel good that I've participated in in this particular part Before we open the door and look inside this psalm, I wanted to take a few minutes to describe the outside of this familiar of Psalms. At a glance, again, we see a poem, but not again as we think of as poetry itself. It was a song written by someone very familiar with the life of a shepherd, David. He spent many years as a youth out in the fields watching his father's flocks. And I don't know about you, but I would often tend to think putting myself in such a place, David had a great deal of time on his hands. What is it, Dad? What do you want? You know? No, there was none of that, you know. What do you do? Pull out a novel, you know, put his earbuds in and listen to the game He had a lot of time. And I say that simply because it's obviously a different lifestyle and a different situation. But David had all of the time there to be responsible for the flock, but to spend time with God. To spend time allowing himself to learn and to grow in the one who would lead him in the future. David as a king, David as a uh uh uh uh a man who went through continued struggles, um, he spent these quiet moments in feeding from the Lord. Let me ask you something. How well do you do with quiet? With silence? When you get in the car, how quick do we turn on the radio? How soon when we are away from a situation where where it is to be quiet do I enter into noise? I've gotta have some music. I gotta have so I gotta listen to something. You know. We're kind of geared for that. It kind of makes us in that that particul particular situation. Yet in such moments, David used these times of solitude to draw near his God. And I believe that was because, above nothing else, he wanted to It was his heart bent. This is my time to draw near him. It didn't mean he had no resources to draw from, obviously his family uh brought along the the things that they understood of the Lord, uh presented to him, but he's out in the field. And those are the times when he analyzes the scripture with life. uh analyzes what the word says to his heart with the life that he's living, and obviously his heart was receptive to God As a great man, David, as forty years as king, even before that, it was a result of his closeness to God. He made some really stupid mistakes, which cost him, and he admitted it. But his response to come back and and for the Lord to say of this man, He is a man after my own heart. That only could have come with his heart being in reception to the Lord So it's a challenge to us, I think, of what I do with my time. Uh do I spend my extra time, my quiet time, walking with the king Or do I find that I have to do something else to fit in in those precious moments that God can walk with us? For David, they were days of schooling and learning and preparation for life. So, irrespective of your age, allow the quiet moments to be teachable moments. From this passage about the prophet Elijah. God talks to him and he says, Go forth, stand upon the mountain before the Lord, and behold the Lord pass by. And it was a great and strong wind that rent the mountain and break it in pieces, the rocks before the Lord. But the Lord was not in the wind. After the wind, the earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake. After the earthquake a fire, but the Lord was not in the fire. After the fire, a still small vo And for the prophet Elijah, that's still small voice, what spoke to him. I think sometimes our Christian walk, we need or we desire or we seek. some earthquake or fire or wind when all along it's the still small voice in the still small moments of my day To make those times available. God, what would you want me to hear? What would you want me to learn? What would you want me to know about you? So in Psalm 23, from the outside, we see a shepherd with an understanding of a shepherd's life. But don't think of him as writing as a shepherd to shepherds. He's using the picture of shepherding, which was very common to those of Old Testament times, maybe not so necessarily common to us But the analogies are here for us to be able to grasp and to learn from. David is merely using the metaphor of shepherding to help us understand some of the timeless truths that he experienced, and the Holy Spirit guiding him to be able to say, you also experience these very same things. So we begin with verse 1. The Lord is my shepherd. That is to say, the Lord is my shepherd. The Lord is my shepherd. Think of him pronouncing that uh on on with pen and and paper before him. It's a personal testimony. He is my shepherd. There's a relationship here. We talk about possession all the time. This is mine, this is mine, this is yours. uh being with the grandkids yesterday, that was quite evident. This is mine, you know. Don't touch that. That's mine, you know. He's saying, this is my. Lord. He is my shepherd. And not that David owns him as a possession, but it's a relationship that God has already established. is provided for him. It's a personal testimony that he is his manager, he is his boss, he is his owner. And for David to say this, what did the Lord have to do to gain that relationship? What does the Lord have to do to gain such a relationship with any of us? For us to say, He is my shepherd. And it was something that he walked with and carried with through life. The key is not to understanding this psalm within this particular phrase, but also our entire life. The King James, you'll note here, the Lord is all capitals. Is Jehovah God? It is He is the one who is my shepherd. And what a glorious relationship he pronounces in that. He is the Lord of Israel, my shepherd. And again, not that I own him, but that I belong to him. I'm one of his flocks. I remember the children get up on the stage at school performing. And my sister one time, as she was getting up there, and she embarrassed us totally by saying, That's my mom, that's my dad, you know, as a brother, older brother, that was totally embarrassing. But she was saying proudly. That's the relationship I have with this one. And I can't help but feel that David writes this down in saying, this is my relationship. He is my He is mine. I am thine, O Lord. I have heard thy word. Your voice that talked to me. We sang that this morning. How beautiful it was. I want to put the relationship that David mentions here in perspective. It's almost impossible around us, but there are many places in the West where city lights often kind of uh shadow out things, but a number of years ago I was up in northern Kenya where Judith Collins is in that area, or she doesn't go there but where the area is. And he said, Where are you going to sleep? and they called it the All Star Hotel. And that means you look up and it is all stars. I have never seen clearer skies Up to that point I've never seen the Milky Way. Never. They say, oh, that's over there somewhere, you know. But there's always the city lights, there's always the clouds or whatever, and you stand up there and it is just you can see a satellite go. Go this way like this, you know. You just see it as it's so beautiful. And I look at that, I say, who created that? He lays the stars and the planets in space, measures them in a span, the prophet says. The one who David says, he is my Lord. He's the one who created this vast expanse. And we continue to send ships out and satellites out to measure this and we send them years ago and finally the signal comes back and we haven't even cracked a fraction of what's out there But my God has created all of those things. Yet He has a personal interest in me. Talk about feeling insignificant. Tiny. Sometimes I, you know, I can get so proud of myself I can pop my buttons. But then I look at this and I say, who am I? What am I? You can go down here to the, was it the little gunpowder, something or other, little creek that goes down here, you know, and scoop out a little cup of water. Put a couple drops under an electron microscope. And what looks to be clear, clean water, you'll see all little tiny guys going all through it. All types of microorganisms. That too is his handiwork. That too has been part of his perfect plan to provide for us an understanding of all of creation. From the farthest expanses of space to the tiny droplets of water, he says, These are all mine. But you, human, you, Keith You are important to me. And I can't help but come back and see David feeling all of the things that are around him and putting it all in perspective. Of him thinking of what he understands about his God. Without all the things we know, knowing Christ, knowing our New Testament, knowing all of this stuff that would come after David. All that he knew, he's taking the basic building blocks of life, and he's there, and he sees it all before him, and he is measuring his life with those and he's putting them in his pockets and he's going to take him with him for the rest of his days. He's not only memorized them for the fact of memorization, but he's buried him in his heart. The Lord is my shepherd. And he knows what a shepherd does. He knows the relationship. He knows the inferences that are there for him. Humbling. Yes, Jesus Christ, the eternal Son of God, brought us into being. The most gigantic galaxy, the tiniest microbe in our interest is Of most importance to him. For the eternal God who created these things gave his son for us. Woeful sinners who had no interest in him at all. As a matter of fact, we despised him. We hated him Our family crucified him. We pushed him aside. And yet, in it all, he says, I love them. And it comes to this this picture that he provides for us. David in the cool of the evening under the stars. Before he sat on his own throne, witnessed such. Prophet Jeremiah writes, Ah, Lord God, behold, thou hast made the heaven and the earth by thy great power and thy stretched out arm, and there is nothing too hard for thee. I kind of think as he faced the lion and the bear to defend his sheep, he thought of that. In the news this week you see the woman up in in Brooklyn or whatever hop over the fence and in the into the zoo and and there's a lion from like me to the wall away. She's going like this. I says, please. You know, David's not thinking that. David says, by thy great power and stretched out arm, you've done all of this, and you are my shepherd. So he could face the lion and the bear without a problem. He could face a giant, the the champion of the of the Philistines. you know, and say, you're nothing to me. You've defied the living God. And and my one stone will take care of you, and my other stones will take care of your brothers How could he do that? Is he a little touched? No. His heart was filled with the truth of what he knew and grew up feeding from in those fields with those sheep. This is my God. This is the feast that has been brought to us. The size of the victory was in direct proportion to the size of David's God. And that's our life too, isn't it? The size of the victory that you and I have in life is in proportion to the size of our God. If my God is just a little bit, if I only know him a little bit, if I only understand him a little bit, if I only taste and see a little bit, then the victory is only going to be a little bit But if I've come to his banquet table and I've feasted on him corporately as a body, and privately, in my own private times and my walk with him, when the victory comes, I can come up and say, Yes, Lord, you did it. You know, nothing else. Nothing else could have accomplished this but you and you alone. So David presents to us this glorious thought. The Lord is my shepherd. But what about me? I can read Psalm 23 with confidence and probably recite most of it without even looking. But what do I think about it? What part of it is in me? You know, it's no accident that God has chosen to call us sheet. A number of studies have been done between humans and sheep as far as their characteristics. We are similar in our fears, our stubbornness, our stupidity. Well there are but a few and we'll see those in weeks to come. We're very much like those sheep. There was a study done at the University of Leeds in England. That shows that it took only 5% of a crowd's direction that 95% will follow without realizing it It takes 5% of the sh flock to go and the 95% will follow. It takes only 5% of people for 95% to follow them in whatever direction. We were so much like that. To be able to stand and to be able to say, I'm doing this with God. Prophet Isaiah writes, all we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. We just, everyone, we're going to just, whatever, whatever, whatever, you know, everybody's doing it. He says, but the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. That perfect sacrifice Jehovah God has laid on him, my iniquity. paid the price. And this is important because when we think of sheep and a shepherd, that shepherd purchased his sheep. He bought them. Now in in David's case, probably his father had been raising them from uh little ones all the way along, and they're just the products of that. But initially those sheep had to have been purchased There is a price to be paid. In raising them, like any other animal, there's there's uh health concerns, there's feed, there's shelter, there's everything that goes along with it. There's a there's a huge financial investment in those sheep. And God says there's a huge financial investment in you. Not financial. Spiritual. You know, my son paid the ultimate price for you. So that interest indeed is there. Quoting from the pen of a real sheep farmer, he says, In my memory, I can still see one of the sheep ranches in our district, which was operated by a tenant sheep man. He ought never have been allowed to keep sheep. His stock was always thin, weak, riddled with diseases and parasites. Again and again they would come and stand at the fence, staring blankly through the woven wire at the green lush pastures, which my flock enjoyed Had they been able to speak, I am sure they would have said, oh, to be free from this awful owner. Look at right over there, the green field over there. Oh, that we could be away from this guy who doesn't care for me. He's just a tenant farmer, you know. He's the The hireling, not the other word that was thought of, you know. He's the hireling. He doesn't care about them. And yet that's how it was. He continues and he says, This picture, which has never left my memory, is a picture of a pathetic people the world over Who have not known what it is to belong to the Good Shepherd, who suffered instead under sin and Satan. They don't say they're jealous of us. They don't say that, but in their grief and in their pain, there are times when they come along and say, I wish I had the peace that they had. Yes, what do we do? You know. My contentment in situations, my peace and turmoil, my resultant fact is saying Uh this doesn't bother me. God's in control of it. The world they're out there in their their pathetic lives covered in sin, saying, I wish I had the peace that they had And if they don't, pop a pill or take a drink or get a shot or whatever some like to give them some false sense of peace But this is the exact opposite. We have it within our hearts. People strongly refuse, they reject the claims of Christ on their lives because they're afraid of being placed under his ownership. They don't want to be owned by him. Well, I want to do what I want to do. Have freedom to do it. Some years ago on uh National Public Radio, there were uh two men who were being interviewed. They worked on Wall Street and had uh good jobs and then the stock market crashed and they lost them and he says, Well, they weren't married, single men and they went out and they did uh um uh panhandling and acted as beggars around New York City. And he said we came to find out that there were different groups of classifications of beggars in town And some who had real needs, and they went to it, and others who did not want to be roped in. He said there were always places to sleep and always places for food But a lot of those after a while there are stipulations. If you're going to eat, we're going to have to come to our class or you're going to have to learn the skill or whatever. And he said there were a certain group that said no I want my freedom to be a beggar, basically. I want my freedom to do nothing. Nobody wants to tell me anything. And that's exactly what the world has. I don't want to be under the ownership of anybody, especially your God type of thing. And they're the sheep that are looking into the green pastures and said, I wish I had those conditions in my life. But it doesn't end there. Sheep's care. He pays the price for their freedom. This same sheep farmer said, sheep do not just take care of themselves, as some might suppose. They require more than any other class of livestock. endless attention and meticulous care. Isn't that us? He not only bought us to bring us into his flock through Christ, he provides us with meticulous care throughout life. There's not a day, not a time of the day, there's not a place that you could go if you have a need that you can't go to him and he says, I'm too busy right now. Could you call back later on? You know, I've got some other world affairs going on. He says, I'm interested at any time to hear what you have to say. I'm here to care for you. And that's what a glorious picture David is saying. You know. He says he loves me so throughout my life, irrespective of how I've wandered, irrespective of what I've done. And and he says he loves me to this point Every day we struggle, health and finances, emotional ups and downs, wins and losses, and quite often the people we look to for help aren't there. Not purposely, but they're just not there to help us along. But there is one who is always there, my good shepherd. Is the Lord my shepherd? Can you say that with confidence? The Lord is my shepherd. You read it earlier. It is a tragic truth that oftentimes church people say, The Lord is my shepherd, and yet they have no idea of what they're really saying, because it's just a repetitive type of thing You can't have it both ways. Jesus said, He warned that there is a day coming when they will say, Lord, Lord, in your name, we did many wonderful things. He says, I never knew you. My shepherd says he is my shepherd, because I know that he has purchased me. Some serious questions about your heart's health today and your relationship. Ask yourself, do I really belong to him? And do I really recognize his right to own me? Belonging to Christ is much more than just making a profession of statement. I asked Jesus into my heart when I was such and such an age and so forth, you know. But the follow-up question is, Phu, do I recognize that he has a right to own me? And in the principles of ownership, that I am responsible to him because he owns me. Just as those sheep were responsible to David. Just as those sheep that were purchased by any shepherd were responsible to the shepherd who bought them, I'm responsible to him because of what he's done. Do I respond to his authority and acknowledge his ownership? Do I respond to that authority? And it's just not in words. Yes, I go to this church. Yes, I read my Bible, I carry my Bible, but in my actions through life, in the decisions that I make, do I respond to the fact that Jesus is my shepherd? He owns me. Does that in any way affect the choices that I make In relationships, in business, in in everything around, does that does that cause give me cause to pause? And do I find a sense of contentment because I am under his direction? That's a neat one, isn't it? Are you content because the Lord is your shepherd? You've gone through some tumultuous times. And contentment maybe isn't quite the exact word that you would say. This is what I feel right now. But you put it away from whatever else exists and you say, my contentment is not on any of that. My contentment is on the fact that he is my shepherd. He's my good shepherd. And the rest of the psalm is, you know, uh proves the point. But just this relationship and what that means. Just the relationship. Do I find a sense of contentment because I am under his direction? The Lord is my shepherd. Brethren, it's something that we need to work on, to walk with. And uh the Psalm will continue to provide us with good feed and nutrition But let's take with that one particular picture and uh work on that in the days ahead. Let's pray. Father, it is our joy to be able to know your word is truth. It is a lamp unto our feet and a light unto our path. And this particular phrase that your servant David has given unto us, may that be not only our phrase, but may that be our testimony. That you are our shepherd. You're my shepherd. That you own me. That you purchase me personally All of my ugliness and all of my sin and all of my failures and all that I am, you purchased me in such a state. And desired that I be yours, and you expect me to follow you. Lord, there are times when I've not always done that, that I've wandered. There are times, Lord, that I've been worried and Overly concerned about what you're doing in me and through me and around me. But you're still my shepherd. Thank you for your love and your patience. Thank you for your kindness and your mercy. Thank you, Lord, for drawing me out of the world and bringing me into your flock, showing me that the Good Shepherd is there always to provide, to protect To give unto us eternal life, and it's in his name we pray, Amen