Anniversary of Judith's home going. Um this past week we did put out our packets of prayer letters. And instead of mailing them, I went ahead and brought the pack church packet down for y'all. It includes Jonathan and Janet Hara and Erika Chili Uh Ken and Era K Olson, you may have heard of them. Um and then I did one for the Rendili, and it's not Judas, because Judas is not with us anymore, but it is the seed or the fruit that came from her work there And it continues. So we'll put those back on the table. If you do not get them at home, feel free to take one and see just what the Lord has been doing in those particular places. and how the Lord is expanding his kingdom. Philippians chapter 3 is our text this morning. No surprise there, I trust. Philippians 3. Before we read this, let me ask how many of you prayed for me this week? No, no hands. Jacob your smarty pants, that's why, uh, You know, as we come to the words of life, the wonderful words of life, uh, it's easily to be distracted for the people who are preparing these messages. And it's easy for uh us to be distracted in the reception of it. So we need to pray for it. You need to pray as we come to uh the service into worship hour that our hearts would be right. To understand my my ears have to be open to the Spirit's call, to the leading of those things. So do that, if you would, kindly. Philippians 3, follow along. I'll be reading the first 14 verses. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you, to me is indeed not grievous, but for you it is safe Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the concision, for we are the circumcision which worship God in the Spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh. Though I might also have confidence in the flesh, if any other man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more. Circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel, the tribe of Benjamin, and Hebrew of the Hebrews, as touching the law of Pharisee. Concerning zeal, persecuting the church, touching the righteousness which is in the law, blameless But what things were gained to me, those I counted loss for Christ. Yea, doubtless I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord. For whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung, that I may win Christ. and be found in him, not having mine own righteousness which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. that I may know him, the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death. If by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead, not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect, But I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus. Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before I press to the mark of the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Amen. Father, thank you as we join our hearts together around this letter. Written to a people who were beloved of Paul, people who were much like us in spiritual need, redeemed through the precious blood of Christ, and yet were uh We're in a place where struggles, we're in a place where conflicts, we're in a place where persecution existed And Paul's letter brought to them light and truth and encouragement and help. And so may it be so with our hearts today. In Christ's name. Amen. How do you evaluate time, uh effort, and so forth and how much you put into it? How much time am I going to give, how much effort am I going to give to this or that project or this whatever? And I think I was thinking the answer is the idea is, uh, what is it worth to me If it's valuable to me, I'm going to put all kinds of time or all kinds of effort. If it's if it's important to me, I'm going to do all of those things. I was thinking Maybe it's how many years you're willing to put into education in order to become a a lawyer or an engineer or a a chef, you know. Uh thinking of a new family and how many hours of the week am I willing to put in to pay for that new house or that rental? How many hours of the week am I willing to put in to see that my family is provided for? If it's important to me, I'm going to do that. Or what adjustments am I willing to make to my diet and schedule, walking, and exercise in my week? uh do that which the doctor says in order to make the right adjustments because he says there'll be some serious consequences if you don't We spend so much of our life striving for what we want or feel that we need and believe that we must have. We sacrifice in order to gain. We sacrifice in order to become popular or to be better than or to be healthier, to obtain a certain level of respectability, to be like some no to be better than somebody else Yet when it comes to value, that which should be the most important thing in life, it's not my bank account, it's not my medical record, it's not the number of followers I have on social media. What ought to be of value to me is what happens when I die. What's my current relationship to my soul with the eternal God? And that ought to be that which is laying upon our hearts as most important. Much of the passage that we read here today is a partial autobiography of the Apostle Paul He lists some credentials. He lists uh pulls out a sheet and he says, Let me write these things down of who I am. And he tells the church at Philippi these things and for us also He does so and he does not make it as a matter of boast or brag. It may sound like that. This is who I am, and he brings up these credentials. But he does it because he's saying that he was focused, he had all of the degrees, he had all the qualifications, if this is what God expected. I lay it out before you, and this is all that I've done. But he says, if these are the things that God wants me to be, for my soul's relationship to him, that's why I say it. In our text today, we see such things. Verse 4: Though I might also have confidence in the flesh. If any other man thinketh that he might whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more. And we say flesh, we're not talking about skin and bones, you know, the meat around your body. Although there are times in scripture when that word is used for that. Flesh is the man's work. This is the work of the flesh. This is the work of the human being. This is the meaning of human efforts. Last week we mentioned the Judaizers And the Judaizers were a group that boasted in their trust in the flesh, in other words, in their efforts, in the things that they perceived to be that which was necessary to understand that relationship, the right relationship with God. It was also the matter of keeping laws and rituals such as circumcision, which basically said you can have faith in Christ and you must have faith in Christ, but you must include also certain other things. And amongst those was circumcision. The Apostle Paul says to them and to all that are at Philippi, if it's a matter of having confidence in the flesh If it's a matter of doing those things which are the ritualistic and having all of the things put together, he says, I've done it more than all of you put together. If it's a matter of doing it, I've done it perfectly more than you all. Anything you have done, I've done better. And then he pulls out his scorecard. And he just lays it out before them. Now, my presumption is that Judaizers had access or were were were there at the time when this letter was read In other words, it meant nothing to those who were in the church of Philippi unless they were people who were l leaning towards the works of the Judaizers. As we go through these, let me just say that it means very little to us as Gentiles, non-Jews. The credentials that Paul lists here, we say, so what? But in the context of what's going on here at Philippi, it fits perfectly. So let's quickly look at them. He begins in verse 5 by saying, he was circumcised the eighth day Now, obviously we were saying for those who were Judaizers, they were saying circumcision is necessary. Well, that's one thing. And Paul says, I had that. And he says according to the eighth day, that was the sacred rite of circumcision prescribed by Moses. This is what God prescribed to Moses and was written in the law, and he says, I did it perfectly. My parents understood what the law said. My parents provided this to me, so I was obedient even from that beginning time of my life, that which is prescribed for the covenant of Abraham of the stock of Israel. When he mentions Israel, God gave the name to Jacob. Jacob, I'm changing your name to Israel, and from now on you will be my family, the Israelites. And so Paul says, look at my family tree. It's pure. There's no proselytes, there's no Gentiles, no non-Jews who came in later on and said, we want to be a Jew. And there were opportunities for Paul says, no, there was none of that. My family tree goes all the way back. Of the tribe of Benjamin. He belonged to the elite tribe of Benjamin. Of all of the tribes of Ben all of the tribes of Israel, Benjamin was the only child who was born in Israel. All of the others were born outside. He was a special relationship of the son, special to David, because they were very loyal to David. Hebrew of the Hebrews. Now Paul can trace his pedigree back to the first Hebrew, Abraham himself. He got his computer out and he pulled up Ancestry. com and he says, oh, let me go back as far as I can. Let me say, oh, but we go, oh, and each layer took him all the way back to Abraham He says, my pedigree is perfect. It's like the members of the DAR, the daughters of the American Revolution. I can go all the way back to that, you know? I've done my family tree as far back as I can. We have some English and some Scottish, majority German that were found within that tree. And now we've added some Filipinos into that tree. But it really doesn't matter. My branches go all over the place. My branches are there with the inter-twistings of all types of places and things. And the result is that's who we are It's not a problem, all such twistings and movings. But for the Apostle Paul, it wasn't. That wouldn't have been the case. Paul says, my family tree is straight and lined. We go all the way back to Abraham himself. For the Judaizers, purity and lineage was key. And Paul says that if a family tree to be pure was necessary for salvation, I've done it. I've got it. I perfectly have been supplied. Now he jumps a little bit from his looking at his family to himself. He says, as touching the law a Pharisee. During Paul's time, there were three general groups that were popular or used for the most part in religious relationships to the people. There were the Pharisees, there were the Sadducees, and the Essenes. And the Pharisees were probably the most strict of all, according to the law, as far as obedience to what the law of Moses said, as far as obedience to the scriptures uh as they understood it, they were such Pharisees were noted for the strict obedience of the first five books. And he actually says later on actually in the book of Acts, he says, I was the son of a Pharisee. His father was a Pharisee, the strictness of the law He was educated in Jerusalem of a well-known rabbi by the name of Gamaliel. And in those days to be taught by a Pharisee or a rabbi, you would sit in the room with him and you would learn every single thing that that rabbi knew. In other words, when Paul received his diploma and walked off that stage, Gamelliel could say, that's exactly what I would say. That's exactly what I was thinking. That's exactly what it he he gleaned everything from this well-known Gamelliel as far as the law was concerned. All the Gamaliol knew Paul was fluent in Hebrew. He was fluent in Aramaic. He was fluent in Latin. He was fluent in Greek. And as a Pharisee, he had memorized all the Old Testament. How's your memorization doing? They were masters of the first Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, the Pentateuch. They were masters of that, but they had it memorized, committed to memory, the whole Old Testament. So, understanding all of the things of his past and the purity of all the things that he had been taught, brought up within his own family, under the tutelage of Gamalia, in his understanding of Scripture, he says, I've got this. I've got this. Now he adds another page to his resume in verse 6. He says, concerning zeal persecuting the church. Dr. Luke says in Acts, he says, breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord He says, this man Saul, before he became Paul, was one who sought, who hunted down believers, Christians, because of his zeal for God. He's not saying I'm doing this for myself. He says, I know the law, I know the Old Testament, I know what Scripture says. To purify everything, these who are called followers of Jesus are wrong And so he says, I z zealously hunted them down, sought them out. I don't think he ever personally killed anybody, but he did this out of his zeal for God Galatians 1. 14, Paul says of himself, and profited in the Jews' religion above many of mine equals of mine own nation. Being more exceedingly zealous of all of the traditions of my fathers. He says, of all of my friends and of all who are the Pharisees, of all that I ever knew in this same pact that I b belonged to, nobody was more zealous. Nobody knew more. Nobody put to practice the words that I memorized. Nobody put to practice his theology better more efficient than the Apostle Paul. Ever have somebody like that in a classroom? You know? I won't mention names, but there's somebody that I went to school with and that I would study for a test and study for a test and study for a test and And he would come along and he says, Do you study? I'll do it tonight. Next day he'd get the A and we were scraping out the C plus. You know, this is the Apostle Paul. And then he says, touching the righteousness which is in the law, blameless. The righteousness, this is how God looks upon the person. Are you righteous or are you unrighteous? Paul says, when it comes to righteousness that is defined by the law, and we've seen all of the things that he's mastered and all that, he says There's nobody pointing a finger at me. Of the 6,000 Pharisees that believe this, attaining salvation, keeping the law, basically the do's and don'ts of life To the end, nobody could point a finger at Paul and says, you fell short. Nobody could point a finger to him and says, objectively, you don't have it. Paul says, I've had it all. Chuck Swindall writes, in today's terms, that proud Pharisee known as Saul of Tarsus won all the marbles. The Pulitzer, the Medal of Honor, the Most Valuable Player, the Heisman, the Gold Medal, the Nobel of Ancient Jewry. He had they had newspapers and magazines in his day, his picture would have been on the front page and the headlines would have read Religious zealot of the decade. You know, there's nothing that Paul could not have achieved or did not achieve, at least in this stage of his life. What a list of investments that he put down. And to Saul it was worth it all. The stage in his life, and the time and the efforts, I I asked in the beginning What's what's valuable to you, what is assessed at being of greatest importance, you'll put the time into it. You put the effort into it. We're going to do this because it's needed. My heart says I need to do it. And that's what Paul said. He says, I'm going to be that which I always need to be. To Saul, this was all worth it. And it wasn't done for personal gain. He was sincerely seeking to please God. And that you have to understand. He's not doing it to become the bully of the park or to become number one Pharisee. He's doing it because what he says is his love for God. Verse 7. But what things were gained to me, and and we've gone through those credentials, and there's all kinds of things far beyond even what we even talked about. The things in my life that were gained that were put onto my side Those I counted lost for Christ. In the fullness of time, as he was on the road to Damascus with others, he was intended to persecute Christians. And the light came and shined, knocked him off his horse and blinded him. Coming to the Lord Jesus Christ, that occasion Paul had to examine his own life. His eyes were finally open to see himself as he really was, and becomes an auditor in his own books. He becomes the man to look at his his his credentials, to look at his bank statements of spiritual life, and he opens them up and those blind eyes were able to see that all of the things that he had put into life Ended up being worthless. Nothing. Zip. Gone. Absolutely of no purpose whatsoever. He discovers that he's bankrupt. His art reveals to him that all that he had, there was nothing of value. It's all worthless. I want us to see that the Apostle Paul was sincere, that he was totally committed, that he was zealous, that he was faithful. outwardly righteous and yet utterly wrong, and he was headed straight to hell. In his own heart he was righteous as everything you could see about him and everything that he did But the occasion as he is on his road to Damascus and comes to face to face with the risen Christ, he says, all of that is now worthless. Gone. Dedications and deeds, the basis of eternal destiny. Gone. The road to Damascus, he saw that blinding light and the righteousness of the Lord Jesus Christ, and he was undone. Totally lost. When the Lord Jesus Christ came to the Apostle Paul, he saw that it wasn't by the works of righteousness which he had done. But it was by the mercy of God that Paul was saved. He gave up, he says, those things that counted loss for Christ. For Jesus Christ, all of that was willingly set aside, gone, purposely left behind him. Verse eight Yea, doubtless, and I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung, that I may win Christ. I have suffered the loss. Suffered is it means I've allowed the loss. the the destruction of everything that I had built up, I willingly gave it. It was a tremendous hardship for him. He says that the things in his life that were to his spiritual advantage, that he had gained, those assets, he says, now I consider them to be as a pile of Manure, refuge, garbage, trash, worthless. And Paul's own heart for what profits a man that he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul But what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? The words of Jesus could echo in his heart. What do you do when all that you are and all that you have end up being nothing and worthless? What shall a man give in such? It's amazing how we hold on to things so much of our life and we say this is important. This is valuable. We were going through um some of the things in the house and there are some boxes in the basement that would have been there since I think two thousand seven, some when we moved into this place. And they haven't been touched And he opened them up and he said, do we want these? Well let's just hang on to them a little bit longer, you know. Let's just see for later on, you know. How about this? We haven't yet touched this, or we haven't used this It just ends up that's part of life. I found a fun little poem. It's entitled Hector the Collector, and the author is Shell Silverson. Hector the collector collected bits of string, collected dolls with broken heads, and rusty bells that would not ring, bent up nails and ice cream sticks Twists of wire, worn out tires, paper bags with broken bricks, old chipped vases, half shoelaces, Gatlin guns that would not shoot, leaky boats that would not float. Stopped up horns that would not toot, butter knives that had no handles, copper keys that fit no locks. rings that were too small for fingers, dried up leaves that patched up socks, worn out belts that had no buckles, electric trains with no tracks Airplane models, broken bottles, three-legged chairs, and cups with cracks. Hector the collector loved these things with all his soul. Love them more than shining diamonds. Love them more than glistening gold. Hector the collector called all the people, Come and share my treasure trunk And all the silly, sightless people came and looked and called it junk. How much in life are we involved in or have felt this is so important to me? And even the older we get and we look back and say, wow, that was absolutely worthless. So it is in our life, in the ends of our life, all of our possessions, all of our accomplishments, all of the hours, all of the months and days of labor and sweat and tears The things that we spend a lifetime working for will be nothing more but junk. That's when we'll surely know that the best things in life are not things But we put the efforts into it. We perceive, as the Apostle Paul did, that I can accomplish all of this if I get to this level, or if I do this, or if I apply this, and I can straddle the fence. But we can have that righteousness now, as Paul did. But what things were gained to me, those I counted lost for Christ. Ye doubtless I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count that but dung that I may win Christ. Knowing Jesus personally, experientially, is far superior to anything that this world offers. Knowing him, then this is what Paul is coming from. Knowing him, day by day, reaching those goals. However, he had perceived that to be refuse and junk and garbage. Listen to the words of Jesus, Matthew 13. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchant man seeking goodly pearls. who, when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had and bought it. When the man left the house the assumption he had gold or he had other pearls or whatever he had, and he had no intention of losing anything. His intent was to go out with what he had and buy some pearls of great value, at least in his eyes But when the day finished, he ended up being homeless, he ended up being a man who was alone He ended up being a man who had nothing except for that one great pearl, which he said compensated for it all. The value of that one pearl allowed him to say nothing else matters. And that's Paul. Paul sits on the top of the hill, on the pinnacle of life as far as he was concerned, as far as the world was concerned, as far as the Judaizers were concerned, and he says, I sold it all, I got rid of it all for the pearl of great price. The relationship to the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul says, every advantage that I had, I gladly gave up and counted that loss. And it was nothing but dung, that I may win Christ. Gain Christ. There's two ways of thinking of this. You look at this passage and you understand Paul first of all talks about his relationship to Christ as an unbeliever. When he comes to him, he says, I've gained Christ. I've got him. But now he comes along in verse nine, and be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law. But that which is through faith in Christ Jesus, the righteousness which is of God by faith. That's his salvation. By faith I receive Christ. I have such. But now he continues and goes on to verse 10. That I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death. This is Paul after he's saved. He says, I've gained Christ. I have him. He's my Savior. But what else is there? It's more, to know him more, closer. I want to know the power of his resurrection, the fellowship of his sufferings, be made conformable unto his death The day I became an adopted child, the day that I was saved by grace through faith, a gift of God, not of any works, because if there was, I would have boasted. But it was nothing more than what God has done for me. But to know him goes way beyond that. To know Christ personally, experientially. He's my Savior, but more. And and as you read Paul's letters, this is what he's striving for. I want to be closer to him. I want him to love him more. You read the hymns that we've got talking about Jesus. It's not talking the majority of them, not talking about being saved, but the closer relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. A little paragraph from Jerry Bridges. He said, This is the heartbeat of the godly person. Okay, this is the heartbeat of the believer. As he contemplates God in the awesomeness of his infinite majesty, of his infinite power, of his infinite holiness And then, as he dwells upon the riches of his mercy and grace poured out at Calvary, his heart is captivated by this one who could love him so He says the believer thinks about the infiniteness of God, his holiness, none can stand to him, his power, the richness of all the majesty of who God is. Go to Isaiah and here's Isaiah in the throne room of God and he says the the it's filled with his training and he says, I just I'm a man undone, I can't even speak, I'm I'm I'm totally unclean We come into the presence of God, that's how it is. And then, he says, then I think about what Jesus had done for me, a sinner. Redeemed me, worthless as I am, to bring me into a place where this Jesus brought me to the holiness of God and not because of something I've done, but because of what He has done for me He concludes this paragraph and he says, He is satisfied with God alone. This is the believer, the godly person. But he is never satisfied with his present experience of God. He always yearns for more. I'm never satisfied with the status quo, Paul says. He says that I may know him experientially, know God more and more each and every single day. Are you satisfied with your status quo? Sometimes we think that, you know, well I've made it. That's it. You know, nothing else to do. But the Spirit of God works in my heart and He says, no, you're not done yet. You're still here on earth. You still have time to be worked on and to be changed and to be adjusted. You're not ready yet. Oftentimes they go to nursing homes and we talk with people who are near that stage where they're about to go home to be with the Lord. Why does God keep me here? And I tell him because he's not done with you yet. In other words, you have something to do, but he's also working in you. He's also making those changes. You have not been completely worked to where he's saying that's acceptable. He always yearns for something more. Are you satisfied with your present experience with God? With your status quo, you know, it's easy to fall into a rut. Well, we always do this, come to church, carry Bible, do this as the pattern of life. How about our just general discussion? We'll wrap up the service, or we're going to have a closing hymn, have a benediction, we'll go by the separate ways, some for lunch, some go with this or that. Does Jesus ever enter into conversation? Does he become a part of our day? You know, if he's so important, Paul says, he says, I want to know him and all of the power and the fellowship, the resurrection, all of these things. I want to draw closure. If he's done that, then that ought to be expressed in such a way. You read Paul's epistles, and they are constantly talking about whom? His Savior. Now, what was Paul sending down? He says, Well, no, I'm a redeemed Pharisee, so I have to write some religious things. He's writing out of experience. He's writing out of a heart yearning to be closer to his Savior. And so he does so. He writes what's natural to him. He writes what is naturally poured out for him. He yearned for see Jesus more and more each day until we get to 2 Timothy when Paul says, okay, it's time. Guards are you know rattling the chains and I know my days come up, I've finished my run, I've done the course, I've done it all, I'm ready to go home. We're not ready yet. I know sometimes we think we're, you know, we'd like to be, but we're not ready yet. Yearn for the Savior. Yearn for his love. Ask him. May he frequent your days. May he frequent your conversations. May he frequent your thought patterns. Be frequent your your relationships with others, it's important. This is what Paul desired of of the Philippian church and they couldn't be pulled. They were being yanked away by somebody who says, You don't need that because all you got to do is this, this, and this, this. Yes, believe in Jesus because you got to do this, this, this, this. It's not that He says it's a matter of the heart. It's a matter of the heart. Let's pray. Father, you look upon us with such love and favor. And we sometimes wonder why. Because we are, for the most part, unlovely people. Of ourselves. We're like the old Paul and Saul, where we put so much time and effort into being something that we're really not That we want to be presented as something that we're really not. But then when you saved us, you brought us to be a child of the eternal God. You brought us into your family. You've adopted us as we are, sinners saved by grace. And the righteousness that you look upon isn't anything that we've done or anything that we've said or anything we've accomplished, but righteousness that you so desire and demand is that of your son Jesus Christ, who perfectly fit the bill, who did all that we could never do, even hope to do, Jesus did perfectly. And we're boggled at that. But we have, Father, still time to continue to learn more about that relationship, why you love us so, why you do that which you do in our lives. We year, Father, for such. Cause us within our prayer time to yearn for a closer walk with you. Help us, Father, to desire, to be closer to our Jesus than ever before. For it's in his name we pray.