Protestant churches uh don't necessarily call it as such, but October thirty first was All Saints Eve or All Hallows Eve. Hallows holy Eve the day before. So honoring those who had died. Hallows holy day. Here in the United States we call it Halloween. Yeah, see, you know. And other countries they have their r their particular cultural uh adaptations. According to the Roman Catholic Church, quote, All Saints Day, which is today, is a solemn holy day of obligation for the Catholic Church to celebrate it annually on November 1st. The day is dedicated to the saints of the church, that is, to all have who have attained heaven. So today, you know, we were thinking, Hallows Eve, the day before this day, a day in which the church has, it's a day of obligation, and you're obligated to honor The Holy Dead, those who have attained heaven. So on all hallows Eve 31st of October 1517, Martin Luther comes and attaches a paper with 95 grievances on the door of the church in Wittenberg, All Saints Church, uh door in the church in Wittenberg. And I guess it would be like Luther today posting tweets, you know. Got some important things to say and he pumps them out, you know. I don't know if he would have done ninety-five of those or not, but nevertheless, he really flooded it. And when you think about it, people were coming to town, this church representing this whole region, they were coming to town before, maybe on the 30th or so, but on All Saints Eve, in order to participate on November 1st for All Saints Day. They came to the church in order to do that, and All Saints Church offered them opportunity to celebrate the saints. Luther was trusting that as they came to the church, they would see his paper. Cause them to think, there is some trouble here, some problems, some issues, and maybe some debate, maybe some conflict. And nevertheless, his intent was to bring about change To bring about reform within the church. Change? Reform? Why? What did what was what was going on? What was were the people thinking? What had been been taught? And what was so wrong that needed to have change? I remind you that Luther's intent was not to start a new church. He wanted to just have the church that he had, that he was part of. Reform, change that which is from the inside. What was so bad? You know, today if you take a few minute drive within this area, And you see you'll see Methodists and Baptists and Congregationalists that are independent or a couple of Presbyterian churches, you know, some Pentecostals and a few Roman Catholic churches all around But if you live back in the time of Luther, actually, all of Western Europe only had one church, Christian Church, and that was the Roman Catholic Church. By name, Roman, headquarters in Rome. Catholic means universal church. By their very name, they were proclaiming the fact that we are the church. We are the Christian Church And so if you grew up in that time in Western Europe and you lived within this geographical region, you only knew of one. And that church was responsible, or that was their duty, to proclaim what was right and what is wrong. their dictates, their oversight of spiritual lives. They told you what to believe, and this is how it is to be believed. This is the direction that we are to go As a matter of fact, the only way to heaven, the only way for salvation obtainable for the people was through the teachings of that church. And to the fulfillment of the seven sacraments. Outside of that, it is hell. Outside of what that was taught within the church and that whole region. Was nothing but destitution. There was no hope. So why was Luther so concerned? What was he seeking to change? I mean if the church taught truth, they were responsible for the Bible teaching truth to people for salvation. What was wrong? What what did he see that was so bad? Well, if you were to examine those 95 points that he posted on the church door at Wittenberg, you would see there was a common theme. Kind of going and they're interesting to read, as Tim mentioned. But you would see there was a common theme, and that was the principle of abuse. Now today you hear those two words abuse in Roman Catholic Church and our minds go all already to the sexual scandals that's not only occurred recently, but a long time ago. And That's been around the world. And so the church has been put on trial for that. But not only that, for its entire cover up. But I present to you something today that what Luther was seeking to find reform for or change was far worse than the abuse of this day. Far worse than what we would deem the Roman Catholic Church church abuse today. What he saw grieved him tremendously There were two principles found within these 95 theses that were the central core of the beliefs that Luther wrote about. Number one is that human beings may reach salvation only by faith alone. Look in those 95 theses and you run a comb through it and you're going to come out with basically that one principle. Not works, not deeds, not by doing something, but salvation is offered by God, as you come through, by faith alone. And he pushed that. The second principle that he had was that the Bible was the central religious authority. The Bible, not the church. And so he's wishing to have some change within the church to be able to say these two areas of abuse need reform. No works or deeds, no church authority, but man has only come to God through faith alone in Christ Jesus' finished work and looking at the authority of the Bible. Basically, that's what those 95 points presented to everyone who was reading it. So here is what was happening, among other things, that came to Luther's attention. Under the umbrella of teachings of the church was a word that we've heard, but don't necessarily think about much, is indulgences and indulgences. The Roman Catholic Church defines it as, quote, An indulgence is the remission, and maybe we would use the word forgiveness The indulgence is remission or forgiveness of the temporal punishment due to sin. Some have referred to this temporal punishment as the consequences of sin. I've listened to some priests today and they'll say, this doesn't mean that a person can't go to heaven. Their lives have been forgiven through the work of Christ upon the cross. But what keeps them from going to heaven is the temporal, the sins that we commit day after day here in this life. Our thoughts, our actions, our words, our deeds, all of those types of things. Those are the temporal ones. And there needs to be something done for those remissions. So an indulgence is a means of grace that God gives in order to have your you you're yourself cleaned up maybe. Make you feel better about what's going on. And they taught five things that needed to be done in order for this grace to be given through the remission of sins in indulgences. One, pray to the Pope. Number two, go to confession Number three, take communion. Number four, do something, and that's kind of a general word. For example, go on a pilgrimage. Um go to the Holy Land, you know? You get so many indulgences for that. Uh do you remember the men called the Crusaders? Remember that? Crusades heading on in, we're going to rescue Jerusalem from these Muslims. And they fought. And so the Pope says, Well, if you go on a crusade, I'm going to give you X number of indulgences For killing Muslims. You know, that was the idea. Remember all of those who are coming to the church of Wittenberg? And they're coming to go into the church in order to see some relics Coming on All Saints Eve, they're coming on for today, All Saints Day, into the church at Wittenberg, and there's a place within the church that you can see displayed certain objects I looked up some of the interesting objects. There happened to be a thumb of Saint Anne. I don't know how many thumbs St. Anne had, but, you know, uh it was one of her thumbs There was a some straw from the manger where Jesus was born. There was a twig from the burning bush. And supposedly a piece of bread that was passed around at the time of the Lord's Supper, you know, that Jesus partook of with the the the apostles. And the church had these and many more. And apparently, as if you would properly go through and pay homage to these various objects of of relics, you could attain something like nineteen million uh years off of purgatory. See you laugh. Your purgatory is even greater. You know, we think of that. And yet The people had this burden on cleaning up life by doing these things, an act or work. Now, one that was also included within acts or works was the matter of Giving. Giving of alms. And it's good to give to the church. Right, Pop? It's good to give to the church. And yet, when the giving to the church is perceived as something that you obtain something more from, in other words, if I give, I'm going to receive remission for sins. And so as this went on, it built up. The need for money caused the increase in the desire to have people pay for indulgences. Don't go on a trip, just pay for it, you know. As time went on, Luther saw this abuse even more clear through the man by the name of John Tetzel. John happened to be a Dominican friar. He was appointed as the subcommissioner of indulgences in a region that was close to Luther. He was in charge of collecting monies and giving, in essence, a receipt, depending on how much money you gave you would receive a seat, and that showed how many indulgences that you had to your particular account. But a statement that Tetzel made that he is known for throughout all of history, when the coin in the coffer rings, the soul from purgatory springs. So as the uh coins were taken out and dropped into those coffers, is he saying, Your loved ones, your family members, mom and dad, brothers and sisters who are now in purgatory. being burned to cleanse themselves, you can release them from the torture that they're going through by just adding more money. So the issue that Luther saw was that this became uh a real twisting uh of of of works and showing what was could be done. Now, that's for those who have died, but what about if you live today If you gave enough in this and you had enough indulgences, you could pay for sins theoretically in the future. I'm going to go out and party tomorrow. I'm gonna be really bad about it. I'm no gonna I know how much it costs as far as sin is concerned, so if I pay X number of coins, I can cover for sins for tomorrow. And so you're in essence, you're buying your way for the forgiveness of sins. And this burdened him tremendously. It's interesting that Tetzel was involved in this in order to obtain funds for the building of St. Peter's Basilica, which took over a hundred years. You thought this was a long time in getting this built. Took over a hundred years to beetle St. Peter's Basilica at a cost today of $5. 4 billion. $5. 4 billion. Can you imagine how many people thought that they were getting relatives released from purgatory, probably in hell anyways, and never occurred. Remember the two points that I mentioned? Core beliefs of Luther's 95 Theses? The first was that humans may reach salvation only by faith alone, not by works, not by good deeds. Well, what was the church doing other than laying down a pattern of works and deeds when they say all you need to do is pray to the Pope and go to the confession and do this and do this and do this and do this To the common man, he says, this is obvious to me. This is of tremendous clarity. I do this in order to be released from my sins. It was not only a system based upon not upon faith alone, but it was based upon faith plus works. that allowed sins to be forgiven and access into glory to be obtained for all people. This was the kind of abuse that Luther could not accept, because in his eyes it was not biblical. He says, I've read my Bible. I've opened it, and I understand what the Bible says. And that's why he wanted reform with them. Let's get back to what the Bible says and not for these traditions of men that have so occurred Which takes us to the second point that was core belief in the 95 Theses, and that is that the Bible is the central religious authority in life, not the church. Interesting that fifty years after Luther's 95 Theses, the church officially banned the paying of indulgences They said, oops, maybe we've kind of done a little bit overboard on this. You know, let's drop that and and not do it, you know, because of the abuses that were taking place So in this is they admitted to wrongdoing with indulgences, but when it came to the Bible as the only authority, that really wasn't going to be allowed. I want to share with you a smattering, just a smattering, of what the actions had taken place through the Roman Catholic Church as far as the relationship of the scriptures to common man. We go back to the year 1199. Pope Innocent III writes a letter to a bishop in Mainz, France, which banned the Bible in all private meetings. Bishop, charge of the area. No Bible readings, Latin or French or anything, to be in private in in private meetings. In other words, you could do it that was in the church In other words, under the umbrella what the church teaches, but let's keep it out of the homes in that way. Thirty-five years later, the Second Council of Tarragon, which is in Spain. Declared that, quote, nobody may be in possession of an Old or New Testament books in their mother tongue If someone has such books, they must hand them over to the local bishop within eight days of this announcement and the ordinance, and they can be burned. So, in your own mother tongue, well, how many people read Latin? You know? It'd be like for us today. You know? Having a service of of of of Latin and you sit there and say, Uh, what's going on? So they wanted the scriptures in their own mother tongue, and he said, You can't And the only way you're going to hear the scriptures is if you're in the church where Latin is done and you still don't know what's going on. 1246. The Synod of Baziers in France decided that the laity should have no Latin or vernacular, and the clergy no vernacular theological books. In other words, let's not study. Clergy, you can only have Latin books, but nothing in the native tongue of where you are from. Lay people, you have nothing. You can have nothing. It's officially against what the church holds to. The Council of Talus 1299 declared that we prohibit also the laity should be permitted in having the books of the Old and New Testaments, no Bibles. 1376, this is 107 years after Luther's birth. I'm sorry, before Luther's birth. Pope Gregory XI ordered that all literature on the Bible should be placed under ecclesiastical direction A hundred years before Luther was born, the church is saying nobody is to have any theological literature. Bring it to the church. The church will oversee. We're doing this for your own protection. And then Henry VIII of England, and Henry is a man who vacillates all over the place, but in a proclamation in the year 1530 He said that the prelates and other church officials believed that there was no need to translate the Bible into English and put it into the hands of ordinary people. So the old adage of let's keep it in the hands of those who have need to know, who can interpret it properly in order for you to be able to understand it. With the exception of Henry VIII's statement, all of these church declarations to keep the Bible out. of the hands of the people, especially in their own language, were made before Luther. And to be honest with the after Luther, those things continued on. Probably for about a thousand years the church officially banned the Bible into the hands of the people. A thousand years, keeping it out of their hands. Yet that didn't translate properly into the hands of the Protestants or the Reformers. As a matter of fact, as With the advent of the printing press, uh Bible printing and and other literature flourished, uh especially after Luther's 95 Theses. Luther finished his New Testament translation, German, a common language of the German people, in 1522. And within three months Within three months, 5,000 copies were sold. People were hungry. By 1534, Luther had finished his um uh complete Bible. And it was said by that time, 40 years after, that oh one in three families in Germany had a Bible. If you had nothing, and then all of a sudden, within 40 years period of time, every third family, at least, had a Bible within their houses, translated into the German language. Watching the news this past week and talking about the fires in California, they talk about the Santa Ana winds picking up a spark. And it carries it not just across the road, but it carries it yards and yards and even miles down the road. And it finds a receptive field of dry grass and brush. And all of a sudden that field erupts with flames and it consumes everything that's around. What Luther provided in this principle, this truth, this awakening, that the Word of God was necessary as the authority of God for salvation And that Christ alone, faith on him, was the basis for our salvation, spark. And it went from here to there to there to there, and it erupted all over Europe. and it consumed the lands. Not that Luther or Wycliffe or Tyndale Or any others who did translation that never thought of that as their purpose. We want to do this, but their purpose was to get God's word into the hands of people. That they alone, led by the Holy Spirit, can come and know and read and understand what's there. I have planted Apollos water, but God gave the increase. So then neither is he that planteth anything, neither is he that watereth, but God that giveth the increase. Not that these men were anything in and of themselves. They're not. But they were instruments of God used by Him at a particular time to accomplish His purpose to do his will in order that people might be saved. Look in your Bibles, please, to 2 Timothy chapter 2. That was my introduction, by the way. Second Timothy two. And as you know, as we look at God's Word, I want us to one hand hold on to the Reformation thoughts. You know, what was taking place. And again, that was a flyover, sometimes a little bit fast, over hundred or so years of history, but nevertheless principles of truth And we include in that what was the purpose and behind it and what those people went through, even to martyrdom, in order that the Word of God would be there. Wherein I suffer trouble, as an evildoer, Paul says, even unto bonds. Even unto bonds. Paul wants Timothy to understand that the work upon which he is starting and is engaged in, we've talked about this for a number of weeks, is going to be difficult I am in prison. I'm going to die soon. Timothy, all others have forsaken. They've abandoned me. And I want you to understand that hardship is going to be paramount in your life. If you're going to stand for Christ, this is what it's going to take. And he describes his own situation here. He says, yet you continue, Timothy, and I think he's writing these words. to encourage him, to strengthen him for the purpose for which God has called this young man in service. Remember, Jesus Christ, verse 8, of the seed of David, what? Was raised from the dead. You think of the martyrs throughout the period of the Reformation. And even during the first century, and how many just gave their lives for the Lord. And Paul says, Timothy, remember, keep it ever before you that the tomb is empty. He's not dead. He was raised from the dead according to what I'd been preaching, the gospel. Hold that, Timothy. You read through the book of Acts, and every sermon that you find preached in the book of Acts mentions the resurrection. If there is no resurrection, what do we have? Zip. You might as well go out and start doing good deeds in order to make God smile upon you. The process for which the Catholic Church had been laying upon the people, give, pray this, do this If the resurrection is not true. But the power of what Paul is presenting to Timothy not only held true for Timothy, but for all of those who followed. Timothy, focus your heart's attention on the resurrection and not on Nero. Not on the bodies that he was lining the the hallways of his of his uh his gardens with, up on crosses and setting them on fire Don't let that be afraid. And death may be something that you will have to face, a tragic one, Timothy. And and I have no idea what mine is going to be. But what I'm holding in front of me, that death is just a door into glory. He says, this is so priceless, Timothy. Hold on to this. The truth of the resurrection of Jesus, that he is alive today, is what carried the reformers through imprisonment and torture. And even many cases death. Verse 9. Wherein I suffer trouble as an evildoer, even unto bonds. Paul's gospel, the gospel that he preached, put him in prison. And this word bonds can be translated to literal, to chains, you know. Yeah, you the the cuffs and the legs and all that, but can also refer to as just general imprisonment. I'm in bonds, I'm in jail. And and we have no idea. I don't think it was a very pleasant situation Here is a man who was again uh was this what do you call it when you have third time you're you're arrested for the same crime, you know. You know, you're going to jail this time. Well Paul's been in prison how many times? And this is it? The final time. And he says, I've been put in these bonds because of the preaching of the gospel. I'm on death row. And yet what I hold before me is the resurrection of Jesus Christ. I'm bound. Yet the end of verse 9 says, what? But the word of God is not bound. The word of God is not bound. It's not some ethereal thought that Paul threw out there He's holding on to this principle that I may be bound. My preaching may end in so many days or weeks or months, but God's word is not bound. It can't be bound. It can't be limited. Isaiah 40, verse 8, the grass withereth, the flower fadeth, but the word of our Lord, the Lord of our God shall stand forever. Isaiah 55, 11, So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth. It shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereto I send it. So why were the reformers so pro-Bible? So they could make money on selling, you know, Luther's New Testament or German version, you know, or Tyndale or Wycliffe's work or any of those? No. They were pro-Bible because it is the Word of God and it will accomplish its purpose to bring men and women and boys and girls to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. And not be bound up in a system of works and deeds that failed the souls of humanity, put him in darkness, kept them locked up in their hearts. Why was the Roman Catholic Church so ardently opposed to the scriptures placed in the hands of the laity, the common man, in their own tongues so they can read it for themselves? Well, for one, it would show their hypocrisy, their lies. It would show that what they have been teaching for generations and generations has led men astray. And so that is exactly what the Word of God had done as these scriptures were printed and put into the hands of people. I want to read an old German poem to you, and it's not in German, because I don't know German. But it was translated by Thomas Porter. He writes, Did devils fill the earth and air, all eager to devour us? Our steadfast hearts need feel no care Lest they should overpower us. The grim prince of hell, with rage, though he swell, hurts us not a whit A little word can rout him. Because his doom, because his doom is writ, the word of God will never yield. To any creature living, he stands upon us, he stands with us upon the field, his grace and spirit giving. Take thy child and wife, goods, name, fame, and life, though all this be done. Yet have they nothing won, the kingdom still remaineth. And we know it as what? Mighty fortress, you know. We sing that hymn. But the words are tremendously more powerful translated out of the German, you know. What they went through. He says, take all of these things, let them go, because one day the kingdom obviously shows forth in Christ in all of his glory. What's your relationship with your Bible? How is it? What is it what's that relationship? Is it a regular part of your diet? Is it your ready reference? Used occasionally? Seldom? Or maybe hardly at all? I did my best. I have years ago there was a library that was selling books to make money. Pastors often find their way to book sales. And there was a Bible in there and it was, you know, binding up and I thought, oh man, that's nice. And I opened it up and and opening the pages, the uh the the it was like it had never been open. You know, and the front cover was you know from Aunt Susie and Uncle Jeff to uh uh to you know nineteen fifty three. And you know just like crack well thank you I can breathe, you know. And and the the the sides, the bottom and and the ending here was red But the top was pink. It sat on a shelf, my guess, and the sun was on it, and it bleached that red color to pink. And it had never been used. And so the person dies and he says, Let's give these books to the library and they can they can sell them. What's our relationship to our Bibles? How do we look at it? If it was during the time of of the Reformation, you know, we'd say this is a treasure. I give my life for it in order to see that what I've been searching for is found in it. Oh, that I could read it and know about it. And pass it to somebody else and give it to them. The shackles that we've been under are all cast away and all thrown off in order that we might be able to be free Think of what the reformers went through to see that this book became available to the masses of people, not as a book, but as the Word of God, which cannot and is not bound. The only thing that binds this Bible, these things, are us. I keep it closed. I keep it as a distant book, something that I say I agree with, but I seldom make it part of my daily diet. It's the offering what God has given in order not only that we are saved, that initial phase of life when I come to accept what Christ has done for me and brought into my life But the continued salvation of my sanctification, where I'm growing daily in him, and then gives me the tremendous hope of that which still lies ahead, of the glories that are available. Of all the offerings that God has provided, the promises, the precious promises, the personalities of the men and women that are there, that are so much like you and I. But if it's closed, if it's a bound book to my eyes and my ears, then it serves me no purpose. And it's like being part of the Roman Catholic Church. Or whatever they said, that's what I believe. Or whatever so-and-so says, that's what I believe. And I don't open it and I don't see it for myself Verse 10, Paul says, Therefore I endure all things for the elect's sake, that they may also obtain salvation, which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. I endure these things because I am a nothing. And I'll endure it because the word of God is not bound, and it will go to the hearts of those who are elect for the eternal glory of God. Verse 13 or verse eleven. It is a faithful saying, and this is beautiful. They're comparing statements here. For if we're dead with him. We shall also live with him. If we suffer, we shall also reign with him. If we deny him, he'll deny us. And if we believe not, yet he by the faithful he cannot deny himself. God is faithful. Now how do we know that? Because his word is filled with that. And that's what took those men and women and families all through the Reformation time and even to today. Even to the countries where Christianity is severely persecuted, why do they continue to do it? Because of what we have and what we understand and what God is doing within their hearts. We need a renewed interest in God's Word. We need to make it fresh daily to my own soul. That I can find it and say, boy, this is I never saw that before, you know? Lord, help me. Am I going to read this today? Help me to understand it. Help me, Lord, to find the time where I'm not bothered by something else that I can approach it and read from it because many had given their lives for the very thing that we hold dear. That we hold dear. Reformation. What needs to change, what needs to be reformed, it's right inside my heart. My heart needs to change. Let's pray. Father, we rejoice that we have such a book and that we have a heritage of men and women who had gone before us, distant names, some familiar and most not, that were committed to translate and to present published works that have truth within them, Bibles, and tongues to the nations, and we have it for ourselves today We have it in our homes. We carry it around in our in our computers and our cell phones. May Lord it not be a a a closed book For it is so valuable. May it feed our souls. May Father you bring reform within our hearts, change that is necessary. And we'll praise you for what you can do and will do in Jesus' name. Amen.