Now I'm going to be speaking on see I debate I memorize this sermon and yet you know sometimes you can forget something so I just I don't really don't like to use notes. I like to give you Eye contact the whole way through. But then also I could forget something, so I have my notes here to look to look into. So anyway, the point is I'm looking here in Romans chapter 1 is gonna be the discussion for the day, the the message, the sermon, whatever you want to call it, Romans chapter one. Now each time I've been here, I've been in Romans. Right, I've done Romans 1. 1, 1. 2, 1. 3, 1. 4, so now I'm going to do Romans 1. 5. Um now, if you actually I'm anything but a Greek scholar, I don't want to come across that way, but your New Testament was written in Greek. And it can help you, especially uh Greek is very helpful if you understand the verb. Learning under how the verb action takes place. Greek is much more clear than English. But just it just out of just out of curiosity, maybe I can raise some interest here. And I'm hoping See, people say, what do you want to talk about Greek for? Nobody knows that. But here's the key. I'd like to stimulate maybe some of you to actually begin to look into some of the original languages. There's all kind of books out there, there's tapes out there which can help you to dig just a little bit deeper into God's Word. If we were to look at this text, Romans chapter 1, verse 5, In the Greek it would sound like this. Oi uliboman keron chi apostolane ace hyperne pistos ain Paison, toys, eliasin, who pair, tone, onomatos, altu. That's 17 words in your Greek. But you put that in English, it comes out to 19 words, and it sounds like this. by whom we have received grace and apostleship for obedience to the faith among all nations for his name. So you you know making that translation from the Greek, which can be very precise, and then you go into your English. And by the way Understand this. The best translation from the Greek to the English is your Old King James Bible, by the way. You know they have a lot of those modern things and I tell you, they change the word it. They tell you it's a new modern trick. They change the word. I'm telling you, it gets changed. Your security is right here in your old King James Bible translators. They did a marvelous job. And so I I know you do use the Bible, the repeated King James here I'm so happy to hear to hear that and to learn that because that's what I think is accurate. Okay, so we're looking here in James chapter one, verse five. But I do want to say a couple things about the verse before we actually get into it. We do know the author of the book of Romans. The human author is Paul. We know the author or true author is God Almighty, because we know all scripture. Now who knows? Probably some of you can recite this, 2 Timothy 3. 16 All scripture is given by the inspiration of God. It's profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction in righteousness that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. That's a verse about inspiration. Why do you Christians look at the Bible? The Bible's an old book. The Bible is inspired of God, meaning that when Paul was writing The Spirit of God held his pen and moved Paul to write the things that he did. These were not Paul's ideas. They were given to him by the Holy Spirit. And that we call that verbal plenary inspiration. God spoke to Paul. Paul writes it, writes it down. Now Paul wrote about 14 of the books of the Bible, if you include Hebrews. So he wrote much of the New Testament, and of course he did this book here, the book of Romans. And so we refer to Paul as an organ of revelation. You may find that if you're reading a theology books, you see the phrase organs of revelation. That simply means the people Approximately about 40 different authors God used to write scripture, Old Testament and New Testament, and we refer to them as organs of revelation, and that's what we understand Paul to be. If we look at this the structure, or we could say the theme of the book of Romans In its core, Romans is doctrine. It's a doctrinal book. It's probably the greatest doctrinal treatise of the whole Bible. When you want to know doctrine, if you're studying doctrine, Romans is the book you want to be in. Of course the whole Bible has doctrine, but it's it's concise in the book of Romans. Now for example, you all know you all know the meaning of the word tulip. I believe I'm in the Reformed Church. You should know what that is. If I say tulip, you understand what that means. Okay, well here's what it means. T-U-L-I-P, and that stands for some of the major doctrines of historic Christianity. T means total depravity Your Bible teaches the total depravity of man. He can't save himself. He's totally lost. You means unconditional election. God the Father made an election of sinners to save. And he didn't say, well, I'm going to save this person because he's a white Caucasian, or I'm going to save this person because he's an African or this person because he's from China. None of that. But God's election, uh, it's unconditional election. That's T-U-L. L means limited atonement. That when Christ died on the cross, he died for the sins of the elect. He did not die for the sins of every person that has ever lived. Because if he did, there would be people in hell with their sins paid for. That doesn't make any sense. So when Christ and here's the beautiful thing. Although I assume everybody here is a believer. That's not a good thing to assume, but I'm going to do that for make this point. That when Christ was on the cross in agony and dying for our sin, you were in his mind. He was dying for you, he was dying for me. His elect your salvation is not a surprise to God That was the plan. And God is effectual in all that He does. Now for whatever reason, I know you are probably like me a miserable sinner. having earned and deserved hell, that's where I should be, and yet by God's grace and mercy he saved me. I don't understand that. By God's grace and mercy, he allows me to actually stand behind the pulpit and preach the gospel And probably the least worthy to do that. I don't that's got purely God's mercy. When you see Don Britton standing behind a pulpit and preaching the gospel, that's mercy, believe me. And uh that's what we have. T U L Now, I, T-U-L-I stands for irresistible grace. So for whom Christ died on the cross, that person will believe. It's not God is in heaven. Oh, I hope that Don believes. Oh no, he will believe because God gives us irresistible grace. T-U-L-I-N-T It means perseverance of the saints. If you are saved, you will continue on and live for Jesus till the day you die Now you may go through some rough times. None of us are perfect. We all struggle with sin. And sometimes the sin gets the better of us from time to time. Of course, that's why you have 1 John 1 9 What's 1 John 1 9? Can anybody recite 1 John chapter 1 verse 9? That should be up here because that's key if you're going to have a vibrant walk with the Lord. Understand this. When you sin, and you will sin from time to time, 1 John 1 9 says, if if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. To confess our sin. And to confess the sin means to name it. You don't want to be general. Well Lord, I sin. No. You want to name what it is. Tell the Lord, yes, I did this, I stole that money, I lusted after that woman, I lied to this man over here, I lied to the pastor, I lied to my teacher, I didn't pay my taxes, I lied about my taxes Tell the Lord what you've done. You have to name it. If we confess our sins, then what? He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. And to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Isn't that beautiful? Because from time to time you are going to so we all, not just you, me, all of us, we do. from time to time. But that's the tulip principle. And if you can get that in your head, you're learning major doctrines of historic Christianity. So the book of Romans is basically a book of doctrine. There's so much doctrine in the book of Romans. Now let's talk about the context of verse 5, which I'd like to get into today for just a few moments. We know that verse 1 is about the Apostle Paul. And then basically verse two, three, verse two is about God's promise. Verse three is about Jesus. Verse four is about Jesus. And we should not be surprised when I'm saying verse 3 Jesus, verse 4 Jesus, because actually the whole Bible is about Jesus when you get down to it. Yes, we're looking at the development of the Book of Romans, but when you get through with the Book of Romans, or get through any of the book, for example The book of Genesis, when you analyze the whole theme of Genesis, what do you see? You see the offspring of the woman will crush the head of the serpent Who's that? Jesus. If you look into Leviticus, there it's about the Lamb of God. Without the Lamb of God. If you look in Leviticus, it's about how Jesus is our high priest. If you look in the book of Deuteronomy, you see where Jesus is a prophet like unto Moses. Now I just went through the Pentateuch, but you can go through the whole Bible. And Jesus is a major figure in every book of the Bible, if you look carefully, if you look carefully, because you have here between between Genesis and Revelation, it's stories over and over and over again about the Lord Jesus Christ. He's in every part of the Bible, and that's a glorious thing to behold. Well, having given some introductory thoughts here about about the book of Romans and my thoughts here, let's look for a moment into verse number five and see what we can get get accomplished there. So you have Romans chapter 1, verse 5, and it says there, by whom, and now you go back, what's that about? By Jesus Christ, by whom we have received grace and apostleship. Let's talk about the word received. Again, didn't I tell you in the Greek? The Greek is much more specific in terms of the verb system of language. And here I just want to talk to you for a moment about getting the idea of receiving something. This text is primarily about the believer receiving something. Now how can we get this in our head? Well in a couple, I guess in well very shortly now, we're gonna begin the football season. So let's look at a think of a football where the quarterback gets the ball He talks his arm and he throws the pass. So the receiver is there and he puts his arm out and the ball falls into his hand In that analogy, the receiver is passive. The ball is coming to him. The action was done by the quarterback who cocked his arm and put the effort and energy into throwing the ball. But the receiver just puts the hand and the ball comes to him. He is passive in this whole action. And that's what we find in this verb here. We're going to find that we were in this text we received something The whole idea is to know that you are a receiver of the truths that are going to be put before. Now understand. As a Christian, we receive many, many, many things. I don't know if we could count all the things that we receive. For example, when one repents and believes upon the Lord Jesus Christ Many things happened and that at that instant. And you know there was a track out years ago, I wish I had kept it. And and the fellow listed All the things that occur to a believer the moment he believes in the Lord Jesus Christ. But here's a couple of them. Before you are saved, you're headed to hell. When you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, your eternal destination changes. You're now headed for heaven. Before you were saved, You were all you had was was was intellect and reason. But now that you are saved, the Holy Spirit, you receive the Holy Spirit. He comes into your life, guiding you, motivating you, teaching you how to live the Christian life. And there's many other things. When before I am saved, I'm wandering in the wilderness, as it were, by myself. But when I am saved, what? I am received into the church. And I now have fellowship with the other believers. And as you go through scripture, it is interesting to observe all the things that you receive. When you come under Christ and the blessings are paramount. They go on and on and on. Here in our text, we're just going to talk about two of the many things that we receive when we believe upon Christ as our Lord and our Savior. This text, the first thing it mentions is the word grace. I'm sure you've heard of grace. Sometimes you're probably sick of hearing about the word grace, grace, grace, but but you know what? You cannot really emphasize grace too much. Grace comes from that word from the Greek word Karen. It's used about 130 times in the New Testament. So it's a major doctrine. Grace. But what is grace? Well, again, you probably know, but I'll say it just to refresh your memory, but basically putting it in the simplest terms Grace is you, the sinner, receiving that which you do not earn, that which you have not earned, and what you do not deserve. You're getting something you don't deserve. So if one of you were to come up here and punch me in the nose, oh here, let me give you five dollars for doing that. Well would would he would he Was deserved the five dollars? Of course not. I'm but that yet I'm giving him something good that he did not earn or deserve. He deserved he deserved a counterpunch by me, but rather I gave him five dollars instead That was grace. Grace is giving us that giving us his smile. You know the word propitiation. I think that word is used about three or four times in the whole New Testament, propitiation. Propitiation, in its simplest term, means that you receive the smile of God. God is smiling upon you. That's what Jesus is our propitiation. Because we are saved and Jesus is our propitiation. When God the Father looks at us, he smiles. We receive the smile. That is what propitiate and is very very closely related to grace. Grace is receiving something good, holy, and wonderful that you did not deserve, and that I did not deserve. What I deserve is hell, damnation, and rejection, and what I'm going to get is heaven, forgiveness, and the joy of the Lord. Now, Ephesians chapter two, I'm sure somebody here has this memorized, but I'm not going to ask, raise your hand because I shouldn't do it, but but the point is Ephesians chapter 2, verses 8 and 9, if you're talking about grace, it's probably the classical verse in the Bible. For by grace, there that is, undeserved mercy, for by grace are you saved? Saved from where? Saved from hell to heaven. For by grace are you saved through faith. And not not of yourself. Did you get that part of it? It's not of yourselves. Your salvation has nothing to do really with you. You're saved in spite of yourself. I am saved in spite of myself. For by grace are you saved through faith and not of yourselves. And then it goes on to say, it's a gift of God. Isn't that beautiful? The fact that you are here today, you love Jesus, you have the Holy Spirit in you, you love God's word, that's a gift that God gave to you and to me. It's a gift that none of us deserved it. But again, out of the abundance of God placing his mercy upon us, he gives us this wonderful thing of salvation, and it is by grace. For by grace are you saved through faith. Not of yourselves. It's a gift of God. And the last phrase is not of works. Isn't that beautiful? Scripture making it so clear. It's not of works. We tend to think, well, you know, I stress this because here's what's going through probably somebody's mind. You're thinking You know, I was raised in a Christian home. I've gone to Sunday school and church probably all my life. I have a nice family. I'm faithful to my wife. I love my children. I go to work every day I support the church. Certainly God would take me to heaven. But all of those wonderful things I mentioned would send you straight to hell. The only way we're going to go to heaven is by having God's grace upon us, which therefore as a result of Him giving us grace, we then believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ. We are saved, and of course we have heaven But and and I stress this because we tend to think, well, you know, I'm really pretty good. I'm not a bad guy. God certainly God wants to save me. But that's really not the case. You are a miserable wretch before the holiness of God You know, the verse, uh Luke chapter 18, verse 13. And there it is about um it is about the publican. Now, you know, in scripture, a publican Is a is a miserable immoral unethical wretch. The publican, you may know s I'm sure you know somebody in your neighborhood or in your circle of acquaintances or somebody who's who if I use the phrase a scumball, somebody's just down low, I'm sure in the during the time of your life you've met someone someone like this. That's a publican And what is the publican's prayer recorded in Luke chapter 18 verse 13? It's a beautiful prayer. And he simply says, when he hears it, he says God be merciful to me, a sinner. What a beautiful. That's probably one of the better prayers in the whole Bible. He understands it. God, holy God. What's he praying for? Mercy. He's not praying, make me powerful, uh, lead me to no, give me mercy. That's all I want. This miserable he understood. He understood he was not worthy. He understood that what he deserved is hell. And now we say it. I say something, yeah, we all deserve hell, but I really think, well, do we really? Because we're putting yes we do in in God's turn. But here's the publican God be merciful to me. He's confessing I am a sinner. And my only hope, my only hope for heaven is if you're merciful. If you're not merciful, I have no hope. That's a beautiful state to be in because that's really how we come to the Lord. We've got as we see ourselves from God's perspective. We ha all have earned hell damnation and all this and yet we're going to have forgiveness of sins, heaven and a wonderful thing. Why? Because mercy, mercy was put on us And then mercy's not something you deserve. It's not something you earn, by the way. Why did you get mercy for the longest time, by the way? I Worried about my brother. I have an older brother. And God in his mercy saved me as a young young as a young person. And for many years, my brother Neil was a you know with a was w was like the publican I'm describing really. He was that way. And um you know I don't understand it. Well I know is that God put his mercy on me. He didn't do it on my brother Until I received the call from this is many years ago now. Uh we were living in Florida, Neil's in Pennsylvania I'd say he's probably in his thirties or forties at that time. And I and by the way I had prayed for my brother Neil. Oh Lord, save my save my brother. Because my mother and father knew the Lord. I was saved. And Neil, here's my b way out here like a publican, but we would pray for Neil. Lord, please save Neil. And then w one night When I was living in Florida, I was went to a pastor's conference. Came home late that night from the pastor's conference Um I'm sneaking around the house because we have four little kids at that time and don't want to wake them up and have the kids cry and all this. I'm sneaking and the phone rings. So I dash out of the bedroom, into the kitchen, pick up the phone. This is before cell phones. And it's like about twelve, one o'clock in the morning, and it's my brother Neil. Don, I want to tell you something. What's that? So tonight Tonight Cindy and I got saved. I said, what? Say that again, Neil. Tonight Cindy and I got saved. Oh man, are you kidding me? My brother, who was harsh, nasty, and miserable, The Lord put mercy on him. He's like eighty one or something now. But you know what? He's He put a lot of you know put a lot of stuff behind him and went on with the Lord, he and his wife, and he's probably we're right now in the church service right now. And uh he cuts the grass for the church and paints it and all that kind of thing This is a wonderful thing. Conversion does this thing, and God will save the most rich miserable wretch. And here I'm giving you the example here of this publican Lord, here it is. This miser be merciful to me, a sinner And God answers that prayer. What a wonderful, wonderful thing. So we're going to see here in this text. By the way, we're not going to- I don't think we're going to have time to finish this text today, so if I can come back another time, I'll finish it up. But let me just take a little bit further here. The second thing we see in this text, something else that we receive. This is a little bit more difficult to understand, quite honestly. It says that we receive apostleship. We receive in verse number five, by whom we have received grace and apostleship. So let's talk about this thing, apostleship. And to begin to do this, I want to give you a hermeneutical, a hermeneutical principle. You heard that phrase, hermeneutical. Hermeneutics is the study of of um interpreting the Bible. Because the Bible does need interpretation. I hate to say that because that sounds like, oh, could we be wrong? I mean, his interpretation, his interpretation. But here's what you do have to understand. The Bible was written about something that occurred 2,000, 2,000 to 4,000, 5,000 years ago. So, you know, we're way into history with people that are on the other side of the planet, who speak a different language, have a different culture And really, it could not be set up more perfectly for misunderstanding. So when we get into the Bible, we are invading a whole different culture And language, and so there's a lot of room for misinterpretation. And so therefore as we study the Bible, we come up with hermeneutics giving you principles by which to interpret the Bible I want to give you one principle today which will help us to understand the word apostleship. The principle is this: all things in Scripture are written for us believers. From Genesis to Revelation, it's in there for us that we can understand God, we can understand our way, understand the world in which we live But not all of Scripture is written to us. It's written for us, but not all of Scripture is written to us. And obviously, the book of Romans. is not written to us. This is for the believers in Jesus in Rome. It's written to them, but it's written for us. And if you can understand that principle, if, for example, if Vicky gets a phone call on her cell phone and the person calling has a message for Vicky and for me. Well, the message you're going to Vicky. Now I'm not with her, but the say that message is for me any at the same time is for me. I just don't hear her saying it. Well scripture is for us. Everything in here is for us to learn, to follow, and to uh by which to to worship our Lord. And I say that for this as we talk about the word apostleship. We give you one more to set this up. Let's talk about The difference between an apostle and a disciple. We here hopefully are disciples of Jesus Christ. We follow Christ That's why you're here today. He saved you and you follow him. And therefore we can say, hopefully we can say that we are we are all disciples of Christ. We follow the Lord An apostle, by contrast, an apostle, and by the way, the word apostle is written in your Bible 19 times, so it's a pretty significant term. The word disciple is in the Word of God 29 times. So again, we're talking about important things in God's Word. An apostle is someone who follows Christ. But also has seen Christ, like Peter. Peter saw Christ, James saw Christ, Peter John, the disciples, you know the twelve disciples, but they saw Jesus, so therefore they're referred to as apostles. We are not apostles in a certain sense If we go back and look at the exact word for apostle, it is the word apostole. And here is the literal interpretation of apostole as it is seen in Scripture. It means a sending off, the sending off of a fleet or an expedition And the point is, an apostle is someone who is sent forth. If you're sent, you're sent forth with a message, you're sent forth with a goal, you're sent. So get going. You're taking the pants, so here I go. That's the literal meaning of the word apostle. But there are no apostles today who are sent forth who have seen Jesus. This text here is about Paul referring to himself and and those perhaps his his fellow fellow uh helpers about concerning the phrase apostleship And that is received by God. So what have we covered so far? From Christ we have received grace, we have received apostleship And again, we're not apolog I would stress we're not apostleship. I don't think that's what he's stressing here. He's stressing the fact that we're s we are sent ones. We are sent With the word. So we're talking about grace, we're talking about apostleship. Now, for what purpose? Why are we Been given grace and apostleship, and what is the purpose? For obedience to the faith. That's why. That's why he sent us forth. That's why he gave us grace. That's why you you are and I am a recipient of God's grace. Why was it? Because the grace given to me for obedience to the faith. We're called to be obedient to the faith. It's one thing to know it. It's another thing to recite it. It's one thing to get up here and to preach it. It's another to go home and do it. But that's really where the where the rubber meets the road in doing and and be and following God's word For a moment, let's talk about the word the faith, the phrase the faith. The phrase the faith is 42 times in Scripture. Now I'm not talking about faith. I'm talking about the faith. There's a difference. One's a noun, one's a verb. I have faith in Jesus. Good. That's not this word's not about that. This word is about the faith. And when you begin to look at the phrase the faith Well, here's some examples. Acts chapter 6, verse 7 declares this. A great company of priests were obedient to the faith. Acts chapter 14, verse 22, exhorting them to continue in the faith. 1 Corinthians 16, verse 13. Stand fast in the faith. So the question is: what is meant by the phrase the faith? Well, in a general sense, in the most general sense, the faith is what's contained here in the Bible again from Genesis to Revelation. contains the faith. That's in a very general way. But in the more specific way that we can get a handle on this Well, you know what? I'm gonna I have a name written down here on my notes, a very precious person named uh Dr. Ernie Weisinger. I don't know if any of you have heard of Dr. He's he's since passed on by the way. And he was a pastor in in the city of Pompano Beach, Florida, when I was pastoring Pompano Beach, Florida, and I think I met him And and maybe a pat somehow I met him. I don't know how we our paths crossed, but we it's the kind of thing you just sort of gravitate to one another And uh at the time I was just young in the ministry starting out and he was finishing up his career in the ministry and he was you know very very well versed in the Bible and so we started to meet. Now here's the thing, this is why Ernie's so important to me. When I was first in the ministry, I was on I was Arminian in my theological thinking And when I met Ernie Ernie, he w he was Reformed. By the way, he was a Reformed Baptist. Do you know what that is? Do you ever hear such a creature as a Reformed Baptist? Uh it it's the Baptist denomination. They they teach reform doctrine except in two areas. Baptism and um there's an there's another oh in in church government Other than that, they would be just like our church right here. So that's called a Reformed Baptist. Anyway, Dr. Dr. Ernie Ressinger began to teach me the reform the more reformed view of theology. And we met, because I'm hard-headed, I am so hard to get anything into my head, it is tough. I mean my teachers told me that from early on. Don Donnie Britton, you I can't get anything in your head. My father used used to tell me the same thing. My wife tells me the same. I am I don't know, it's just the way God made me, you know, it's uh I'm not bragging about it, I'm I guess confessing to sin, I am hard hard hard headed But Ernie was able to teach me and really made a major difference in my understanding from an Arminian view of theology All the way over to the reform view, if that's a major adjustment. And we did that in about a year. Of course you know what happened. So as I'm embracing this reformed understanding of Scripture, what am I doing? I'm a pastor of an Armenian church. Oh, well any uh that's another whole story how I got that all reconciled. But um anyway, so I you know, I'm learning these things that Ernie was telling me. And um I really felt like I had a very similar experience of uh Aquila and Priscilla. You know them in the Bible? Aquila they're named Rhyme. Aquila. And Priscilla I was wondering which one's the man. I guess it's Aquila. It doesn't sound like a man's name. It's Aquila and Priscilla. And and they, you see, there was a preacher there whose name was Apollos. And he's a silver-tongued order, and he's preaching away, but his theology was not correct. So the Bible tells us, it tells us here in Acts chapter 18 Where Priscilla and Aquila take Apollos, the preacher, and they take them aside. Apollos You know, you you're really preaching good. This is really good. But you know, one thing you're really not right on this area here. And also you can make a correction or so no they took him aside and showed him more accurately the word of God And that's really what Dr. Reisinger did with me. He showed me more accurately the Word of God. But he said this, I'll never forget him, he's a great teacher. And he was saying, the faith. Here is the faith. One, the Westminster Confession of Faith contains the faith. Secondly, the Apostles' Creed contains the faith. Thirdly, the Lord's Prayer contains the faith For example, Apostles' Creed, what is it? I believe in God the Father Almighty, maker of heaven and earth. See, these are doctrines of Jesus Christ, Son. See, I believe in God the Father, Almighty, Makeup Jesus, Major of Heaven and Earth. I forgot it. I believe in God Born the Virgin Mary suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified dead and buried. He descended into hell. Third day he arose again from the dead. He ascendeth into heaven. Sitteth on the right hand of God the Father Almighty, from since he shall come to judge the quick and the dead. I believe in the Holy I believe in the Holy Cat I believe in the Some of the Holy Catholic Church, the communion of saints, forgiveness of sins, resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. There are seventeen doctrines in that Now, where did these creeds come from? Why are there the creeds? For this reason. In the first century During the time of Christ, the first second century and early on of history, people could not read. You could not say, well, here's the Bible, read it, or here are the parchments, read it, because they could not read So a way of teaching the people the Word of God is to come up with these creeds and you list the major doctrines of the creed and then commit it to memory. Then you know the doctrines of God's Word. And so what what what uh Dr. Reisinger was was teaching me, learn and th you know the truth, the faith is the faith is found in the Apostles' Creed, in the Westminster Confession of Faith And in the Lord's Prayer. You get that down, you know what the faith is all about. And I'll never forget that, and that was a great, great help. Let me take one more and then I'll uh we'll conclude for the day and then maybe another time I can get back and finish this up. Um Why was this given? It was given for, why was was given why was grace and and apostleship given for obedience to the faith. No, we discussed the faith. Let's talk about obedience. And that is we are to be obedient. Obviously, duh. Common sense would tell you this, right? We are to be obedient to the faith. One of the songs that I like, uh that's always been meaningful to me, is Trust and Obey. Because that that's really isn't that really what it's all about? I'm trusting God Alright, so if I trust him, then what do I do? I obey him, right? Sing this with me. When we walk with the Lord. Sing it out. In the light of his work. Come on, what a glory he shares on our way. While we do his good will, he abides with us still, and with all who will trust and obey. Trust and obey, for there's no other way to be happy in Jesus But to trust and oh they But isn't that that's a wonderful hymn. It's simple. That's profound. People mis they trip over this. This is what the Christian life is about, trusting the Lord and then simply obeying him. There was a saying, I'm sure you heard it And when I first heard this years ago, in my arrogance, I was arrogant and and and I don't know just in immaturity. I heard the saying and I thought, no, I don't like that saying But the but you know older being older experiencing many things, it's a great saying. But here's what it is. And I'm sure you heard it. It says this. God said it. I believe it. That settles it. Isn't that cool? Straight to the point. God said it in his word. If I say what God, God said it, I believe it. Issue solved, that settles it. What else can we talk about? That's the way we need to be. When we see God's truth, God said it. I have to ask, do I believe it? By grace of God I believe it. Okay, the issue settled. Now let's go on talk about something else. It's a great way of looking into God's Word Now what makes a person want to do this? What makes a person pick up God's word and say can say that. God said it, I believe it, it settled. The truth found in Philippians 2. 13, which is what It is God that works in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Isn't that a powerful verse? Philippians 2, 13. It is God that works in you both to will And to do his good pleasure. Well that's that's got the whole thing there. I have the will to do it and the power to do it. That's God's working in me. A natural response to believing in the Lord is this thing of obedience. Obey the Lord. And that's simple, isn't that? It doesn't need a whole lot of Greek rendering and understanding simply obey the Lord Obey the Lord. And as you obey the Lord, you will discover God's will for your life. Maybe somebody here is wondering what God's will is for my life. I'll tell you, there's nothing more exciting than to be in God's will and knowing that you are in His will. If you know you're in God's will, then you can take anything. You can take any kind of difficulty, resistance And you and you can have joy if you know you're following the Lord, even though you may have troubles in this world, and we should not be surprised because what we have the world, the flesh, and the devil. They're fighting this all the time Maybe you've had a difficult week. Maybe friends have let you down, or you fell into a gave into a sin, or all kinds of things happened, but you know what? As we hold on to the Lord and we're obeying to him and he ministers to us, he'll guide us and direct us, and you can confess your sin and follow the Lord and know you're in his way. My wife's favorite verse. Is Genesis. Any guesses on Genesis? Genesis twenty four 27. And this is a statement of Abraham's servant. And he says I being in the way, the Lord led me. Isn't that a powerful statement? This is just a servant. This wasn't an apostle. This wasn't a prophet. This was an old humble servant. And he says, I being in the way, the Lord led me. That's how you get into God's will. That's how you God have God direct you. Get in his way. Well, how do we get in God's way? Obedience to the word of God. And as we are obedient to God's word, we're in his way. And then he will guide us and direct us. Another way of saying that same thing is the phrase you may maybe heard this phrase, and that is to say, be faithful where you are with what you have. That's a nice little motto to re Be faithful to the Lord wherever you are, whether if you're home, church, on vacation, wherever you are, be faithful where you are with what you have. And as you do that, you will discover God's will for your life. And of course, nothing's more exciting than this. I have a quote here, and I'm going to close soon. From Acts chapter 5 And verse 41, and it says this. And they departed from the presence of the council. Rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name. That's Acts 5. 41. If you go to the previous verse, Acts 5. 40, what was the problem? They were beaten. The apostles were taken and beaten and say, don't speak anymore in his name. Now get out of here. Now think about that. What if you were taken in, apprehended, mistreated, beaten, and they say, now get out of here. And you might go, you know, you walk away, oh, what happened to me? Oh you know we'd be traumatized. The believers here, they rejoice. This is great. They can see a difference in us than the rest of the world. Praise God. And they're rejoicing over the fact that they were persecuted. What a beautiful picture. That's what saving faith is. That's what it is when you are in God's will. You can take these difficult times and actually rejoice in them. Because that's what the Lord does to us when we know that we are in His will. That's the joy that we have of knowing the Lord Jesus Christ. Last well, I keep saying last thing. I'm gonna stop here. I'm just gonna give you a little introduction of where I want to go to from here. The next phrase, by the way. I'm just going to introduce this and then close with a prayer. But the next phrase in this verse is among all nations. That in other words, with faith and apostleship. Among all nations. Now think of that term historically. You are there in Israel and Jerusalem. And you hear the language about all nations. What in the world? We are apostles. We have graceful apostleship for all nations? How in the world are we going to make, how are we going to communicate to all nations? And that's what we want to talk about next time. That gigantic commit commission to go and to preach the word and to do it to all nations. And of course you have the Great Commission, so and really all four of the Gospels give to us the Great Commission. And the Great Commission is what? When Jesus says, go into all the world and preach the gospel The gospel is not just meant for Israel. Although Jesus, now think about this. In Jesus' ministry, he spoke only to Israel. Did you realize that? Jesus spoke only to his fellow Jews Matthew 15, 24, I am not, I am not sent, but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel. So in all of Jesus' ministry, it was to Israel on purpose. He didn't go out of the bounds of Israel, he preached to his people. It was Paul who was given the commission in Acts chapter 22, verse 21, now to take it beyond the bounds of Israel and go into the world and preach the gospel to all creatures. Well, I'm not a real tr I'm going to close this. I keep saying I'm going to close, I haven't closed yet and getting started here, but these are my introductory remarks. Now for the real sermon. Um no I'm just kidding Um uh you know I'm not a real traveler, but I have gone several missionary journeys, maybe ten days at a time, and we've gone to We went to uh what, three of of the Caribbean islands. Vicky went with me. Oh, you went with what two of them, right? What went to Jamaica, Saint Vincent, what was the other one? The Caribbean Island. What? Trinidad. Oh and Trinidad. And then I took a journey uh to Ghana, Africa, so four missionary trips. Now let me tell you something I'm expecting. Now say I never did this before, so I you know, okay, I'm gonna go to a foreign land. Alright, I'm ready, and I got my Bible. And you know what? Wherever we went, at least in the Caribbean islands, they all knew Jesus. I was wanting to get Some guy jumped on me from the trees or something and preach the gospel to them. But that was not the case. They all knew the Lord Jesus Christ. And they were gentle. And they, you know, they love the Lord and and actually there was one one of my journeys, one of those journeys, I was walking through a village. Remember it's very clear, I'm walking through the village and and there's like a hill to the side Like a road. And and the roads are not like roads that we hear here, they're like a little strip. Alright, and and up there there's a gas station and and a mechanic working on the car in the gas station Now I'm thinking I'm trying to find someone to share Christ with who doesn't know the Lord. And I I'm looking at this man and he looks like he's angry. He doesn't look like I thought I bet this person doesn't know the Lord. I'm gonna go see if I can give them a track or something. So I go up the hill there and I go, oh hi, how you doing? Hi, I'm I'm Don Britain. I'm visiting from from uh America and I'm on a missionary journey and I'd like to give you this tract. I thought he was gonna maybe hit me with a wrench or something And you look at and you say, Oh yeah, I know the Lord Jesus is my Savior. I love the Lord. Oh thank you for coming to share the Lord with us. I mean, really World evangelism has probably gone further, at least than I than I imagine. And I'll tell you one thing I did learn, and I say this to you. I don't know if I should I even say this. Um let me think. Would it be beneficial for the people who tell them this? Uh maybe I'll leave that out. I'll I'll tell you about that some other time. Because it's it's a true event that occurred Then we went to Ghana, Africa. Now it's a whole different you know whole different arrangement. Ghana. Now Ghana is on the western coast of Africa, and that's where many of our slaves came from. And what occurred is that they the the the African people themselves went through the jungles and kidnapped many of their fellow Africans and brought them into Ghana. And you should see this. The place where they would bring the slaves was in a room not as big as this. And they would they would bring like as many people as you could cram in here standing like this And they'd be in there for a couple weeks waiting for a ship to come to take them to South America, North America, England, Europe, and um Anyway, we went there to preach the gospel in Ghana, but we found the same thing. Most of the people who we wanted to preach God, they already knew the gospel. They already knew and they loved the Lord. And even to the point where I began to think maybe they're just saying that to us because, you know, maybe they're just saying that to get us off their back or whatever. Uh but and but we were treated very kindly and um there's many things I could share with you from that, but uh that's not my major point. Let patriot here it is. Go into all the world and preach the gospel. I'll tell you that has been done. I think it's been done numbers of times, but it can we need to continue to do it to get the word of God out that the whole world will know about the Lord Jesus Christ's salvation through him the glory of knowing the Lord. Well, in that refrain, I'm just going to give you three verses and close with a prayer. Here's the verse. Isaiah 4523. Every, and here's a prediction, every knee will bow and every tongue shall swear. Romans 14, 11. As I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow unto me. Philippians chapter 2, verse 10, that in the name of Jesus every knee should bow. Would you join me in a prayer, please? Our Father, we bow our head to you today in full uh gratitude And maybe even embarrassment as we think of our sins, whether they be accidental or intentional. And yet to know that you have given us forgiveness because of the work and doing of Jesus Christ on the cross for us. What could we say? What can we say that is appropriate other than thank you? Thank you for sending your only begotten son. For unworthy, miserable wretches like me. I know, Lord, I know, you know my heart, I know it, and I'm a miserable wretch. I know this. And yet you love me. Yet you call me unto yourself and you bless me. And I don't understand it. I say thank you. And I would pray for this congregation here today, Lord. And I asked the question that I ask all, is everybody here know the Lord Jesus? Are you born again? Have you trusted in Christ? Do you believe on him? Has the Spirit of God prodded your heart irresistibly, with irresistible grace, that you cannot say no, but you want the Lord Jesus into your life? Has that happened to you? And I am here at the church and I've seen you many of you every time I'm here, which is good. That's a good sign, but yet I don't know. I don't know your real background. Maybe you've never surrendered your heart to Christ. Do it right now if you never have. You don't have to make a big profession publicly. Just tell the Lord quietly Yes, Lord, I am a rotten sinner. I do deserve hell. Would you please forgive me and save me? We can be like that publican. Lord, forgive me, a sinner. Our Father, I pray that you will rain down your blessing on this church. Be with Tim and and and the the the Board and the leaders, guide them, encourage them, direct them, bless the church, Lord, that they can reach out to the community And and get us in the way, Lord. Get us in the way. I being in the way, the Lord led me. Lead us, Lord, the people to share Christ with, and that we can bring them to the church and minister to their need. Do a great work, and we ask this through Christ our Lord. Amen.