And um so uh I guess we'll just get into this. Romans chapter one. I'm sure and your Bibles, all of our Bibles now have i introductions to the actual book So I want to tell you just a few things about the book of Romans, but your your Bible perhaps even has more than what I'm going to share with you here. Of course we know the Romans Like all the Bible books is written by the inspiration of God. Now we know Paul was the author. Paul is the human author But we do believe in what is called verbal plenary inspiration. That means that God speaks to Paul and Paul writes down in parchment what it is that God gave him to write. And so therefore our Bible is inspired. Every verse of this is inspired. Every chapter, every 1189 chapters. 31,102 verses, 788,280 words, and there's 3,556,480 letters in your King James Bible. And every one of them is inspired by God. How do I know this? Who can recite to me 2 Timothy 3. 16? Does that come to anybody's mind? 2 Timothy 316. We probably should be familiar with that since it's the basis of inspiration here. Second Timothy, yeah. All scripture is given by the inspiration of God. It's profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction, and righteousness that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. So when you share Christ with people and they say, well, you know, how why why should I believe the Bible? It's just another book. Well, we tell them it's inspired. This is the inspired word of God. 2 Timothy 3, verse 16 makes that clear. We know that as as Paul uh was writing Romans, he wrote this uh while he was uh in Corinth. And as we look at his travels, he spent about three months in Corinth, and most scholars believe that's when he wrote this. And then of course it had to travel from Corinth to Rome, which is about 617 miles, so it transported to Rome for the church at Rome to receive these things that we're going to uh be looking into today. Again, most scholars believe that Rome, the book of Romans was written about 65, 66, 67 A. D. So, I mean that's just what? 60 years after the time of Jesus Christ, 65 years after the actual events uh of the Word of God. And um And then if you look down through history, probably Romans is considered the greatest doctrinal book in the Bible. It has all the deeper doctrines found in God's holy word. And um Augustine, maybe some of you are familiar with Augustine, the fifth-century theologian and philosopher, he he became saved as a result of reading Romans, just reading Romans. He was saved through that. Martin Luther, he understood and learned about salvation and about justification, that we are justified by faith alone. And he learned that from reading and studying Romans. And therefore, you know, Martin Luther was the heart and soul of the Reformation. So really we could say that Some of the roots of the Reformation are found right here in the book of Romans. So it's a tremendous book, and um So I'd like to encourage those that I'm sharing with learn to to memorize. Memorize scripture. And this would be a good verse to memorize. Romans chapter 1, verse 1. Actually I had planned to do verses 1 and 2, but the more I go over this, that we're probably just going to be doing verse 1 today. So, but if you can commit these things to memory, that's always helpful. In our prayer meeting at Marcus Hook, we we went through the book of James. And I encouraged the people there to memorize James. You say, well I can't do that. But you know you really can. And here's what I learned this years ago. Uh what was it? Um Years ago I was um meeting with well actually it goes back to my wife Vicky. She went to a chiropractor. And the chiropractor was a Christian man, but he really needed some help in growing. And Vicky shared the Lord with him. And um and then he has some questions. So Vicky tells the chiropractor, he says, Well, I can't answer all your questions, but my husband can, he's a pastor. Okay. Well well bring him in, I'll talk to him. So the next week I go in and now he has a you know an office full of people and I walk in there and Dr. Forcetti says Come on back here, Don. So we're here talking about the gospel for about fifteen to twenty minutes while his patients are out there waiting for him. I'm I'm sitting there talking to him about the Lord And we started a little discipleship work with him, and one of the things I encouraged him to do was to memorize Scripture And and you know this is a doctor, doctor intelligent man. He said, Oh I really can't memorize scripture that well. I said, I bet you can. Why don't we meet for breakfast once a week and we'll commit ourselves to memory memorizing a part of the Bible. And so we we chose to memorize Psalm 139. Lord, you have searched me and know me, you know my down sitting, my uprising, my understanding far off, you've accomplished my path and my lying down, are acquainted with all my ways, and so forth. The point is you can memorize these things. We think we can't. You know who tells you that you can't memorize this? The devil. The enemy of your souls tells you you can't memorize it. But I'm here to tell you you can, and I'm telling you here we could memorize verse one. Look at this. There's only 17 words in verse number one. Paul A servant of Jesus Christ called to be an apostle, separated unto the gospel of God. Now you could spend, we could spend a couple hours just on that verse right there. I'm only gonna spend two today, just two hours with you here on on Romans chapter one, verse one. That's a joke by the way, I'm not gonna be here two hours, but So let's look at this for a moment and see what we have here. But let's begin with a prayer. Our Father, we ask now that as we look into your holy word. And Lord, we understand, yes, this is the inspired, infallible, Holy Word of God. And we ask, Lord, and we're told in your word, as your word goes forth, the Holy Spirit is pleased to minister in our hearts. So I would ask that today. And Lord, I don't know these people, but I'm sure every one of them has some kind of an issue going on in their life. We pray that These words today, out of your word, will minister to the needs of their heart, may minister to the deepest needs that they may have. We're looking forward for you to do this, Lord. Perhaps you may need to grant salvation, grant assurance of salvation, grant peace. In other words, direct us, Lord. Direct your word in our hearts today. And I ask this in Jesus' holy name. Amen. Well, if we start off here with the first word Paul, of course we know that Paul was a missionary to the Gentiles. We find that in Acts chapter 18. The Lord gave Paul that commission. You go to the Gentiles. And we know that Jesus, he was called, as he said, to the uh to the house of Israel. And isn't it interesting, as we read our Bible, most the Old Testament Most of the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ was all to the Jews. And by the grace of God and through Paul through Paul, the ministry then started to go to the Gentile nations. And aren't we happy about that? And lo and behold, as Paul began to take the message to the Gentiles, the Gentiles received it. Where generally speaking, uh the Hebrews and the Jews were against the Word of God. And do you know even to this day, the Bible tells us, even to this day, there is a blindness on Israel. And this that seems strange to us. Here is Israel, the same flesh and blood as the Lord Jesus, and yet, generally speaking, they reject it. Now there are some messianic Jews who have received the Word of God and when and you know when the Lord opens up their eyes and they understand Jesus to be the Messiah of the Old Testament I mean they're on fire. You have someone who's on fire for the Lord Jesus. That does happen occasionally, but generally speaking, it's been the Gentile who has received the Word of God And here, Paul, a missionary commissioned by the Lord to go to the Gentile to preach the word. Question What is your self-image? What do you see yourself as? How do you see yourself? Especially in terms of Living for Jesus Christ. Maybe some of you are Sunday school teachers. Maybe someone here has a skill, or actually I should say, the gift or the blessing to be to evangelize. Has anybody here ever stood on a corner and preached the word somewhere in town and preached the word of God? We used to do that. We went into Philadelphia and stand in front of an abortion clinic and I had and someone gave me a bullhorn I thought, well, I'm going to get in trouble doing this, but I'm going to do it anyway. And so we put that bullhorn on and and right there in in uh Center City, Philadelphia, where they had an abortion clinic there And my faithful wife right by my side and and you know we restart. Well welcome everybody. Nice to see we're we're sorry an anyone's coming in here because this is the place where they will actually Take the lives of babies and um it's against God's word. We actually preach the gospel to them. And um and then the police would come. And they would protect us. They would stand right out there and they would 'cause people would c they get angry and they'll come after you or throw things at you. So the police came and they gave us protection. They say, You can speak, you can speak on you And uh so they did. So, you know, we preached the word of God to them. And um, you know, by the by the God's grace he'll use that and minister to their lives. So I look at myself something as a servant. What I want to do is you know commit my life to the Lord. My wife committed her life to the Lord. So we are servant. Lord, whatever you would have me to do, I'll do it If you want me to do missionary work, I'll be happy to do that. We've done that. We've gone to the Caribbean Islands, we've gone into Africa and and shared parts of Africa and and shared God's Word there. We've done it in Center City, Philadelphia. And so my prayer is, Lord, whatever you want. And it doesn't matter what it is. Whatever you want me to do, I'll do it. But you have to let me know what it is, and I'll be happy to do it. But what about you? Have you done that? Have you told the Lord honestly, Lord, what do you want of my life and what do you want me to do? Once you discover what the Lord's plan is for you, that will give you great freedom, excitement in your life, boldness. To understand what it is that the Lord wants you to do and then go ahead and do it. And that may be maybe it's passing out tracts. Maybe it's uh holding a Bible study. And ask the Lord what it is that he would have you to do. And you know probably he's equipped every one of you in certain ways that you can be used in a specific place for his kingdom. And that might might be something we want to pray about. In fact, you know what I think we should do? Let's stop right now and have a prayer and pray about that right now. Please join me in a prayer right now for yourself, our Father We're looking here in your holy word, and we see we're here the great apostle Paul sees himself as a servant, a doulos, a servant unto the Lord. And he understood that he was to go to the Gentile nations. What about this congregation right here, O Lord? What about the congregation that you brought here this morning? Maybe some were thinking I'm not going to go today, I'm tired, but the last minute you decide to come, maybe some uh A friend brought you here. Whatever the case may be, you are here right now, and I'm asking you to talk to God about who you are. What is your identity? And ask the Lord that he might begin to show you precisely what it is he wants you to do. For in this world of great need, no doubt all of us are called to a specific job, a specific work. Show that to this congregation, Lord. Show it to Vicky. Show it to me. As we are placing ourselves before you and saying, Lord, here we are, use us. Whatever it may be. And we pray this through Christ our Lord. Amen. We see here, we're looking at Paul. We see here that he is a servant. And the other thing I want to bring about servanthood, as you begin to scan through the New Testament, often Paul makes reference that he is a servant. You find in 1 Corinthians 9. 19, Paul refers to himself as a servant unto all 1 Corinthians 15, 10, he says, I labor more abundantly than they all. Philippians chapter 2 and verse 3 talks about a lowliness of mind. Let us esteem others better than ourselves. And throughout God's word, Paul is always making this call for humility and for servanthood. Now, what's the opposite of humility? Exactly. At least he said pride. Pride will kill you, it'll kill me so fast. And I'm wondering, but you know, I'm proud of look what I've done. Look who I am, and you know, we feel this way And of course, Proverbs, what, 18, pride cometh before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall. Pride will kill you, your ministry, your relationship. And speaking about relationships, let me just say this because again I can say because I don't know anybody here to any great extent. How's your marriage? Are the husbands here loving their wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it? And what about the wives? Are you supportive to your husband, standing behind him and encouraging him? Or does he have to serve the Lord in spite of you know, your shenanigans or what have you. Again, I don't know anybody, so I'm gonna throw it out here and just let it go where it goes. But you'd need to think about these things. And we're finding out here that um Pride will ruin our servanthood. Here the great apostle Paul, as we know that he was, a Pharisee. And you know, on his way to Damascus to actually slay the Christians, and God speaks to him. The Lord Jesus appears before him. Of course, then that's when his whole life changes. Uh but and he also always saw himself to be a servant, the servant of Jesus Christ. What a wonderful phrase that is. Could that be your testimony as well? You are a servant of Jesus Christ. Once you get that in your head and then you know thinking about that, that becomes your passion. I want to be a servant of the Lord. Lord, what would you have me to do today? And you'll be obeyed. Be careful when you pray that because he'll show you, and then you're going to have to do it, whatever it may be. Here we are, verse 1, Romans chapter 1, verse 1. Paul, he's a servant of Jesus Christ The next observation we make from that verse is that he is called. Paul was called of the Lord. Now let's talk about that word called for a minute. Coleto, it's the word coming from the word colleo. In Scripture, there are two kinds of calls. There is a general and um Extrinsic call. I'm doing that right now. This is a call. I'm preaching the word to you And this is when the Spirit of God will minister to your heart as the Word of God is going forth. But it's a general call. I'm giving a call to everyone here. And I would say, is anyone here who who who does not know the Lord Jesus as your Savior and your Lord? Is anybody here that way? Again, I don't know anybody so I can say it without offending anyone because I don't know you. Maybe you're a visitor here and you came off the street. And I'm asking you the question, have you received the Lord Jesus into your heart? Have you come unto him? Has he saved you? Well Now you may be sitting here and you think, well, you know, I really don't want to hear that, and you just sort of block me out. That's what that's or someone may hear it and say, you know what, you're right, I've never received Christ and I want to do that today This is a general call that I am giving, and that general call can be received or it can be rejected and say, I don't want Jesus. Let me out of here. These people are crazy. Let me out of here. But there's another kind of call, which is an internal call. And that's the call of the Holy Spirit upon the heart of the sinner. And that call is effectual. It always works. When the Holy Spirit calls a sinner unto himself, That sinner will repent, believe upon Christ, and be born again. And that's the effectual call of the Holy Spirit. All of us here who believe in the Lord Jesus and are following him, we received an effectual call. Now it may be different for all of us. Perhaps some were saved as a as a child. I believe the Lord saved me about, I don't know when. Eight, nine, ten, something like that. Uh son he he calls effectually a a as as um a as adults Years ago we in in our church we had a church in Glen Mills and uh older couple came to our church and um you know they were there and I got to know them and visit them and so forth and they were there for about um A couple of months, and I went to their house to pay a visit to them. And talking to uh to the gentleman, I get get around to the gospel, and I said, uh Um sir, when did you I'm trying to remember his name now, can't remember his name, but I asked him, so now when when did you come to the Lord? He said, um two weeks ago. Two weeks, yeah, two weeks ago in your service, you preached the gospel, gave an invitation, and I received the Lord. And you know I was excited but I had no clue that was happening. But the Lord and you know what that is? That's an effectual call. The Spirit of God there, he calls sinners and they will come because it's the Lord giving the call Paul's mentioning this in verse 1. Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle. Question: What's the difference between an apostle and a disciple? We hopefully are disciples. A disciple is one who follows Christ We believe in him, we're committed to him, and we follow him. That's a disciple. An apostle does the same thing, except Or in addition to, an apostle has laid his eyes on Jesus. He saw Jesus. He saw the historical Christ So, like Peter, James, John, they are apostles. They follow Christ because they have seen him and they heard the word from his lips. Paul refers to himself as an apostle because he saw the resurrected Christ on the road to Damascus, as I had made mention to a little bit earlier. And so on that he calls himself an apostle. Today there are no apostles. Now you may hear on the radio or on television, Apostle John holding a meeting, but he's not an apostle. An apostle is someone who has seen the Lord. And believes on him and follows him. But Paul is an apostle, he's a servant, he's an apostle, he's called by the Lord to be an apostle, and he's separated unto the gospel of God. Let's talk about the word separation. The word separation has two parts. When the Lord separates us, what does he do? He separates us from the world. Number one, but number two, he separates us to Christ. I'm not just separated from the world and okay now here I stand and uh In a vacuum. I'm separated from the world. Okay. And that's not what the Bible calls us to do. Yes, we're to be separated from the world separated also under Christ. So my separation is moving me to something, and it's moving me to follow the Lord Jesus Christ. Again, we should talk about Paul, for he was a Pharisee. And the Lord called him from this to being an apostle. So when you see that word separated, there's two parts to it, separated from and separated to. What is it? Romans 12. Verse 1, who can can anyone say that to me? Romans 12. 1, that's something most people memorize. Romans 12. 1. I beseech your brother by the mercy of God. That you present your body a living sacrifice, wholly, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Now verse 2. Be not conformed to the world, but that be high. Be not be not conformed to the world. So what then should I do? Be transformed by the renewing of your mind. That's that's separation. Do not be conformed to the world, but be transformed. So it's like a minus and a plus. Put sin and things away. But in addition, move toward Jesus and follow him. And that's what biblical separation is. Separated one, putting one away, and moving forward to doing something positive and following the Lord. And we see here this separation, which is part of Paul's testimony. Question before we move it What's in the church here? As I'm speaking now, does the Spirit of God talk to you about things that you should be separated from? But you're not separated from it. Or you don't want you're holding on to it. No, don't take it on it. I gotta have it. I gotta have it. We're like that. We like to hold on to our things. Sometimes we like to hold on to our sins And the fact is, the Lord may be calling you from I know the Lord's calling you. If there's sin, unconfessed sin in your life, unrepented sin, the Lord's calling you from that. I wonder if there's anyone here today. The Spirit of God may be talking to you about a sin in your life today. Could be an attitude, could be a practice, could be a habit, could be, you know, who knows? That's between you and the Lord. But certainly he would call you from that and you should be separated from it. But if you're going to separate it from it, that's only step number one. What's step number two? Step number two is that you want to do something positive. We talk about this w with people who are um who struggles all kind of whether it be alcohol or whatever it may be, you know, if the alcoholic is going into the bar, of course he doesn't want to go into the bar, right? So you want to put that away, but go the other direction. Go away from the bar In fact I knew a person who had this a problem, uh he was an alcoholic, but he came to the Lord, wanted to deal with it. But so he's walking downtown. Of course there's a bar there in the corner And he has that propensity to want to go in there, but what does he have to do? He goes across the street and then walks down. He doesn't go near the bar room. He stays away from it. And that's what we need to do. If there's a sin that we are struggling with, don't go near it. And present your body living sacrifice, wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service, and don't be conformed to the world. And you know the devil wants to conform you, wants to conform this church Alan, and that's another thing, don't get me started on that. I mean our churches are so worldly today. And by the and you know, we recent we're relatively new there at the Marcus Hook uh Presbyterian church. Um we had looked at several churches before we went to the Marcus Hook Presbyterian Church, although we attempted to stay within the Presbyterian denomination. So one one church we went to uh Uh Vicki uh was di you know we went there a couple of times and she didn't feel real comfortable there. Okay, not a problem. I'm gonna find something both of us like then we went to a second church Um oh this is a big, you know, big six successful Presbyterian church. And who comes out to be the preacher? But a woman. Okay, honey, that goes somewhere else. And now I must tell you, now you know, and I know that's wrong for a woman to be, but I must tell you the message you gave was pretty good, but it still wasn't proper. All right, then we went to a third one, the third Presbyterian church, and I noticed up in the choir loft they had a set of drums. And I know what that means. They're heading into world l worldlyism worldliness I should say. And then fourthly then we came to the Marcus Vic Baptist Church and I don't think there was fifteen people when we were there. But that really doesn't bother me at all. That's not a problem. And you know what? We sat there and and I you know, I'm tuning into all this, I'm looking if there's any worldliness in this church here with which there wasn't. And I that w I love that and and uh I guess some of you may know Ed Zimmerman, I thought he did a great job in just presenting a respectful worship service, leading in a respectful worship service, good preaching. And um On the way home, I said to my mother, you like this church? She said, yeah. Said, you know, I do too. We're gonna return shortly. And that's been over a year and that that's been a real answer to our prayer. Marcus Baptist, uh Baptist, yeah. Marcus of the Presbyterian Church was Marcus Presbyterian Church has been a real has been a great blessing to us. And we just thank the Lord for this. So we're talking here about being separated. Now, here's the last thing I want to share with you. Unto what? What am I being separated unto? The gospel of God. All right. Alright, now here we are, seminary class. You're in theology 101 seminary class. Alright, and I'm saying, okay, a test. Take a piece of paper and a pen, and it's a one-question test. And I want you to define the gospel. I want a definition of the gospel, and I want it from the Bible. Got twenty minutes to do this. I taught in the Bible college, so I know how to do this in a little bit, so I'm going to give you twenty minutes and do this. Give me a definition of the gospel from the Bible. You got 20 minutes to do it. I'll be back in 20 minutes, class. See you later. So but I would ask you what is now here it is. Generally speaking Generally, in a very general way, this is the gospel. It's the whole message of salvation Of the Lord Jesus Christ, the sinfulness of men, the holiness of God, the work of salvation of the Lord Jesus Christ who went to the cross for our sins. So the whole book is about that, whether prophesying it or historically it's recorded. But specifically, I'm not looking for a general answer like the Bible is the gospel, okay? Specifically, what is the gospel? And you'll find that in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Verses 1 to 4 defines the gospel. And the gospel is the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Many times when we preach the gospel, we leave Christ on the cross. Do you know did Jesus die for you? And and you need you know repent and believe on him and relieving Christ on the cross. Now we know the Roman church does that. You go to a Roman church and you have all these crosses and Jesus is on the cross, still hanging on the cross But the Bible, that's not the full gospel. The gospel is the death, burial. He goes into the ground, showing that he indeed is dead, and then the resurrection. He resurrected and was seen as witnesses. That's the gospel. And I'd like to suggest when we're sharing Christ with people, don't forget to mention the resurrection of Jesus. Yet Christ died for your sins. Yes, and he was buried, yes, and he resurrected, yes And you want to make that clear. That's the gospel. And we need to know how to share it. And you know this it's it's strange when you when you put these sermons together, and I think a lot of times in my own life how the Lord you know what my thinking was in various times of my own life. And I went to b I w I attended a Bible college. I attended the I went I went actually to University of Kentucky. Got a business degree there I attended Florida Bible College. And the reason I went to Florida Bible College is what what? Because I wanted to learn how to witness to any person under any kind of situation. That's the way you put it. Lord, I want to go where I can learn how to witness to any person. under any kind of a situation. And it r and that so that's you know that's what that's what took went to Bible college as a student to do this. And that's what we learn need to learn to do. However, and I'm sure you will do it. I'm sure many of you do this, and that's a wonderful thing to do. I was thinking of my wife the other day, actually actually it was yesterday as I was putting this together, wanting to think of an example. Now here's the importance of getting the word of God out. I'm hoping only we do this. Years ago number of years ago, we were in Florida visiting a friend, and I think we went to a we went to didn't we go to a Bible conference, Vicky? When was that Bible conference, right? What was the name of that Bible conference? When was that? Legion Year. Which one? Legion Year. Yeah, Legionier Bible College Conference. I think you're familiar with that. Okay, so I think there the um They're past their passed away. Anyway, so we went to that conference. We went to a couple of them. So anyway, in the morning we go to a local coffee shop to get breakfast. Okay. It's like a cafeteria. So you get in line, you get your food and walk down the line and then there's a cat there's a cash register there and the ladies at the cash register. But on this morning they're very busy So there's a lot of people along line and so we work our way up to the line and I'm ready to pay for our breakfast. And Vicky hands me a track And she said, here, give this to the lady. I said, I can't give it. Look how busy she is. She got the long line. She's not gonna walk. Just give it to her. All right. So I pay for the food and I give it to her You know, say I'd like to give you some good news to read. And and she gets it and puts it down like that. And so we walk off. Go to our table. So we're eating for about 20 minutes there, and lo and behold, who do you think walks over to our table? That woman. She says, May I talk with you for a minute? I said, yes. She said, I want to thank you so much for leaving this track with me. She said, my husband and I have been having a terrible time, but the information in this track was very helpful to me. Thank you so much for for sharing it with me. You know, you never know. When you give out God's word, maybe you may give out 50 tracts and 49 of them will be thrown in the street. Okay, who cares? Of one person. Through that track receives the Lord. It's well worth it. So hope your pockets are full of tracks and if not, keep them full of tracks that you can always give a track. Maybe you can't witness it, maybe it's it's hard It's difficult to get into a conversation and try to get into the gospel. And um I'll just give this last example here and then I'm going to close in in getting God's word out in the c in the form of a conversation. As they keep under the topic here of the gospel and getting God's gospel out. This was about a month ago. We're at a birthday party. And the the the the the the lady having a birthday uh was from from the Philippines. And so most of the people at the restaurant are all Filipinos. And we had a couple in our church, and they're believe me, they were tremendous people. They were leaders of our church. Just wonderful people. So we're celebrating the 60th birthday of this one Um young lady. Young lady now to me. That's a young to me that's a young sixty years old? You're a young lady. Okay, so we're in we're we're enjoying uh So we're at a I'm at a table here. Vicky's here on my left. There's a Caucasian man on my right and then a Filipino man two seats down. So the man here right next to me we have a talk for a little while. I remember his name was Brian. You know, I don't remember names that well, but for whatever reason I remember this guy's name. It was Brian. I never saw him before. We talked a little bit and then he got up and went and talked to some people over there. So the next guy down was a Filipino man who I never saw before. I thought, but you know, I want to see if I can share Christ with this man I don't know them, but who knows what's going to happen. So I moved down and I just, hey, I'm Don. Nice nice to meet you. I'm glad you're here. Tell me how how did you come here? Well my my wife is a friend of Joy's who's having the uh birthday and and and so they're friends together, blah blah blah. Okay, and I'm thinking as he's talking, I'm thinking, how can I get the gospel to this guy? And say, you know, I'm just gonna come out and ask him a question. That's all. I mean what can he do? Just you can swim me out or get angry and walk out. But but I'd rather do that than not say anything And and we as Christians we say nothing as we ought to. I'm talking to myself, not necessarily you. I don't witness as I should. This was one of the times that you know by God's grace I was able to So So anyway, to this gentleman here. And a clear blue sky said, tell me something, I want to ask you a question. What's that? If you were to die today, do you know if you'd go to heaven? And he said, there's no heaven. What do I believe in heaven for? I said you don't believe in heaven or hell or anything anything? No, no, what would I believe in that for? Well well let me ask you, um Like as as you look at the creation about you, as you look at your planet Earth, as we look at the stars and the universe, how do you think it got there? Did it just like boom? Just just out of mid-air just show up? Well, how do you explain that Well, I don't know, but I don't believe a guy because rah rah rah. So then you're gonna tell me that all of this just appeared out of no out of nothing. In other words, you're trying to tell me something came from nothing. Is that is that what you actually believe in? Well so he mumbled it Anyway, so we're working through all this, but I did come to the point. Uh I came to the point of the gospel. So while anyway, what I want to tell you is this Jesus, the Son of God, Died on the cross for sinners, like me, and like you, I say. You're gonna punch me, but like you. He was buried and he resurrected to show to us that he was the Son of God, and he is the Son of God And the Bible says, Whosoever shall receive him will have the forgiveness of sins and eternal life in heaven. Have you ever heard that before? Well, my wife goes to church and she'll say something like that. And I and I I don't know why. I said, Well have you ever received Christ into your life? He said, and then he got very serious. I mean he got surprisingly and he said no I said, well, so I'm going to take this a step further. Well, would you like to receive Christ into your life? And to my shock, he says, yes, I would. Very seriously. So I'm gonna try one more time. Would you like to receive the Christ receive the Lord Jesus Christ now? And he says, Yes, I would. Can you imagine that? That's terrible. It's lack of faith in my own part, but I was like surprised. Give me your hand. So I held his hand and we prayed for him to receive the Lord Jesus Christ. I mean it was this like a room like this and maybe fifty, seventy-five people m milling around talking noise and all this, and we're over in the corner. Lord Jesus, forgive me my sins. I want Jesus as my Savior and my Lord. We're talking like this. And then it's over. And um and and and then somebody called me away for something and I didn't get the man's name but I got Joy, the birthday girl knows who he is. So my job now is to follow that man up. Now I know sometimes when you do that They're just going through emotion and they and it's real their heart's not really in it. I I understand that. But sometimes they're doing that and it's really a conversion experience. I don't know. I didn't I didn't follow this man up yet. I want to do it, but um I need to get some more information on him. I did give him my name and phone number and email address so he know he has my stuff he can get me if he wants. But the whole so what's the whole point? Get the word of God out. That's the gospel. Get the word of God out. And if you don't do it, nobody's going to do it. I want to cl I want to close with a with a quote. You see, what we need here is dedicated on fire Christians for Jesus Christ. That's what our country needs, because you know we're on a verge, in my opinion, and my humble opinion, we are on the verge of a revolution in this country. I've been saying that for six months, and now I'm starting to hear that on some of the T V commentators. I'm seeing that word revolution coming up more and more Because we are so divided. But you know what our nation needs? Not more Republicans, not more Democrats. We need more gospel. Get the word of God out and that will solve the solutions of our country Get the word out. But if we of Christians are not getting the word out, who's going to get it out? Nobody. Well, I want to encourage you. Get tracks in your pocket, learn how to share Christ, and just do it. And the Lord will do the saving. He'll save who he wants. We know the whole world's not going to get saved. We know relatively speaking it's a minority of people, of numbers of people who will get saved. But nonetheless, our job is to get the word of God out. It's his word to to actually do do the saving All right, I want to just quote with a uh close with a quote. I read this years ago in the magazine and I thought this is fantastic And so I committed it to memory. It's the words of a young com the way this was defined, the words of a young communist, teenage communist, speaking about his his dedication to the communistic cause. And he said, now listen to these words, he said, it is my life, my religion, my sweetheart, my wife, and my mistress. I work at it in the daytime. I dream of it at night. Its hold on me grows instead of lessens as time goes on, and I am inseparably bound to it Therefore, I cannot read a book, see a movie, or hold a conversation without relating it to this cause which both drives and guides my life That is a statement of commitment, ladies and gentlemen. I would to God that we as Christians are committed to the gospel, getting that gospel message out. as that young man was on a s silly communist issue. But we need to have a spirit of dedication, determination, and resolve To live the gospel and to get it out. And that's what Paul tells us here, as we see in this, just already in verse 1. He's concerned about getting out the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. Let's bow together, shall we? Let's pray. Our Father, we want to give you thanks today that we are here in a church. Thank you that we are here, Lord, in the Pilgrim Bible Presbyterian Church. We pray for this church, O Lord. We pray for the leadership. We pray for the youngest person here. We pray, Lord, for the women of the church, for the men of the church, for the children of the church. And Lord, we ask that you will guide them. Strengthen them, encourage them, give them a spirit of love among one another, a spirit of cooperation, that they may be able Reach out to the community. And then Lord, I pray, as we discussed earlier, concerning that terrible thing of pride. Oh Lord, take pride out of our hearts. Should pride sink into our into our lives or into our church, that will cause all issues. Give us a spirit of humility, make us a servant. As we address one another, as we minister one to another, let us look at ourselves as being the servant, on the lowest of servants, here to wait on you. Lord, give us that spirit of servanthood that we see in the Lord Jesus, that we see in the Apostle Paul, as we see in Peter and all those that have You written your holy word and and directed us to the dear Lord Jesus Christ. Well, thank you for bringing us together today, O Lord. We thank you so much for this. Thank you, Lord, for letting me be here to to Stand behind this pulpit and to preach this. Because you know, and I know of all the people that are here, I'm the least likely and least deserving to be here to do this. I don't understand why you bless me like this. I thank you, O Lord. Thank you for this. Hold me faithful and accountable to whatever you've given me. God bless this congregation. We pray through Christ our Lord. Amen. Ennen