We're going to be this morning in Amos chapter five, and I know the bulletin said verses one through twenty-seven and at the time that I spoke to Bob and and as I've been driving him crazy with changes every minute. See that? I know we gotta raise a salary there. I got to studying. By the time I got to verse 15 I had seven pages of notes. So unless you'd like to be here till two o'clock, we're gonna cut it in half. So I'll be back I think the second week of August and we'll do a two part series. uh on that. So I don't I don't want to, you know, have you put up with me that long. So let's just see how far we get. Acts I'm Amos chapter five. Sorry, I've been teaching Acts in the book of s in the Sunday school class Amos chapter five verses one through fifteen. Alright. Hear ye this word which I take up against you, even a lamentation, O house of Israel. The virgin of Israel is fallen. She shall no more rise. She is forsaken upon her land. There is none to raise her up. For thus saith the Lord God, the city that went out by a thousand shall leave a hundred, and that which went forth by a hundred shall leave ten to the house of Israel. For thus saith the Lord unto the house of Israel, Seek ye me, and ye shall live. But seek not Bethel Nor enter into Gilgal, and pass not to Beersheba, for Gilgal shall surely go into captivity, and Bethel shall come to naught. Seek the Lord, and ye shall live, lest he break out like fire in the house of Joseph and devour it, and there be none to quench it in Bethel. Ye who turn judgment to wormwood and leave off righteousness in the earth, seek him that maketh the seven stars and Orion And turneth the shadow of death into the morning, and maketh the day dark with night, that calleth for the waters of the sea, and poureth them out upon the face of the earth. The Lord is his name That strengtheneth the spoiled against the strong, so that the spoiled shall come against the fortress. They hate him that rebuketh in the gate, and they abhor him that speaketh uprightly. For as much therefore as your treading is upon the poor, and ye take from him burdens of wheat, ye have built houses of hewn stone, but ye shall not dwell in them. Ye have planted pleasant vineyards, but ye shall not drink wine of them, for I know your manifold transgressions and your mighty sins. They afflict the just, they take a bribe, and they turn aside the poor in the gate from their right. Therefore, the prudent shall keep silence in that time, for it is an evil time Seek good and not evil that ye may live. And so the Lord, the Lord God of hosts, the God of hosts shall be with you as ye have spoken. Hate the evil, and love the good, and establish judgment in the gate. It may be that the Lord God of hosts will be gracious unto the remnant of Joseph. These are hard sayings. It's not easy to read some of the minor prophets. I guess you might say the only way to make it easy is to just not read it. Well, that's what a lot of churches are doing today. But you have to look for the light inside of the verses and they're there. God is not telling us to beat up on each other through all these condemnations. He's saying I have the way, the truth, and the life He says, I know your transgressions, but he's telling Israel, you're hurting each other. You're being nasty to each other. And I don't like it. And I'm going to show you how here in a minute. The Lord laid this on my heart. There's some things in here that you can't see maybe right away until you read it a few times. But the Lord did not like how the Israelite judgment, the the the justice system was dealing with their people and treating them. Who is Amos? Amos, who is he? And what was his mission? His name means burden bearer. I think that's a really good description of a man who the Lord brought along. He's from Toa. It was a lookout for Jerusalem over the Mount of Olives and the Dead Sea. It's a very important place. It sat high and it overlooked, and basically it was a lookout for the Israelite armies. They could see a lot from that vantage point. This is a small village about 10 miles south of Jerusalem, which means Amos was in the thick of a prosperous but very opulent period and a time of great rampant corruption. Maul the K was the epicenter of the problems of Israel before, now, and beyond. You know, this is basically somewhat a lot like the condition of our country is right now. It's seemingly very prosperous, but it's falling quickly and it's going nowhere fast spiritually. See, if you read this, you have to understand the people around Amos and his family and everybody that was in Israel, they haven't fallen yet. Amos is there to warn them. Amos was not initially a prophet. He was a commoner like many prophets, disciples, and apostles. Amos was called to deliver a message primarily to the northern tribes of Israel, and like the other prophets, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, he was to deliver the oracles of woe for abject idol worship, political corruption, and pagan worship. The background and setting was in the middle of the 8th century, where Amos lived between the reign of King Uzziah and Jeroboam. And if you know anything about those kings, Uzziah was in, he was, it was a bad time. You're exactly right, Teresa. It was a bad time. But it was very prosperous. Uzziah was an incredible king until he did what he did at the altar. He was the one that irrigated Israel. Back then it was a beautiful, plush looking area. It was looked like Rome. He irrigated it, planted trees, there was orchards, there were vineyards. He was the one that invented the catapults. He was extremely gifted in war. And Uzziah was like he reigned for like 52, 53 years until he decided to take on the office of a priest and he went to the altar and the Lord struck him down with leprosy. And between that time time period Joash came along and then Jeroboam, Joash was Jeroboam's Father. And he started out pretty good. And all of a sudden it just got to be too much. It was too much fun and too much money. And that's the downfall of a lot of people. And that's what happened to him But then there was Amos. Where does Amos fit in like this? You know who Amos reminds me of a little bit? He reminds me of that little cameo appearance that we see in Luke 2 of Simeon. Remember, he's the one that called Jesus, the consolation of Israel. Amos just comes and he goes. It's like the wind brings him in and the wind takes him out. He has this little book. He comes up very courageously and valiantly. We don't even know much about him. We don't know who his father was. We don't know who his mother was. We don't know if he had any siblings. But the Lord specifically used Amos, and He's teaching us by what we don't know, by what is important about Amos Amos was a commoner. His vocation was he was a sheep breeder, which means he was a sheep herder. So what does a sheep breeder or a sheep herder have to do with prophesying the word of the Lord? I think that's a big question. Well, we see here how King Uzziah and Jeroboam the Second, who at the time brought great territorial restoration to Israel. You see Uzziah was a master of war and architecture, and he kept Israel beautiful. Jeroboam followed after his father Joash, and there was a time of peace, but there were horrible problems. What's interesting about Amos, in fact, he was not a priest. He was not of noble descent or priestly descent, but he was a sheep breeder. You can see in actually chat if you read chapter 1 in Amos, you can see that's what he says his vocation was Not being a priest and being the voice of God when Amos' vocation is a sheep breeder shows a great problem just like today. Where are the priests? Where were the preachers? Where were the men of God that were supposed to uphold all of the sacrifices and uphold all of the tenets that Moses had given? Where are they? Why aren't they not standing up to all this horrible filth that was there? Boy, that has me scratching my head. Where are they today? Where are the preachers? Where are the ones that are to teach us to love one another? Where are the ones that are supposed to be there for the elderly, do the visiting? Where are they? Where were they for the last year and a half when the governor told them to shut their doors? They did just what the governor said, not what God said. They listen to the governor, he knows it all. Not being a priest and being the voice of God when Amos' vocation is a sheep raider shows a real problem. Where are the priests? Where are the preachers? Where are the shepherds? When they will not speak the truth, our Almighty can raise anyone up to deliver that message as he sees fit. Or not. That's a bad thing when the Lord does not see fit to reveal his word anymore. That's a bad problem. That's what we don't want. He is not confined to use the mouths of humans He can use his creation. He has sent his message by animals. He sent his message by severed hands. And he can send his message by another method. He used Balaam's jackass. Numbers 22, 28. And the Lord opened the mouth of the ass, and she said unto Balaam, What have I done unto thee? That thou hast smitten me these three times. We see how the Lord used a jackass, a donkey, to speak. Nobody else would do it. He spoke with a hand, the Belshazzar, in Daniel chapter 5, verse 24. Then was the part of the hand sent from him, and this writing was written. And it was a warning to another king that was living in a very opulent, filthy, wicked time, Belshazzar, and he said, I've had enough. Many, many takelopars. You've been found wanting, and your days are done. And he didn't have a priest or a prophet, he had a severed hand upon the wall. Can you imagine standing here and seeing a severed hand start writing words from God? That would be really scary. Now look what Christ said. Luke 19, 40. And he answered and said unto them, I tell you that if these should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out. Well wait a minute. We haven't seen any stones opening their mouths and using their voices and saying anything. So Christ is lying, right? He didn't mean what he said. We've never seen a stone cry out. Oh no When all the Bible is completely stopped, walk around the cemeteries and look at some of the stones and read them They've taken the Bible out of Mount Vernon where George Washington died. There used to be one right by his death. It's all gone. Inside of the house, there's you don't see any scripture. Go down to the cemetery there where his grave is, and over his head is John 11, 25 and 26, written in metal. It's there and it's in King James. And then you look at his family members all around. There's Bible verses after Bible verses from Isaiah, from the book of Romans, there's verses from the book of I think the book of Acts, Psalms definitely, several verses. The stones do cry out. So Amos is being used of the Lord. He's used now from a sheepherder. He's not a seasoned priest. He's not some past theologian or itinerant preacher. He was a sheepherder. Well, Amos starts this chapter off and he says, Hear ye the word of the Lord. This is an absolute perfect proof that the writers of Scripture, including Amos, knew they were writing God's holy and errant word. This is why we must read scriptures on our own personally and not depend on man's interpretation only. There are good commentaries out there. But the big problem with the canonization of Scripture today the big think tanks, the debaters that have all these degrees, they have more degrees than a thermometer. They're going around and they're saying that scripture is not holy. It's not inerrant because the men that wrote it had no idea they were writing scripture. That's what they're saying today. What a lie. It says, hear the word of the Lord. How many times did Paul open up Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, writing by the holy inspired word of God? I paraphrase it. Over and over and over. If they didn't know they were writing scripture, then who's supposed to interpret it? Well, not God. If they don't know that, well then the church has to interpret it. And they have to put their spin on it. Look at the Roman Catholic Church, how they murdered many, many of its people. And the Christian church over the years has fallen way off. Nobody is outside of that. No one is outside of that condemnation, whether it's Jehovah's Witness, Catholic, Evangelicals, nobody that has taken the scripture and done something and changed it. Nobody can be can say that I am not guilty of that. And we've done it ourselves when we have sinned. Also. And so I'm not sitting here saying I'm better than anybody else. I'm just saying in every age, in every sect of religion, somebody has tried to sit to change the scriptures and has tried to make it something it's not. And so the Lord is always beckoning us to come back in to read the Scripture first and do like the Bereans, ask questions. Sunday school class went very well, I think. All of us learned together. We just sat here like the Bereans talking about Scripture. And so, you know, we just we have to our hearts go out for those that don't understand and don't know better and are trying to give a different message Our job is to make sure that they're on the right track. And that's what Amos was doing. That's what he was doing. Amos was trying to make sure that they knew what was going on. And that's God's word. This is a lamentation. It's a lament to express sorrow, mourning, or regret for for often demonstrably or truly. That is what a lament is to express sorrow. Amos is expressing Jehovah's sorrow and anger over the sins of his nation of Israel. And this oracle is very clear It must be heard because it is God. The word of the Lord shall always take effect, and not one little tittle or bit of it shall fall to the ground. Those that choose not to listen will suffer consequences. And this lament could easily be entitled this morning, The Lamentations of the United States of America. It really has a lot of there's a all there's an awful lot of similarities because we have such a very corrupt political status right now, sadly. We need to pray for our uh representatives. There's some there that are really trying to do what's good, and other ones that are really really uh me prayer. This is a lamentable account of the present appalling state of Israel And I'm sad to say here today Israel is really struggling. Israel, we have to pray for them. We have to pray for our brothers and sisters over there because their mission, the mission field over there is is is just as difficult. Well, Amos says the virgin is falling. What does that mean? That's a very sad lament. The virgin of Israel is fallen And what happens is Israel is being called the virgin, beautiful, young and at once young in great power and wealth, and courted with great love. Now the booth of David is failing and it's falling. The virgin terminology could be clarified by the way that our Lord spoke about in Genesis 6 and Job 1, Noah. And in Job 1, how Job was perfect and upright, referring to Noah as perfect in his generations, and Job as perfect and upright. And whenever you hear Scripture talking about someone being perfect, Like it says we read in and I think it's uh Genesis 6, 9, that Job was perfect in his generations and he walked with God. What does that mean? He was sinless perfect. That he was basically that the scripture is lying and it really Christ wasn't the only perfect one, that there were others? Well people have taken it that way, theologians have. No, that's not what it means. It meant that Noah had a perfect worship. He worshipped the true and living God. Same thing with Job. Job 1-1, he eschewed evil. He was perfect and upright and he eschewed evil. He loved the Lord. That meant he was perfect in his worship. So if you worship Jesus Christ and you worship the way the Lord tells us to, you have a perfect worship. And there can't be anything better than that, in a perfect worship. Because you want to know what if you have a perfect worship, you're not going to be sitting there saying to yourself alone when nobody's around, boy, I hope I go to heaven. You won't be saying that because the Lord will tell you that you are. You're going there. He knows. So it meant that they were perfect in the worship. The God of our fathers is Jehovah Elohim, the great creator and supreme judge of all. Israel had fallen because they had turned their back on their first love. Revelation 2, chapter 4. Nevertheless, I have someone against thee, because thou hast left thy first love. This is written almost as a funeral requiem for a beautiful young virgin woman who had died. That's how lamentable this was. This is how it was written. It says there is none to raise her up. None of her allies will step in to defend her. You know, that sounds like America. Where are our allies? Where are those that are stepping up and defending and helping us against China, against the horrible nature of North Korea and Russia? Where are our friends? Stepping up and saying, hey, you guys are going down a bad path. We need to get over here and send you missionaries. We need to help you. We need to help fix you. The allies are all crying out against us right now. Very, very serious. None are stepping up to spare America from the effects of the wicked wickedness of China, North Korea, Russia, and the Middle East. This is very bad for another nation, and this is what happened to the allies of Israel. The Lord had drawn them back This is so sad as we go forward and we see how Amos writes that from that the armies went from a thousand to a hundred, from a hundred to ten. Whereas the Lord had increased the number of Israelites in a miraculous way during the enslavement in Egypt and increased the number of warriors with Saul, David, and Solomon's army, now the prophecy is changing. Israel will be diminished. They're going to be losing their numbers. But remember in 1 Samuel 18, verse 7, and the women answered one another as they played and said, Saul hath slain his thousands and David his ten thousands. We know Saul was wrought with this, with the comparison that women were making it, and the tables are now turning We see that the city that went out by a thousand shall leave a hundred, and that which went forth by a hundred shall leave ten to the house of Israel. The Lord warned about this All through Scripture, we see the warnings were there. In 2 Kings chapter 10, 30-32, we read, In those days the Lord began to cut Israel short, and Hazel smote them in all the coast of Israel. And these were the wicked days of Ahab, Jezebel, and Jehu. Ahab and Jezebel, they really set the precedent for a lot of horrible things that happened in Israel. Very difficult things. We see in the this upcoming section, we go to verses four. This section is a message From God through Amos, and he says, I know your transgressions, and I know that if ye repent and turn away from your sins ye shall live. I don't want us to miss The most important part of this message. I know that it seems like a big fire and brimstoner. I know it seems really tough, but what we need to see see is what Johnson Edwards incorporated at the towards all throughout his message and towards the end of sinners in the hands of an angry God, there's hope. There is peace. There is a way, and this is where he this is where he starts putting it. Here we see here that the real problem lies with those that believe God can only judge and rain down consequences predicated on outward crimes. Christ can see in our hearts with as much clarity as what can be seen externally, and what he was seeing internally Is that the justice system, the legislative system of the Israelites was turning against their good people that were working hard They were not helping them. They were not loving them. They were not encouraging them. They were doing exactly what God said not to do. He said to Israel, when he brought the Israelites out of Egypt, he said, never is a king ever supposed to enslave the Israelites again. Never. That's what George Washington said. That's what Thomas Jefferson and Patrick Henry said. And now we're all being enslaved. Oh, we can sit in our little reservations and talk about Jesus in our living rooms. But you stand out there in front of the General Assembly and try to do it. I try to do it. Trying to mention Jesus and you're treated you're basically treated like you're bringing up a Bugs Bunny cartoon or something. Jesus. Who's that? They just laugh at him. That's what they l that's that's what you you you mentioned the name of Jesus today and people think you're crazy in any type of uh any any type of political arena. If you go you stand in front we you know standing in front of the general assembly and saying sodomy is bad because Jesus says it's wrong, what's that? Oh no, Martin O'Malley says we need to have LGBTQ laws. Why cannot a child have two parents no matter who they are? Well that and that's what they voted for That's what they got. And now we're funding it. How did Christ know the sins? How does God know these things? This is the next question. I want to miss this. How can we sit here and read about how God knows the transgressions of Israel? How can he know them? How can he sit there and externally look at everything everybody does? He can And he can even do better than that. He knew what made them do it. He knew what was on their hearts. He knows what's on our hearts. And we can be proving this through the life of Jesus Christ. There's so many examples. I mean we could have stood here, we could stand here for days and days and days giving examples that the Lord left us, how he can see everything. Look at John chapter 4, verse 17, when Jesus saw the woman at the well, when he said, The woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said unto her, Thou hast well said I have no husband, for thou hast had five husbands, and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband, in that sayest thou truly How did he know that? It doesn't say anywhere that he had been spending time with her before that. In fact, he was a Jew. He wasn't even allowed to go to Samaria. He really wasn't. And he did anyway, of course, because he's Christ. He knew that she had five husbands. How did he know that? What about when Christ told Peter what was on his heart and and that he would undeniably deny Christ? Peter said, I would never do that. Peter said, I will go with you to the death. I would never even think about it. Jesus says in Matthew 26, 33, Peter answered and said unto him, Though all men shall be offended because of thee, yet will I never be offended. And Christ comes back and says in chapter 26 of Matthew, verse 34 Jesus said unto him, Verily, or another way of saying this, Truly I say unto thee, that this night before the cockroach thou shalt deny me thrice. What happened? What a prophecy. It not only happened the way he said it did, every detail of it was absolutely perfect So you can guarantee every prophet prophecy that Jesus gives, and our Lord God Almighty gives, when they give it, it's perfect. How did He know this? How did Christ know this? Application here is God was about to give a large window into what problems of the people that were to be chosen and of the seed of Abraham have committed sins against God, and he says, if you want to live now And your future generations are passionate about future prosperity, here is a grave warning from this insignificant sheep breeder. I'll tell you how much he knew it. He knew it enough to put it in the mouths of Amos. In the mouth of Amos, and Amos would be the one to prophesy it. Amos was no man of prodigious knowledge. He had no great education. The Lord knew all of these things, and Amos talked about them. That's a miracle in and of itself. You know, I love what Pastor Coleman the last uh couple weeks ago. He gave a really good outline on basically how Paul was teaching Timothy before Paul went to be executed by wicked Nero. And he left a really good outline. Pastor Coleman had given us an outline that Paul had left for Timothy to do five major things if you remember any of them. And I see every one of these components That are woven inside of Amos chapter 5. Number one, preach or to teach. That's the first imperative. Five imperatives that Paul gave Timothy. to preach or teacher. Number two, to do it instant in season and out of season. That means to do it when community conscience is totally against what you're talking about. Today, community conscience supports sodomy, abortion, all these wicked things, and we're still to talk against them. And we're supposed to do it consistently. Number three, to reprove. Number four to rebuke. Number five to exhort and encourage. And I see all of that here. I see Amos reproving Israel for the sins and the Lord is talking through him, rebuking them, and then he encourages by telling them to seek the Lord. So what what the problem is, Amos clarifies sins under two major headings in this chapter. And we're going to do we're going to generally do them right now for these 15 verses, and then the next service that I do, we're going to get into it a little bit more. Number one, the two major sins that he's pointing out here is the absence of true worship with idolatry. The absence of true worship. Now you can see all of a sudden, I think you figured me out by now. I'm trying to plug this into America. The absence of true worship with idolatry. I think we see that here at America, don't we? And number two, a lack of justice that should have been followed the way God laid out the laws of Moses. Not man's progressive interpretation. And Amos uses three primary ancient Hebrew sites that were celebrated for the presence of God. All right. How am I what am I talking about idolatry? I think this is very important for us to to be to look at very carefully. The reason that he's talking about idolatry and the way that he's bringing it out as he goes to Amos chapter 5, when we're reading 5, go back to verses 5 and 6 This is where he's talking about it. But seek not Bethel nor enter into Gilgal and pass not to Beersheba, for Gilgal shall surely go into captivity, and Bethel shall come to naught Seek ye the Lord and ye shall live. Okay. Let's talk a little bit about these three sites. Seek not Bethel. What was Bethel? Anybody remember anything about Bethel? Bethel was a very important site in the Old Testament, in the ancient Israel. It was Luz where Abraham lived and served the Lord and honored God and built an altar to the Lord back in Genesis chapter 12, verse 8. Here Jacob saw a staircase going to heaven and saw angels descending and ascending upon it, he erected a pillar and called it the house of God in Genesis 28, 19. There were many other wonderful blessings that came from Bethel. Then Jeroboam did something that infuriated God. And this precious landmark in God's word, it became an epicenter of idolatry. This was supposed to be an ancient landmark that was a memorial of the presence and the voice and the audible speaking of the Lord God Almighty, giving provisions, providing for his people. What happened? Jeroboam built a golden calf in Bethel and one in Dan. First Corinthians 12, 28 we read, whereupon the king took counsel and made two calves of gold, and said unto them, It is too much for you to go up to Jerusalem. Behold thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt. Verse 29. And he set the one in Bethel, and the other put he in Dan And verse 30, and this thing became a sin, for the people went to worship before the one, even unto Dan. They went to worship the golden calf instead of worshiping God I mean s uh can you imagine what it was like for the Lord to have to even interpret this and to reveal this to us in a in wholly inspired word? Where there was a golden calf back in Exodus. Look how bad that turned out. You think they would have learned? This idolatry was a true absence of worship in God's eyes. Which are the eyes by which we are to follow. And it was a direct assault against the kingdom of God. We see in 2 Kings 10, verses 29, how be it from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nabat who made Israel to sin. So we learn from that, it's very important, that having idols to replace God is a sin. It's not relativism. It's not up to our interpretation. God says it is a sin to replace him with something else. And we see in that verse, Jehu departed not from after them to whip the golden calves that were in Bethel and that were in Dan. Amos cried out against this horrible, this horror. Jeremiah denounced this idolatry. Jeremiah 48, verse 13. And Noab shall be ashamed of Camosh, as the house of Israel was ashamed of Bethel, their confidence. It gets worse. Hosea renamed Bethel. Remember that? Hosea chapter 10, verse 5? He renamed it. Now at one point, Bethel was called the house of God. Now, Hosea, who was told by the Lord also to prophesy like Amos, Hosea 10, 5, the inhabitants of Samaria shall fear because of the calves of Bethaven. That's Bethel. For the people thereof shall mourn over it, and the priest thereof that rejoice for it for the glory thereof, because it is departed from it. Bethel went from meaning the house of God to the house of harlotry. That's what Bethaven meant. That's how serious this was. So that was the number one example of idolatry that Amos gives. The second example here. I believe it's 1150 already. Danaos mentions Gilgal. Anybody remember Gilgal? Does anybody remember the Circle of Stones? That was another memorial for God, the circle of stones. Can you imagine standing down at Ocean City on the Atlantic Ocean, and all of a sudden you need to get over the other side and the Lord opens the ocean up for you, and you can just walk right over? You need to get over to the other side. You need to walk up. Do you imagine the Lord doing that for you? Well, he did it for them. This is where Elijah ascended into heaven in 2 Kings 2. 1. It was situated in the hill country of Ephraim, only eight miles northwest of Bethel. When the tribes of Israel crossed the Jordan River to the promised land, this is where Joshua had a memorial made with stones in a circular formation to remember their deliverance from a God that loves them and gave them everything they needed. And as time went on, this became Gilgal was the site of King Saul's coronation. Sadly it was the site of where the Lord rejected Saul. And s and in in 1 Samuel chapters eleven through 15. Later when Absalom revolted against his father, King David, the Judeans got together when Absalom was gone. Welcome David back as their king in Gilgal in Samuel nineteen. And then they all got together and they worshiped the Lord. And from that point forward the kings after that in Gilgal had nothing but a wicked idol worship to the point where they were actually sacrificing their children. That's what happened to Gilgal, an ancient landmark for God. Hosea 4. 15, once again, though thou Israel play the harlot, yet let not Juna offend, and come not ye unto Gilgal, neither go ye up to Bethham Bethaven, nor swear the Lord liveth. said don't go past there anymore. Those wonderful old ancient landmarks of the Lord are gone. They have now become an idol worship. Is that what's going to happen to America? Is the Lord going to say, Don't pass through America anymore? It used to be a land that loved me, and now it hates me. I only have three. There's so many more towns. Just going to do this one. Number three, Beershebah. This is where Abraham returned after God prevented him from offering Isaac as the sacrifice on Mount Moriah. That's where the name Jehovah Jehovah Jairah came from, the God who provides. This was another memorial to God. Genesis 22. It was at Beersheba that God appeared to Hagar, Isaac, and Jacob In ancient Israel, Beershima was famous for being a place where God was present. And like Bethel and Gilgal fell to the pagans and became another center of idolatry. We see later in Amos 8. 13, in that day shall the fair virgins and young men faint for thirst. They that swear by the sin of Samaria and say, Thy God, O Dan, liveth, and the manner of Beersheba liveth, even they shall fall and never rise up again. Beersheba, Gilgal, and Bethel has never risen up again. Never. It's never risen up again to defend the law of God and to do what's right. To this day it hasn't Well, we see applications with the mentioning of the three provinces of Israel. America, too, has removed the ancient landmarks of its Christianity and obeisance to the Lord. This is sad. Look at the Christian colleges that were the standard of Christian training. Harvard, Princeton, most of the colleges in the United States that started over 300 years ago were Bible proclaiming schools originally Harvard and Yale, originally Puritan and Princeton, originally Presbyterian, once had rich Christian histories. Harvard was named after a Christian minister. Yale was started by clergymen, and Princeton's first year of class was taught by Reverend Jonathan Dickinson. Princeton's crest still says De Sobnumin Viet, which is Latin for under God she flourishes. Even Southern Illinois University of Carbonale, SIUC, had Christian roots when it was founded in 1869. Its school motto was Deo Valento, which is Latin for God willing. By the time the nineties arrived, there was almost no vestige of that Christian heritage left. In fact, these universities emphatically teach evolution over millions of years that God created I mean the the God did not create but the evolution of millions of years of creation I mean millions of years of evolution and blatantly reject the possibility of biblical authority, that the Bible is true, authoritative, and that we need to adjust our beliefs and actions to its teaching So what happened to cause so many schools to abandon their Christian roots? What's happened? Why is it that even a lot of so-called Christian colleges will not even give the truth? Look at how founding fathers' statues in the last couple years that had Bible verses were vandalized, taken down, or destroyed. The problem is America has replaced them with statues of Martin Luther King, John F. Kennedy, Charles Darwin, and a seven-foot-tall, 650-pound statue that was unveiled last week at the City Point in Brooklyn. Which is a mixed-use development of Ruth Bader-Ginsburg. This is a multi-million dollar statue made of bronze and brass of a woman That killed more babies than tuberculosis or or or spotted fever and all. It was so bad when she died. There was a senator that came out of Georgia when they were talking about how wonderful she is. He he came out and he said Yeah how many babies she murdered with her legislation? Hard to believe They've replaced Robert E. Lee, who loved the Lord, Thomas Jefferson, who taught many, many children about the Lord, colored children, white children, George Washington, and Stonewall Jackson. What a sad display of treason. No one is defacing Barack Obama's statue in Rapid City, South Dakota. So it sounds like it's pretty bleak right now in this message, doesn't it? But all through it we see the lovely blessings of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Seek ye the Lord, and seek the Lord, and ye shall live. Amos warns that only life on this earth and eternal life are of the Lord. Christ is called the living water, the resurrection and the life, the way, the truth, and the life. 1 John 1 verses 1 and 2, that which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled of the word of life. For the life was manifested, and we have seen it, and bear witness, and show unto you that eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested unto us. And this is what the message is that Amos is giving is seek the Lord and ye shall live. House of Joseph. Amos has a very great knowledge of the Old Testament. He knew about the house of Joseph. What he was talking about, what was he saying? What's the house of Joseph? Joseph's bones were in Egypt and they had to bring them out. He was talking about the two nations that were named after his sons, Ephraim and Manasseh. And he is saying, watch out Ephraim and Manasseh, because they were just as much as just as wicked as these other ones. And he's saying the Lord can destroy them too. Very, very serious. Well, we see hey by naming three major provinces in Israel, Amos deals with the sins of idolatry. He speaks of the political wranglings, and this is where it gets really it gets a little more involved into more of the societal problems. He said, ye who turn judgment into wormwood What is wormwood? Wormwood is actually used today for several medical remedies. It's very effective, however, it has a very bitter taste like vinegar. We see how the third star fell from heaven and made the waters bitter to the point they were deadly to drink. In Revelation chapter 8, verse 11. And the name of the star is called Wormwood. And the third part of the waters became wormwood, and many men died of the waters because they were made bitter. So what's the implication here? What do we learn about wormwood here? Well Amos is saying that the Lord is saying the way you're treating your people is like putting wormwood in your mouth or vinegar. It's bitter and it smells. I don't like it. It's annoying and what you're doing is wrong. You need to take care of your widows You need to stop stealing the grain and the wheat and taxing the blue-collar workers and stop turning around in your legislation And when a person that has great wealth comes into your court, you let them go free, but the guys that are working hard, they're the ones that have to pay the fines and go into jail. You don't go in and look at some commentaries. That's exactly what was happening here. And you can see it in the verses. Look at the verses. I'm going to read them to you just so you know. I want just to bring this home. It says, For as much therefore as your treading is upon the poor and ye take from him burdens of wheat Ye have built houses of hewn stone, but ye shall not dwell in them. Ye have planted pleasant vineyards, but ye shall not drink wine of them. Have you ever seen Joe Biden's house? You think it's just one? He has about fifteen of 'em. Where did he make that kind of money? Do you think he actually made it helping America or doing anything profitable? Where did Kamala Harris earn that kind of money? What does she ever do for anybody? I mean, look at the buildings that they have. It says right here, you live in buildings that are hewn of stone, big, beautiful mansions, and you're stealing from your people. That's exactly what's happening today, isn't it? You ever seen uh Larry Hogan's house? Boy, it guarded up pretty good. It's got big metal, great big metal fences and gates around it. They were stealing from their own people. Wormwood. The Lord says that tastes like wormwood to me. That doesn't taste like a cake or cupcakes or something good. It tastes kind of yucky to me. I don't like that. And I'm not putting up with it. That's what he's saying. Christ says that this bitter case was as horrible, was as the horrible legalities of the judges now of Israel who leave off righteousness. Pervasive corruption was the standard as the judges forced the commoners to pay a major tax from their crops, making burdens of wheat and grain and taking them from the people They did exactly what God told them not to do. He said, do not enslave them. They enslaved the hardworking middle to lower class Israel citizens. Does this sound familiar? I'll tell you where it sounds familiar. I just drove by the gas station today. Again, every day. Why is gas $2. 99 a gallon and going up? Donald Trump had it down to almost buck $1. 20 a gallon. Why? Because of these wicked stimulus packages, somehow Biden has to come up with some of the money. This is exactly what was going on with Jared Bone. And they have to get it somewhere so they go after the hardworking man. Do you think that he's getting it from Kim Jianong or Xi Jinping of China? Is he getting it from some of the other world leaders? No, he's trying to go after the people of America. And they're taking bribes. And we just read that. They're taking bribes. That's exactly what's happening. Oh, and so I've heard many pastors. Many pastors, I heard a couple weeks ago, many pastors, one was on a Bible conference saying, we don't talk about political things in our church. We don't want to cause a ruckus What in the Bible is not political? I don't see anything in the Bible that's not political. It's like taking out the doctrine of election. Where in the Bible do you not see kings oppressing their people Paul the Apostle sitting in jail and he refused to leave because he wanted to tell the king he was a Roman and he wanted to appeal to Caesar. I guess when Jesus was standing there with Pilate and Caivus and asked, oh that wasn't political. That was just a fairy tale, right? He was standing in the middle of their courtroom. This is why it's important to talk about this, to warn each other. All right, so we see we've got to wind this down. Seek him, see ye me, and ye shall live. I love this part. This next part is now now Amos is begging. He's now saying, what are you doing? People of Israel, don't you understand who you are infuriating? Yeah, this is the one you're infuriating. He says He goes back and he says, seek him that maketh the seven stars in Orion. He's saying if God has the power to create the universe I think you better listen to him. Seek him. He maketh the seven stars, and Orion, Pleiades, the bright star cluster that can be seen by the naked eye. Part of the constellation Taurus and Orion depict God's creative power and wisdom. Amos says, seek ye the Lord. He has created all things. If God has unlimited power to create something from nothing, then if he says that he can destroy those that serve other idols, these are reasons that Israel fell. And we need to pay attention. Amos would have no doubt, I had to think about this a minute. What do stars and and and constellations have to do with Amos? Where did he learn about where did where in the world did he learn about astronomy? I had to think about it. Remember the shepherds watching over the fields by night? And the heavenly host of angels broke through the stars and they were up there singing glory to God in the highest and on peace, goodwill on earth, and goodwill of all men. Amos spent a lot of time at night out watching the sheep. He's probably laying there looking at those constellations, thinking about how wonderful his God was that made them And there he was, here he is talking about him, and he says, He made those things. Well there was another person that talked about stuff like that. And I love this too. He turneth the shadow of death into the morning and maketh the day dark with night. He controls the waters. Job 38, 31 to 35. Job, the Lord says, gurge yourself up like a man, sit down and listen to me. Canst thou bind the sweet influence of Phlades, or loose the bands of Orion? Canst thou bring forth Maseroth in his season? Or canst thou guide Artorus with his sons? Knowest thou the ordinances of heaven Canst thou set the dominion thereof in the earth? Canst thou lift up thy voice to the clouds that abundance of waters may cover thee? Canst thou send lightnings? Did anybody see lightning last night? Boy. I don't think that evolved. Oh by the way, the uh the George Floyd display got hit by lightning last week and it burned up. Canst thou send lightnings that they may go and say unto thee, Here we are? Alright, well here we go. The last few verses. This is where Amos brings us part of it all together. They abhor him that speak uprightly. Christ says he knows their manifold transgressions, their mighty sins. He knows errors. Is it our job to go around like God and say, I know your sins, I know your sins, I know your sins, I know your sins, and I'm better than you? Boy, I'm glad I'm not like the publican. Remember the Pharisee that said that? Well Amos isn't saying that. Amos is saying not only does he know Israel's sins, but he knows my sins. And he's trying to teach them something that everybody together needs to worship the Lord and cry out to him because he knows all of our sins He knows as Amos says that this was an evil time. Are we any different today? Is this not an evil time today we live in? Look at the GOP candidate for the next governor of California, Bruce Jenner. Look at the millions of dollars going into foreign and domestic abortion on demand. Look what they have done to our Lord's rainbow. Is there hope? Well, if you're reading this properly, you'll see that hope is woven in all these verses. Let's just go through them real quick and we'll finish. Chapter 4, verse 4. And then chapter 5, verse 4. Seek ye me and ye shall live. Verse 6, seek the Lord and ye shall live. Verse 8, seek him that maketh the stars. Verse 14, seek good and not evil that ye may live. And so the Lord the God of hosts And host means infinite hosts of angels, shall be with you. Hate the evil and love the good, and establish judgment in the gate. It may be the Lord God of hosts will be gracious unto the remnant of Joseph. How do you like that last one? And establish judgment in the gate. What he's saying is be fair with one another. Love one another. When you have legislation, be fair to your fellow man and watch over him. Take care of your poor. Amos is teaching us today: do not go to man, do not depend on false doctrines, do not depend on government or riches, go to the one who can forgive our transgressions. Isaiah 42. 16 and this Amos brings this portion of Amos 5 together and gives us a real encouragement And I'm gonna and I like to bring it out by Isaiah chapter 42, verse 16. And I will bring the blind by a way that they knew not. I will lead them in paths that they have not known. I will make darkness light before them, and crooked things straight. These things will I do unto them and not forsake them. All Amos is saying here is if you seek the Lord, he will make the way straight. Seek him. He doesn't say spend your life. Cleaning your pockets out, giving it to some organization thinking that they can atone for you. He doesn't say you have to climb up some big mountain away from your family and stay there for years with some bunch of weirdos He doesn't say you have to shave your head and go down to the airport and hand out flowers. He doesn't say anything. He says, seek the Lord. Just seek me. I mean, what happened to the thief on the cross? Do you think that man had two righteous minutes in his life? The thief on the cross. He said, Lord, can you please remember me? Jesus said, Ah, forget you, you're no good. No. He said, this day you will be with me in paradise. So I guess anybody here have you sinned too much and you think you have no hope, well I can guarantee you I know my sins and I doubt you've outsinned me. But I know this. I love this Latin phrase. I was talking about it yesterday. Similar, we were talking about it in Sunday school this morning. Similustus et pacator means you are by Jesus Christ. You are just And at the same time you are a sinner on this earth. And if you think you're ever going to hit some mountain, some peak, where all of a sudden you're going to blossom to be the perfect Christian and everybody's below you It ain't gonna happen. It's not even gonna happen to you when you were in a glorified body. We're in this together. This is where I can truly say we're in this together. Not these stupid commercials about masks. We're in this as Christians together to pray for one another, to bear one another's burdens. And that's that's what I have to say today and we'll go to the next verses on August the 8th. That's where we're going to do the next part of this. And we're going to see the ri some real personal thoughts of God in that message. Heavenly Father, we thank thee for Amos. What a blessed man. And a man who loved thee. He was just given a fair warning. Thou told him to do it. He was doing it in a loving way, giving lots of hope. And not only was a sheep herder, not only was he a a sheep breeder, but he was a shepherd, he was a pastor. And we just thank thee, Lord, for these words. And I pray that they'll encourage our hearts when we spend most of the week working hard, providing for our families, praying for loved ones. Handling sicknesses and all these things and these tribulations we have on this earth, Lord, cause us all to go back to this message this morning and remember that thou loves us Lord, thou wants us to just seek the Lord and seek the Lord and seek the Lord and he can be found. Seek the Lord while he can be found, we see in Isaiah chapter 55, while he may be found. Lord, blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful Lord, there are many scornful people out there that are trying to take away our religious freedoms. Lord, stop them. And I pray, Lord, that thy word would just start filtering again through the churches and through our governments. And I pray, Lord, that we would learn to love one another. Bless us and keep us from falling in the name of Jesus Christ. And I pray for every family here this morning. Bless their hearts. Save the unsaved loved ones that they've been mentioning on Wednesday night prayer meeting and heal their sick and watch over those Lord that that are that are feeble and are weak and are older now and are in very difficult times of their lives. I pray the devil's comfort them And all these things we ask our name we pray, Amen