The King James Bible, and the King James Bible is a miraculous piece of work that God had his hand upon. And praise the Lord for that. God made that King James Bible be made for all time for those with the English language. And you know the King James Bible, it came at the beginning of the period they call modern English. It is modern English, it's not Old English. Even though it does have these and thou's, it's still considered modern English. And uh so praise the Lord for the King James Bible. And those translators that translated it, they're better than any translators that translate things today. The uh in fact There's a story told, uh I mean somebody told me uh that somebody asked one of the NIV translators How did the translators of the King James compare with the NIB translators? And the translator of the NIB said they don't compare because the King James translators were much better And the much better because they were full-time scholars. And uh people today are not full-time scholars. They teach and then they're scholars and they do other things, but Those guys were paid by the government to be scholars, and so praise the Lord for that. And you know, the devil tried to destroy the King James. And we had that all on there, and here's this mask that People still use today. It was used in a Hollywood movie recently, I hear. It was used by computer hackers, these masks, and these are Guy Fox masks And these masks are of a guy that tried to blow up King James, tried to blow up the entire parliament. He tried to blow up the King James Bible Right when it was being done. It would the King James Bible never would have been finished if Guy Fox had had his way. And so, praise the Lord, they found him in time. And dis got rid of the explosives and all that thing, all those things that he had. And people still remember that today. That great attempt to get rid of the King James Bible. But praise the Lord for the King James And so, and of course we don't base our King James on King James himself. King James himself did not do the translating. In fact, of all his faults that supposedly he had, I don't really know whether he did or not, but it doesn't really matter, because King James wasn't the one who really did the translation. It were all those godly men, the Puritans and others that did it. Well, let's turn our Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 4. 1 Corinthians chapter 4. And I will and that uh I suppose just about everybody here has heard. I talked about the election last time in Smyrna. And I guess most all of you have heard that the Conservative guy won by three votes And praise the Lord for that. Uh but uh show how how corruption goes. The guy who was defeated is still on the council. Because they made a guy on the council, that has been on the council to resign And made a place for him and so the guy that was defeated is back on the council again. In fact, this is the second time that happened. The the last time he was he was put in a spot of a guy who resigned and so he had to c be up for election this last time and now he he lost this one and he's back on it again And uh so anyway, of course of course you know he only lost by six votes the first time, he only lost for three b lost by three votes the second time. You can sort of understand 'Cause they have to put somebody in there, but what I don't understand is how they had a vacancy to put him in each time. And uh it's uh very suspicious. But anyway, we have going back to the Bible, the 1 Corinthians chapter 4, and we have our subject today, the Apostle Paul. 1 Corinthians chapter 4. Here we have Paul defending himself, defending himself against many attacks being made on him. by the people in Corinth. Remember Corinth was an ungodly city, was a uh trading city with uh sailors i in that city and it was a city with a bunch of wickedness And that wickedness kind of rubbed off on the church there as well. Let's go to chapter 4 and verse 1. Let a man so account of us as of the ministers of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. O Lord, open up thy word to us this morning, we pray. In Jesus' name, amen. So here we have Paul. He defends himself against attacks being made on him by the church in Corinth. People in the church in Corinth were critical of Paul. And Paul has to defend himself, not only here in 1 Corinthians, but also in 2 Corinthians. And of course, you know That why is a prophet not without honor, but in his own country, in his own house? Well, the Bible tells us that's the way it is, and it's because familiarity breeds contempt. And uh so anyway, uh Paul had his problems with the church there, just like the prophets have all through history. But he calls himself a minister of Christ here, a minister. He's ministering to other people. That's what a minister should be doing, ministering. And we are stewards of the mysteries of God. Stewards. It is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. What is a steward? A steward is somebody that takes care of things. Takes care of things in a household, the steward, back in these days. And so here we are stewards of the mysteries of God, and we're stewards of what everything that God has given unto us And everything we have, we just have for a short time. Everything is just for a short time. You know, you have your property, your house. You're only going to have that property in that house for a short time. We're only going to have this body for a short time that we live in. We're not going to have these things forever. And at least not the way they are here. And it is required in stewards, it's required, it's not optional, it's required that we are faithful. Faithful and taking care of all that that God has given us and using it for God's glory. And we're going to come back to this a little more later. And let's go on to verse 3. But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged of you or of man's judgment. Yea, I judge not mine own self. For I know nothing by myself, yet am I not hereby justified, but he that judgeth me is the Lord. And so the Corinthians were very critical of Paul. And you know, Paul was inspired of God to give the Bible. They shouldn't have been critical of him at all, even though he did have faults as a man as we do, but he did have the the fact that he was an apostle. He was appointed by Christ, and he was being given the Bible. And so anyway, they were judging him. You know, that's how it's been down through history. I talked about prophets. What about Moses? Remember Moses? He had the children of Israel that he was leading, and they were all very critical of him. And they were just complaining and murmuring the whole time. And Moses was right directly with God there. And yet they were doing that. And so Moses wanted to stone him. They wanted to kill him. And Korah, Dathan, and Abiram rose up against Moses, but they couldn't overcome him because the earth opened up her mouth and swallowed Korah, Dathan, and Abiram. And the funny thing about that was after the earth opened up and swallowed up Korah, Dayton, and a biram. What did the people say? How did they look at that? Well, they were still critical of Moses. And they said to Moses, you have killed the people of the Lord. They still got it mixed up. Who was the people of the Lord and who were not the people of the Lord? And Moses was a man of the Lord, not Korah, Dathan, and Biram. Well, anyway, here we have Paul is judged of the people. Then go on verse 5. Therefore, judge nothing before the time until the Lord come. who both will bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and will make manifest the counsels of the hearts, and then shall every man have praise of God And so, you know, we can judge things in the sense that we can discern right from wrong. We're meant to discern right from wrong. We're meant to judge right from wrong. When the Bible says judge not, it's judge not that ye be not judged But here it says that judge nothing before the time, we cannot give final judgment on things And we could always be a little wrong in our judgment, although we should be able to judge people by their fruits or whatever. But you know, we don't know the hidden things. We don't know the motives of the hearts. And you know, people keep their motives hidden very well why they do things. And uh you know the thing is, is that God will make those things manifest at the time of the end Then we go on, verse 6, and these things, brethren, have I in a figure transferred to myself and to Apollos for your sakes. That ye might learn in us not to think of men above that which is written. That no one of you be puffed up for one against another. And so Paul says, you know, everybody is a man on this earth. We're all men, we're all people, we're all human beings, and we all have our faults. And here he's talking about Apollos and Paul, they had their faults. He says, don't think of us, or think of men above that which is written. And what is written? It's written that all men are sinners. All men fall short of the glory of God. We all have faults. You know, King James In our movie this morning it showed some good things about King James and it didn't admit in the movie that he had some scandals later on in his reign and uh he probably did, and but he was just a man. And it was but God did use him to commission the King James Version and to carry it through and praise the Lord for that. But he had his faults. Paul had some faults. I have my faults. We all have our faults. And we're just men. And we don't want to be puffed up. Puffed up. And then verse 7, for who makes you to differ from another? Or what have you that you did not receive? Now, if thou didst receive it, why dost thou glory as if thou hast not received it? And you know, the only reason we're different from somebody else and are better than someone else in some way. It's because God gives it to us. And you know, that's what the Arminian, the Arminian says we choose God all of ourselves. Well, you know, it's not, we can't choose God where with a sinful heart, we won't choose God apart from God's spirit. It's God that gives us that desire to come unto Him And we come unto Him and we pray for forgiveness of our sins. And God gives us that. It's not through any good in ourselves. But if it's us that chooses God, well, we have something to glory of. We're better than our next door neighbor because we chose God. Because we did it. But we didn't do it. And so we have nothing to glory about. And it says that who maketh thee to differ? We shouldn't be puffed up one against another. And then verse 8. Now ye are full, now ye are rich, ye have reigned as kings without us. I would to God ye did reign, that we also might reign with you. And Paul, he gets kind of sarcastic here And uh, of course, have you ever heard the saying, foot people are full of themselves? Well, that's how the Corinthians were. It says, now ye are full, verse eight They were all full of themselves. You know why is it that many people aren't friendly? They're not friendly because they're full of themselves and they don't really care about other people. And when you talk to them, all they talk about is themselves. And never get off of that. They're full of themselves. Well, the Corinthians were full of themselves. Now ye are full. And then verse 9, going on to where we didn't read in the responsive reading, for I think that God has set forth us the apostles last. as it were appointed to death. For we are made a spectacle unto the world and to angels unto men. We are fools for Christ's sake, but ye are wise in Christ. We are weak, but ye are strong. Ye are honorable, but we are despised. That's how the Corinthians saw it They saw it just this way. They thought that they were the ones that were wise and not Paul. They thought they were the ones that were strong and not Paul. And Paul here is being a little bit sarcastic, and he's showing them how they're all puffed up there in Corinth. Then verse 11. Even under this present hour we both hunger and thirst, and are naked, and are buffeted, and have no certain dwelling place. And labor, working with our hands, being reviled, we bless, being persecuted, we suffer it. Being defamed, we entreat. We are made as the filth of the world and as the off-scouring of all things unto this day. I write not these things to shame you, but as my beloved sons, I warn you For though ye have ten thousand instructors in Christ, yet have ye not many fathers, for in Christ Jesus I have begotten you Through the gospel. And so Paul here, he's giving his testimony here. And you know, a sign with Paul of being approved is the problems that you have in your lives. That was a sign that he was approved of God. And he has these things he talks about. He was hungering, thirsting, he was naked, he was buffeted, he was hit, he was whipped, he was beaten. And then it goes on here. He had no certain dwelling place. He was an itinerant preacher going around here and going around there. And uh, you know, he didn't have any certain house that he could call his own. And so he had all these disadvantages and all these difficulties that he went through But they showed that he was approved of God as God worked through him and as God uh worked things in his life, even in spite of all these difficulties and problems which he had And then Paul, he had decided that for the testimony of that time and place, that he would do he would not accept money from the church, that he would not get his support from the church, that he would make his support being a tent maker. And you know that's a good thing to do sometimes when the church can't support you, but the Bible says, and Paul said, even so hath the Lord ordained that they that preach the gospel should live of the gospel. And so the best way is for the preacher to live of the congregation, but Paul didn't use that. And he made his own living as being a tent maker there. And so uh he points out out here that he labors working with his own hands And then he says he he is reviled. People cuss him out. People uh criticize him, and what does he react? Does he dish out the same stuff that they gave him? No, he doesn't treat others as they treat him, but he treats others as he would have people treat him. And he says, being reviled, we bless. We blessed. That's what we should do too. And you know, Jesus said that, you know, we should love our enemies. And he said we should bless our enemies. We shouldn't call them names. No, we should bless them and try to do good unto them. And so it says here, being reviled, we bless, being persecuted, we suffer it Being defamed, we entreat, and we are made as the filth of the world. And then so he says, I don't write these things, verse 14, to shame you. But I warn you. And then he points out the fact in verse 15 that he was the one who fathered them. He was the one that they came unto the Lord through And he says, you know, they have other instructors, other people teaching them, but they only had Paul that had given the original gospel to them. And you know something about them there in Corinth? They weren't grateful. They weren't grateful for what Paul had done. They weren't grateful for the gospel that he had brought to them. And they weren't grateful for for the ministry that he had there. And so they should have been more grateful for it. And then we go on here, verse 16. Verse 16, wherefore I beseech you, be ye followers of me. For this cause have I sent unto you Timothy, who is my beloved son and faithful in the Lord, who shall bring you into remembrance of my ways, which be in Christ, as I teach everywhere in every church. But now some are puffed up, as though I would not come unto you. But I will come unto you shortly, if the Lord will, and will know not the speech of them which are puffed up. but the power. For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power. What will ye? Shall I come unto you with a rod or in love? And in the spirit of meekness. And so Paul says here that he was going to send Timothy to them. He was going to send Timothy And he wanted them to receive Timothy, and Timothy was going to show them how they ought to follow the example of the Apostle Paul and the examples of God's Word. As Paul says, as I teach everywhere and in every church. But it says here, some were puffed up. They were puffed up. They were puffed up against Paul. They would be puffed up against Timothy as well. But Paul said he was going to come there. And he said when he came there, verse 20, for the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power. And so they spoke a lot of words against Paul. They they brought up all these things that they were saying. But you know, talk is cheap. But Paul, he had the power of God. And so when he came there, he asked, would he come with a rod or in love and in the spirit of meekness? And so in Corinthians, in 1st and 2nd Corinthians, we have quite a few times when Paul is defending himself against the Corinthian Christians. uh criticizing all the things that he was doing, and he felt compelled to defend himself here. Well let's go back. Go back to verse 2 Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful We're all stewards. God has given us things here on this earth. And we're required to be faithful with them. It's not optional. We have to be faithful with what God gives us. And let's go back to Matthew chapter 25. Matthew chapter 25. And verse 14, Matthew chapter 25, and verse 14. And you know the King James language is amazing. I mean the the English teachers from day one always recognize the King James as great literature. Great literature. From the way that it's they they worked it over, you know it took them seven years with 50 scholars to come up with the King James That's a lot of studying and a lot of work they did to come up with this King James. And as we read it here in our services all the time, we kind of lose fact of how amazing the King James really is But anyway, we go right down to verse 14 of chapter 25. For the kingdom of heaven is as a man traveling into a far country who called his own servants and delivered unto them his goods And unto one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one, to every man according to his several ability, and straightway took his journey So here we have the kingdom of heaven is like this. Spiritual things are like this: that God has given us things to take care of. And then here we have a parable that explains the kingdom of heaven. And then we have this parable of this guy who's taking a journey, and he delivers his goods to his servants to take care of while he's gone. And you know, he delivers the things not really completely fairly, does he? He doesn't give everybody the same two talents. No, he gives one guy five talents, he gives another guy two talents, and he gives another guy one talent. And that talent is a very amazing word from the King James Bible. Talent. You know, the root meaning of that talent is it was a measurement of weight in the Roman Empire in that time. And a talent was a hundred pounds. It was a hundred pounds more or less. And you know, the Bible talks about a talent of gold that people got. You know, that's a lot of gold. And you know, gold has always been worth a lot of money, but a hundred pounds has always been worth a lot of gold. And of course, that talent of silver, a hundred pounds of silver. That's worth a lot of money. Well anyway, it doesn't tell us whether they gave whether he gave them gold or silver or what. Could have been gold. But anyway, he gave him these hundred and pounds. But the interesting thing about this word talent is, is it's not only the measurement But in English, right today, we talk about people's talents. This person has a talent for singing The other person has a talent for speaking. The other person has a talent for cleaning. You know, some people have a talent for cleaning I don't have the talent for cleaning. But some people can do it really well and really quickly. And if I do do some cleaning, it takes me forever to do it But you know the thing is, is different people have different talents, or talents for construction, or talents for fixing things, or talents for a million different things Talent for keeping finances or other things. But you know what? This is an interesting word, talent, and that just fits in exactly with our lives. God has given all of us different talents And you know, some of us have more talents than others of us. And some people might have five talents that God has given to them, five different things they can do well. They might have ten different things they can do well. They might have only one thing they can do well. But I think everybody has at least one. God has given everybody at least one talent to use for him. And we need to use those talents for the Lord. And you know, God didn't give to everybody exactly the same. He wasn't completely fair as our system of fairness is today. No, what's fair is what God decides is fair. And God decides that this person has this much, that that person has that much. And that's how it's always gonna be. In fact, that's the way it's gonna be in heaven. Some people are gonna have more rewards and some people are gonna have less rewards in heaven. But anyway, he gave these talents to the people. Then you go on to verse 16. Then he that had received the five talents went and Traded with the same and made them other five talents. And likewise he that had received two, he also gained other two But he that had received one went and digged in the earth and hid his Lord's money So these guys have got their talents, they use them in different ways. The guy who had the five talents, well, he was able to make five more talents. The guy with two talents, he was able to make two more talents. But the guy that only had one talent, you know, he thought, oh man, I don't hardly have anything, not compared to everybody else And God doesn't really expect me to use this and do anything with this one talent. Well, he went and digged and hid it in the earth there. Then you go down to verse 19. After a long time, the Lord of those servants cometh and reckoneth with them. And so he that had received five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliverest unto me five talents. Behold, I have gained beside them five talents more. His Lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Thou hast been faithful over a few things. I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of the Lord And so he had made he had been very faithful with what he had. He was a steward that had been found faithful. He got another five talents. He used them for the Lord's glory, all that he had. And then we won't read the next couple verses where it talks about the guy with two talents. And he was able to pray to make two more talents, and he was faithful with what he had. But then you go down to verse 24. Then he which had received one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art a hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed. And I was afraid and went and hid my talent in the earth. Lo, there thou hast that is thine. I really couldn't have been expected to do anything with one talent, to do much with it And so he says, here is the one talent. I didn't do anything with it. Well, uh, did the Lord ask him what kind of excuses? Of course he did give some excuse already. But you know, he wasn't asking for any other excuses or any other reasons he had why he didn't use his talent. There weren't any excuses for not using his talent. Is verse 26 His Lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I have not strawed. Thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the exchangers, and then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury And so, here's a very interesting thing, is the Lord in this passage, he wants the guy to have gained interest on the money. You know, there have been Christians down through history that have said that all interest was bad, charging interest of other people. And the Jews have had that as a policy that they don't charge interest of other Jews And so what does it end up? It ends up they don't lend much money to Jews because they don't get any interest. And uh Here it says the word interest here is usury. That's the King James word for interest. And usury today usually is talking about uh you know, excessive interest. But uh here it was uh just interest that they got. So I would receive my known with usury. You know these guys, it was probably only a year or two or something like that that they had this stuff, and they were able to double their stuff through interest You know, that's quite good, isn't it? We can't do that today. What do we get in interest today? We get four percent. And how many years would it take us to get double or to double our money? Take us 25 years. And even the stock market. You know, the S<unk>P 500's done so much so good today, but I've been tracing it because I've kept one share of S<unk>P 500 stock of just the the average And so uh over the past five years or something, that that share of stock has only gain gained fifty percent. And so even that hasn't gained much compared to this doubling of the money here with the servants there. But anyway, this guy with the one talent, he wouldn't even use it like that. And then it says here, verse 28, take therefore the talent from him and give it unto him which has ten talents. For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance. But from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath Does that sound like communism? No. Communism says, from each according to his ability to each according to his need. And everybody's just going to give over uh their excess to the other people and just uh they don't do that voluntarily. The government makes them do it But anyway, that's their slogan, but it's the exact opposite of what we have here. Here it says: the one that doesn't have will have taken away what he has, and the one that has will be given more. And that's how God does it many times. It's not fair as as we consider fairness to be. But the point is that we're supposed to use whatever God has given us for his honor and for his glory. We have to be using it for him. And then look at this last verse here on this parable, verse 30. And cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Now that seems kind of severe, doesn't it? For this guy that just wouldn't use his one talent for the Lord. To cast him into hell? That's what it's talking about here. It's talking about hell. Outer darkness with weeping and gnashing of teeth. But when you think about that, what what does the Bible tell us? It says, faith without works is dead And so every Christian should have at least some works for the Lord in their lives. And we all have to use, at least somewhat, the things that God has given us for His honor and for His glory. We have to have fruit in our lives And so that's a dividing point between Christian and not Christian. Of course, we get we come unto Christ, we say, God be merciful to me a sinner, we become a Christian, our Salvation is not dependent upon our works, but if we are a Christian, if God has changed our heart, we will use our talents for the Lord at least somewhat And we will have some works for the Lord. And this guy here, he didn't have any. He didn't use anything for the Lord. And that was an indication that he was not a Christian. That didn't make him not a Christian, but it showed that he was not a Christian. And remember there in James says, I will show you my faith by my works. First the faith, yes, he had the faith, but then the works came out of that faith. So cast ye the unprofitable servants into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. So the question is today, are we using our talents for the Lord? Not necessarily our talents and money with gold and silver, although we're supposed to use that for the Lord too, but are we using the skills and the abilities that God has given to us Are we using those for him, and not just for ourselves to make money or something else? And yet once again there in 1 Corinthians chapter 4 it says, it is required in servants to be found faithful. Did a man be found faithful? Required. It's not optional. It's not optional for that guy that got thrown into hell as it's talking about here. It's not optional to use it for the Lord. A Christian has to use what God has given him, at least somewhat for the Lord. Not every second of every day, but he has to use it somewhat. We need to use our talents for him in order to be found faithful. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we thank thee for thy goodness to us. We thank thee for the talents that thou hast given unto us. We thank thee. That we have something to use for thee. Every one of us has something. And O Lord, help us to use them for Thee. In Jesus' name, amen.