Well, we had some momentous events this week with the inauguration And also the anniversary of Roe v. Wade was this week, Friday, 48 years of abortion in this country with no real end in sight. And uh anyway, I wanted to give a few comments here to begin with about uh the current election and how it turned out And I I came across this write-up of the election, which I thought was interesting. And it talked about, it says, people noticed that Biden wasn't even bothering to campaign. But they thought that meant he'd lose. Not that they're a guy who was regularly this is about Trump supporters as well. Not that they're Their guy who was regularly drawing in tens of thousands of people at his rallies was going to lose. They worried about fraud for the asking, nail-in voting. But thought that if they turned up on Election Day in the millions, that would do the trick. And they trusted their local governments to keep the elections honest. They also knew that every single indicator promised a Trump victory. But there was no Trump victory. Instead, there were observers blocked from observing voting and vote counts There were states that for the first time in history, as Trump was massively ahead, simultaneously shut down counting for hours. There were bizarre numbers that instead of going up, as votes must, went backward for Trump, or magically transferred themselves to Biden. Even without all the other claims of fraud, this was going to make people suspicious. But when people wanted answers, the entire establishment said, shut up, you're stupid. And uh you know the thing is, is that there was no No independent list looking at the election. No independent evaluation by the powers that be. And I think that was all in line. The whole thing was planned from the point of having this uh flu virus. And they got in the mail-in voting and the early voting, uh, which would leave room for massive fraud and get them in. Then they had those B uh Black Lives Matter riots. Which showed what would happen if somebody tried to have justice and overturn the false election. And so those that were supposed to review the election were intimidated, I believe, the Supreme Court. And so they refused to look at it and uh even hear it. And then there was some ex expectation that the Vice President Trump, Pence, would do something about it, but he also was intimidated. thinking that Trump wouldn't be there anymore. And of course, if you were looking to pence for strong leadership That was not likely to happen because his whole whole call to fame was to be a follower of Trump and to be somebody that would follow him around and that wouldn't object And for him to have independence, strong leadership would be uh quite something. Well anyway And then uh, you know, uh there's an insight that was made about at the end here, if a game, say let's say a soccer game Is played with the rules applied evenly and fairly, the losing side and fans might not be happy, but they can accept the outcome. But if there's blatant cheating, there could be a riot. And that's just over a game. And we've seen that a lot in Brazil and Cameroon in different places. They riot when they see that the officials are biased when it's all not done injustice. And so it wasn't very surprising that there was a bit of a riot there at the Capitol, of course We're not condoning that riot, but it's understandable after they see that justice and judgment has fallen in the streets, truth has fallen in the streets And of course the BLM people had 540 riots or somewhere around there and this was one on the other side and the whole media fell apart because of this one riot And anyway, so anyway, so we've summarized the election. There is no justice, there is no just judgment. And we are on our slide down. This fits right in with my messages on Revelation. Is the last two times we studied Babylon the Great, and I said The US is Babylon the Great, if we're near the time of the end, which we definitely seem to be. And so Babylon the Great is sliding down and down Now with Trump we had uh a little bit of an interruption in that slide slide, somewhat, and uh We praise the Lord for that, but it's been pretty much a continual slide down. We had a little bit of an interruption back with Reagan, perhaps And but it's been a slide down since nineteen twenty nine, I believe, down and down and down. And it's continuing and it will continue to go down according to prophecy if The U. S. is Babylon the Great, which it definitely would seem to be. And things are going to get worse. And they might get better for a little bit, but they're they're going to get worse. And that's just what we have in prophecy. The slide down. So what should our attitude be? Well, I w wore my Jesus' Lord tie this morning. And uh hallelujah, the Lord God, omnipotent, reigneth, which is what we have here in Revelation chapter 19. And God is still on the throne And it's he does things according to his plan. And of course we have a usurper there in Washington who usurped unlawfully the office through a fraudulent election But God is in control. And Jesus still is Lord. And so what should we do? Well, we still need to be busy in the battle against evil. Still need to be fighting evil, even though we know what's going to happen in the end. And God might give us a little revival here and there And so we still need to be busy. And we talked about Roe versus Wade, the 48th anniversary. Well, uh they canceled the big march that they have every year in Washington because of the COVID and the uh stuff there. But anyway, they did have a march in Wilmington, Delaware, and we went up there on Friday and marched around and around the abortion clinic up there three times. and the block around and around and and we still need to fight abortion. It's good that th that you're supporting the birth center, uh the uh birthright, and it's we need still be battling evil even if there's no chance of winning. We still need to be busy for the Lord, and although we might have a chance for winning temporarily, and we need to still be fighting and we still need to be praying. Well, that brings us back to Revelation chapter 19. And we're getting to the end of the book of Revelation. And we've been covering the tribulation period all the way since chapter 4, all the way through chapter 18. It was a tribulation period. And we had God softening up the earth. For the invasion of him and his elect. And there was a softening up all this bombardment of the earth by the seven seals, the seven trumpets, the seven vials. And God is showing his power, judging evil, setting right the mystery of the ages, how a good God can allow all this evil. Well, that's only for a time. And God will set things right. Well, here we come to Babylon the Great at the time of the end, the end of the tribulation, 17 and 18, Babylon the Great, and And so the U. S. , as Babylon the Great, will get worse. And especially it'll get worse during the tribulation period. And so then we come to 19, and we have Christ and us with him coming back. We've been raptured. I believe, in the beginning of chapter 4, and now we're coming back with him here in chapter 19. So we go to, we read the first nine verses in the responsive reading. And so here we have hallelujah, verse 1: Salvation and glory, and honor and power unto the Lord our God. There's honor given to God. We're going to say more about that later. For true and righteous are his judgments. True and righteous. There's judgment and justice with God. There's not judgment and justice in this world right now. Not much of it. And then it says he's righteous in his judgments, for he has judged the great whore, which is Babylon the Great. And once again, I love America. I love its heritage. I love how it's supposed to be set up. But the problem is it has turned away from God, very much so. And forty-eight years of murdering babies in this country. And if we expect the Supreme Court's going to ex uh have bold, strong leadership to get rid of Roe versus Wade, it's not very likely to happen Especially when we see what they did with the election. And so true and righteous are his judgments. Well we can pray that'll that'll happen and hope it that it'll happen. He's judged the great whore. That corrupted the earth, corrupted the earth through the media, through the internet, through Hollywood, through all these different things, music, whatever With her fornication, and God has avenged the blood of his servants at his hand. And we've talked about how the United States was responsible for many Christians being murdered, especially in China And it will be probably more directly, the United States will be more directly responsible for martyrs in the future. And so verse 3, they said, hallelujah. And her smoke rose up forever and ever So that'll be a memorial of Babylon the Great. And how can you be so strong against a country that was so godly? Well, the same way God and his word is so strong many times against Israel, which was God's own people, and God pronounced great judgment against Israel and called Israel a whore as well. And the smoke rose up forever and ever. In verse 4, the four and twenty elders, the four beasts, fell down and worshipped God. What is worship falling down and worshiping God? It's not jumping up and celebrating, as we see over and over and over again in the Bible. Worship is different than celebration. We don't have celebration services in church. And we have worship services. So they fell down and worshiped God, saying hallelujah. And verse 5, and a voice came out of the throne saying, Praise our God, all ye his servants, and ye that fear him, praise our God. You know, we watch sometimes the sci-fi movies and the sci-fi series, and in particular Star Trek. You know, Star Trek, the old Star Trek especially, you know, one of the recurring themes in it was that these poor native peoples are bowing down and worshiping this machine or they're worshiping some false uh alien and you have Stargate with them worshiping the Goaul and all that stuff. And it's it's sort of made to look like, and they have their priests and all these things, and it's made to look like, you know, that's what we're doing with Christianity. But it's not because in Star Trek, Stargate, and all those other things, they are worshiping people that are not God. And we are worshiping someone who is God, who is all-powerful. He is, and praise our God, all ye his servants. Then verse 6. And I heard, as it were, the voice of a great multitude, the voice of many waters, of mighty thunderings. And what are they saying? They are singing the Hallelujah chorus. Hallelujah! For the Lord God omnipotent reigneth. Those are the exact words from Handel's Messiah. The hallelujah chorus comes right from here. And here we have a great chorus singing, a great multitude thundering singing it. Then verse 7, let us be glad and rejoice and give honor to him, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and she hath made herself ready. Once again, we take Revelation as literally as possible, but there are symbols in the book of Revelation. But the symbols stand for things in particular. They're not just some nebulous thing that you can make into anything you want to make it into. As the Amillennialists, I believe, do. They just make things into whatever they want to make them into. The whole book of Revelation, spiritualizing everything. And you know that's a danger. I had uh someone say this past or I heard someone say say this past week That you know when it says in Proverbs to discipline your ch children and use the rod on them, that doesn't mean a physical rod, it means a spiritual, something spiritual And it's not really paddling your children. And that's coming from a Bible believer, from a Bible-believing church, saying that. But that same church likes to teach on millennialism. And that just follows over. You know, it's not only is the prophecy spiritual, but other things are spiritual. The rod is spiritual, it's not really a physical rod. That you beat your child with, that he will not die. No. But it is a physical rod. And these are literal things in the book of Revelation. And there are symbols though. And you notice here we have a marriage supper, a marriage. And the lamb. The lamb is a symbol for Christ. The bride is a symbol for the church. The marriage is the final coming together of the Lamb and the Bride, the Church and Christ. The symbols Stands for literal things. And the wife has made herself ready. And then verse 8, she was granted that she be arrayed in Linen fine and white, for the fine linen is the righteousness of the saints. Once again, a symbol. The fine linen is the righteousness of the saints. And he saith unto me, right, blessed are they which are called unto the marriage suffer of the land. Who does the calling? Well, God does the calling. We don't choose, He chooses. God does the calling. Effectual calling Called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb. Well, you got the marriage of the Christ and the church coming together, but at the marriage supper it's kind of an interesting supper we'll see later on. It's mostly a supper for the fowls of the heaven, as we see coming later And then we have verse 10. I fell at his feet to worship him. Now I was looking through here. Who exactly is speaking to John right here. It's hard to say. It looks like it's the angel, because you go the last time it talks about who actually is speaking to him. You go back to chapter 17 and verse 1, and you have one of the angels which had the seven vials says, Come and see. And so here we have somebody speaking to John. It's the angel, or maybe it's one of the 24 elders. We're not exactly sure. But it looks like it's probably the angel, but it might have been an elder here But anyway, John sees all these things, and he wants to fall down and worship the angel or the elder. But does the angel accept that worship? No, he doesn't. Does the elder accept it? No. Did Jesus accept worship? Yes, he did. And that's a proof that Jesus really is God And that he taught that he was God and maintained that he was God. There are people that say, oh, well, you know, Jesus was a great teacher. But then they say he wasn't God. Well, if he's a great teacher, what did he teach? He taught that he was God. He accepted worship. And so this angel does not accept worship, says worship God only. And I'm a fellow servant of yours. Well, that brings us up. Actually, we actually hadn't read verse 10. Let's read that. And I fell at his feet to worship him. And he said unto me, See thou do it not, I am thy fellow servant, and of thy brethren that have the testimony of Jesus, worship God, for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. And I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse, and he that sat on him was called faithful and true, and in righteousness he doth judge and make war. His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns, and he had a name written that no man knew but he himself, and he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood And his name is called the Word of God. And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses. Clothed in fine linen, white and clean. Of course, the white linen symbolizes righteousness, but it's also there, too. White linen, literally. And so here we have Christ coming back. He's coming back on a horse. And we're coming back with him on horses. Now these aren't regular horses. They're, you know, we have all through history there's been pictures of winged horses or whatever, and that might be what they are Or somehow they fly in the heavens. They fly down from heaven to the earth, these horses. And I would believe that they're literal horses, white horses. Why not? And so a white horse and Christ sat upon the white horse. And of course he's faithful and true. And it says, in righteousness he makes war. He makes war. You know, David said back in the Old Testament, Blessed is the Lord that teacheth my fingers to war. And you know, a Christian is someone who should believe in self-defense and should believe in righteous uh making of war. And that's what we have here with Christ coming back to make war. And I was reading Recently a book that I have been reading that I've mentioned a couple of times by William Jennings Bryan, one of the famous Christian leaders in the early history of America, well I mean early twentieth century And uh he wrote a book and he was talking on going on and on there, and of course he was at the height of Christianity in America when he was writing this in the twenties. And he's writing about how we're going to get rid of war. The the righteousness is coming in. And we're gonna get rid of war and we need to disarm. We need to get rid of all of our armaments and all of our navy and all that. And he said, Oh, it's a lie of the devil that if you prepare for war you'll you won't have war. Well, actually that's true, that we need to prepare for war, that we don't have war Because the whole history of humankind is one of war. It's a history of people trying to impose their will on other people by force And take over and conquer. And that's just human nature from the very beginning. And so you need to have a defense against that. And our early American Revolution, they made war. And Jesus here, he makes war And we have his eyes once again his flame of fire, all-seeing eyes, on his head, many crowns, and a name written. That we don't know what it is. But names are important, once again. Names are very important. Our name is important. Our name is written in the book of life if we're really a Christian. And names are important. The name of the church is important. You can tell a lot about a church by its name. A name written, although so many churches today want to change their names to not mean anything. And we go by the church there in Delaware on the way here every Sunday and they have a name Reach. Well, what does that what does that say? It doesn't say much of anything Maybe they're reaching for your money or who knows what. Reach. And uh so anyway, they had a name written And then verse 13, he was clothed in a vesture dipped in blood. What kind of blood was that? From Armageddon. From Armageddon, vesture dipped in blood. And of course, he said his blood as well. And his name is called the Word of God. Why is Jesus called the Word of God That's because he reveals God to us. He was the incarnation of God here on this earth. And he reveals what God is, who God is. The Word of God. And you know, language is something that God has given us. The Word. Language. God gave us a book. And it's so easy to communicate things with language, with a book, with printed word or whatever it is. You know, today people want to try to get away from that. And you know, I was just looking on the way to church this morning at my car. My car's got all these buttons and they don't put they don't put labels on them anymore in in language. It's always just pictures of this, picture of a light, picture of this, picture of the other thing. They want to get away from language, but it's so easy, so much more clear to use language, like the Word of God And in churches today they want to have mimes and they want to have these things where they act out the things of the scripture. And so you go there and you see this these people with the memes, they're acting things out, and they take about an hour to act out something that would take uh two minutes to say. Well, it uh we're going back to getting away from language. But language is revealing. And the Word of God, Jesus is the Word of God. He reveals God to us. So we have these flying white horses coming. We're on them. Christ's on them, and we're coming back. And then we have verse 15. And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the nations And he shall rule them with a rod of iron, and he treadeth the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God. And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And I saw an angel standing in the sun, and he cried with a loud voice, saying to all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven, Come and gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great God, that ye may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of captains, and the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of them that Sit on them, and the flesh of all men, both free and bond, both small and great. Well, here we have Armageddon. You've gathered them to the place of Armageddon. Christ is coming. Out of his mouth goes a sharp sword, once again a symbol for the Word of God. And he's speaking forth and destroying his enemies. And so he has his sharp sword. The Bible tells us the Word of God is a sharp two-edged sword, piercing to the abiding of the soul and spirit. And so he's going to smite the angels, I mean acts smite the angels, smite the nations, and rule them with a rod of iron. So Christ comes back, smites the nations. He's already softened up the earth. Now is the big battle of Armageddon. The Antichrist has gathered all his armies together. The beast and the false prophet have gathered them all together. They got all their strengths together, and that's what it is in warfare. If you want to be sure that you win the battle, you want to gather all your strengths together. And so they gathered it all together here. And Christ fights against them, with the saints accompanying him. So he smites the nations and he rules them with a rod of iron. Now, when is that going to happen He shall rule them with a rod of iron. With all millennialism, you have no time for that to happen. Of course, they don't take it literally anyway. They just make it into all spiritualized. And uh, but uh the thing is, when is Christ. Going to rule over the nations with a rod of iron. When are his saints going to rule over the nations as were promised in the word? Well it'll be during the r millennium period. The millennium comes in chapter 20. We're going through Revelation chapter 19 right now. Revelation chapter 19. And right now we're on verse 15. And so he's going to smite the nations, rule them with a rod of iron, and he treadeth the wine press of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God. And the wine press, he's treading out the grapes, smashing them fine. And what do you get out of the wine breast? Do you get alcoholic wine out of the wine press? No, you get grape juice. And later on it might become alcohol. And in fact, in the Old Testament, it talks about that your wine press will burst forth with wine. Well, that's talking about grape juice back there. And wine can be grape juice in the Bible. Well, here Christ is treading the wine press, smashing out the nations, and blood is coming out. In verse 16, he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written, King of Kings, Lord of Lords. Remember Jesus when he hung on the cross? He had a sign up over him. It said King of the Jews in Hebrew, Greek. And Hebrew, Greek, and Latin. And so here we have King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And Jesus has that name on. Then verse 17, an angel is standing in the sun. He cries unto all the fowls: Come and gather yourselves together to the marriage supper. Well, what are the fowls going to eat at the marriage supper? They're going to eat the bodies of those that come to fight against Christ. Against and of course the Antichrist, the immediate gathering together of the armies is to come against Israel, who is being protected in the wilderness. We saw that earlier in the tribulation period The woman had a place prepared of God in the wilderness, Israel. She's protected there. The devil casts out a flood against her. That's swallowed up. And so here the Antichrist gathers together all his armies. To come against the woman, and Christ comes down with the saints to fight and protect the woman, protect Israel, the 144,000. And we have the great battle of Armageddon here at the end of this age. And so the fouls come. I remember when I was in high school, Jack Van Empe used to go around and preach. And he came to Columbus, to the big Veterans Memorial Stadium there, or Auditorium there in Columbus. And had a big rally and I remember him talking about and others talking about how the fowl how how the fowls were being gathered together in Israel today. Of course I was back 40 or 50 years ago. But anyway, uh maybe they are being gathered together there uh for the marriage supper of the lamb. And I guess they find something to eat ahead of that. But anyway, they come together under the mirror's supper of the great God and vultures. is what it's talking about here primarily. And in Brazil, the place we lived out in the country, they had a lot of vultures there and they would circle around up in the heaven above us And one time we had a horse die back behind us there, and there was a big stink there, but the vultures were coming down to eat the carcass of the horse So here we have the fowls, the sufferer of the great God, and they're eating the flesh of captains, kings, mighty men, and even the flesh of horses. Now, here's an interesting thing here. Is that here we have at the time of the end, they are using horses. We know Christ is using horses coming back with his army, the white horses, Christ and us on them. And it would seem that perhaps uh here we have, well, it looks like there are some horses being used at the time of the end. I've heard people talk about this with prophecy, you know. Uh we may be going back to some old fashioned things in our armaments because of all the the uh modern modern ways uh ways of targeting weapons, targeting weapons for for metal, you know, for magnetic targets. And so they get rid of all the metal and uh and use wood, this type of wood that they have lingo wood or whatever I forget what it's called. But anyway, that they could use to make weapons out of. And they might get some horses back together. It was said there in the uh Second World War, they weren't using horses anymore, except that at the time of the end when the Nazis were really getting down They started using horses and carts in the at last extremity there. And anyway, so there might be a last extremity here of the horses might be using something. uh to get away from the modern targeting of weapons or whatever it is. And so there are some horses, and we know one thing, there's going to be horses with Jesus and the saints. And they very possibly could be flesh and blood horses, and some of them might get hit by the by the action there, and there might be some horses from us to eat. But we don't know. But anyway, we go on. Verse 19. And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered together to make war against him that sat on the horse and against the army. And the beast was taken, and with him the false prophet that wrought miracles before him, with which he deceived them that had received the mark of the beast, and them that worshipped his image These both were cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone, and the remnant were slain with the sword of him that sat upon the horse. Which sword proceedeth out of his mouth, and all the fowls once again were filled with their flesh. So here we have the battle of Armageddon. The Antichrist has all his armies together. Verse 19, they're all gathered together. And the battle is not described in very many words. It doesn't describe the battle at all, actually. Just that Christ, it was it was over and done very quickly. That's when you have warfare, when it's a very unequal battle When it's not equal on either side, the battle's over very quickly. And the powerful side overcomes the one that's much weaker. And so here the beast is taken, false prophet that wrought miracles. We were studying in Sunday school this morning about Elamus the sorcerer doing miracles. That the Pentecostals and charismatics today claim to do miracles, and people believe them because of the miracles, but you know Satan does miracles. And here we have that pointed out again here. And I'm not saying that every Pentecostal and charismatic is of Satan and is a follower of Satan, but they can be misled. They definitely can be And so here we have the beast was taken. With him the false prophet, the false prophet that wrought miracles, with which he deceived them that had received the mark of the beast. So everybody believes the false prophet and the beast because of their miracles. But you know miracles can be deceiving. They can deceive people. And we need to recognize that fact. And sorcerers all through history have used miracles. Every false religion just about uses miracles. And claims to have miracles, and I believe they actually do have some miracles. They would have to have summit real miracles to keep on going And the uh uh down in Brazil, they have the voodoo religion, spiritist religion down there, and they claim to do miracles and seem to do some miracles So, anyway, these, the beast, the false prophet, did miracles, are both cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone. The remnant were slain. Now that's the remnant of the army. They got the beast, they got the leaders, the beast, the false prophet, and the rest of the army is slain by the word of God. And the fowls are filled with their flesh. And uh, but not everybody in the world is killed here. Keep that in mind. That a lot of people, half the population of the world, more than half of it, has already been killed in the seals, trumpets, vials. There's been a lot of people killed, and then you have all these big armies come together under the beast, and they're all killed, but there are still quite a few millions, maybe billions of people left on the earth And that's what we have when we come into chapter 20 for next time. And chapter 20 is the millennium, the thousand-year reign of Christ on the earth where he rules over the nations with a rod of iron. And we're we as Christians will be ruling with him. And these nations that are left at the end of Armageddon, they go on into the millennium And they're ruled over directly by Christ and by his saints for a thousand years. But we'll get into that more next time. Well, let's go back just for a minute back to chap chapter 19 and verse uh 7 or verse 6. The end of verse 6 it says, Hallelujah, for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth. We have that famous chorus. And so we know that the Lord God omnipotent reigneth. What should we do as a result of that? Well, it says right here. It says right there in the next sentence there. Lord God omnipotent reignus, and let us be glad and rejoice and give honor to him. Let's give honor to the Lord. Honor. You know, that's what we're told to do with our parents. You know, the fifth comm commandment is to honor our father and mother. Notice it's not just obey our father and mother. It's honor them. And you know, s we're told in the last days that people will be disobedient to parents. And people today don't honor their parents. They talk to their parents any old way. And they reprove their parents any old way and argue with their parents and put their parents down. Well that's not honoring them. And you know, we need to honor God like we're supposed to honor our parents as well, or and our parents as we honor God. And we're supposed to show respect for God. We're supposed to show respect for his name. Not take his name in vain. Give honor unto him. And people so flippantly say, oh my God. You know, it's just using God's name in vain. They're not giving honor to him. And you know, we need to give honor to him and give our lives to him. And of course that's what it takes to get to heaven We need to give our life to the Lord. We need to pray and ask for forgiveness of our sins and give our life to the Lord And promise to serve him with our whole heart and mind and soul and body and honor him, give honor to him each day that we walk upon this earth. We need to ask what God would have us to do each day You know, I think it's a little faulty though. We were talking about Sunday school, the old book of in his steps, and the thing of what would Jesus do? I mean that's all right to an extent But you know there's a lot of things that Jesus would do that we we wouldn't do or we shouldn't do. And we have the uh speaking with the mind of God, the imprectory psalms, pronouncing judgment against people or whatever That's what Jesus would do. Uh he would tread down his enemies, uh, you know, uh in a wine press here. We're not exactly doing that except with him there. But the thing is we're supposed to love our enemies But the question is not so much what would Jesus do, but what would Jesus have me to do? What would he have me to do? And we need to honor him. And give our life to Him and serve Him with our whole heart and mind and soul and body. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we pray that Thou would bless these thoughts to our hearts. And O Lord, we thank Thee that we know that Thou art on the throne. We thank thee that we know that the Lord God omnipotent reigneth, and we thank thee with all the events in the world around us today, that we know that thou art still on the throne. And O Lord, help us to be busy for Thee and our lives. Help us to give honor unto Thee. In Jesus' name. Amen.