Don't raise your hand or whatever, stand up and but how many of you prayed for the pastors who come and preach here the week before? I said, don't raise your hand. Some people have a hard time, don't they? Think about the the the the import of the message. the the focus of the things. And if there's I had a teacher back at seminary and he said, uh we have the body of Christ and Christ is the head, but he says Pastor is neck And he says, so if there's going to be an attack, it's going to be right at the neck. So pray for them, pray for us in the week ahead, uh the week leading up to Sunday and in preparation of it, you know Secondly, how many of you pray for your reception of God's Word before coming here? I said not to raise your hand. You know, it's important. Sometimes we come to a place and we expect it all to be accomplished, and I've just done nothing to prepare myself for it. You know. I've done nothing to have my ears open or my heart receptive, you know. And I just expect it to just be poured on and say, Oh, that was good, you know I like the joke, I like the funny part of it, uh, you know, wasn't too long, wasn't too short, you know. Those two things are key in in obviously this entire uh the the way the bulletin is made up, the the the prayers, the singing, uh the reading and the proclamation of the word, and uh even the our tithes and offerings are all part of a worship to God But if I'm not a willing participant to prepare myself for it, I'm not really participating. So think of that as we end up in the weeks ahead Open your Bibles, please, to yes, Philippians. Philippians and chapter three, a new month, a new chapter. Two verses. The apostle writes, Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you, to me, indeed, is not grievous, but for you it is safe. Beware of dogs. Beware of evil workers. Beware of the concision. Let's pray. Father, we approach this portion of this beautiful letter given by the Apostle to the Church of Philippi, and by the preservation of your hand it's been provided for us today. We ask that the seeds that the Apostle Brent brought forth to those in Philippi and since that time the work of the Spirit to bring forth the seeds of these truths to countless generations of believers even up to us today. Blessed we pray in Christ's name. Amen. Like I said, we move to a new chapter in Philippians, and you read those two verses, and they seem like polar opposites, you know. Rejoice in the Lord, beware of dogs. You know, they seem like, hey, shouldn't that been something additional in uh it just doesn't seem quite right Um and yet, in truth, they are work together. The Apostle Paul didn't make a mistake in doing that. He begins with, finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. And I hope you remember, it comes up to mind, that the principle of joy or rejoicing is thematic through the book. It's thematic in his writing, it's thematic in his life, it's thematic in what he wants the believers there at Philippi to understand. Despite Paul's current situation in prison, despite all of the issues that are ongoing in Philippi. He says, rejoice in the Lord. And this is just now suddenly, oh, it's a good thing to say, but he's saying that from his heart is a necessary truth. You know that this kind of joy and rejoicing is not dependent upon the situation you find yourself in What he's expressing isn't dependent upon the circumstances that are around you. And there are times we say, boy, it's been a great day. Things have worked out. Okay, and I'm rejoicing. And there are other days when it just thunder and lightning and flooding and everything. It's not a great day. But Paul says those aren't the issues of rejoicing. What is the truth of the matter is that they are dependent upon the Savior. They are not dependent upon circumstances or situations, but they are dependent upon Jesus Christ. I say that is whatever other problem you may have, the focus is always to be rejoice in the Lord. Rejoice in the Lord. It may not change the situation you're in. It may not change the circumstance But what it does is ought to make your hearts focus upon Jesus Christ and not upon the things that you find yourself surrounded with or nicked deep in If he indeed is, and we remember, our sovereign Lord, if he indeed is I God, my eyes ought not to go elsewhere. But they do. And that's why Paul brings these things to him. I believe what destroys the joy in people's hearts is that when they can't see a purpose in suffering They just kind of throw the towel in. I don't understand why this is taking place. During those times our heart aches. to find some purpose for the reason I'm going through what I'm going through. If I could only find you remember the book of Job, you know, all of the sufferings and all the hardship Job went through. And his plea was, Lord, why? Show me a reason for this. Finally, at the end of the book we we get to that area. But why? Well, to be honest with you, Scripture always gives a whole variety of reasons for suffering. If we take the time to read it and see the examples that are found there, that enables us to rejoice. So we rejoice not because we're suffering. We rejoice not because we like pain in going through these difficulties, but we rejoice because we know that God is working out Through the circumstances, through the situations, through the pain, through the hardship, to accomplish his purpose in our lives. My brother had some real serious health issues. Back when he was 55, he had a heart attack and a stroke and uh they almost thought they had him in line for a heart replacement surgery Um he had been in very difficult straits. They were able to bring him through. He was fine, did very well for quite a few years But over the past months he went through another serious health scare. It resulted in the removal of his big toe and a portion of his foot like that. Um fears that were obviously uh carrying on because there was uh some scans and such that thought he had another stroke. And uh he didn't, but we thank the Lord for that Although she knew that she may lose her husband for a second time in their marriage, his wife kept us informed through text messages daily. We sometimes I had to prod her, you know, uh, and it's difficult to bring up those types of things. But this past Monday she wrote us We thank God for all his blessings and dwell on his sufficient grace in every situation. Just this morning I was reading this page from my book. A page which concluded with 2 Corinthians 12. 9. My grace is sufficient for thee. My strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. She said, it didn't matter what's taking place. He may die. He's lost part of his foot. The hardships that are ahead of them are there. But he says, I'm thankful that God has used this. infirmity to show forth his power. And the entire family and their church and so forth have understood that. Irrespective brethren of what is taking place, whatever the circumstances may be, we rejoice in the Lord. That's the focus of the attention that Paul brings to them and has brought to us. I don't know if you were familiar with the hymn that we just sang. You know, the rejoicing in the Lord, He brings such situations to us in order that we would be purified, in order that we would walk closer with Him and draw us to Himself. The rest of the verse 1 here, Paul is knowing that he's written some things before in this letter, and he's going to end up writing it again later on in chapter 4. He rejoices again in the Lord. He brings us again and again and again to them. And so he writes in here in verse 1 the ru to write the same things. In other words, repetition may not be exactly in the word rejoice, but the principle of rejoicing is there. to you. To me, indeed, it's not grievous, but for you it is safe. Paul says, it's not a bothersome situation for me to write, to repeat, to say it again. To bring this same thing to you? Because it is necessary to repeat these truths is safe. It's right. It's a spiritual safeguard. Rejoice in the Lord. Rejoice in the Lord. Heard about a pastor some time ago who had preached a beautiful sermon on loving the Lord. And the people after the church got up and they said, Oh, Pastor, that was really a great message. And they filed on through though the next Lord's Day, the pastor got up and gave a message on loving the Lord And the same thing, exact same message, same illustrations, same jokes, same everything. And the people filed out and some were saying to say to themselves, well, maybe he had a bad week and he just didn't have time to do something new or fresh, or maybe maybe he just forgot that he preached this message. Well, the third Sunday, guess what he preached on? Loving the Lord. The exact same message. Well, one dear saint lady who usually sits up in the front comes up to him after the service and says, Pastor, do you know if for the past three sermons you preached the exact same message to us? And he looked at this dear lady with great sincerity. He says, well, when I start to see the church doing what the message says, I'll preach a different sermon. So sometimes I would repeat my message, but it's not because of that. But nonetheless, repetition, brethren, is necessary. All that the Apostle Paul has written up to this point, including the repeated truths, were needful, were necessary in the lives of the Philippians. What Paul lived by. And what he wanted them to know and to understand was to apply this very thing. They would know it in their hearts. They could say it. They could sing the words. Rejoice in the Lord. But he wanted them to apply it in life. Living the Christian life in the way that God has ordained was Paul's main priority. You read through all of his letters, and the same principle is repeated again and again in each of his letters, identifying marks of the Christian as one who walks in spirit and in truth. In all of his epistles, he brings those truths out. Paul shows how to abide in Christ, how to submit to the Holy Spirit, how to trust in his word. and how to live a life away in a way that is what God intended. What's God's intention for my life? Well I find in Paul's epistles the direction of those things, and some are more specific. to the church that he wrote to, but those truths are there. The man or the woman of faith who is living as God intended is one who is going to produce the gracious fruit of the Holy Spirit. We look in Galatians and it talks about those fruits. And how are they displayed? Well, I'm living a life that God intended, and the fruit of the Spirit will come forth. Thy will be done, not mine, is the saying that they would have in their heart. I'm knowing, I'm following you. Lord, it's not my will, but your will to be done. These same people know that their salvation has nothing to do with merit or good works or filing through some rituals of one thing or another, but their salvation rests entirely upon Christ and the good work that he had done upon the cross. Paul knew that, knew it well ahead of time as he writes this church at Philippi. And he knew people had a confidence in legalistic rituals and good works. In the day that he lived, they were people called the Judaizers, and I know In in in description of what they do. Just as in our day, these Judaizers distorted the gospel of grace. They taught that the works of the law were necessary for a full salvation. You had to accomplish these things, trust and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. But there were other things that were added on to that. Full salvation was there. Sadly, these people lived to the opposite of the glorious grace of God And the matter was taken up in Acts fifteen when the church got together and he said, What are we going to do about these people who are Judaizers, who are adding to the gospel? And they basically said that is not biblical The Apostle Paul recognized what was unbiblical teaching and the effect that it can have on a believer. And so he powerfully labels these Judaizers as what What's the three words he uses? He calls them dogs. He says, evil workers. He says, those who are holding on to a false circumcision. Laws pressuring them. He said that was the situation he found. So as believers, the Apostle Paul says, I want you to rejoice in the Lord, but I want you to beware of dogs, of evil workers, beware of the concision. I don't plan to speak on the details of the descriptions of these three. It's rather in-depth and not necessary to hold on to today. But I think it's sufficient for us to see that when we see a warning repeated three times, beware, beware, beware. We take heed. Understand, be on guard, look out for, watch out for. Now, although that sounds as if we was warning against three different groups, dogs, evil workers, and workers of the concision, there really only one group that he was warning against The only distinction Paul makes is that there were the religious people, the Judaizers, and the righteous people, the believers. Paul wanted them to recognize that there were those who were promoting theological error, the Judaizers, and those who were listening or hearing or were susceptible to this theological error, and that is, again, the believers. We jump into the 21st century, and again the Judaizers are gone by name, but the false teachings they purported seem to be alive and well, at least that principle. Let me give you one example. The recent election of an American pope, there's been great interest in the Roman Catholic Church here within America and really around the world. a familiar familiarity with some of their teachings. We had a president, vice president, a secretary of state go over official business and meet with him The news has been very active and alive and bringing forth to those who are of the non-Catholic churches an idea that the Roman Catholic Church is really, well, they're really not that much different I mean, we use the same terminology. We believe in the same Jesus. We have to understand that really they're not too far away. But remember what the Judaizers taught. There was a need for something additional to be saved, something beyond just having a faith in God. Well, one of the official document statements from the church says, if anyone saith that by faith alone the impious, meaning sinner, is justified. in wise as to mean that nothing else is required to cooperate in order to the obtaining of grace for self justification, let him be anathema. The church came right out and said, if you say to a sinner that all he has to do is believe and have faith alone, And there's nothing else required. So that person is to be anathema. They declare that we are justified by God through grace through faith, but not faith alone. But that is our good works to be added to that faith in order to preserve our relationship with God. And that's not secure, at least until we go through, hopefully, purgatory. Some 51 years ago, a survey was taken among 7,000 Protestant youths. Many different denominations were represented, and they asked these following questions. Do you agree or not? Do you agree with these things? First one was The way to be accepted by God is to be sincere and be accepted by God is to try sincerely to live a good life. Live a good life. Sixty percent said yes. I believe that. God is satisfied if a person tries to do the best that he can. Seventy percent said, I agree with that statement. The youth of 1974, which is when this survey was taken. I'd say we're probably today around 65 to 75 years of age. We put that in context. I kind of wonder where they are spiritually today. There were no Judaizers pushing them for legalistic rituals, but in essence there was the same kind of deception, just adds something to full salvation. Be sincere. All you have to do is try the best that you can. I kind of wonder if I put that survey out today, how many of you would answer the same? Let's move ahead. 2019, a Center for Youth Evangelism conference, about a thousand young people were invited to take this survey and asked if they agreed. First one, I know that to be saved, I must live by God's rules. To be saved, I have to live by the rules of God. 85% said, I agree with that. to some extent or another. Eleven percent agreed that there was nothing they could do to earn salvation. Only 11% out of the thousand that were there said, I can do nothing. The way to be accepted by God is to try sincerely to live a good life. Sound very familiar to the survey that was done back in 74. 59% agreed with that statement. The main emphasis of the gospel is on God's rules for right living. The gospel, what is it, right living? That's the emphasis. 55%. I agree with that. I agree with that. How did it ever get that way? How did it how did it just flow down the hill like that? How did it end up like that? If we were to give those questions to each of us today, how would you answer? This is a test now. Turn to the book of Hosea. Ezekiel, Daniel, Hosea, Joel. It's Old Testament. We'll give you a Jeopardy moment. Hosea chapter four The Lord speaking through the prophet I'm going to read verses 1 through 6. Hear the word of the Lord, ye children of Israel. For the Lord hath a controversy with the inhabitants of the land. Because there is no truth, nor mercy, nor knowledge of God in the land. By swearing and lying and killing and stealing and committing adultery, they break out. And blood toucheth blood. Therefore shall the land mourn, and every one that dwelleth thereon shall languish with the beast of the field, and with the fowls of heaven, ye, the fishes of the sea also shall be taken away. Yet let no man strive, nor reprove another, for thy people are as thy as they that strive with the priest. Therefore shall thou fall in the day, and the prophet also shall fall with thee in the night, and I will destroy thy mother. My people are destroyed for their lack of knowledge, because thou hast rejected knowledge. I will also reject thee. That thou shalt be no priest to me, seeing that thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I will also forget thy children. The book of Hosea was written about 700 years before Christ. And it's a book that has a tremendous story through the prophet and a woman of ill repute Um but nonetheless it shows a uh a picture of God's unconditional love for his children. It shows really the outpouring of love and how he did that, but it also shows as a passage we even read here The picture that God was dishonored and he was angered by the conditions of what he has seen amongst his people. They dishonored him. Uh first part of the second half of the first verse, because there is no truth Nor mercy, nor knowledge of God in the land, by, and then these are examples that God throws through the prophet to them, swearing and lying, and killing and stealing and committing adultery. They break out, blood touch blood, in other words, there's blood shed there. Their wickedness was not a result of anything, but because they knew not God. They acted in such a way because they had no knowledge of God, nor did they want to even know Him This past Memorial Day Monday there was a shooting in our park, a big park in Philadelphia. Uh two were killed and nine were wounded. And there were some with cell phone videos and you could hear the gunfires, this people are running away. They were automatic weapons and just senseless shooting amongst the people there. Well, obviously our new mayor who has been really desirous to see the uh the the city cleaned up and so forth, she was livid. She called this press conference and they had the chief of police and assistants and all that and she was almost, you know, veins pumping out of her neck at just at these things like that Yet the reality is, if the heart is not changed, if Christ does not rule and reign, boy's the hope. If their thought process is, if the anger and the stupidity of the actions that they take is not sourced in anything but found in knowing God, what can they do? There is no hope if they take away all the guns and knives, if they close up all the bars and clubs, if they absolutely clean up every illegal drug and alcohol uh fastion that's found within the city. The same thing will take place. We'll go around with baseball bats and stones and clubs. We'll find some way, we'll strangle them. It's the heart of man. And this is what God is saying. There is no truth in them, no mercy, no knowledge of me. But then when it comes up to the knowledge of of him, they say, well, I don't believe in him, so I'll act the way I do. I'll do what I want to do. Down to verse six. He says, My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. They simply don't know of God, of his law, of his providence, of his holy nature, of his hatred for sin, and his punishment of sin. I don't want to hear it, therefore it's not true. Those who are living the lifestyles that are absolutely abhorrent to God today, when they're faced with the truth of the scriptures, say, I don't believe it. That's not the one that I think is right. Because thou hast rejected knowledge. They have forgotten the law. And it's just much more than Ten Commandments. It's the whole principle of what God has laid out for mankind. I'm a holy God, I'm a just God, and one day there is an accounting for that. How will we stand? He says, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no priest to me. And we think of today we have the priesthood of the believer. We have access to the Lord Jesus Christ as priest. He said, You people can't even be anything like that. Seeing that thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I will also forgive thy children. How did we get that way? This is 700 years before Christ. How have we gone down such a path to end up like we are? You say, well that's happening over in that country. That's in Nigeria or that's in North Korea or that's you know it's right in in in our own area. And I'm I'm not saying they're not bright spots and they're not encouraging places But there's an overall tenor of hatred for God, hatred the knowledge of God Sure, we could say that the vast majority of these crimes are committed by non-believers, the heathen. But I regret to say that too many church folks still find some way to oppose his truth Even when they are faced with it. They compromise with society. They compromise even with the church that they are in I looked up this past week the number of denominations that consider homosexuality and transgender identity a sin. You would not believe how many denominations worldwide there are. We can't offend them. We can't say anything about them. I watched uh little clips. Sometimes that that uh Instagram stuff gets kind of addicting. But This guy's standing out there and he's got his placard, you know, of being a Christian. And this woman comes up dressed in what her hair color was off the wall and dressed in I am a minister of the church of blah-bah blah blah blah whatever as she listed off. You know, he says, and where do you get the right to tell me of that? And he goes right to scripture and he says this And he says, Well, if you look in the New Testament, it says that Jesus Christ says that the new law is love And she just basically took scripture out, the knowledge of God, and all that God owes, and just threw it aside to accommodate her own sin, to accommodate the things that she feels are right. The removal of Bible reading and prayer in the public schools 60 years ago established a principle and a precedent. that we build upon, not we, but that the world has built upon, that our nation is built upon, that there is no accountability. We can do as we please. We can honor whoever we want. People are destroyed for a lack of knowledge. The vast majority of the popula struggles over competing idea ideologies and and distractions, and they have no clue whatsoever of what's right or wrong. I'm I'm uh I'm a capitalist, I'm a nationalist, I'm a conservative, I'm a constitutionalist, I'm an environmentalist, I'm a globalist, and And the list goes on and on and on, and we're just pulled back and forth Rather than saying, I'm a redeemed child of the Lord Jesus Christ, that's it. My my book of rules is God's word. That's the pattern that I have. And there may be some places that I associate with and so forth, and I pray for and help out, but the bottom line is this is who I am. We need to be people who know God and just not know about him. Know him personally. I can I can spew out all types of Bible facts. Like Jeopardy, you know. Category today is Old Testament, you know, and we said, Oh we got things you know. It's not the facts, it's the heart It's the heart that changes. We send missionaries over. We've always done. Send them overseas to the dark places where the heathen are, where they're the cannibals and everything else. Why send missionaries? Because they can change the hearts of those people and bring them to Christ And we've done that. But we think of our own community, the people that live next to us are the people we work with, and we we grumble about their attitudes towards slew of things. And we say, but the only way we can change them is to argue with them. Well, the only way we can change them is that the heart's changed. The heart is convinced we need people who know him personally. Do you know Jesus personally? You recognize that he has redeemed you and paid for your sins with his precious lifeblood. If so, you should be living the way that God intended for you to live. I scream guilty. And don't always do it. And none of us do. But he is merciful. He does not give us what we deserve. By his grace he gives us what we don't deserve. He provides for us. But he wants an acknowledgement of our need. Even as his children, Lord, I need to know you more each day. I can't live on what I've gone so far. I can't I can't make it by just what I've taken these steps so far. It has to be a new and fresh every single day. It allows us to understand that. May God bless the seeds to our hearts. Father, thank you for providing this your word. Thank you again for the principles of rejoicing in the Lord, irrespective of what's taking place in our own lives and hearts. and what's going on around us. All of those things will take place. But I can rejoice in you because you never change. You are always the same. You always have cared for me and will always care and love me. You've prepared a place for each of your children in heaven. You will reside with us there for all eternity and we will sing your praise. But Father, keep us aware of that which is around us. Keep us aware of the dogs and the evil workers and those who purport legalism through ceremony and not know you. May we be a people who know our God and love him with all of our hearts, soul, and mind. In Christ's name. Amen.