Marbles Revelation Revelation chapter fourteen And we read starting with 14, verse 14 to the end. And we're continuing with our study of revelation, our continuing study of the tribulation period. And this is the tribulation period. We're getting toward the end of it now, the last three and a half years of the seven-year tribulation period. And again, we like to take the book of Revelation as literally as possible, but there are symbols there. Like in this right here, we have the has a sharp sickle in his hand. Christ has a sharp sickle, the angel has a sharp sickle. That's a symbol standing for the judgment of God falling upon the earth and the harvest of the grapes of the earth. There's no no grapes here, but they're symbols of the harvest of the earth, the wickedness of the earth that's going to be cut down. And so we have here in verse 14, I looked, and behold, a white cloud, and upon the cloud one sat like unto the Son of Man. Well, he looks like the Son of Man, and he is the Son of Man. That language is used many times in the Bible. So one like unto the Son of Man And he's there with a golden crown. He's ruling over all. With a crown is king of all. And he has a sharp sickle. And verse 15: another angel came out of the temple crying, Thrust in your sickle and reap. For the time has come for thee to reap, for the harvest of the earth is ripe. And here at the time of Revelation, the earth is fully ripe. That means its iniquity is filled up. The cup of iniquity is filled That's all the iniquity they're going to do. God's going to cut it down and take care of it. It's ripe. The earth is fully ripe. The earth is not fully ripe right this minute. It's not fully ripe. It's getting there. It's pretty ripe. But it's gonna be a little bit more until Christ comes back. And then, verse 16, he that sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth, and the earth was reaped. And of course, this picture is all of these events in the book of Revelation. They're all that Christ is reaping, all the cutting down all of the wickedness. Finally, finally the mystery of God is finished. How can there be a good God in the heaven? Reigning over a wicked earth with the devil in control, and that's a mystery, and it's going to be finished. And then verse 17, and another angel came out of the temple, and he had a sharp sickle also In verse 18, another angel came out from the altar, which had power over fire, and cried with a loud voice unto him that had the sharp sickle, thrust it in, for her grapes are fully ripe. And so the cup of iniquity of the earth is full, and the earth is going to be reaped and cut down And then verse 19, and the angel thrust in his sickle unto the earth and gathered the vine of the earth and cast it into the great winepress. Of the wrath of God. We were talking about a wine press in Sunday school this morning. We looked at the Proverbs chapter 23, where it says, don't look upon the alcohol. Don't even look at it to desire it. And so we shouldn't be drinking it. But you know, when you have a wine press, it's a big thing that really smashes down the grapes And in the Bible it talks about wine coming out of the wine press, not be being grape juice coming out of the winepress. It's both were both things are with wine, grape juice and alcohol. Depending on the context in the Bible, there's no other word for grape juice. But anyway, this wine press that really smashes the grapes. Smashes them down, gets all the juice out of them, and that's what's going to happen to the earth. It's all going to be smashed down and cut down and reaped. And then verse 20, and the wine press was trodden without the city, and blood came out of the winepress, even under the horses' bridles. By the space of a thousand and six hundred furlongs. So here is a picture pointing ahead to Armageddon Armageddon is going to happen. All the armies of the earth are going to be gathered together under the Antichrist against God's people, against the Jews, the 144,000. They're all gathered together against them in Israel. And Christ is going to come back with the saints, and Christ is going to smash them just like a winepress. And what happens when you smash a wine press, the juice splashes out, and when Christ comes back, the blood is going to be it's not really nice to think about, but there's going to be blood everywhere in Israel These are going to be millions of men there, all against Israel, aga reclaimed Israel, 144,000. So they're all gathered there together under the Antichrist And they're all smashed, and blood will be scattered everywhere, and it says the blood will be up to the horses' bridles. Well, the horse's bridle might be about here or something like that. I guess uh Teresa Cross would be a good expert on that. But anyway, we have a horse's bridle And they're gonna be all this blood. And I don't think it's gonna be like a C solid blood, but it's gonna be splashed up that high all over. And it says it's going to be the length of the splashing will be 1,600 furlongs. Well, we don't use the furlong today very much. And a furlong comes back from the Greek word stadia. And 1600 stadia. And a stadia was the length of a stadium. sports stadium, uh uh chariot track that they had back then, and that was about two hundred and twenty yards. was a stadia furlong. And so if you compute out a thousand and six hundred furlongs, a thousand and six hundred stadiums. You come up with exactly 200 miles. If you have each stadia or furlong as 220 yards, It's kind of like a stadium today, you know. The old racetrack, the old for track and field, was 440 yards, and uh so about 220 is about the length of it, and that's about the same. So for 200 miles, there's going to be blood splashed everywhere as high as this off the ground. And uh what's 200 miles? Well, 200 miles just happens to be pretty much the length of the land of Israel. Israel is not a very big country, very central to the Bible, to God, but relatively small, 200 miles. If you went 200 miles from here, you wouldn't get too far. Let's see, 200 miles might be, I don't know, might be to Pittsburgh, maybe? I don't know. Maybe not. But anyway, so we have 200 miles splashed up all along the way with blood. Then let's go on to chapter 15. That's pointing forward to Armageddon. And I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvelous, seven angels having the seven last plagues. For in them is filled up the wrath of God. And I saw, as it were, a sea of glass mingled with fire, and them that had gotten the victory over the beast and over his image and over his mark and over the the number of his name stand on a sea of glass having the harps of God. So here we have it looks in heaven And these seven angels come out of the temple. There's a temple in heaven at this time. They come out of the temple, and what do they have? They have the seven last plagues, these vials. Concentrated wrath of God. This is the concentrated end of the wrath of God upon the earth. It's coming out. We've had seven seals judgments. We've had seven trumpet judgments already. And now we have seven vial judgments. And so these vials come out, and in them, verse one, is filled up the wrath of God. And God's been saving up this wrath for many, many years. You just think about how much sin is in this world. How much sin is here? How much gossiping, how much lies, how much all kinds of sin in this world? And God's been saving up his wrath to pour it upon the earth. And here it comes in the seven last vials of judgment. And here we have we see a sea of glass mingled with fire. And as I said, I think one time. If you refine gold, as much as it can be refined, it actually becomes clear. And so this is probably completely refined gold, a sea of glass mingled with fire. And who's there on that sea of glass up in heaven? It is them that had gotten the victory over the beast, over the image, over his mark, and over the number of his name. And how did they get the victory over the beast? How did they get the victory? They got the victory by giving their lives, by being martyred, by suffering, suffering persecution. And you know, persecution will get worse in this in this world. Uh there's been bad persecution in the past. There's no There's not much persecution today, although we're getting to the place with persecution when people have their churches open and they want to take them to court and to jail and all that. We're getting there, but it's going to get a lot worse than that And here we have these that get their victory over the beach beasts. They have not hidden their Christianity. They have displayed their Christianity. They've made it clear that they were Christians, and they refused to recant, and they were martyred. They got the victory. There they are. Then verse 3. And they sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb. Saying, Great and marvelous are thy works, Lord God Almighty. Just and true are thy ways, thou King of Saints. So these people that got the victory, what are they doing? They're singing. They're singing the Song of Moses. Do you remember the song of Moses from the Old Testament? After they crossed the Red Sea, and all Pharaoh's army was dead there on the side of the sea, they sang the song of Moses, Miriam, and the Children of Israel sang that song. It was a song of victory. And so they're going to be singing that again here in heaven. And also the song of the Lamb of Victory. So these are songs of victory. You notice we have other songs in the Bible other than the book of Psalms. This morning we sang a psalm, which is good. But there are churches out there, Presbyterians out there, that believe that you should only sing the psalms, no other songs in church. Well, uh one problem with that is that there's other songs in the Bible other than Psalms. And there's a song of Moses, uh there's Mary's song that she sang. There's different different songs in the Bible. And here we have that one. So they sing the song of Moses and of the Lamb. And verse 4 They say, Who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? For thou only art holy For all nations shall come and worship before thee, for thy judgments are made manifest. So God is the only one that's holy. What does that mean to be holy? It means to be set apart. Set apart from sin, set apart from defilement. And God is the only one that's completely holy. We try to be holy on this earth. Be ye holy, for I am holy, saith the Lord. But you know, we can't be completely holy. Because we're not without sin. But we try to be holy. We try to get 100% on our test, even though we're not going to get 100%. And we try. And we hopefully we're trying to be holy, to stay away from sin. And so God is the only one that's truly holy. Sometimes people get the idea that the word holy means righteous. It's not exactly that, because remember when Moses was before the burning bush, and God told him, the ground that you stand on is holy ground. It's not righteous ground, but it's set apart. Set apart. And all nations shall come and worship before thee. So you know when it says here we're talking about nations coming to worship before thee, I think we should take that literally as national entities, nations. Like Egypt, like the United States, like other nations. The nations shall come and worship before Him. And when will that be? When will that be? Well, I believe that'll be in the millennium. There will be nations in the earth that aren't actually saved. And they will be ruled over with a rod of iron. We as Christians will help rule over them. And here they shall come and worship before God. You know, we just had our Presbytery. We also had a couple of committee meetings examining Alex Weir for ordination. and Pastor Britton to become a member of the Presbytery. And Pastor Britton is now a member of our presbytery. And also, Alex Weir will be ordained on the 11th of October down in Greenville, South Carolina. But anyway, the thing is, is that when we were examining them, unfortunately, uh they were saying that they they lean to all millennialism. And you know, the thing is there's so many things in the Bible that don't fit into a millennialism because they say that that there is no thousand-year reign of Christ. I mean, they say there is, but it's not a thousand years. They say we're in the millennium right now, and that Satan is bound right now. And uh and I think all millennialists, the problem is what he does, he comes to the book of Revelation. And he sees all these symbols and all these creatures and all these different things, and he just throws up his hands. And he says, I can't understand. This is just a uh fanciful account of the fight between good and evil, and that's all it is. Well, I think God gave us the book of Revelation to get something out of it. We're supposed to get a blessing out of it there at the beginning of the book of Revelation. And you know, there's all through the Bible, there are symbols that stand for something else. They stand for something in particular. And like the grapes here, that stands for the iniquity of the earth and the earth. It stands for that. It's not just something up in the air. You know, back in Daniel, Daniel talked about the ram and the he-goat. Well, those were symbols of Persia and Greece. They stood for something in particular. And all these things here stand, these symbols, many of them stand for other things, but some of them are just literal. And of course, poor John here, he's trying to describe things the best he can. And so he's kind of overwhelmed trying to describe these things, and he's inspired. He gets a true description, but it's really difficult for him to put it into words. And he's preserved from error, but but you know, he just describes it the best as he can. And it's a little hard to understand here and there. But it's not that hard. But here we have the nations shall come and worship. When are they going to do that? They're going to do that in the millennium. And it's interesting, we had our examination there in the presbytery, and everybody was very concerned about six literal days of creation, which they should be. But the people that were asking the questions and people that were answering them, everybody made it clear that they believe in six literal days of creation. And one reason that was given was that the Hebrew word Yom means day, and it should be days, six days. You know, today they like to reconcile the Bible with evolution, and they say it's it's just long periods of time, you know, millions of years. God created the heavens and the earth. No, he created it in six days. That's what the language means. That's important. And the number six is important, the number day is important and the word day is important. Well what about the millennium? Shouldn't it be the same thing? Thousands should be thousand, and years should be years, not just long periods of time. We want to take the six days literally, and we want to take the thousand years literally. Well, we go on here. Verse five. And after that I looked and behold the image of the t The temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened, and the seven angels came out of the temple having the seven plagues. clothed in pure and white linen and having their breasts girded with golden girdles, and one of the four beasts gave unto the seven angels seven golden vials full of the wrath of God who liveth forever and ever And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from his power, and no man was able to enter into the temple until the seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled. Well, so here we have the seven vials, the final judgments come on the scene. And these seven angels get the seven vials. To pour on a vile world. And so we have these vials And as the angels come out with the vials, the judgments are starting to finish, smoke fills the temple. Do you remember a time back in the Bible when that happened in the past? Do you remember in Israel? When they had the tabernacle there, the Shekinah glory of God was there, the cloud filled the tabernacle, and smoke here from the glory of God there in the temple in heaven. And no man was able to enter into the temple till the seven plagues were fulfilled. That's interesting there. No man was able to enter into the temple. So it seems. That at this point, men are entering and going out of the temple in heaven. And of course, the saints already have their glorified bodies So they have their glorified bodies and the ones at least that were saved before the tribulation period And so they have their glorified bodies and they enter into the temple. But here, when the seven last plagues come out, they can no longer enter in. And nobody can enter in until the seven last plagues are fulfilled. And so next time, as we study the book of Revelation, we will come to chapter 16, and we will have the seven vile judgments. The big judgments upon the earth. But not everybody in the world is killed through that. And not everybody is killed through Omageddon. There are nations that will enter into the millennium, and they will come and worship before Christ, as we just saw, and the saints will rule over them, and Christ will be ruling with a rod of iron. And Satan is bound during the millennium, but at the very end of the millennium, he's loosed. And he comes out and he gathers the unsaved together big armies. And there is the battle of Gog and Magog at the end of the millennium. And you see that in Ezekiel. It talks about Ezekiel 38 and 39. So here we have the seven last plagues are coming, but let's go back. Go back to verse 13. We skipped that. We didn't get to it last time I spoke, and we skipped it. when we were reading the verses earlier. Verse 13, one of my favorite verses in the Bible, my favorite verse for funerals in the Bible. And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, verse 13 of chapter 14: Write, blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth. Yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors, and their works do follow them. Well, blessed are the dead. What does blessed mean? It means happy. We're happy when we're dead. Because we get to be with the Lord. We get to have our resurrected body. We get to go to heaven. And you know, we really don't know exactly what heaven's going to be like. We have a little bit of ideas, and the Bible says it's going to be very good. Heaven is going to be very good and we're going to like it, but we really don't know what it's about. And so it's a little bit daunting to think about the fact of dying and going to heaven because it's someplace we've never been. And we don't know anything about much except that there's harps up there and singing the song of Moses and a few other things. And mansions are up there. But we know it's going to be good. Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord. Blessed are the dead. And you know, people don't want to die. Hmm, of course. And you know, some rich people, they have their bodies f frozen cryogenics and they're all wanna be revived later on when science gets to that point or whatever. And uh nobody's ever wanted to die. We have people get up to a little bit over a hundred years old. The widow of the longtime elder of the Kansas City Missouri Bible Presbyterian Church is going to be 105 this week And Keith Coleman was on the internet encouraging everyone to send her a birthday card for her 105th uh birthday. She lives right next to the church there But anyway, we might live to be 105, maybe. Not likely, but maybe. But you know, people want to live forever. But it says here, blessed are the dead. Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord. And why are they blessed? It says here, that they may rest from their labors. Right now is not the time to rest. When we're on this earth, it's not the time to rest. Even if we're 105 years old, it's not time to rest. Completely, anyway, of course, 105-year-old, I'm sure can't do much. But they can pray. They can do a few things And it's not time to just say, well, hey, I taught Sunday school for 20 years, you know, I'm just going to sit back and let others do it. It's their turn. No, that shouldn't be our attitude. I mean it's nice to have other people get a chance too, but we need to still be after. We don't rest until we get to heaven. They may rest. That's how it is at the end of a work day, at the end of a work week, of a work year. We at the end of the week or at the end of the day, we rest and we get our pay And in heaven we get our pay. We've been saving up some pay up there, hopefully. The Bible tells us, lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt and thieves break through and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. You know, it's often said you can't take it with you. Well, you know, a lot of kings and pharaohs and everybody have buried all their stuff with them, trying to take it with them I don't know, they had a story lately about some guy that buried a whole bunch of old cars. I guess he was gonna take them with him or something. But anyway The thing is, you can't take it with you, but you can take with you what you do for the Lord. And what I do for the Lord. We can take that with us. And have reward in heaven. What we do for the Lord. We may rest from our labors. And then it says, and their works do follow them. Their works do follow them. And our works will follow us up in heaven with our treasure up there, and our works will follow us here on this earth. The influence that we had on other people will continue to uh uh in in the years to come after we die. People will be influenced Our good that we did on this earth will continue. And a lot of times we get the idea that, you know, the little things we do on this earth and little opportunities that we have don't count for anything But they do, and the Lord remembers them, and they will live on in other people's lives, especially in our children's lives, our parents' lives, or whatever. And our works do follow them. Of course, the famous old Hollywood movie was It's a Wonderful Life. You remember that movie back from 1939 with Jimmy Stewart? But anyway, uh the thing is That movie was about where he was going to kill himself and then he was shown all the influence that he had on other people. And uh the world would have been a lot different if he hadn't been there. And that's how it is with us. We have influence with a lot of other people. And we don't know about it sometimes, but we do. And our works will follow us after we die. And so this is a really great verse for funerals. Blessed are the dead, they rest from their labors, and their works do follow them. Well, I just want to say a couple more words on our millennialism, since I had to face that this week. But anyway, uh you know, most Presbyterians. In the world are all millennialists, unfortunately. But they are, we're a minority being Presbyterian premillennialists. And of course, most of the Baptists and independents, they're premillennialists, and the majority of Bible believers in the world today are premillennialists. And premillennialist means there really is a literal millennium. Christ comes back before the millennium. And the all-millennialist says the millennium is just a big long period of time where Satan is bound, and it's right now Well, you know the thing is they they like to spiritualize everything. And they don't want to take anything literally. And you know, we have to recognize that in the Bible and in everything, in most things, there is a physical part and a spiritual part. There's both. There's not just one or the other Like us, we have a physical body and we have a spiritual soul. We have both, spirit, spiritual, and physical And, you know, when the resurrection comes at the end, our physical bodies will be resurrected and joined with our spiritual souls. Christ, when he came to this earth, he got a physical body. He still has that physical body. It was resurrected. And there's a spiritual as well. Which we know. And so you can go to one side too much or go to the other side too much. We need to have a balance between the physical and the spiritual. And there's both. And we have the physical things happen here in the book of Revelation with the physical millennium. And people get into trouble with that with Israel, I believe. They want to make Israel, uh physical Israel to not matter anymore because now we have spiritual Israel. Well, there is spiritual Israel. All the saved are spiritual Israel. But there still is the physical Israel. And I believe God is still in us, that physical Israel, and he will redeem that physical Israel later. The 144,000 will be redeemed and taken care of. So you got the physical and the spiritual. And then if you want to know how to trans uh interpret prophecy, What should we look at? We should look at how prophecies were prophesied in the past and how they were fulfilled. And you know, the prophecies in the past were fulfilled literally. When it said that Jesus would come into Jerusalem riding on a donkey. That wasn't just that he was going to be lowly and that's just spiritualized. No. It was a literal donkey coming into Jerusalem. And you know a favorite passage of mine in the Old Testament where the man of God cried out about against the false altar of Jeroboam, and he gave the prophecy that the altar would be torn apart and the ashes poured out Well, that literally happened. And then he prophesied about Josiah coming later and burning men's bones on the altar. And that was fulfilled literally, exactly. And that's what we have with so many prophecies in the Bible. And so when it says here in the book of Revelation that fire is going to come down from heaven, I believe fire is going to come down from heaven. And so we have, it's important, I believe Even though our church, the Bible Presbyterian Church, has liberty on eschatology, you can be an a millennialist and be a part of the church. And we have we see that there can be differences of opinion. I believe it's important to believe in br in premillennialists, premillennialism, in that uh we take the Bible literally. And not try to spiritualize it all away. Well, we go back to our verse 13. Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth. Yea, saith the Spirit. that they may rest from their labors and their works do follow them. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we pray that thou would bless these thoughts to our hearts and help us to be the Christians that thou would have us to be Give us wisdom in thy word. Help us to rightly divide it. Help us to see that the dead truly are blessed. In Jesus' name. Amen.