Pray. Father, we're we we're rejoicing that your hand uh works marvelously in our lives And there are times when we're uncertain uh what's going on, why certain things have to happen, uh why this or that, and and yet we come back to your sovereignty and all things And you do whatever you will uh according to that which will bring you glory. Thank you for the provision of uh uh the church being here to worship and uh to acknowledge uh your hand in our lives. Thank you for the privilege to know that you have a personal interest in us as individuals and as couples, as families, as a collective body. Thank you that the interest is one upon which we not only are here to exist, but but that we're here to grow and to become more and more like Jesus Christ. Uh your word lies before us as a a banquet table full of good things uh to dine upon, to feast upon, to nourish hungry souls And we pray even at this portion of our service, that that might be the occasion, that we might learn from it and grow in it. And allow your Spirit to teach us not only now, but the things that we'll learn that our right, according to your word, will be seeded within our hearts and produce much fruit for again your glory. Bless our time around your word. In Christ's name. Amen. I think I could safely say that the intent of any pastor of a church or session that goes with that um is that the congregation individually as as individual members, uh, through the pulpit ministry, through Bible studies, to Sunday school lessons, through whatever avenue is available, that individuals will grow in the Lord as the apostle says, for the perfecting of the saints, meaning for the completing of them, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body till we all come in unity of faith and the knowledge of the Son of God unto a perfect man, a complete man, unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. In other words The intent of the body, the church, as we come to Christ as our Savior, is that we grow and grow in such a way that Christ is seen through us, and that's a necessity Um another way of looking at it is to ward off what I refer to as spiritual malnutrition. Um I think part of the the the crises that exist uh around the world and not any specific place is that individual believers are starving spiritually. Not because necessarily because they're not being fed, but because they're not themselves taking care of their own spiritual bodies. So warding off spiritual malnutrition, so each member of the body is healthy and strong and productive. Obviously, we all have long ways to go in this, but there's principles of growth that need to be seen. As we grow, there are what I like to refer to as spiritual building blocks of truth. we come to know some basics, the sovereignty of God. I get a hold of that and I said, this this really helps me tremendously in my spiritual life. or the ability for me to say to my sin, it's wrong, confess it and and get rid of it or the ability for for me to be able to get involved in a healthy ministry. In other words, use those things that I've learned. Building blocks and and you put them together and you say, boy this is great and this is great and this is great. But by themselves, they're just kind of out there. The mortar that puts building blocks and hold building blocks together is We're told what we ought to be eating to care for our physical bodies Uh and I hear the words, you know, this nutrition, uh this vitamins and these minerals and all this other stuff. Some of you might have a better handle on it than I do. How it works I don't know. Biology? Ask any of my teachers. That was not my strong suit. So I just trust what it says. You know, this goes to this and this and this. And and spiritually, it's the same thing So we have building blocks and things that we've come along through life, but spiritually speaking, prayer becomes the binding agent. It ties together my head and my heart. Those are two con conflicting areas. Sometimes my head says this, but my heart says this. And so prayers offered up as to bind those two together. Our walk with God and our relationship with others. Prayer provides me with a binding agent in that, again, vertical and horizontal relationships that are part of our life. understanding his sovereignty and his ability to work through me, to keep me humble in service and a willingness to surrender to him and other things Prayer secures these things together. And without it, they're just out there wandering around. Yet the problem is that prayer is not natural to us. Here's a verse that you should have at least triggered in your memory. 1 Corinthians 2. 14, Paul says, But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God For their foolishness unto him, neither can he know them because they are spiritually discerned The unregenerate man, the man without Christ, can't understand anything about prayer or any of the building blocks that we're talking about. But even when we are drawn to Christ as believers and we become a child of God, prayer is not natural to us. We don't all of a sudden say, wow, I'm going to spend more time in prayer. You know, I really want to, because that's still a part of the matter of growth. It doesn't automatically enter our thoughts, much less our hearts. Luke 11, 1, we read, and it came to pass that as he was praying in a certain place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to To pray, even as John taught his disciples. You scratch their head and he says, Here are men who Jesus chose to be his elite followers. And after a certain time, they look to him and he says, Lord, we've prayed. We all pray, you know, but teach us to pray. Paul in his letter to Romans, likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities, for we know not what we should pray for as we ought. Our infirmities, our weaknesses, not knowing what to pray or how to pray in certain situations and certain uh areas of life. How do I pray about this? What do I do? You know, and and progressively as we grow in Christ, we have a better understanding. But boy, when we start out in the beginning It's all the shopping lists, isn't it? You know? This is what I ought to pray for, me, me, me, all of the things that are there As a matter of fact, we ignore, or we at least stumble through prayer almost as much as we stumble through our Bible. For you see, our enemy knows our spiritual dependence on both of those, our spiritual dependence upon the Word of God and a spiritual dependence upon prayer. Satan understands that. So where do you think the place of attack is? Not blatant, not outright, but subtly, to keep me from my study of the word and keep me from my time in fellowship with my Lord. C. S. Lewis screw tape letters. Any of you read the screw tape letters? It's fun. If you sit down and you open it and you read it, it's a good work. There's one section where the demon screw tape writes a letter to his nephew Wormwood, and he talks to him on how to lead the Christian into a false understanding of prayer. Say this is the main demon and he's talking to the nephew who's learning the process of what to do in life. He says, don't forget to use the heads I win, tails you lose argument. If the thing he prays for doesn't happen, then that is one more proof that petitionary prayers don't work. If it does happen, he will, of course, be able to see some of the physical causes which led up to it. And therefore, it would have happened anyway. And thus, a granted prayer becomes just another good proof as a denied one that prayers are ineffective. For example, somebody's really ill, and you go ahead and you pray for that person. You pray sincerely, and the person ends up dying. Prayers don't work then. That's what he's telling them. Or, on the other hand, you pray for this person and you pray sincerely, and then all of a sudden he's healed, and you say, well. He was healed because they used the doctors and the medicines and so forth and so on. Hence, prayer is ineffective. The ways of twisting the truth and bringing about these falsehoods are powerful So we find that these necessary building blocks of our spiritual growth, without the binding agent of prayer, no longer have the strength and the connection that they should And when this happens, I find myself falling into temptation, feeling more like the old man rather than the new man in Christ. If I don't see the work accomplishing it, if it's not being done, then why even pray? I've made it this far without it. So why pray? Matthew 26, 36. Then cometh Jesus with them into a place called Gethsemane. And said unto the disciples, Sit ye down while I go and pray yonder. And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and very heavy. Then said he unto them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even unto death. Tarry ye here and watch with me. And he went a little further, fell on his face, and prayed, saying, O my father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. And he cometh unto the disciples, and he findeth them asleep. And he said unto Peter, What? Could ye not watch with me one hour? What a testimony! Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane with Peter and James and John. This is after the Passover meal, so it was night, probably pretty close to midnight Jesus looked for their support. He wanted these men along with him. They were close to him. The final steps of his earthly ministry were there. He was facing the terrible agony of the cross. And there's no question that these loved Jesus, didn't care for the things of the world, and yet they were overtaken by sleep. But not just once. Three times. Three times it happened. I guess it would be easy to criticize them. If you step back and you read the story and you go through it and you you look at the picture of what's going on. After all, wasn't this kind of a special request from Jesus? Again, verse 38, then say saith he unto them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even unto death Tarry ye here and watch with me. This is more than falling asleep at the desk at school or at work. Okay. This is snoozing off uh even during a sermon that's a little bit on the quiet side. Put yourself in their place. They've been up for probably 24 hours, just length of time. And then you think, well, why should I be on my guard? Remember? That's what Jesus said. Watch And pray, be on guard. Why should I? Thinking and put myself in here, what prayer does he need? Jesus, the miracle worker, think of all that they have seen and all that he had done. Why does he need my prayer? I'm tired. You know? It's a matter of clarity. He calmed the storms, he multiplied the fish and the bread, feed the thousands, he healed hundreds, and even raised one from the dead. And as you're sitting there thinking about that, all of a sudden you hear the words, couldn't you stay awake with me just a little bit? You know? All of a sudden Peter snaps out of it from that deep snoozing sleep. Remember, our natural tendency is not to pray. And you couple that with the wiles of the devil and all the entrapments of what prayer is not. We have to no problem in justifying the lack of prayer. And we have an assortment of excuses. I am tired. I've been busy. You know there's no real need right now. I have a date. I have to work on my car. There's an outing with friends, and the list can go on and on and on and on. In a day in which we can do so much more, so faster, more efficiently, we find less time to say, This has to be what I need to do, and it's to pray Remember, our natural tendency is not to pray. Jesus says, watch and pray, watch and pray. That ye enter not into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but your flesh is weak. Watch. He says, be on guard. Be watchful of the things that are ongoing. Be vigilant. Don't sleep. Be aware of what's going on. And then, and pray that ye enter not into temptation. He says this to whom? To Peter, the man who, you know, says, uh, no, none of these things will happen to me. What's going on in the garden shortly after this? Heard the story many times. You know, Jesus goes to the garden in prayer. Who enters the garden? Remember the betrayer and the troops? You know, all of a sudden the grand temptation is there. Peter, stay alert as to what's going to happen. Pray for the Father to assist you. Because as zealous as you are, your flesh is weak. Sometimes we have that that dichotomy in life You know, we're very zealous to do things, but what's going on in me personally, I don't necessarily able to carry that on. Your flesh will overpower your zeal and you'll fail Judas is going to come. Soldiers will be there. They'll arrest Jesus. Peter takes up a sword. He lots off the ear of the priest, the high priest servant. cuts it off in order to make this grand defense. Later on, while the trial was going on, Peter three times denies that he knows Christ. Go back to the place where it's all started. And he had Peter had sat with him through all of these events, seen all of these miracles, heard all of the preaching And Jesus comes to this one place and he says, Watch and pray. And Peter just dismissed it, maybe because he was used to it, all of the things that were going on, or whatever. Bottom line is, Peter did not watch. He slept, neither did he pray. Dr. R. A. Tory writes this. The reason why many fail in battle is because they wait until the hour of battle The reason why others succeed is because they have gained their victory on their knees long before the battle came. Anticipate your battles. Fight them on your knees before temptation comes, and you will always have victory. Anticipate the battles. Be alert, be aware of the things that are ongoing. Watch, be on guard, be vigilant, don't sleep. Be aware of what's going on and pray so that you don't fall into temptation. How many times have we blown it? I say collectively this past week. Things that were of the disappointment, we could say, a disappointment to the Lord. Things that I should have done or should have said or not said, and and if I would have just known, you know, this is not going to be a good day you know, already. And I have that problem sometimes at night when I go to bed. I'm t physically tired and and the the the the little wheels are going around and they're still going around, they're still going around and I wake up in the night And the wheels are still going around, they're still going around, because I know tomorrow that I've got to face this or I've got to deal with this. When I know those things were already there, and I should have just stopped and said, Lord, I want to commit this to you. You know, I want this to be a watchful moment. Why had our Lord gone to the garden at night? Because he was facing probably this greatest battle that he ever would face here upon this earth, the battle of the redemption of mankind He anticipated what was to come, and he prepared himself for the great event that was there. Peter, you do preparation. James, you and John prepare for that which is coming. Be alert. And what should have caught their eyes was Judas and the and the soldiers coming in, you know, and they should have done just as Jesus would have done. Was Jesus any less tired than James and John and Peter? Hardly. Yet because of the size and the scope of that which was ahead of him. Of all of those that were there, prayer should have been there. Jesus anticipated and prepared Remember Nehemiah after receiving word of of Jerusalem's condition? Walls of knockdown The gates have been burned. The people, the remnants of those who are left in Jerusalem are just an absolute chaos. In Eumai chapter 1, you go into the very first thing he does is he goes and he prays. He says, God, this has come to my heart's attention. And I see it there. Lord, we're not a worthy people. I'm not a worthy servant, but prepare me for that which lies ahead. The text says, I sat down and wept and mourned certain days and fasted and prayed before the God of heaven certain days. It wasn't just, man, I gotta hurry up. You know, ten minutes, king's expecting me, you know, people are looking for me. I gotta get through this prayer. It was again and again and again and again Because he knew the size and the scope of what was there. And Daniel, quote, he kneeled down upon his knees three times a day and prayed and gave thanks before his God. as he did aforetime. Daniel, situations that he faced and all of a sudden word came, nobody is to be praying to anybody but, you know, the the the the legal pagan rites here. And Daniel says, no, I've got to continue. My practice has always been. And he came before God and he prayed and prayed. Elijah upon Mount Carmel, Stephen's final prayer before his enemies, and many others. Watch, be aware of what's going on, and pray. It's a binding agent of pulling all of the things that I know about God and myself and pulling them together and binding it and offering it unto the Lord and saying, Lord, this is my situation. I can trust in you, I can. Drugs and alcohol and pornography and divorce and crime are but a few enemies that are visible to us To say nothing of the hundreds that may now lie at my doorstep. They're a regular part of our life. Ezekiel's watchman on the wall, Ezekiel 33. But if the watchmen see the sword come And blow not the trumpet, and the people be not warned, if the sword come and take any person from among them. He is taken away in his iniquity, but his blood will I require at the watchman's hand. The watchman had a responsibility to alert in the situation, the dangers, the enemies, the attacks that were around. He had to be vigilant in his tasks and job. The only difference is that instead of sounding the trumpet, we go to pray. We don't have a trumpet to blow, but we come before the throne of grace. Anticipate your battles Fight them on your knees before the temptation. Watch and pray. But again, that doesn't make sense Because we live in a day we've been raised to be able to think that I'm able to do this I'm skilled. I've got talents here. I can do these things. Prayer seems to be absolutely a worthless task, a time waster, and yet we fail. See, we all know what we ought to do, but we often d fail at doing it, and therefore we fail miserably. I'm often cornered by a frantic individual or a couple requesting that I pray for them. And sometimes, certain situations, people have come up and they've done this again and again and again and again. I have no problem in praying for them and interceding on their behalf or their burdens. But I often come and have asked them, have you prayed about the situation? Have you taken it before the Lord? You know, pray for this, or pray for this, or pray for my have you? Have you been the one who has come to the Lord? But it's a much easier for pastors, professionals, they get to pray because they have a better connection with God And yet the relationship between every child of God and his Savior is the same. For the precious blood of Christ was shed perfectly for each individual, not more for more worse sinners And not less for those who are more godly people. No. It's all the same. The relationship remains the same. Instead of praying we have wasted hours engaged in things that are of no profit. I'm guilty of the very same thing. At nighttime, there are times I'll sit down, especially on Friday nights, or A TV show comes and I like to enjoy watching it and I just continue on. Mama's already been tucked in, sound asleep. And the next morning she says, what time did you get to bed? What did you do? Well, I watched this movie. What was it about? And and it's escaped my mind. I don't know what it's about. I don't remember. And it profited me nothing. There was a moment of a of an hour or an hour and a half or two hours. Yeah. That was complete enjoyment But the body was shutting down and all the circuit breakers and the brain were going off, you know, and it's like saying, that's it, time to turn in. Why can't I remember? And even if I thought hard and did remember something, there was no profit in it. The pattern of training to live in such a way begins early in life. To live in a godly fashion or non-godly. There was a massive study done by the common sense media of twenty six hundred children between the ages of eight to eighteen. Quote, American teenagers between thirteen and eighteen. Alison you're still bound within this another year averaged about nine hours eight point five six of entertainment media use, excluding time spent for school and homework. Tweens between eight and twelve, use on average about six hours, five point five five minutes uh worth of entertainment in the media. Talk about wasted time. Twenty-four hours a day, X number of hours of sleep, you know, and and all of a sudden and and the The virus all of a sudden made everybody experts on using screen time. And all of a sudden, what happens? Paul says in Romans 7, for the good that I would, I do not, but the evil which I would not, that I do I find then the law that when I would do good, evil is present with me. Well the end result becomes watching or not watching TV and not praying. The things that wouldn't would be profitable, I don't do them. In the present of evil presents unto me a temptation that is more pleasurable at the moment than praying. And I recognize that fall. Temptation, just as Peter did, just as well as James and John, and I think all of us. Without prayer, I'm not convicted of God's sovereignty. Practically speaking, what's going to happen this year? You know, we become all panicky. But who is sovereign over all things? I'm afraid of Islam Who's sovereign over all things? I'm fearful of the future, getting a job, my health, uh whatever it is Without prayer, I am surrendering what keeps me from having sweet fellowship with my God I am bombarded horizontally with all of these facts and figures and numbers and pictures and words that just continue to swirl around in my escape because I recognize I should I recognize that I'm watching, being on guard, all of a sudden it just kind of overwhelms me. I'm truly not dealing with my sin. Without prayer I have no humbleness of heart, and therefore I can't be of service to God because pride rules my thoughts as well as my actions. Why do I do this? Well, it's for my own good. You know? I do this because it'll make me more popular. It'll put that person down. So all of a sudden, the things I ought to be praying for in every situation, you know, all of a sudden it just escapes. And I'm overrun. I want to read to you a thread from a blog on prayer. The author is rather adamant that he now has nothing to pray for. This is after a long period of time. He says, God isn't someone I care to have relationships with at the moment. We are currently in the no-contact phase of our breakup. See, I devoted years of my life to our relationship. I defended him from those who told me I was crazy. I sacrificed and I did what he told me to do, even when I didn't make sense. I ignored that logical little voice. That nagging doubt in the back of my head. And I said something wasn't right. And then I was slapped in the face with evidence that I couldn't ignore. I read his freaking messages and hated what I found there. A hypocritical, racist, selfish, and jealous person who puts on a pretty face when he wants more love than he already had, without even apologizing for things he did in the past. Plus, other friends and followers of of his said and did things I simply couldn't agree with. And he apparently condoned it I asked him hard questions. Then both him and those who claimed to know him asked and ranted and raved and pleaded and waited No one could answer them for me in a way that made me what I want to give him a second chance And until he answers me, I look for alternatives that do make sense to me. He's not only, he's not the only option out there. But we could tell he was struggling, you know. Things in his life just weren't making sense. And w however he thought the relationship with God was, it wasn't. And I don't know his personal spiritual state. But I can tell you by these experiences that they are not uncommon for those who call themselves Christians. You live long enough and and and you talk to people and they will talk talk about hard experiences. Certain disconnects with God, disappointments of things that He's done, the outcomes of a situation. That was not my responsibility, therefore it is his responsibility And when that fellowship is broken, communion of prayer ceases, then the mortar no longer is holding the spiritual building blocks together, and the structures fall. It's God's fault. It's God's fault. Well the truth is, he said, there is nobody who is going to be without struggles in life. I hope you've come to realize that because we're all children of Adam. And simply because when we've been redeemed doesn't put us in a place out of the trials and troubles. That's not until the day that we enter into glory. I want to close with a prayer. This is from a Confederate soldier. He says, I asked God for strength that I might achieve. I was made weak that I might learn humility to obey. I asked God for health that I might do greater things. I was given infirmity that I might do better things. I asked God for riches that I might be happy. I was given poverty that I might be wise. I asked for power that I might have the praise of men. I was given weakness that I might feel the need of God. I asked for all things that I might enjoy life. I was given life that I might enjoy all things. I've got nothing I asked for, but everything I hoped for. Almost despite myself, my unspoken prayers were answered. I am among all men most richly blessed. Prayer is putting those things which God has revealed of Himself through His Word, by His Spirit. Into our hearts in a proper place. And it doesn't mean it makes sense. And when it doesn't make sense, we go to him. He says, Lord, think of Job. Talk about not making sense being a uh uh an upright man and then all of a sudden whoosh kids are gone wealth is gone all you're left with is Well the wife who didn't understand, you know. And you read through that and the friends come and all this other stuff. I don't know the the spanse of time that existed in there. But he struggled with it and even talked with God again and again and again. But he didn't stop. Prepare ahead of time, watch and pray, that God would put the building blocks of the things you learn personally, your devotional time here in church. Think you hear a good program on the radio, on some book that you've read, you know, your scriptures. Ask God to put those in a place that that they bind within my heart, that I grow And in that growth, you're not going to see a cessation of trials, but you'll see that I handled it differently this time. I could see it better this time. I I I understand now I understand why God, and maybe not why, but I understand that He's still working in me And the only day it's going to end up is, you know, when we're not here. It'll all make sense then. It'll all come about. But we need to pray. So let's pray. Father, thank you for the clarity of your word and the examples of the lives of the men and women of Scripture. Thank you for Peter and James and John, and how we are so much like them. And how we follow you and and listen to you and read of your your sermons and and see of your teachings and your healings and and praise you for all the wonderful things that you've done and yet When you ask us to watch and pray, we don't necessarily do that. We let the world overwhelm us, run us over, and we wonder where you've been. Father, see it again within our hearts, the value of the truths that you are in charge of all things. You're the sovereign of the universe. You have chosen us amongst the children of men to be your ambassadors, your spokesmen, your your children. Bless the words of the Scriptures to our hearts, and may we continue to grow thereby in His name. Amen.