First dad family in your prayers. I think she was 90. So let's um let's turn to Luke chapter 2. We're going to be reading verses 21 to 35. And before I start reading, I don't like to talk a whole lot before we start reading because scripture must prevail, but I would like to say this. Think about how it's traditional for many families at Christmas. to you know to uh have a have some kind of a reading. What are some of the readings? Can anybody can remember the day it was like the night before Christmas? Was that one of them? And then there's some other ones and all, and it's like the same one they have, you know, it was a night before Christmas and all through the house, not a creature was there. They do it the same one every year And I've had for many years, I've heard many, many pastors always talking about how they have to dig to come up with a new Christmas message. I don't understand that I've been doing this message for the last three years, and I put there's a new, there's so much in it, there's something new to shed a light on every year. Last year we looked really hard at more of the covenants We looked hard at basically what was happening with the sacrifice, with um basically Mary dedicating Christ to the service of the Lord, which was of the Jewish law, and we looked at that in the temple So this year we're going to look at something a little bit different, but we're going to read the same passage and some of the same information. But I just I love this story. I think it's amazing. So let's go. Luke chapter 2, we're going to read verses 21 to 35. And uh May probably be as animated as I can tonight if I could. Luke chapter 2 verse 21. And when eight days were accomplished for the circumcising of the child, his name was called Jesus. which was so named of the angel before he was conceived in the womb. And when the days of her purification according to the law of Moses were accomplished, they brought him to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord. As it is written in the law of the Lord, every male that openeth the womb shall be called holy to the Lord. And to offer a sacrifice according to that which is said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons. And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. And the same man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Ghost was upon him. And it was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost that he should not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. And he came by the Spirit into the temple. And when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him after the custom of the law, then took he him up in his arms and blessed God and said Lord, now letest thou thy servant depart in peace according to thy word, for mine eyes have seen thy salvation. Which thou hast prepared before the face of all people, a light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people Israel And Joseph and his mother marveled at those things which were spoken of him. And Simeon blessed them and said unto Mary, his mother, Behold, this child is set For the fall and rising of many in Israel, and for a sign which shall be spoken against. Yea, a sword shall pierce through thine own soul also, that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. What else could bring this Christmas message together more than this little cameo appearance by this great man? How incredible this is. Is this one okay? Okay, I'm sorry. Thanks, Jacob. Let me ask you a question tonight Are you waiting for the Messiah? Do you know who he is? I love that question. How long have we been waiting for the promised Messiah? Or how long have we been watching for him? There was one who eagerly awaited the coming Messiah. And he makes this brief cameo appearance in the book of Luke, who records about the birth and infancy of Jesus. In great detail. We see this appearance in the Bible, and the magnitude of the story is so great. Here we see the coming of the Messiah, the promise all throughout the Old Testament given that Jesus would come to what? They shall call his name Jesus, for he shall, everybody together, save the people from their sins. What was it about the arrival of this child? How incredible that Mary pondered all these things in her heart back in verse 19. Mary and Joseph are here to present Jesus for the dedication to the service of the Lord. And we see here she goes into the temple and she had a job to do, but something was happening before that in preparation. And it was so incredible. We see here basically in in these verses here the eight days had been accomplished, the days of her purification according to the law of Moses were accomplished We see as it is written in the law, verse 23, that every male that openeth the womb should be dedicated, and here Mary takes her son. And I just want to say this. Tonight the focus is on the three main characters here. Of course, always Christ, but there's Mary, and we see Simeon. And the relationship between Mary and Jesus is so incredible. As we spoke about in the adult Sunday school class, some here, Jesus in his humiliation, comes down to this earth, and he has to be born of a virgin. He's born of this woman, and here he comes in humiliation, and he must be a little baby and nurtured and brought up as a child. In a very weak state. And Mary is faithful all the way to obeying the Jewish law and taking her son in her arms. And here she is the espoused wife here of Joseph. And she obeys the Lord and she does it. Here we see that Jesus was circumcised on the eighth day. Here the mother was then to offer a lamb, plus a dove or a pigeon. If she was poor, her offering was two doves or pigeons. We see all the way back in the covenant. You go back to you go all the way back to Genesis chapter 15 when those animals were cut up and they were put on the sides and there was a burning lamp and a smoking furnace going through them The last animals that are discussed that would be cut up as a representation for the covenant was a turtle, dove, and a pigeon. And here you see that. Here you see the fruition of that because what it did was it showed that there would be a way that those that didn't have anything that were poor, as you could say a church mouse They couldn't afford a bullock or a calf. And so the Lord said, You take a turtle, dove, and a pigeon, and I will accept that And look what happens. Here Mary has nothing. She has nothing. But she takes that turtle, dove, and the pigeon, and they're and they're the uh her and Joseph and they're to offer that up. We see Mary and Joseph take Jesus into the temple. The first male is to be taken, to be dedicated to the service of the Lord, sanctified unto him and set apart and consecrated unto God, and we see something incredible happens here. First of all, we see this relationship between Mary and Jesus. And I want to talk about this One more time. I mean I mean went last Wednesday evening we brought this up. Some of you weren't here. We talked about it Sunday morning. Some of you weren't here But I just want to say what I've seen over the years, and I'm not saying that this was a bad thing and I'm not putting down the Protestant Church. But I have noticed that there's so much emphasis on the perversion and the absolute distortion of what the Catholic Church has made of Mary, that the Protestant Church has spent centuries talking about Mary Talking down to basically to the point where trying to show that Mary is not deity. She's not God. She's not part of the Godhead. But I just want to say as Christians, we can enjoy the wonderful blessings and the wonderful greatness of Mary. There's no reason we can't call her great. There's no reason we can't lift her up as a wonderful pillar in Scripture of what she meant to the Christian church and what she meant to raise the Christ child. I think of this church and I can sit here I could for for for many, many minutes and talk about some of the ladies who have come and gone in this church and the Lord has taken home. And I can tell you they were real pillars of this church, and I can tell you the women or have been the cement and the concrete and the foundation of this church. They've been incredible. All down through the last, I guess, 35 years since this church has been in. The women have been incredible. And as I announced that Mrs. Anita Decker was taken home today She played a role in the church down there at Cub Hills, just like Miss Roberta Britton played at the Towson Bible Church. And I and I remember seeing Mrs. Decker, the work that she used to do when I was a child She was she was there, I remember at six years old, all the work she used to do at that church. And what Ms. Roberta did is when I got older, I actually went to Towson Bible Church, and she was always there putting the books up and taking care of things And working and teaching and doing everything she could for the service of the Lord. And I believe that's what Mary's position was I don't believe Mary for one minute would ever, ever had accepted worship or declared herself as any type of deity. But there's a word called Theotokus from the Greek, and it's not unusual because you know that the New Testament is translated in the Greek. And so this word is very important. What it means, it's a title of Mary, the mother of Jesus, used especially in Eastern Christianity. The usual Latin translations are De Genitrix or Diapara or the parent of this Jesus The problem is that names that name has been stretched to say, and Pastor Olson said something very, very profound on Sunday morning during the Sunday school class, how many have called her the mother of God She's the mother of Jesus on here on this earth, the earthly mother of Jesus, but she was not the mother of God. God has no mother We see how important that this title is, but we see the relationship, and we see here how important it is to remember no deity would ever have to go through a writ of purification. Deity is supposed is supposed to be pure and perfect. And that's why I wanted to make that very clear of this distinction and this relationship of Mary and how Mary Said that she pondered all these things in her heart. In verse 19, you go back a little bit, but Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. She knew she needed a Savior And we remember what happened. Do you remember the story later on in Luke? I think it's at the end of Luke 2. You know when Jesus was left behind? And her and Joseph went with a caravan and they went off on a trip for several days and they had left Jesus back. They came back and they find Jesus and what were Jesus' words? To Mary, wished ye not that I'm about my father's business? And that's the mission that he was on in his humiliation to come down here. Something happens very incredible here We see here that the Spirit of God came to the prophets of old, the prophecy of the coming of the Messiah, and they were to spread the word that he was coming. And we see this man Simeon, he was given this prophecy, and he was given a promise. He is told that the Christ child is coming. He is then told that it would happen soon. so soon that it would be in his lifetime. He would not see death until he saw the coming Messiah. And this is a very unique promise Because there's a connection between him and the Christ child's mother, Mary. Mary says something incredible here that we're going to look at. You will not die until you first behold the Messiah literally and physically. And here is a very profound question I have for you this evening. When Simeon saw the Christ child, was that the instrument that convinced him to be a Christian? Remember what the Pharisees said to Jesus? Show us signs and wonders and we will believe. Show us this. Show us that. I'm here to tell you. that there was a vision that Simeon had. He knew Jesus knew him before he ever glared at that little baby. He knew it. And the Holy Spirit filled his heart. And you gotta imagine what it must have been like down there in the in uh around the synagogue and in the town. Here Jesus is coming as the Messiah, as this little baby, and he was told, he was told with this prophecy by the angel of the Lord, he's told, you will not see death until you see the Messiah. Can you imagine what it was like? Maybe it was years. We don't have all the detail, but many it was years that he walked into the temple day after day, every day, and he saw thousands of babies. He went in there And perhaps people I remember Dr. Sprohl talking about this, and I love how he brought this out in his message called the Consolation of Israel, and I love that name. And he says, Can you imagine all the times he must have walked in and out of the temple and people probably laughed at him and said, There goes that old man again, he's talking about seeing this coming Messiah There he is. Well there he is again. There he is today. Maybe the tourists were coming in and all the people around inside of the church would say to the tourists, Yeah, there's that crazy old man that comes in all the time. There he is, he's talking about seeing Jesus And then all of a sudden he walks in and after all these babies, you don't hear him going off in all you don't you don't see any detail here about him going in And looking at all these babies and I'm saying, I wonder if it's that one, I wonder if it's that one, I wonder if it's that one, all the way. Not a word is said until Jesus arrives. He knew that baby. How did he know that baby and nobody else? Mary? No, of course. You know what's so fascinating about this? There was only a small handful of people that even begun to have their hearts opened up with the light to know that the coming Messiah had arrived. You go back to John 1 and 10, 11. It says, he came into this world and his own received him not. They didn't know him. And they kept testing them over and over and over and over. Mary knew him, Simeon knew him. Simeon knew who this little baby was and is. What torment may Simeon had endured with his prophecy that he carried with him I had one I talked I I talked about this with one pastor and he said to me at one point, he said, Well we don't even know that a Simeon was an old man. He might have been just a young man. We don't know anything. Well you know what if you read around this I can guarantee you this. He was an old man And he was on his way. He couldn't wait to go see the Christ child. He couldn't wait to go see Christ Can you imagine the torment that he went through? You know, Simeon was a devout Christian. He was a devout Christian, and we cannot keep silent about Christ. I would find it hard to believe that Simeon kept quiet and he I have a hard time believing that he did not use this as an example and a way to witness about the gospel of Jesus Christ and be a witness for him. And he brought people came into the temple. He probably used this and went all the way back to the Old Testament and gave the messianic prophecies and the Bible verses. He probably went all the way back to Genesis 3. 15. I will put enmity between thee and the woman, between thy seed and her seed. It's all bruise his head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. He probably went through Isaiah 53. Who hath believed that report and to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant and as a root out of a dry ground. And that's exactly what Jesus is He's a tender plant, a root out of a dry ground, coming up in Nazareth in a very poor neighborhood with very poor parents. There is no beauty we should desire him Many may many many may have thought that Simeon was foolish. Look at some of the names in the Bible that are given to our Lord Jesus Christ. Son of man, sovereign, Adonai, Emmanuel, God with us, he's the chief cornerstone The master builder. He's the of the root of Jesse. He's he's he's the uh uh he he he's the the he there's this uh there was another name I just had on the tip of my tongue there's 70 names Look at all the I am statements in John. I am the resurrection and the life. I am the way, the truth, and the life. I am the bread of life. I am the living water. I am the true vine. All these names The great I am. But then all of a sudden we hear this name, and I think it's the most beautiful name, the consolation of Israel. What was Israel begging for in the Old Testament? Remember the Babylonian captivity. Remember how hard it was in Egypt. How many years they suffered. Remember the Persian Empire and Darius. And look at how Jeremiah was the weeping prophet. They were begging for the balm of Gilead. And what was the balm? The balm was the healing. And here we see how Christ has come to be the consolation. Many prophecies are out there. How many remember the prophecies today are very perverted A question could come up, how do we know that Scripture is the authoritative, holy and errant word of God? The prophecies in Scripture are pure. There is no were in the prophecies. It's not like the prophecies are contained in Scripture and they remain confined to that time frame, and that's all that exists. The prophecies in Scripture lead up to what is going to happen to us when we leave this earth, as Miss Decker did today. Can you imagine these prophecies and how they're still being fulfilled? Look at some of the moronic prophecies of today, people claiming they have special relationships with God. How many remember all the prophecies, these so-called they were actually predictions of Harold Camping? Remember? People were selling their homes and there were billboards October the 23rd, 2015 or whatever Jesus is coming back, so get everybody get ready. He did it like three or four times. He still hasn't come back. I heard a new one Maybe it's not new to you. You might have already heard this, but I heard it last night and I'm like, boy. Isn't this apropos? There's how many of you all heard of Kenneth Copeland? Anybody? Kenneth Copeland Kenneth Copeland's another one of these so-called prophets, and he's 84 years old, and he made a statement. I saw like several renditions of this where I was watching this thing about him And he's made this statement. The year is going to be 2056. He said, I have made a covenant with the Lord that I will live to be 120 years old. And I will continue to spread the gospel until I'm 120 and the Lord and I have an agreement. Number one, I don't think I've ever heard him spread the gospel. And if it has, all it was was a marketing tool to get people to help him buy us two golf stream jets 120 years old. If I were him, I'd be checking the fuel lines on these on these airplanes and watching because that's not something you do. That's the putting sanctions on the Lord. No man knoweth the time. No man know when they're going to go, when the Lord's coming back. But we have that. But here's a prophecy. Simeon will not see death until he sees the face of the little baby Jesus. He didn't need to see the miracles. He didn't need to see the signs and wonders He didn't need to see the healing of Lazarus or water into wine. He didn't say, I have to see all these things. It was enough. And all of a sudden a song comes up. And then we're going to talk about the connection of Mary. I'm running out of time already. Simeon is ready. He clenches the baby into his arms and he breaks into a song. What could Mary and Joseph possibly have thought with an old man walking up and grabbing the baby out of her arms? If you had a little baby and you go into the synagogue and somebody rips the baby out of your arms, what do you want to do? You want to kill them. You're scared. You know, what are they doing? Gonna kidnap my child? Mary knew there was something about this man. Mary, did you know? Give me a break. Mary did know. Mary knew a lot more than Kenny Rogers knows. Mary, did you know? She knew. Boy, she knew a lot more than we think that she did. What would Mary have done? Mary stands there and here's what she says. And Joseph and his mother marveled at those things which were spoken of him. But here we see this beautiful song comes up And it's fascinating how in the Old Testament, when King David would sing, the angels would sing, the prophets would sing, Moses sang. Look at some of the songs in the Bible. There are some beautiful songs. Anybody ever hear about the Agnus Day? The Agnus Dafe from John the Baptist, as he sang, Behold the Lamb of God who taketh away the sins of the world. John 1. 29. What about the magnificent? Thou hast magnified the Lord. That's from Mary in Luke chapter 1, verses 46 to 55. Anybody here that benedict us? The song of Zechariah, as he is calling for the consolation of Israel. And he says the Redeemer and the salvation is coming, the Benedictus. How about the song of the angels? In chapter 2, verse 14, Glory in Excelsius Deo. And here the angels are singing because of the arrival of Christ. Can you imagine the angels singing at the arrival uh what that must have even begun to look like? Look at all the beautiful lights we've seen over the last couple of summers. You see two little planets below the moon illuminating and you're in awe. And then you see these red lights over the summer, and you're in awe. Can you imagine being a shepherd hearing the beautiful voice of the angels? singing glory to God in the highest and on earth peace and goodwill. That's incredible. We see these songs and here all of a sudden Simeon breaks out into song And it's referred to in the Latin as the nunciminis. And here's how this this is it's called the nunctimis in the Latin because here is how it starts. It says in verse 28, then Hersimeon then took he up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord, now letest thou thy servant depart in peace according to thy word. That's the nun de menace. Let me let me go. Let me go in peace. I'm ready I heard this message from Dr. Sproul. I don't want to plagiarize him, but I want to tell you what he said. He said that there was, I think it was a philosopher, his name was Kierkegaard. Who says that one of the hardest things that anybody can ever go through in their old age is when they're having a really rough time. They've lost many, their health is going, and it's the hardest mental thing to ever go through is to want to die and not be able to. He was talking about his grandmother, and he said his grandmother was in her 90s and she was in agony because she was in so much pain. And she went to Dr. Sproul many, many years ago, and she said to him, She said Why won't the Lord take me? Why won't he le Why won't he let me go? Because it was getting hard. It gets harder. And I've heard many stories like this. I've heard many But it's incredible how what Simeon says is, I've seen all I need to see. I'm ready to go. So Nunc Demetis, Lord, now let me go in peace. Now let us thou thy servant depart in peace according to thy word, for mine eyes have seen thy salvation. Which thou hast prepared before the face of all people, a light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people. And here Joseph and Mary they marveled at these things. They didn't question him They didn't call him names. They didn't say what's this crazy old man doing. There was a connection. Mary loved this man. You know, I can tell you growing up Well I remember some of the people that I loved the most were the elderly men in my life when I was a child and they had such wisdom. My grandfather was one of them and he died of a heart attack when I was nine and I'll never forget it It happened on December 11th at 7. 30 at night. Phone call came and my mother was falling and I mean she was crying hard and the hospital called and said he had a heart attack. She gets another phone call and said they revived him and he was okay. And we're like ten minutes later they called again, we lost him, he's gone. And we were just I remember nine year nine years old, I remember like he was yesterday, and what an emphasis he had on me. Just a just a wonderful old man, older man. I think of when we at the Towson Bible Church, Pastor Britton's father, Pop Britton, which he was such a uh a real kind old older man Some of the men in this church meant so much to us. Brother Jack Harris and Brother Dick Lane and so many. And all you think of Simeon and what he meant to the people in that church and how he loved the Lord and what an example that he was We see that Simeon sings this song and he loves the Lord. He's seen enough. He has seen the Messiah. The consolation of Israel. He has seen salvation. Now Lord, let us thou thy servant depart in peace. What happened? That remains to be seen. We're not going to know until we get to be there. What happened? Did was that the night that Simeon went home and the Lord took him in his sleep? Did the Lord hear his prayer? Of course he did. And did the Lord, he said, you will see the Messiah. Did he take him up that night? Perhaps. We don't know. He didn't need to see anything else. Oh, how people need to see so much and they still don't believe They need to see the statues. They need to go to all of the inter all the mediatorial intercessors They need to go over and touch the walls. They need to touch that great big statue of Jesus down at Johns Hosp Hopkins. with that big toe that's the shiniest toe probably in Maryland because they kiss it all the time and they lay down they gotta see the statue, the big mar and they gotta lay down something there. Like they are the putting put notes on it and all All these things they gotta see them. They gotta watch, they gotta go to the movies. I remember uh when that when that uh Passion of the Christ came out years ago, somebody told me, oh, I've never seen the love of Christ until I saw that movie I'm like, what? Well well where's scripture? He he didn't that's all he needed to see. He didn't need to see anything else, but he said this before Sasimeon departed. He said, A sword will pierce his soul A sword will pierce his side, and he gives a coming prophecy of the death of this little baby. What are you going to say if you're married? What does this mean? Do you do did she know what he meant? I believe she did. I believe she knew the prophecies from the Old Testament that he was born to die. That's why he was coming, to shed his blood for the remission of sins. Yea, a sword shall pierce through thine own soul also, that the thoughts of many hearts may be may be revealed. We see here, this is a very distinct reference. We see in John 1925, we see here the rising. Now there stood by the cross of Jesus' mother. and his mother's sister Mary, the wife of Cleophose, and Mary Magdalene. And there Mary was at the foot of the cross, watching that little baby. Can you imagine what she was thinking at the foot of the cross? Her son's up there bleeding and they're treating him so horribly. Can you imagine what she was thinking? Here she was told that her son will be the one that will save Israel. He'll be the consolation of Israel, and this has all come to fruition. So in closing, are we watching for the Messiah? Are all our activities, passions, and desires predicated on the coming Messiah? Do we long for his return? We all need to consider that we live in a world that hates Christ and is driven by the forces of Satan. We live in a world today that seeks science, medicine, technological advances, and every spiritual healing, self-help gimmicks, known to man to promote security. But we know in Acts 16, 31, we know what Paul told the Philippian jailer, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. And he's coming again. And that's all we have to know. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank thee so much, Lord, for this beautiful story that thou hast given us. We thank thee for this wonderful man Simeon who gives us such warmth in our hearts to give us a true Christmas message, to show us That the reason this first advent was prophesied was to save us from our sins. For we cannot save ourselves. And we thank thee so much for the sacrifice that thou made. He shall see of the travail of the soul and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many. He shall bear their iniquities. We read that in Isaiah chapter 53, verse eleven. And Lord, it pleased the Lord to bruise him, he hath put him to grief for us. We thank thee and praise thee, Lord, for these wonderful words of life Bless us as we go here this evening. Pray that we'll all have a lovely time with our families tomorrow and prepare our hearts to be back here on the Sabbath day to worship thee. And I pray that we'll be reading our Bibles and praying and looking for opportunities to witness to others. And for all these things we ask in the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen