I asked me a question yesterday. Never really got to the answer too much, but uh it was a good very good question. Excellent question. You know, what excites you most about being a missionary? Don't you think that's a good question? Uh so I thought about it after after some time. Uh she actually seemed to think I I answered it. I I went on about God is love like I was in Sunday school, which is the devotional I wanted to give them, but things got kind of uh a little bit uh uh out out of sync yesterday. Um there were a lot of interesting uh circumstances to uh Work around, shall we say. Uh but anyway, afterwards I had more opportunity to think about it and said I should have given her a real nice succinct answer. What excites you most about being a missionary? And that would be The privilege of preaching Christ. You know, I think those of you who were here at Sunday school and We started with God is love and how it's his purpose to fill us, to conform us to his own image, conform us to Christ. And just bless us as he is love. He blessed his own son, who, it says, learned obedience through his sufferings. Of course, we need to suffer as well. We may learn obedience, and there's many reasons for our time here on earth. Well God could have saved us and taken us right away, right? But he chose in his wisdom this this better way. And part of our suffering is our chastisement. We are being, brethren, conformed to the image of Christ. So we'd be more like God and ultimately be like Christ, His perfect Son, who reflects His image perfectly. We know God. How? Through Christ, the Word. Good morning, Stephen. Good to see you. So uh it's a wonderful blessing to preach Christ. Whether on the foreign mission field or here. And that's really the most exciting thing, not because Well of course it's uh it's just a blessing to be in this communion with God and his word and his people and be a vehicle through which, you know, God using my tongue and my voice and my being One time I was in Mexico back in nineteen ninety, I think, and someone asked me, how long does it take you to pre uh uh how long does it take to prepare a sermon? And I say I answered, twenty-seven years. That's how old I was. I think God prepares the preacher, and that's part of the preparation of the sermon too. But anyway, it is a privilege to serve the Lord there and thank you very much for your prayers as we serve the Lord in Chile. Uh we covered your prayers and uh we ask you to not stop because I think the Lord is doing marvelous things. And you know you can look around the congregation here uh and You know, y you may think, what's going on? You know, what is the Lord doing? But he's up to something. So uh he's doing something with you and you know that's critical uh but he's also up to something. He's still building his church, even though the circumstances we look around and may may seem like uh uh you know There's a lot in contradiction to that, but God is building his church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. And that's what's the most significant thing going on in the world right now is that God is building his church and he's blessing his church and he's making us more like Christ and He's filling us with His Spirit and with love. uh to use us with our neighbors and to glorify himself and he I'm not even going to say just calls you to be faithful He equips you to be faithful. He makes you faithful. That's why you're here. And Lord willing will have a blessing as we look at His word, because it's not my word that counts. It's God's word. And it is quick and powerful and sharper than any two edged sword, right? So it'll be a blessing as we look at it. Please turn with me to Romans chapter 8. We're basically doing the same thing. Down there in Chile. So don't stop praying. The Lord is doing wondrous things Uh like I mentioned we lost a couple families back in 2025, but we also then late uh gained a family. Lord willing, we'll have a a a son or daughter, a new son or daughter in that family, a young family, um that started coming in October. And that was the Lord's doing. As all things, we have a good uh unity, we have a great spirit, uh evangelical evangelical fervor to to reach the lost and And just please don't stop praying and uh pray for us in the work in Chile. That the Lord would bless that and uh All of us be praying here for Baltimore as well in Kingsville and you all. Um that the Lord would continue his work here. Okay, let's read my uh text. Uh my text is actually in Romans chapter eight, verses one to four. But we're going to be, uh I said that wrong. My text is Romans 8, verses 3 and 4. Verses 3 and 4. But to begin with, I'm going to read from verse 24 of Romans chapter 7. So if you'll look with me, please, at Romans 24. Excuse me, I said that wrong as well. Romans chapter 7, verse 24. Let's start our reading there. Romans 7, 24. O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then, with the mind, I myself, this is the Apostle Paul, I myself serve the law of God, but with the flesh, the law of sin. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made me free from the law of sin and death. For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin condemned sin in the flesh. That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. Let us pray. Our Father in Heaven, Lord, we again rejoice in thy great glory and mercy. Thy mercies are new every morning, and therefore it is that we are not consumed. Father, that we know we deserve thy wrath. And we were born under the wrath and the curse of the law because of our sinfulness. But you, in your everlasting mercy, ordained Christ. To be the one mediator between God and man and our mediator, your holy and beloved Son. And ordained him to be our righteousness and our salvation, to take our sin upon himself, to become, as your word says, sin for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. And what a glorious salvation, Lord, and gospel that you have ordained and that man never would have thought of. Lord, we thank you for your holy word and that you use it in our lives to give us new life. To give us faith and repentance and love. And Lord, we pray that you would continue to do that work, that you would build and prosper your church, Lord, your bride. It is your work, Lord. You are love. You are salvation. You are the one that loves each one of us. That are your people and are trusting you and all the elect that you would add to your kingdom for eternity. It is your glorious and great love and work that does it all. As we just read in Psalm 34, Lord, help us to trust you. And put everything leave everything in your hands, for you do everything well. Forgive us of our sins and heal us, Lord. Help us. Be merciful to us. Grant us repentance and grace. uh sustaining grace, Lord, uh strength for the trials, the tribulations. the death of this body and and everything, Lord, that is part of our passing from this life to eternity Help us in the meantime to live for the glory of thy son, for thy glory here on earth. And we ask your blessing on this message to that end. You'd be with me, guide me in the words, and work in each heart by thy Holy Spirit, Lord. For Christ's sake, we ask it. Amen. As I mentioned, my text is verses three and four here, Romans eight. Let me read that again. Romans 8, 3 and 4. For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God Sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh. That, that's in order that, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. I'm going to have to take these off because I can see my notes better with the without the glasses on. Are you constantly joyful? Christ is the answer to our ups and downs. We all have up ups and downs, right? He needs to be your focus. Christ is the source of every blessing. What would happen with you if your earthly life ended today? Are you secure in Christ? Is Christ your righteousness? Faith in the gospel of Christ is the secret to being always joyful. Faith in the gospel of Christ is the secret of being always joyful. And That's a lesson for the believers, those of us who are trusting in the Lord here, and if there's anyone that's not trusting in the gospel of Christ and not a believer yet, that's the secret too. Knowing Christ. Christ is the Savior and the secret, the key or the source for really a constant joyfulness. There's no other way. As the hymn writer says, to be happy in Jesus, but to trust and obey. And to focus in on Christ, because He's the one we're trusting and He's the one we're obeying. Faith in the gospel of Christ is the secret, the answer, the key to being always joyful. Now, verses 1 to 4 here, this is a fantastic, marvelous book epistle, the letter of Paul to the Romans, one of the most beloved books of all human history. Verses 1 to 4 are actually a summary of everything that's gone before. We have the sin of man. Presented in the first chapters, culminating in chapter three. And then in chapter three, Paul starts with the justification Through Jesus Christ, by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. And we read about justification, we learn. Very clearly, the most great, wonderful, clear presentation of the gospel, chapters 4 and 5, justification through faith in Christ. And then he starts to delve into sanctification, chapters 6 to 8. And here he now gives a summary that ties it all together before going on. To the rest of his epistle here in many practical applications, answering objections in the next chapters and so on. Verses 1 to 4 here are the apostles' summary of all that has gone before in this wonderful epistle. The first part of this summary, verses one and two, tell us that the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus. Frees us from condemnation. There is therefore now no condemnation unto them that are in Christ Jesus who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit, who walk after the Spirit and not after the flesh. Who walk not after the flesh? I said it right the first time. But after the spirit. Well, in verse 2, he talks about the law of the spirit of life. In Christ Jesus. Who is life? Who's the source of life? Who's the victor over death? Who came here to destroy the works of the devil? Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. He is life. He is the way, the truth, and the life. And he has come to change this world. By giving that life and restoring what was lost in the Garden of Eden when Satan tempted our first parents, and they sinned and fell into sin and death and hell and misery. Misery and hell for those that never repent of their sins. Well, God in his mercy has had pity on us. as human beings, and ordained that his own son would come in to give this life because he is life. God is life, of course, and His son, all life is in him and through him. He was involved in all the creation. Nothing was created without him. In the beginning was the word, and the word was With God and the Word was God. All things were created by Him. Nothing was created without Him. Jesus, our Lord, the Son of God, who is now God and Man, He is the divine Life giver, the light of men, and everything is in him and comes through him to us. He's the source of all blessing, as we've said already. Well, since we lost the blessing in Adam, our first father And parents, Adam and Eve, the gospel is Christ coming to give life again. To rectify all this by giving life to his church and making us his people forever To bring us into fellowship with God and communion with the living God and Savior. It's glorious. And free us from sin and all its consequences. Free us from that condemnation that we deserve from the law. And so he says, Therefore, there is no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. We have to make sure we're in Christ Jesus. But it's God's work to put us into Christ Jesus. And so when he says the law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus, he's referring to the gospel of Christ. He's referring to the new covenant. that frees us from condemnation by Jesus taking our place, His Son becoming our redemption and our salvation by coming to this earth to do the work that He did, then rising from the dead, dying on the cross. for your sin and mine as believers, and rising again for our justification, as Paul says, ascending to heaven from where he sends his Holy Spirit to do the work in our hearts. And in our lives. And so he summarizes this in these first two verses, and at the end of verse 2, he says That this gospel, the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus, has made me free from the law of sin and death. That law which would have condemned me if Christ had not taken my place. That law which would have taken me to hell, that's the law of God. You know, the greatest enemy of the sinner is God. Because he is just and he is holy. And you cannot meet a holy and just God. With sin. There's not gonna be any sin in in heaven. There's not gonna be any sin with God anywhere near him. And he hates sin. It's an abomination to him, right? Getting a little ahead of myself, but Christ came to free us from this law which would bring sin. I mean, would would condemn us on account of our sin and would bring death. Why do we die? It's because of our sin. And because God, who's in control of all things, judges men for sin. But since he judged our Lord Jesus for our sin, in other words, he put our sin upon him, he no longer has to judge us when we are in Christ Jesus, right? When we're united to him by faith When you believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, as the apostle says, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house. He knights us by faith in Christ to Jesus. And That's how we are united to Christ. Paul shows it very clearly in Romans chapter 4 and 5. We're united to Christ through the instrument of faith And so being one with him, his death is our death. When he died, he died for the sins of all his people, all the believers. So if we believe on him, we are forgiven. Because God has judged us as worthy of death for our sin, but Jesus died in our place. So that's the glorious gospel and it frees us from condemnation because as the hymn writer uh it's not in that hymn, but the same hymn writer of Rock of Ages, Augustus Toplady He wrote in another poem, you know, God is not unjust to judge uh to condemn or uh judge us for sin twice, right? Our sins have already been paid for by Christ on the cross. So he's not going to send us to hell for our sin. Our sins paid for. We have no debts. We're freed from the condemnation of the law. It's glorious And if you haven't read these first eight chapters of Romans, well I recommend them highly that you read them as soon as you can. But today, I'm asking you to meditate with me, especially on verses 3 and 4. And this grand subject. Christ. Christ, our righteousness, our security, and our joy. Christ, our righteousness, security, and joy. Verse three A starts with four, I think. And it's Because for this reason, Paul's about to give us the reason, and he here gives us the reason for which God had to ordain the redemption of Christ to free us from sin, because that's what he was talking about in verses 1 and 2. As I said, this is a summary of everything that's gone before in Romans. He says, for, because The law of the Spirit of Life in Christ Jesus, verse 2, hath made me free from this law of sin and death for this reason. This is why this had to be. For it was impossible, for that it was impossible that the law should free us. The law could never by itself have freed us from itself. It was impossible that the law should free us. Therefore, God did it by sending his son. No, first the law That is the Ten Commandments, right? Summarized in the Ten Commandments. The whole Bible expounds the Ten Commandments. You're reading the West Westminster Shorter I mean larger catechism and that's I think we were reading one of the commandments being expounded there, right? And so y you see how it's all through the Bible. The Bible reveals God's will, and it's uh that the apostles and the prophets are uh ex e expounding God's word and showing how they apply to every area of life Uh and so the Ten Commandments are a summary of that will of God and it's what we have to do. It's what Christ did 100%. He never sinned, which means he obeyed God perfectly, his father. But that law cannot be our righteousness because we're sinners. We've sinned. We've broken it So the law is never going to say, you are Paul, me. It's never going to declare me a righteous person. The law shows my sin. And the law shows the sin of every human being. And so the law has the purpose of convicting us of sin and showing us that we're sinful and need a savior. The law cannot be your righteousness, neither can it be your security, neither can you hope that somehow by keeping the Ten Commandments you're going to be okay. Well how'd they get rid of that idea and that thought and that hope? Because it's a false hope A sinner's justification is impossible for the law. The law cannot justify us, the law cannot save us. So Paul says what the law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh Shows us that the problem was not with the law. The law is perfect. The problem was with us. We had sinned, we broke the law, and we still, you know, struggle with the corruption that is natural to us. Our sinfulness. It was weak through the flesh. The law has all power to justify any person that obeys perfectly. That's what the law can do, right? Jesus kept the law perfectly, and the law shows that he was a perfect man, and we know what he did if we look at the law of God. That's what he did. The first commandment, the greatest commandment, Jesus said, was to love God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your might, with all your strength. And the second, to love thy neighbor as thyself. Jesus did that perfectly. The law justifies him. We see him as a perfect man. And the law shows us that he was a perfect man. It has all power to justify any person that obeys perfectly, but no power. To justify anyone who cannot obey perfectly. That's to say that the law cannot justify us because we we can't obey perfectly. So the law could not be our justification. Its weakness is through the flesh. That is, through our natural corruption. Through our natural corruption, the law is weak. They can't justify us, even though it's the law of God. If your hopes are in the works of the law, in other words, if your hopes is in the Ten Commandments and trying to keep the Ten Commandments, and this, by the way. For those of you who already love the Lord and believe on the Lord, this is uh very should be very helpful for talking to others about the law and the gospel and Christ, right? And drawing them to Christ Just talk to them about these things that Paul and the Holy Spirit present here in Romans. If so don't just think of yourself, although that's first. Your hope cannot be in your efforts. And we need to point out to others, their hope cannot be in their efforts. That is your morality. If your hope is in the works of Allah, in your efforts, in your morality, then your hope is in the covenant of works, and you are one who walks after the flesh. I believe that's really what Paul's talking about here when he says, who walk after the Spirit and not after the flesh, or who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. Walking after the flesh is hoping in yourself. Somehow that a sinner by trying to do right is going to be justified by our own works and our own efforts or our own morality is in vain. There's no way. So all the law does is condemn us. Being sinners. Your hope in that case is carnally In your own power, and not in Christ and His power. And God and His power to justify. So the person that's hoping that by their efforts and their own righteousness, like the Jews, they hoped in their own righteousness and therefore they did not submit themselves to the righteousness of Christ Their hope was in the covenant of works and not in Christ. And that's the problem. Moreover, your hope is in that covenant of works that cannot save a single sinner But can only condemn him. It's kind of a synonym to say covenant of works, uh speaking of the Ten Commandments, the law, you know, obey and live Which Paul quotes and so on. Yes, if we could obey perfectly from the very you know never have sinned, sure that the law could justify us, but we can't. We haven't. The law cannot be your righteousness nor your security. When it comes to judgment, the law is your enemy. The law is my enemy. It can only condemn us. But thanks be to God, there is one who can be your salvation. Christ is righteousness, security, and joy for believers. Christ needs to be your righteousness, your joy, your security. Christ fulfilled the two great demands of the law for us. As we see in verse 3. What the law was not able to do through the flesh, because it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin condemned sin in the flesh. In other words, in his body, in his own human nature, he judged sin and he nailed that your sin and my sin as believers to the cross, so we're free from the condemnation of death, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us. Paul specified here what the law could not do. It could not condemn sin in the flesh. That is, it had the law did not have a human body of its own to be able to die for us on the cross, to be able to fulfill its own demand. The law could not die for you in your place. It could not receive your condemnation. And it could not obey in your place in order to justify you. So in Psalm 40, The Messiah says, who is our Lord Jesus Christ, I come to do your will. In the volume of the book it is written of me. Jesus came to perfectly do God's will, to be our substitute both as our righteousness and to die on the cross for our sins, as we believe on Him. He has died there Because of my sin, for your sin, as a believer, and we are justified through what he has done, what God has done in Christ. The law could not do that. And it couldn't do either of those things. It couldn't obey in your place, it couldn't die in your place. And these are exactly the two things that Christ did. His active and his passive obedience. His active Obeying God in everything, and then suffering everything He had to suffer for our sin. His passive obedience. When you believe, when you trust in Christ. You are freed by the satisfaction of Christ, by what he did in all his work, his obedience from day one to the end of his death on the cross. He satisfied God's divine justice. The satisfaction which your Redeemer has provided to the law's demands. The law said you had to do these two things, the soul that Sinneth, it must die, he did it for us. So We are thus freed from the condemnation of the law of sin and death. So I believe what Paul here is is actually there's different theories on this verse, so this is kind of important. But uh I feel uh fairly comfortable with uh uh uh Charles Hodge and Robert Haldane agreeing with me on this point, or me agreeing with them really. But anyway, uh this is what I believe is fairly what actually Paul is saying here I'm sure of it. The true gospel takes us out of ourselves. To the hope which is found only in Christ. So our hope's not in ourselves and what we can do, right? Or the rest of our lives trying to be good. No, that's not our hope. We want to do good because we love God, because He first loved us and gave Christ to be our salvation. The true gospel takes us out of ourselves to the hope which is found only in Christ. And not to look to ourselves as cause nor reason for our justification. Christ is your justification. And as Paul says in 1 Corinthians, but of him that is of God are ye in Christ Jesus? who of God has made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. Christ is our all-in-all. He's everything to a believer. Because he's our righteousness and he's our salvation. We glory in him. And we love him, we love God because of him, because of giving him. Oh, that Christ may be your righteousness, your security, and your joy. To whom, then finally, or lastly, We're not quite to the end yet. To whom does this righteousness belong? And I believe Paul answers the question in the next part, the last part. And this security and this joy The apostle describes those. He describes those for whom Christ is their righteousness, security, and joy. These are they, if you're wondering, well, who is this for? These are they for whom Christ fulfilled the demands of the law. He says in verse 4, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us. Who's the us, right? In us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. The righteousness of the law. Our righteousness is Christ's righteousness. And it's fulfilled in us because we're united with Christ and we're justified because of Christ's righteousness through faith in him Faith is the instrument which connects us with Christ. He so he says, fulfilled in us. This is to say that we have the righteousness of the law fulfilled because we are one with Christ. Who fulfilled it perfectly. We are the body of Christ as believers. He is our head. We're connected with him. We are one body with him We are his people. And he, as our husband, as our father, our father, our savior, our Lord, our God, he's fulfilled that righteousness when he was on earth in his redeeming work. As Robert Haldane wrote, the end then of Christ's mission was that the right of the law might be fulfilled in his people. Excuse me. Might be pollen or something. He fulfilled it for us. And so the righteousness of the law is fulfilled in him. And that was his purpose in coming. And who are we? Paul describes the character of those who are in Christ, those who have been justified by his blood. He does not here describe the cause of their justification when he says that walk not after the flesh, but walk after the spirit. In other words, we're seeking to follow the Spirit because we're children of God, we're led by the Spirit, as he says earlier or later in the chapter. It's not the cause for those who have been justified by his blood. Their sanctification or their being made holy to walk after Christ, that we have a new heart, we have a new life, we're following Christ, we're serving him, we're seeking to keep the commandments and so on. It's not the cause of their justification, our sanctification, our being made more like Christ and becoming different people. That love God and serve God, but rather it's the result of their justification Because we're justified and freed from condemnation and we know God loves us and we're His children and we know we're going to heaven and we're secure in Christ and we're one with Christ, because of this We're loving him and serving him. We have a new heart. God's given us a new heart to believe and to repent and to keep repenting and to keep growing in Christ. So it's describing our character, their new character is Christians. They walk not after the flesh. You are no longer guided and dominated by your carnal corruption, neither in your thoughts nor in your actions. You no longer hope for any justification from the law because you know that's impossible. And Saul himself, Paul, before he was converted, is a good example of this. He's a good example of a carnal man. That was dominated by his carnal corruption. And what was he doing? He thought he was righteous. He thought by persecuting the church and handing them over to the priests to be uh in jail and so on, he thought he was serving God. And he had his hope in the flesh, in his own works, in his own righteousness. He was walking after the flesh. He would say he had a sense of morality, certainly, but he was lost. Because he didn't believe the gospel. He wasn't believing on Jesus Christ. He wasn't looking to him. Who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. Now, when we have a new heart and a new Christian life, we're now guided by the Spirit of Christ that lives in you. He's your guide. He's your Lord. He reminds you of the Word. He teaches you the Ten Commandments and what they mean through the larger catechism and as you think about them and as you read the Word And he leads and guides you in the way of God. And you can say with David, I delight in the law of God, because God has given you a new heart, like Jesus' heart. And the Holy Spirit lives in you and guides you through the sacred scriptures. As you read it, he shows you the marvelous things out of the law of God, out of the Word of God. And your righteousness is the righteousness of God, Jesus Christ. Your security is in Christ, and your joy is in your Lord and Savior. Paul, after his conversion, he was on the road to Damascus, right, ready to persecute more Christians. I kind of forget, because this is here, I forget that I can go anywhere and this still won't work. He Is uh uh our all in all, he's our uh excuse me, I got a little sidetracked there. Uh Paul After his conversion, you know, he was knocked off the the I think he was on horse or whatever, and he was blind for three days. And It's a radical change that we see in his life. He's a tremendous example. We have Jesus as our great example, but Paul is the great example of a sinner saved by grace. And we have his story in the Bible in Acts and in so many of his epistles, and we see a changed man, don't we? One that loves the Lord. That's secure in Christ, that's living for him, that's giving his all to serve him and glorify him. And whatever our sphere, whatever our tasks and callings That's a spiritual man, and that's what God is able to make you and I to be, servants of Him. that really love and live for him. So Paul's a good example of a spiritual man after his conversion. Because Christ died for you and has fulfilled all the law of God for you, you can be sure of your salvation. And content in fellowship with him every day. Have you ever read 1 John? That's the book of assurance. It begins by saying That your joy may be full. Why is he writing these things? That your joy may be full. And come to the fellowship that we have as the apostles. There were eyewitnesses of his glory, and we walked with him, and we were in fellowship with him. Truly, our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ. And now you come into that fellowship with God, who is light. And we're all in fellowship with God in Christ, and it's glorious. And he writes these things so that your joy will be full, and you can be content in fellow fellowship with God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, every day of this light, even through the trials and the troubles and the difficulties and the problems, and God changes death even for us? When we believe on him, even the decaying of his body and the ultimate death is a passing into his glorious presence and earth uh and eternal heaven and joy with our the fellowship of our Father. His bodies, you know, die But that's the way the Lord's ordained that even for his people we will enter glory But we already are sharing a lot of that beautiful fellowship spiritually with him as we meditate on his word, as we grow in Christ, as we walk with Christ in life. Christ could do what the law could not do. Look away from yourself To Christ, in order to rejoice in Him. Like we said, Christ is the secret of salvation. You've got to look away from yourself, as Virgin said. For every time you look at yourself, you should look at Christ fifth uh a thousand times. For every one time that you look at yourself, you see your sin. Gets us down. See our problems. Look to Christ. He's the answer for it all. Rejoice in him, your righteousness and your security. So to be always content, and here we are wrapping it up, to be always content, always keep your eyes on Christ. Realize that your salvation depends upon his work and not yours. He's the one keeping you. Our secret is to meditate on Christ and meditate on his law day and night, his word. You can't separate Christ from His law. When we read the law, we see Christ. Realize that your salvation depends upon his keeping you and not yourself. Depend on him. And how do we do that? By prayer. Praying, reading his word, meditating on him. Look away from yourself to Christ. Our righteousness, your righteousness as a believer, your security, and your joy. Is He your righteousness? You need to depend upon only His perfect righteousness, Christ's perfect righteousness, His obedience, His death on the cross for your sin. Rejoice in the Lord always. If you are demanding, when you are depending on Christ and Him alone, then you can be joyful, for there is no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. And as Paul says in this chapter, these glorious words, what shall we then say to these things? If Christ be for us, who can be against us? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we we do rejoice in thee this day Lord, we rejoice in your Son. We thank you for placing him before the eyes of our mind, before our hearts and souls this morning. For the privilege of meditating upon thy righteousness, thy perfect and glorious salvation, thy love. Thy giving of thy Holy Spirit and of a new heart to each of your children Thank you that you draw us with the eternal cords of loving kindness. And Lord, that You have sent forth your Holy Spirit and your law to convict us of sin, that we might through the drawing of your Spirit as well and your word, your calls. That we might flee to Christ, our Savior and our righteousness and our Redeemer. Lord, give to each believer more of this constant joy that we've been talking about, rejoicing in thee. As Nehemiah said, the joy of the Lord is your strength. Lord, may we not focus in on the circumstances, the waves and the wind. But may we be grace by your grace enabled more and more to focus on Christ, to keep Christ ahead of us, whether we're studying, whether we're Working in this, that, or other mundane task, Lord, to keep Christ before us, what all we're doing, that we serve you, our living Savior. And uh these few days we have left in life, Lord, that we're privileged to live as your sons and daughters because of the new heart you give. Lord, we uh pray that you would Quicken our love towards you and enable us to be godly missionaries wherever we are. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.