Well, I guess I should come to the point of what I want to share with you today. And the the title of my message, is it on here? Yeah, Christmas or Christmas. And actually, I was going to put it this way. There is Christmas and then there is Christmas. Now try to figure that out. What does that mean? There's Christmas and then there's Christmas. There's my good faithful wife. Esther for some water and I get this is pretty good service actually. Thank you very much, my dear. Much easier to talk that way. Yeah, so here's the point. There's Christmas and there's Christmas. So I'm talking really primarily about two Christmases. Now the way to illustrate it is this. What's this? Well, that's a hand, obviously, but I'm going to use this to represent a bowl of ice cream. And it's a bowl of vanilla ice cream. And when I put this hand up like this, this is also a bowl of ice cream. This is a bowl of chocolate ice cream. And you need to imagine that right here in the center of the pulpit, there's another bowl And I'm going to take these two bowls of ice cream and put it together in one bowl. And then we're going to pick up that bowl and get my spoon and stir it up. And so, no, what do you have? Heretofore we had the white of the vanilla, we had the dark brown of the chocolate, you put it together and you have like a like a tan color. It all merged together These two different colors coming together, merging and making one. And What we're going to find with two Christmases, two celebrations of Christmas. We have the Christmas that we see in God's Word, but we also have the Christmas that the world presents and when you merge them together you get a synthetic experience and that's what I want to share with you today. What are the elements? Let's talk for a moment about the elements of Christmas. So what do you think about when we when we say Christmas? You think of Mary and Joseph? As Christians, we think of Mary and Joseph, we think of Bethlehem, we think of the Christ child, we think of the star and the angel, and all these things come together as we're talking about uh the the Christmas season and the Christmas story from the from the perspective of the church. And then there's also the language of Christmas And when I say the language of Christmas, I mean the very word Christmas. You know, it's it's Christ Mass. I think we understand this. Of course, Christ, about the Lord Jesus Christ, but then you have the word mass. And actually that word mass is actually M-A-S-S. It's in the English here it's NAS CRISP Mass but it really stands for mass NASS and what is mass but mass is actually um It is the execution of an innocent victim. It is a literal word of mass It's an execution of an innocent victim. That's the theological definition of Mass. So then when you're talking about Christmas or Christ's Mass, you're talking about The execution of an innocent victim, in this case, it's Jesus Christ. So now we're talking about the literal term. Literally. When I say Christmas, that's what I'm talking about. The execution of an innocent person, and in this particular case, it's Jesus. It's Christ's Mass. Christ's being innocent yet executed is the literal rendition of the word Christmas. And that's what I mean by the language of Christmas. Now, another phrase: Merry Christmas! So now what does Mary mean? Mary means jubilant. It means happy. It means celebrate. Merry. But now you put these two terms together. Merry Christmas. And really what you're saying, happy or celebrate the death of an innocent victim. In this particular case, it's the Lord Jesus Christ. Now again we're taking literal, we're talking extremely literal, but that's what you're saying. When you say Merry Christmas, now I know you don't mean anything by it, harshly or nasty But literally, that's what the phrase is. It is saying, happy celebration of the execution of Jesus is what that literally means. Now there is, and and therefore you know it comes it becomes literally it becomes a kind of mocking. You're mocking the Lord. When you say things like this, literally. Again, I know when when you write your Christmas cards, Merry Christmas, and you say Merry Christmas one to another, you know what means. This harsh reality of what I'm sharing. But I'm at just attempting to educate you that literally using English language and carrying out literally those words, Merry Christmas. We're saying, ha ha, let's celebrate the innocent victims of the Lord Jesus being pers being executed. I'd like you to look in your Bible for a moment to Mark. Because here there's a statement here in Mark about the mocking of the Lord Jesus Christ. So would you look in your Bible to Mark chapter 15? So Mark in chapter 15. And I'm looking here in verse 29, if you'd like to follow along. Mark 15, 29. And there it says, and they passed by, excuse me, and they that passed by railed on him, that's the Lord Jesus, wagging their heads. And saying, Ah, thou that destroyest the temple and buildest it in three days, save yourself. Come down from that cross. Likewise also the chief priests mocking. There's that keyword, mocking. And that's what the phrase Merry Christmas is. It's the mock of the Lord Jesus Christ Likewise also the chief priests mocking among themselves with the scribes, he saved others. Himself he cannot save. Let Christ, the King of Israel, descend now from the cross, that we may see and believe. And they that were crucified with him reviled him. Can you imagine? So here is the Lord Jesus on the cross, innocently, again, it's a mass, he's innocently executed. And all around him are those mocking him. Not only, I think we're all familiar, how that the Roman guards mock him. But even the people, the two men on the side of him, crucified with him, they were mocking the Lord Jesus at the same time. Now, when is the last time you were mocked? Have you been marked? Maybe you gave a track out to somebody, you know, and they sort of react. Um as I just said that I re I remember years ago, is it was that um University of Miami. And um we were there witnessing on the campus. And so I was at a Table and it was some college students there and I sat down and started to talk with him, had to coke with him, and I pulled out a track and shared the Lord with them And one of the guys, oh, and he stands up and in the place is four colleagues, hey everybody, we got a religious fanatic here. He ain't gonna tell me how to go to heaven I sort of I just sort of wanted to disappear like this, you know, but um and I'm sure you've had something like this. We people will react sometimes that you want to share the Lord Jesus Christ with them. And so that's something You know, you get mocked, you don't want the like bits, but I'm thinking this. If my savior was mocked like he was, who am I not to be mocked? And it's certainly not going to be as severe as what he had. So any mocking that I may receive is just tiny, it's inconsequential. And I simply say that because as you are faithfully witnessing for Christ from time to time you will get a reaction from people, which may not be favorable. Don't let it discourage you. Let it actually reinvigorate you. And I'm thinking it's just something my wife did read back just yesterday. She said to me Where where did I go? I w I went to the store. I came back and we're talking she said, Did di did you give that did you give any tracks out at the store? I said, well, not really. He said, well why why you know why? What do you say? You know why I didn't give him out? Because I really didn't ha really feel like going through the whole exercise of explaining the gospel quite honestly and then answering questions and then and then who knows what can erupt. And I just really didn't feel like going through all this. But she was exactly right. We as Christians have to be bold and even give up our comfort to get the word of God out, whether we're passing out tracts or witnessing to him spontaneously or whatever, and not be afraid of being mocked. You will be mocked from time to time. That's part of the territory. And um, you know, it's just something we have to learn to live with. Moving on though, is we're analyzing, I just want to give you some thoughts about Christmas, about two Christmases. There's one Christmas and there's another kind of Christmas I want to talk to you today for just a few moments now about the elements of American Christian, American Christmas. What are the elements of an American Christmas? Well, I don't know what you think about, but when I hear of Christmas Apart from the biblical information I gave you, what else do we see? What do we think about Christmas? Well, the first thing you see is Santa Claus, isn't it? Santa Claus. And as a kid you were raised, you you know you there's Santa Claus, you sit on his lap, you you tell him, you know, what you want for Christmas. But one of the elements of our s of our secular culture is that of Santa Claus. Now think for a moment about Santa Claus. Well, you I'm sure you noticed he wears a red uniform. He's always in red, isn't he? Bright red? White beard and in this bright red outfit. And you think, no, why why would that be red? You think it might be green for the evergreens, you know we're talking about the Christmas tree, the evergreen, you may be wearing a green outfit Maybe white because snow and that sort of goes along. But no, it's red. Why is that red? Could that also be part of the mocking of the Lord Jesus concerning the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ? that when he was on Calvary shedding his blood for you and me, and part of all this symbolism is this red in front of us. And a mocking way of possibly of uh possibly mocking of our Lord Jesus Christ So what do we do with Santa Claus? We have our children go up and talk to this man in the red suit. But when you think about it, what does Santa Claus really do? He just makes false promises. What what would you like what would you like to have for Christmas? As if he's going to bring it, as if he really even cares. But our you but we will have our precious children go and sit on his lap and let Santa actually tell lies to them. Well I'm from the North Pole and I came on my sled led by reindeer And on Christmas Eve, I'm gonna come up on you my reindeer is gonna land on your roof, I'm gonna come down in the chimney, and I'm gonna give you presents. Now we know a lot of that is from the Christmas carol, that you know, as we put all these things together. But the whole point I'm trying to make is during this time of Christmas we have The worldly view of Christmas that I just presented to you, and you have the biblical account of what we refer to as Christmas, as the birth of Christ, but even in the phraseology, it is somewhat questionable. At Christmas, some of the trappings of Christmas, for example, is the Christmas tree. Now, what I'm going to read to you now is probably something some of you have done. I've certainly done it numerous times myself I want to read to you a portion of scripture, and you could turn to it if you'd like to, found in Jeremiah chapter 10. Now did you know that the the the Christmas tree Is in the Bible. It's not original with America. It's in the Bible. The Christmas tree is described in the Bible. It's in Jeremiah chapter 10. And I would I was going to read to you verses 1 to 4 in Jeremiah chapter 10, but I'll just start in verse 3 and 4 and get right to the point. Jeremiah chapter 10, verse 3. For the custom of the people are vain. For one cutteth a tree out of the forest. The work of the hands of the workmen with the axe. They deck it with silver and with gold. Is that not the Christmas tree? They fasten it with nails and with hammers that it move not. How many of you have got your Christmas tree? And you get it, you drag you get this tree, it's in the woods, you drag it into your house and prop it up. Well, the same thing you have an account of this right here in the Bible. We're imitating the very same thing. And now I didn't read this to you, if you go back to verse 2 The Lord says, what, in verse 2, thus saith the Lord, learn not the way of the heathen. Then he goes on to describe what we call the Christmas tree. Now there's a different reason why he's saying no not the way of the heathen, but yet it is that he's describing something that we do in our in our traditional Christmas. Another part of our traditional Christmas that we often talk about is the star, the star of Bethlehem. And what do we as Christians look at that star, and we we see it recognize in Scripture, and we understand that to be recognizing the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ, the location of his birth Now, pagans do the same thing. The unbeliever uses the star also, but they use it for astrology. And all of these stories then they all come together in Christmas. You have the biblical account of the birth of Jesus. You then have the secular view of Christmas and gifts all coming together and four for just one what I will call American Christian, which It has biblical principle, but it also has pagan principle all mixed up together. And that's simply what I want to share with you. You have all of this coming together. So as you realize this, and and you know I'm thinking, even as a child growing up, I would often ask my father, during Christmas season, you know, he's we're getting the tree and putting the train around the tree. And and I and I I asked my dad, you know Dad, what what does this have to do with Christ? What does this have to do with the birth of Christ? You have to know my father. He is very it could be very funny. He was just saying, well, you know, it's just Farner Christ. He really couldn't explain it. It's just Father Chris is what you do Yeah, but I don't see any connection here. Oh, yeah, yeah. Have a nice time, you'll enjoy it. He goes on this way. But As we look at the connection of the world and of biblical principle and biblical fact coming together on this American celebration of Christmas Historically, Christians have taken two positions on this. First, there are those who say, well, since much of Christian is part of pagan culture, Therefore, we should have nothing to do with celebrating Christmas. And as I'm saying that, I'm thinking of the family who live right across the street from us as we're growing up there in suburban Philadelphia area. And on cr now see, Christmas morning, we the Britons family, we celebrated Christmas, so you know I you keep keep running down the steps, put saying to get me. You know sometimes you have like a big shiny bike or a new football or something. We'd have something and then of course we go out and play. play with our toys and the kids from the neighborhood would come up and you know we're sharing all this. But the family lived right across And that view is that these things are yes. But the other view of Christmas is that literally the literal trappings of Christmas We do not agree with, we do not participate. But it's what the symbols represent is what we celebrate and what we remember. It's the symbolism of it that's important, not the actual historical events, but what these things symbolize. And you have this principle given to us, well, like a parable, for example. The parables that Jesus gave. Think about the parable of the sower. The sower sows the seed. Jesus is not trying to teach us how to how to plant seeds and and have Vegetation grow, but there's a principle behind it, and he's talking about the kingdom of God, how the word of God will grow. Although he uses an illustration, and that is a parable using this But again he's not teaching how to how to grow things, he's teaching more using that as an example about the kingdom of God. And that's what Christmas is about. There are things in it, for the Christian, it simply exemplifies Christian principles. and Christian ideals. For example, if you look in your Bible to Romans chapter 14, let's look at this for a moment. Looking here in Romans chapter 14 And if you look together with us in in in Romans chapter fourteen and looking in verse five Here's the best way. How how do you deal with Christmas? Because there's probably some churches in the area that would probably look down upon celebrating Christmas. There are other tree uh uh christ churches what they do celebrate christmas. So how do we solve this thing? Because and and you know both people have an argument. There is a lot of paganism in our in our folklore of Christmas But there's also a great story, a historical account of the birth of the Son of God. How do we handle this? Romans chapter 14, I think, says it most succinctly. Looking in verse 5, Romans 14:5 tells us: one man esteems one day above another. Another esteems every day alike. Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind. And there's the principle right there. The biblical in the in the and the Bible cuts through all of this. If you want to celebrate even Even the the Christmas that the world would present us, and you're into all that, and that's between you and God. If that's what you do, that's what you do. On the other hand, if you say no, I'm pulling back, I'm having nothing to do with any of it. That's up to you. Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind how we deal with these things which are, shall we say, somewhat controversial, somewhat different. So we have to understand as we're looking at Christmas as Christians, there is that which is literal, and there's that which is figurative. And probably for most of us we're more involved in the figurative or the symbolical aspect of Christmas than as to the actual literal part of we see in our Christian celebration of Christmas. To make again to try to make this clear, separating the literal from the figurative, I want to give you a little story, shall we say. And we will have this story, I will place the story right here in this church. So it's Sunday morning and you're all coming together to worship the Lord, greeting one another and all this, and so you're having a nice gathering there. But then about Five minutes after eleven, a you know a strange car drives up and a man gets out of it and walks into the church building here And let's say uh Bob's back there and he greets them and gives him gives him the track or gives him a bulletin. Now, but we notice something The man is like has about three days beard growth. He's not well groomed. In fact, he has a little bit of body odor. uh very difficult, you know, t to deal with on a Sunday morning. But he comes in and and Bob gives him the bulletin and He comes in and he sits down. He sits in the back because he don't want to be, you know, he's in a strange place. He doesn't know what to do, so he sits there in the back. And in the process of time, Tim gets up and he's going to give the message. And he says, Now I want you to open up your Bibles to John chapter 3. So you're all opening your Bibles to John chapter 3. But the man in the back, this stranger, he doesn't get out of Bible. But what he does too, he takes out a deck of cards. And he's thrumming through these cards As Tim is reading here from from uh John chapter three and and and notice this the guy in the back has these cards and you shelf on cards. And obviously you can't help but to think this is really weird, but okay, be that as it may. And so you go through with the with the worship service and he's back there jiggling the cards the whole time. When the service is over. Everybody gets up, you know, you do what you do, and maybe you're going to go down and have one of your wonderful meals that you do, or you go home. But the last person to leave is this stranger. And and uh Bob is out back there waiting for him to just talk with him or whatever, and ask him, you know, why you why are you playing cards in church? So the man comes out And Bob stops him and they say, hey, it's nice to have you here. Thanks for being. But you know I'm wondering, I'm curious why, you know, you as the pastor was saying, get your Bible out and preaching, you're there dilly-dowling with cards. What's that all about? And then the man explains. He said, Well, you said I've had some bad luck in my life. My wife recently left me. Uh I lost my job. I'm living in the back of my in my in my car. I have very little money. I really don't know what I'm gonna do. But I knew that there was a church service. I knew this church existed here. And so I thought I would come and worship God. Yeah, but but but what about the cars? Why why didn't you have a Bible? Well, I don't have a Bible. I've I've lost so many of my things I don't even have a Bible. But I but what I did have was a stack of cards. So I thought I'd bring it in and And and and I use the cards in this way. So when I come to the the two, the number two in the cards, that reminds me of Adam and Eve. And I think about God and his creation. And he created a man and a woman and put them in a garden of absolute perfection. And I'm wondering what a wonderful God this is that he would put something together like this. And so I I give God praise. And then when I come to the three, I think of the Trinity: God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. And again, I give God praise. How could God reveal Himself in three ways simultaneously? And yet He does. God the Father in heaven. God the Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, who went to the cross for us. God the Holy Spirit that lives in us. This is amazing. What kind of a powerful God do we worship? And then I turn to the four, to the card with a four on it. And that reminds me of the four The four Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. And that shows me that God uses even Average people. He uses uneducated people. And also he uses the aristocrat. And we know, for example, Luke Luke was an exception to the four gospels. He was an educated person. He was a doctor. And there's many ways we know this, but one is this. In Luke's gospel, it is written in classical Greek, and that's an educated person, but the other three Gospels, Matthew, Mark, and John, are written in Koine Greek, which is like a very low great kind of communication. And you can see quite a difference right there. But again, I'm getting God praise that he uses all kind of people to put forth his inspired, infallible word. When I come to the five, I think of the Pentateuch, the first five books of the Bible, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy. And here lay in the format. for the nation of Israel and indirectly laying the format for the birth of Jesus Christ and the establishment of his church. And again it causes me just to Try to have an understanding of the grandeur of God. And it causes me again to worship Him and to praise Him. But then I come to the six. And when I see the six, I think of the six days creation. How could it be that God could speak this universe into existence? In six twenty-four hour periods. How could this possi and you know we're learning that even with our telescopes The more powerful they become, and we aim them out into space, you know what? There's more and more space. There's no end to this And it's just hard to imagine. Get your mind To get your mind around this, that space, as far as we know, it doesn't end. But what is that? That is evidence of our grand creator. Who put all of this together and you think it's the perfect balance that there must be for the earth to exist as it does When you see the the angle of the sun and the distance of the sun and the moon and the the the the the balance that has to be there for for the earth to exist, for us to exist on the earth, having winter, having the four seasons, and year after year, decade after decade, century after century. Just keeps going on. and on. And so creation speaks of God. How did how did we get here? Creation says to the universe, there is a God. You are create. That's what it tells you. And actually, Romans tells us this: even the heathen in the jungle who never So a Bible or heard the name of Christ knows there's a God because of creation. Creation tells man that there's something out there more powerful than him. And I begin to think about, and in six days God put this together. And then I think of when I turn, when I when I have the card with seven on there. I think of the Sabbath, the seventh day, and the seventh day rest that God gave to his people. Six days you should work, and the seventh day you should rest. What a blessing that was to the people of Israel. And now we now also with the New Testament, because the Lord Jesus Christ resurrected on Sunday, the first day of the week. Those principles of the Lord's Day were moved over to the first day of the week, recognizing the resurrection of Christ. And that's why we have a Sunday worship. That's why the church worships on a Sunday, because our Lord resurrected on the first day of the week. And so here we are, Sunday, and here we're gathered together, and every Sunday we come together And what a beautiful thing this is, that you reserve your Sundays, and here's just a little thing on its own here, which I learned years ago Make this an uncompromising principle in your life to keep the Sabbath day. Keep it for worship and for rest. In our culture we work ourselves to death. And you know, if I can get an extra couple hours, then on Sunday I'll get that and make some more money and keep on. But you know, in the long run you're wearing yourself out And in the long run you shorten your life and you cause a lot of creations. If you make this a promise to yourself, or actually to God That the Sabbath day, the Christian Sabbath, Sunday, no secular work, and I use the day for worship. Now you know what that does too That this makes your Sundays a tremendous experience. Now you look forward to it. You come to church, but then you may you're not going to go to work, so then you can maybe have time to go visit with another Christian family or time just to be home, not rushed around, enjoying the Sabbath day And that's what happens when I see the Sabbath, the number seven, I think of the Sabbath, the Lord's Sabbath. And then when I come to the number eight, I think of the New Testament writers who know that The whole New Testament was written by eight people, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, James, Jude, and Peter and Paul. Those men wrote the whole New Testament from Matthew to Revelation. And again, how could God why would God select eight people to give us his revelation? And that's exactly what he did, as we already pointed out, eight common people to give forth the holy word of God. And then when I come to the number nine, I think of the the the blessings of the spirit. Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, meekness, mildness, against such there is no law. The blessings of the Christian life And again I give God praise for the peace and tranquility that He gives me. And then of course you come to Ten and you think of the Ten Commandments. And here any culture built upon the Ten Commandments will prevail. The problem is they're not built upon it, but America is. America is built upon the Ten Commandments. And look at the blessings we have had over the years. Now we're probably going to be going into some kind of a crisis possibly. But that's okay. Keep your faith in the Lord. Keep witnessing for Jesus. Keep sharing God's word. And He'll he He will guide us through all of this. Well that's what this man explained to Bob and why he was dealing with these cards. And so You know, you had better understanding. But you see what the problem is this. As this man is shuffling through his cards and has all these he's learning and worshiping God in a deep and mighty way, as someone looks at him. Well, oh he's playing cards in church and we wrongly judge him because one is symbolism and one is literalism. And we're finding out here that uh What's in the heart of a person? That man going through the cards, his heart was right before God and worshiping. But if you look at him from the exterior, it looks like, oh, he's you know, he's he's doing his own thing. And so I will conclude by how I began. There's Christmas and there's Christmas. There is a secular Worldly Christmas of all kind of activities and gifts and going through things like such as this, but then there is the spiritual Christmas, where we understand it's about the birth of Jesus Christ. It's about his word and about really in the long term getting the gospel out to those who are in need. The last thing I want to conclude with is the gospel itself. Every time we preach, we try to preach the gospel. But what is the gospel? Well, in a general sense, the gospel is the Bible Generally, this is the gospel. But actually, as we begin to examine that word, and it's the word Euangileon, is the word gospel. It means the good news of the Lord, but in particular the bi the gospel strictly is defined. I'm sure I said this here before because I say it everywhere I go. Because it's the heart and soul of the message. The gospel is what? 1 Corinthians, remember this, write this down and don't forget this. 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verses 1 to 4, has the gospel. And the gospel is the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. If I'm going to preach to you, or if I'm going to preach the gospel, I must share something about the death, the burial, and the resurrection of Christ Or else I'm just giving out stories. And you know, I'm a storyteller. I don't want to be a storyteller. I want to be a preacher of the gospel. To put forth the word of God. Now, what's an application? What is the application of the gospel? Believe it. Repent and believe. Repentance coming from Metaneo, meaning to change your mind. If I am an atheist and I don't believe in God, and I come and I hear the gospel presented, my mind has to change I have to change from the fact that there is no God to the fact that there is a God and that Jesus Christ is his son and I need to receive him into my life and be saved and be born again That's repentance. That is faith. And that's what the gospel is. The gospel that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, dies for your sin, for my sin. He's buried into the ground, showing to us proof. Proving to us beyond any doubt that he was the Son of God, He resurrects, proving again He is the Son of God, and offers the gift of eternal life to any miserable wretch. Who will repent and believe on him? You know, every time we come here, we enjoy ourselves. We look forward to coming here. It's I think it's It's like sixty-two miles. But you know what? It goes like that because we're in we anticipate being with you and we enjoy we just enjoy it. We love it and it's no problem at all It's a bl you you people have been a real blessing to Vicky and I. Believe me, we we actually get charged coming here to be with you. And uh we want to thank the Lord for this. But you know what? I don't know you personally. We're getting to know you a little bit better. But there could be someone here today who's not saved. I don't know, and I'm not juggling, but I'm just throwing things out. Have you received Christ into your life? I was thinking as I was driving here, I have a one example I want to give you this, that we had a man in our church who was you know a member of our church and participated. And um I went out to pay him a visit, like I always do with new people come. But he'd been in our church for quite a while. Never never got to his house for whatever reason, but eventually after A couple of months actually. I'm embarrassed to say that, but eventually got out there to give him uh you know, to visit him and his wife And I said, you know, we're so happy that you're coming to the church. And you know, as I as your pastor, if there's anything I can do for you, please call on me, I'd be happy to do whatever I could do. But tell me something, when did you get saved? And he said, well, and I expected to say, well, I was saved as a child fifty years ago, you know, and I was living in upper derby or something. He said, uh, I got saved about two weeks ago. I said, what? I got saved too. When? Remember you gave the invitation? That's when I got saved. That's my wife was always saved. I take her to church. I took the kids to church. But I was never saved. I wanted them to go. But I never thought it. But you know what? The Lord came you know, we came to church two weeks ago and the Lord spoke to me and that's when I got saved. Oh my word. But that taught me something Never take it for granted. Although I'm talking to people who are Christian, at least you come to church and you're pleasant and you're Lovely people to be with. Are you born again? Have you had a born again experience? Have you trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ? Last thing I want to do, I know I probably should just see you. I I you know I speak in different churches, so I don't know what I said, where I said, 'cause I yep I'm losing my mind a little bit, so I don't know where I've been at the time. My wife says, Don, you're forgetting this, you're forgetting that. But I haven't forgot this. This is something I haven't forgot. This is you. Or all of you, this is me. This is my sin. The Bible says, Don Britton, you are a rotten, dirty sinner, and you're going to hell. You deserve hell, and that's where you're going to go, because you have all this sin. But here, let this hand represent the Lord Jesus Christ who never committed any sin, lived a perfect life, and he came with a purpose to redeem his elect. And for whatever reason, I have no idea. Why I was in Gazaq, but that's what he did. He came and took my sins on all my sins. I'll tell you they are gross sins. When you look at me, you're looking at a rotten, dirty sinner that has earned hell, deserves hell, and I should be in hell. I should go to hell. But you know what? Because of the Lord Jesus in his power, in his grace, and his mercy, took my miserable sins on himself when he was on that cross. That we call Christmas? No, when he was on the cross of Calvary. When I believe in Christ, when I receive Him, I appear before the Lord as if I had no sin. I appear before Holy God as if I never committed a sin. And based on that, I go to heaven. But wait a minute, I did sin. Where's my sin? It's on Christ, who took it and made a complete payment for my sin before a holy God that miserable Don Britton can go to heaven. And that's true for every one of you if you've trusted in Christ. But if you haven't trusted in Christ, it doesn't matter how good you are, how moral, how ethical. See people think that. If I'm good enough, if I'm ethical, surely God's going to take me. That's not the question. You have to we have to be found without sin. And the only way you're gonna be because you're all rotten sinners, I know that. We're all all of us are. Put your sin on the Lord Jesus Christ. How? By believing in Him, receiving Him. For as many as received Him to them gave He the power to become the sons of God, even to them which believe on His name. John 1 12. As many, whoever that is. John 3. 16, for God so loved the world he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Have you done that? I'm going to close in a prayer. If not, do it just between you and God. You have to stand up and make a big public declaration. If you want to, you can, but it's between you and God. Talk to him about it now as we close in a final prayer. Our Father, we want to say thank you for bringing this church together today. Thank you for having your hand on this church. Like every church, it goes through ups and downs, it goes through difficulties, it goes through great successes. But you have faithful people here to guide it, to steer it, to be faithful to it. And we just rejoice over this. We pray for the church leaders. We pray for the church board and those that have to make hard decisions, give them wisdom, give them guidance, give them encouragement to keep the church on track. To keep us following you because we know, because we're comprised of sinners. We'll steer off to that way or steer off to this way. Keep us on the straight and narrow, O Lord. Our Father, we know even right here, if there's someone who needs the Lord Jesus Christ, we would pray right now that the Spirit of God would touch their heart and say, yes, you need to surrender your heart to me. And worshipper, why don't you do that right now? In just this moment, I'm going to be quiet for 30 seconds. Say it. Talk to God about your condition. And if you have any doubt, ask the Lord to forgive you. Confess you're a sinner and say, Lord, I want you to save me from my sins. Receive me, please. Our Father, again, we want to say thank you for letting us be here today. We pray that you'll guide our fellowship as we gather Um in in in meal time. And and enrich our fellowship that we may be able to build up and encourage one another so that when we depart from this building We are encouraged. We are enthused. We are energized to live for you. And then we pray next Sunday, bring us back together. Eager to worship you and to bring us back together. May we bring someone with us, Lord. May we have a compassion on some poor person or a neighbor or a relative and drag them along into church with us That they might hear the story, the gospel of the Lord Jesus, and get saved, be born again, and have a home in heaven. We pray all this through Christ our Lord. Amen.