Good morning everyone. It's good to be with you again. We always look forward to coming here. And um so here we are, and so we're we're having fun here. A couple quick things. Um, I was gonna I was going to preach today on I I entitled it Regardless of the Election. And then what to do regardless of who wins the election. And there's about ten little points there. Like regardless of the election, if the wrong guy gets an office, what should we do? uh regardless of the election um and goes on that way. So I thought, I wonder if I should give that today. No, I'm gonna get back into scripture because that's really what we're about, the scripture. But for now think, well maybe I should have bought it, but the Lord knows. So that's you know. But yeah, we do need to be in prayer for our country, no doubt, because it it really depends. What what's the Lord gonna do for America what's he gonna do to America or for America? I don't know. Um Doesn't really look real good at this moment. Um but we'll see. Of course many things too. When we go through difficult times, that keeps us on our knees where it should be. You know, a lot of times if we have prosperity and affluence. We tend to get arrogant, lazy, worldly. So but the Lord knows what's going on. Trust in him. Be a good citizen. Vote as you should Live the Christian life, witness, get the word of God out, and everything else will take care of itself. Now, I also ha I did you may find in some of your bulletins here, I have a little thing I wrote. The sermon I'm going to give today is right here, actually in written form. And uh see when you put these messages together, you really can't bring in all the sc scriptures that are involved because we've been here for a couple hours. So for example, in writing this message here, it's comprised of about twenty-five twenty-five cross references. So obviously we couldn't turn to every one of them here today, so that's why I wrote this, give you a little little um Research something, something to look into there. Okay, so we're now going to be looking here into Romans chapter 1, and I want to look here into verses 12 and 13 as we go through Romans one verse by verse. So I'd like to do that. Now and I noticed in one of the prayers though it was really very good about About if someone doesn't know the Lord Jesus Christ, today may be the day that God in His mercy may save you. It may open up your eyes, your understanding, and receive and uh understand the gospel. And so yes, I want the Lord Jesus Christ as my Savior. Someone described the gospel to me this way, and sometimes it can make it very clear. If I let this hand represent me, Don Britton? If I let this hand re the the my wallet here, my empty wallet, if I let that represent my sins, all all of the sins that I had committed. And believe me, it would be like me putting This pulpit on my hand, it's recognized all my sins and there's a lot of them. But the Bible says God the Father loves me de rot me, but I'm the sinner. I cannot go to heaven, although God loves me, I can't go to heaven because I have this sin. And I can't get rid of the sin. What can I do to get rid of the sin? Maybe even if I stop sinning today for the rest of my life, I still have my past sin. Well and for me to go to heaven I have to be like this. But it's too late. I've sinned. What in the world can we do? Well, obviously the Bible tells us that God, our Creator, has a wonderful love for his creation. And God solved this problem in the most amazing way by sending his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, into this world to pay for our sins. If I let this hand represent the Lord Jesus Christ, notice there's no sin in him because he lived a perfect life So when Jesus was on the cross, what was he doing? Many things, but one was this. He was taking our sins on himself. You see that? He goes like this. He's taking our sins and he's bearing the penalty of my sin while he's on the cross. So that I now have how many sins to answer for? None. Therefore I am now able to enter heaven. I'm qualified to enter into the heaven, not because I've been good, but because Jesus took my sins and now I'm eligible and and will go to heaven. Not because of what I done, but because of what Jesus has done for me. And this transaction occurs when we trust in Christ, when we believe in him. When we however you want to say it, believe in Christ, trust in Christ, believe in him, give him your heart. There's so many different terms But when you come to Christ, when you receive him as your Savior and your Lord, this is what happens. Now when I die, whether it be today or many years from now, I know I'm going to go to heaven. And I have that nice confidence And that's basically the heart and soul of the gospel. What's the gospel? Ewangeleon is the word for gospel, and it means the good news, and that's basically the heart and soul of the crux of the gospel message, what I just shared with you right now. All these other things is a lot of lot of um interesting truth to emphasize the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And then also something that was said earlier, I just want to comment on quickly. Um I'm coming here today with a lot of opinions for whatever reason, but um yeah, the Bible As I understand it, is primarily a Jewish document. This is all Jewish, you know, and here we are. I believe most of us are Gentiles, but this is really, this belongs to the Jew. The Old Testament, Old Jewish, and New Testament, many of the people there were were Jewish. But because the Jews did not receive Christ, Generally speaking, what happened? God in his mercy took the gospel to the Gentile. And generally speaking, the Gentile received the gospel. And that's how we hooked into this Jewish book. The gospel went to the Gentile, and the Gentiles, I say not all Gentiles obviously, but generally speaking received the gospel, and so that's how we hook into all this. So as you read the Bible, you may find things that are somewhat difficult to follow and to understand, and that's because of several reasons. First, it's 2,000 years ago, it's a culture on the other side of the world, and it's a Jewish culture. And we who are Gentiles are far into a lot of Jewish concepts, and so it may be difficult to work through, of course, praise God. When we are saved, we are given the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit is our true teacher, and he will guide us as we read scripture to understand it and to apply it to our life. Okay, having said all that, what kind of scripture are we going to look at today to apply to our life? Let's go here to to uh Romans chapter 1 And even as this morning I'm I was going over these notes and I'm thinking three or four ways I could give this message to you and I'm really not sure how to give it to you. So I wrote down a couple notes I hope they'll be helpful to you. We have about fifty-four words we're going to be looking into today, and I have about five or six points from this fifty-four words. Whether we go through them all or not, hopefully that that depends upon the Lord and how he would guide us today. We're going to focus on verse number twelve. And so if you look there, Romans chapter 1 and verse 12, that is, that I may be comforted together with you by the mutual faith of both you and me. Now, I would not have you ignorant brethren that oftentimes I purposed to come unto you, but was let hitherto That I might have some fruit among you also, even as among other Gentiles. Our Father, we ask now that as we look into your holy word, that we may recognize what a wonderful privilege this is. First of all, We were able to arrive here today having been saved by the shed blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. And we thank you, O Lord, for sending your Son for us. For including us in that great work of redemption. I'm sure every one of us would admit that we're not worthy of it. I at least I would admit that I'm certainly not worthy to be saved, and yet you saw. Looked at me through the eyes of mercy and grace and saved me. And all of these wonderful folk here. And we just want to say thank you, O Lord. It would not be unreasonable if we were to spend the rest of this time just giving you thanks, praising you. For the grace and mercy that we have found in your heart, or your in your eyes, for our for our sinful hearts. We want to say thank you for this. I ask now, Lord, that you may guide us as we look into your word. We pray that the Holy Spirit will be our true teacher. And Father, I have a couple notes here. If they are accurate, we pray that we can communicate them. clearly and accurately to the blessing of the congregation. If there's something in here which is not pleasing, reveal that to us that will not touch it. But we want to have all of your truth that is here. Um and then let me think of um Jean Jeanette, uh that young lady who is going through the difficult time with her jaw. And father, how could this is hard to even conceptualize? And we again want to lift her up to you and ask for miraculous healing in her life. We do believe that you will heal and can heal, and you do heal according to your divine holy will. And we pray that may be in play for her, O Lord. That's what we would ask. We pray for her husband that um You will encourage him, guide him, we pray for for Tietken and the family So encourage then we lift them up to you and we also want to say thank you that we are able to walk into this room To sit in a chair, to sit up. We want to say thank you that we can see, hear, feel, think. We have our Bibles in our hands. We have been blessed so much by you, Father. Thank you so much. Now guide us as we would simply look into your word, we ask through Christ our Lord. Amen. In this passage here, uh the approximately fifty-four words that we'd like to look into today, Romans chapter 1 and looking here in verses number 12 and 13. And when I study it, I just read to the text I try to memorize a text and and just simply look at the words that stand out to me. What you know what would I teach if I'm what would I bring out if I'm attempting to share the word, which really is what I'm doing here today. So the first thing comes to my mind In verse 12 is the word comforted. See, you notice here, that is that I may be comforted. Stop right there. Paul is speaking about himself and he wants to be comforted. Well now that tells me that if he wants to be comforted As he's writing this, it implies that he's not comforted, that he may be have some degree of agitation, something's bothering him, and it's his desire to receive some degree of comfort. And actually as we go through other portions of the book of Romans, I think this is borne out by the context that Paul is somewhat uh I use the word agitated, concerned. And we're going to find some of the reason for that concern here in our text today. But he has this little bit of disturbance, and I I would say it because of the fact that he wants to be he wants to be comforted. But you also see some strange phrases in this text. For example, if you go back to verse 10, which we looked at earlier, verse 10 mentions making request if by any means now at length. That's a strange structure there. And it just it's not running smooth. If you go down to verse 13, which we will cover, in the middle of verse 13 you see the phrase, but was let hitherto. And again, these are constructions which are strange and that sort of indicate that there's some kind of agitation taking place as he's writing this text by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit And so it is it is his desire that he wants to be comforted because again he's bothered by something. Now, we're going to find this The reason that Paul is bothered and he needs to be comforted indicates something to us about him. And that is he was an apostle who cared about the people to whom he was ministering. And it is the word care that I would that I believe this this wanting to be comforted tells me that he cares about something. And really we're going to see in the text he's concerned about the church of Rome And because of this concern, he needs to be comforted because it's bothersome to him. And he's a man of great caring. This is also validated through many other parts of the Bible that Paul was a man who genuinely cared. For example, you know, it made me think as I'm going through this. How much do I care? Because you know, today we had you could have like I guess you what you might want to call professional Christians. I go to church every Sunday and hey, you know, I I read my Bible and all this, but really is y is our heart truly circumcised by the Lord? Do we really have a thirst for souls? Do we love the Lord? Do we mourn over our own sin? Or are we just like, nice thing to do? I come here to church on Sunday morning, socialize, maybe have a nice meal afterwards, and then I'll see you again next week. Where it does the does the does the faith really have our heart? Where we have a heart for God and agonizing over our own sin and having a desire to reach out for other people. And these are the things we have to look at ourselves and analyze ourselves about this. As we look at the life of Paul, many times you see the word Let me think of it. Yeah, yeah, a five-letter word which describes the Apostle Paul. It is the word tears. As he gives his testimony, he says how he ministers with tears. So before we look at these verses, I would ask you, when is the last time you wept? And make it even more specific, when is the time you wept over some kind of a Christian issue or a lost soul? Or Maybe your own sin or some issue in your life that actually caused you to shed tears. Unfortunately, as we become older and older and we become adults, we become hard, become hardened And it takes so much to move us. To move us to I wonder have you ever wept in the sermon the pastor's preaching and the Holy Spirit's getting the heart and you're getting getting a hold of your heart and it brings literally brings tears into your flowing down your face. We have examples of this I wrote down a couple of them here. 2 Timothy 2 and verse 4. Paul says that he proclaims the Word of God with many tears. I would like to see that. I try to visualize what would that be like because Paul is preaching and he's doing it with tears because of this concern for the people, knowing their destination. Sinners as as uh Tim was bringing out this morning uh Antioch and Rome and and some of these major cities of all the sin that was going on And these people we know, unless they receive Christ, they're headed for an eternal eternity in hell. And does that bother you? And I ask myself, how come I'm not more bothered by this? Think about hell for a moment. And that we could say, okay, well I shared Christ with this person. He didn't accept it. Okay, well, you know, if he does if he doesn't come to Christ sometime, he's gonna go to hell. Like one like like you know, like he's gonna pull a fingernail or something. And I'm wondering, and in my own life, and I'm asking you as a church, as Christians, where you do we truly care for the culture out there who doesn't know the Lord Jesus Christ? Paul did, and we see many other examples. Jesus, for example, let's talk about Jesus for a minute. That'd be a nice thing to do in a church service. We might talk about Jesus. That would be the appropriate thing to do. We know that in Hebrews 5 7 Jesus is described as having strong crying. Described as strong crying. Now what is that? What is strong crying? Well, you know I guess like maybe you know if I I may have a tear come down my face, you know, okay, but that's not strong crying. Strong crying is you know, where you really you're moved. And that's the way our Lord Jesus Christ is described in Hebrews chapter 5, verse 7. Now here is a beautiful text. I want you to turn to this, if you would, please. Let's go over here to Psalms, the book of Psalms, and looking in Psalm 126. Fantastic Psalm. They're all fantastic, not that one's any better than the other, but it does address this issue I'm looking for here in Psalm 126. And I'm looking verse and looking here in verse does anybody know what verse I'm going to turn to when I turn to Psalm 126 is pretty well famous for these two verses. Psalm 126, looking at verse number five. Psalm one, two, six, verse five declares. They that sow in tears shall reap in joy. Isn't that beautiful? You're sowing in tears. Now we know that Israel was a agrarian society and it was a shepherding society, so you know they were out in the field and sowing seeds, perhaps. And he's sowing the picture here, he's sowing the seeds, but he's in tears, meaning he's doing it very carefully and he's greatly concerned. He's going through this effort And the passage is saying, they that sow in tears, they're going to reap in joy. Because as he's sowing those seeds and weeping over them or weeping about some issue as he's sowing the seed, but in time those seeds are going to grow up and give fruit. And he's going to collect that fruit. He's going to walk home with joy with fruit in his arm. because he sowed in tears, meaning that he actually cared about what he was doing. It was not something he did at part-time or as he felt like doing it. Rather this was his heart and soul's calling They that sow in tears shall reap enjoy. But look in verse 26, or excuse me, 6. Psalm 126, verse 6. He that goeth forth weeping or weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again. With rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. Again, it's the same. You sow in tears And they get sane because you are genuine, you are sincere. These things, the issues of life touch you. The teach issues about salvation, about the church about the condition of believers, the condition of the unworld. This actually makes a difference in your life. It touches you to the point that you actually do something about it. Whether if that is verbally witnessing or passing out tracts or being in a prayer meeting to pray for some poles poor sinner, but as we are doing this, he that goes forth weepeth. Bearing precious seed shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. God hears prayer, God answers prayer. And when those prayers are answered and that project on which you worked on in tears, the Lord will give an answer and give a blessing, and the end of it is you are rejoicing. There's much tears at first. But eventually there is that rejoicing. So I ask you the question, when is the last time you wept over a lost soul? Wept over maybe a situation in the church? or wept over maybe a Bible verse. Maybe you saw in a deeper way the love of Jesus for you. Think about Jesus having to go to the cross for your rotten sin and for mine. And he did it. And you think of what what what was that like for Jesus to have to go through this? To bear the sin? Just if he just bore the sins of Don Britton would be gross. But think of all you think of all of you and all of God's people from whom he came, bearing all their sin. And you wonder, does that ever move you to s has that ever moved you to tears? Just looking at self-analysis here and uh and and looking at some of these issues that our text is bringing up here today. Okay, getting back here then to Romans. Let's get back here again to our Romans chapter 1 And see what we're what what the next issue is that I wrote down here that came to my mind. Okay, here it is. Looking here in twelve, that is that I may be comfort comforted together with you. Aha. Picture changes a little bit. Yes, he's concerned about being comforted. But not by himself, wanting to be comforted together with you. Now who is the you? The you is the Roman church. Remember, this is an epistle written by Paul in Corinth The rected to the church in Rome, which is about um 117 miles apart. And so there's there's a great distance and certainly Paul wasn't going to go to Rome on a Saturday afternoon joint. And so um Anyway, um not a hundred and seventeen mile, six hundred and seventeen mile, excuse me, a six hundred and seventeen mile distance between Corinth and Rome. So to b take that journey you'd have to be in the caravan. And it it would include going over water, going on land, and it's very dangerous because of robbers and thieves. So it's not something that you would take easily, although Paul in Corinth 1, praying about visiting the church in Rome. And so that's what he's writing about here. Imagine what's going on in Rome, what's happening to those Roman believers. And so he says that he wants to be comforted together with you. Not just to be comforted, but wanting to be comforted with the Church of Rome. And here you have a person, a picture of what you call Poinania, which is fellowship. He's concerned about having fellowship, wanting to be in fellowship with the believers that are at Rome. And maybe you're like this. Maybe you have a friend, a neighbor. you know, who's very close to you or or a a relative and you moved away from them. And you often think back about them. Maybe your Christian fellowship with them or your relationship with them and you you you know something you just think about them and you long to be with them but you cannot because of distance because of circumstances and so you're unable to do this but from time to time you just think about them And that's what's going on here. He's thinking about the believers who were there in Rome, knowing he can't go there. He'd like to, and he's saying that, and he's talking about planning to go visit them Now, I do think we we may I think I may mention that here. In time, Paul does go to Rome, but not the way he wants to go, not the way he's thinking about going. Eventually, years from writing this, many years have gone on, but eventually he does arrive in Rome With his hands in chains. He arrives as a prisoner to stand trial. And historians believe tell us we believe that he was actually executed, beheaded while there in Rome. We don't know for sure. That's what history seems to tell us. But as far as him going to Rome and actually ministering in the church, being in there and visiting for three months or half a year or a year and a half like he did in Corinth, We don't believe that ever took place. But that was his desire. That was his his thought, and that's what he wanted to do. And yet we find out that it looks like he was unable to do this. But what does this tell us here Again, going back to verse 12, that is that I may be comforted together with you. Again, you see that picture of fellowship, wanting to relate. Wanting to fellowship with the believers there in Rome. Again, thinking of things such as fellowship and but you know what this tells us too? Much of the Christian life Okay. Okay. It's a six-letter word. I'll see if you can guess it. Much of the Christian life I guess in some way, almost all of it. But I'll say much of the Christian life is about. What word am I thinking of? It starts with an O. Much of the Christian life is about Okay, I gave you another another clue. Clue number two. Okay. OT. Much of the Christian life is about good, about others. Yes. And that's what you see here. We see Paul concerned about those that are in Rome. And he's talking here about becoming together with you. He wants to join with them, he wants to be with them, and as you go through scripture again, what is most of the scripture about? Other people. It's about reaching out to others, it's about loving others, it's about forgiving others, it's other people. We get in trouble many times when our thoughts are internal. When I spend time thinking about me, my and mine. How's that gonna affect me? Well am I gonna like this? Will it be fun for me? Can I get money from this? Were these people like me And you know, and it's natural. I mean that's our natural inclination because by nature we are sinners, we're selfish, and so therefore with the first thing we think of Am I gonna like it? If you maybe you plan to have uh a special church dinner or supper, which was mentioned here. But what's the first thing you think? Nee, you say, well do I wanna do that? Do I want to eat that? What else am I gonna do Probably we should say, you know what, if this is what the church needs, I'm doing it. Count me in. And um but you see this principle in scriptures all along. The Christian life primarily is about others. Now it may be other Christians with whom we can fellowship and enjoy, or it could be reaching other sinners, lost sinners They are others as well. Those who don't know Christ, those who are pagans, they're part of others because in our Christian life we either want to fellowship with our fellow Christians or be out there evangelizing into the world But in either case, it's others. Our Christian life living for Jesus Christ is others, even within my family as I'm a Godly husband, then my life is about my wife. My wife, my children, my church And so, but if I'm thinking, well, say, how am I gonna do how's my tie? What how me how am I? You know, me, my, my. And again, we have to guard against it because by nature we are sinners, we're selfish by nature And it is the Spirit of God which can make us aware sometimes of how self-centered we are, how self-conscious we are, and self-absorbed we are, and really it ought not to be. We want to be looking out, looking at the world about us. And assessing that for the glory of God. And so you see this language here that is that I may be comforted together with you. Now the next phrase is what? By the mutual faith. Let's talk about that for a moment. What does he mean by the mutual faith? Faith is a word that can be a noun or a verb. Here, it's a noun by the mutual faith. Now, what does he mean by the mutual faith? Or what is the faith? Let's talk about that. I think I probably mentioned something here about that before. If I repeat myself here, let me know. Because I'm not sure some if I said it here or the other, because I speak in several different churches But we're talking about the faith. If we're talking about what is the faith, generally, generally speaking, the faith is this. It's what's contained in the Bible. Now, wonderfully. Now here is something I can assure you have a great blessing I haven't had for many, many, many years in my life. You haven't, you don't even realize how blessed you are. The faith for this church Is defined in the Westminster Confession of Faith. That is the faith. They are the tenets that we hold to. We believe them to be true. But what is the Westminster Confession of Faith? It's actually Scholars going back in the 1600s taking taking major doctrines out of the Bible and transporting it and putting it in here in a pamphlet or in a book, just simply making it easier to identify, to understand So that you can easily understand what the faith is all about. But for here it is the Westminster Confession of Faith One of the men that um discipled me many years ago said, Don, I want you to know something. What's that? He said, you know, next to the Declaration of Independence The greatest document ever written by man was the Westminster Confession of Faith. And that was a Baptist preacher, by the way, too. Um so for us that is the faith. And when we're looking here, and what are we reading here in the text here? That I may be comfort together with you by the mutual faith. I mean we're all we all believe the same thing. And isn't that wonderful? When you come here to church, you know what your brothers and sisters believe, because it's right there in in in that Westminster confession at phase. If you have any question about it, you can go look it up and look look at all the details. But what a blessing that is for you. Because if you, which I did for many years, Pastor Church, doesn't have that s stability of a strong, well thought-out doctrinal statement, you have to defend it almost every Sunday. But it's in your document and it's a wonderful thing and it It it gives harmony, it gives direction, and um of course it's sound, you have sound doctrine, you don't have to worry about some strange doctrine coming up here because that is what we stand upon And you see that's what your text is saying here. By the mutual faith, and and our mutual faith, again, may I say, is defined as the Westminster Confession of Faith. That's the mutual faith. We all believe what is described They're in that faith of the of the Westminster Confession of faith. So that gives us this. Now, here's another thing about this though. The Westminster Confession of Faith is something which you can take home, you can take you can study it. But it actually it does two things. The Westminster Confession of Faith does two things and they're opposite. On the one hand, on the one hand, it pulls us together. The Westminster Confession of Faith, biblical doctrine, it brings us together. So we all think similar about different issues, which we should. But you know what? It also does the opposite. Not only does it draw together, it also separates. The Westminster Confession of Faith separates, meaning there are those who would read that and I don't believe this, and they're gone, which is what you want. You don't want to bring an unbeliever in here So it does two things at the same it brings together and also separates. And that's what good doctrine will do. That'll protect you. That'll protect you from you know, from from heretics coming in and and taking over the church, which happens from time to time, but you have that protection. And that's what he's talking about here. The mutual faith. So you know what I believe, I know what you believe, because we're bonded together by the mutual faith, which is contained in God's holy word, which we outline in a shorter, you know, just to shorten it up to make it easier to understand We call that the Westminster Confession of Faith. And so that's where we're there at that. Now, let me move on here because time is moving on. I'm getting long-winded here. So let me see, what shall I Skip here. Well, let's look at this here. Going back to verse 12. That is that I may be comforted together. Okay, we got that. We're comforted together with you. By the mutual faith of both you and me, meaning the apostle holding the sound doctrine, the believers of room holding to the sound doctrine. Okay. Let's skip down here and just get a couple thoughts here and go right into verse 13. We see this. Now I would not have you ignorant brethren. Okay, just stop there. That's a phrase that you'll see in scripture three or four times. And it's it's like a phrase that that Paul uses as a transition. He may be talking about God the Father here, but then he's going to talk about baptism or talk about the Holy Spirit. And they'll say Now, brother, I would not have you ignorant. And then he goes on to a new subject. And that's what that little phrase is. I wouldn't have you ignorant, brother. And then he goes into another another thought. I would not have you ignored, brethren, that oftentimes I purpose to come unto you. Again, we're going back to Paul's love and concern for the Church of Rome. He wanted to be with them. He wanted to edify them. He wanted to be but he could not. 617 miles he separated. He can't do it. He can't just say, Well, I'm going to go to Rome. He can't do this. But that is what is on his heart And so we find here then, I will not have you ignorant, brethren. Oftentimes I purpose to come unto you, wanted to do it. But was led hitherto, that strange construction that we've already talked about, that I might have some fruit among you. Let's talk about that. Fruit Paul's desire to want to visit them was not to take a vacation. Alright, let's take a vacation. Let's get in the ship and go and walk for a while, 617. No. So that was not the case. Yes, he wanted to visit them. Why did he want to visit them in order that he might bear fruit? That's why he wanted to go get to bear fruit for the glory of God. Now that word fruit in Scripture is used 208 times. So it's a pretty interesting little image there. And really it would be good for us to understand what is meant by fruit. So, what is meant by fruit? Well, it actually it stands for a number of things, but primarily It means many things. But my I I would say you think of this first of all, winning others to Christ. Sharing Christ with others to the point they you know they come to Christ. And and what do you do? You're bearing fruit If we're going to bear true fruit, we need to be evangelistic. Maybe passing out a tract Talking to someone about the Lord? Oh now let me just this brings up another issue or just do this in quick and I'll get right back to this. But if you were going to talk to someone about Christ, would you know what to tell them? If somebody came up to me and said Uh, I heard a preacher the other day, what do I do have to do to be saved? Would you know what to tell them? And would you know how to go through the various tenets of the gospel In such a way that sort of flows, it's easy to understand, to bring that person to a point where they would want to receive the Lord Jesus Christ. First of all, have you ever done that? Second of all, do you know how to do it And I don't maybe someday when I come here and preach, we have a a a um what what what should I pray? A way, a way of just sharing the gospel, making it clear, and and you start with a broad conversation and bring it down here to the gospel. And the last thing you ask the person, would you like to receive Christ into your life today? And you know it's a m moving thing when someone says yes. And you say, they want to receive the Lord Jesus Christ? What a beautiful thing. What a beautiful thing that is. And um I missed it. Well, I didn't miss an opportunity there, but I I I'm thinking of I guess the last time, but it's been a while for me, probably about six months Since I pray uh talked with this man in um we were at a birthday party celebration at a restaurant and and the people were um Filipino And that's the only Caucasian there. No, no, no, not a Caucasian there, by the way. And then maybe fifty people. So we sit down at the table. And and and it just so happens, or you say by chance, the only one other Caucasian was sitting next to me, another man. So but for whatever reason we got to talking and he sort of dismissed himself and went down, disappeared. I don't know what happened to him So that brought me so I sort of moved down and that brings me now to a a Phili uh a Filipino man. And so I'm thinking, first thing I think, I want to share Christ with this man, but how can I do it? I want no so I just start to talk general, you know, generally what do you do for a living? Well I did oh yeah. And of course, yeah, what do you do? Well I'm the pastor. All right, you say a retired pastor, oh yeah, yeah, well and that just sort of opens the door to get into the gospel, right? And the first he says I don't want any of that. You know, look, my wife watches Christian television, talk to her, you know, she'll she'll keep you happy, talk to her. I'm thinking, oh, this is this is not going good. But anyway, you know, beg continue to pray. And so, well look, why would you reject the Bible? Can you give me one good reason why you reject God's Word? Give me one You said, well, you know, we're really I mean that I really can't, but I mean you know you know, it's an old book. Well have you have you ever really read it? Have you really looked into it Well no, my wife does. That's I let her take it. Yeah, but have you? Well not no I didn't know. Well do you know what the message is? Well it's a God about God, right? Well what what does it tell you about God? You know you go on like this and bring in the gospel Christ going on the cross for your rotten sins and so forth. Anyway So at the end of that conversation I I asked him, Would you like to receive Christ into your life today? And I have to tell you, to my surprise, he said, yes I would. Now there's music going on, there's dancing going on with people and noisy. He said, yes, I would like to receive Christ. I said, okay, you give me your hand. And so we just prayed that he would receive the Lord. Here's where I messed up. When something something like that happens, you've got to get a name and an address to follow them up. You just don't say, receive the Lord. Okay, see them later. I mean if that's the best you can do, good. But if you can follow these things up You know, call them up, give them some literature. Because the chances are in this culture someone comes to Christ, it's going to be easy to be swept away into a cult or to get f confused here or to lose your enthusiasm or whatever. It really follows is really Crucial and I did not do that. So I'm not here trying to give you a bride the moon because I messed up fifty percent of what I'm supposed to be doing here But the point is, though, we need to get out and get the gospel out so people will know the Lord Jesus Christ, trust in him, be saved, and that's our job here. And that's fruit. When someone comes to Christ, that is fruit. And of course again we need to make that transition from evangelism, sharing Christ, to discipleship, following that person up. Let me give you one other Thing that happened about two weeks ago, which I messed this up too. Okay, so we're shopping in Lancaster County. We like to go out there maybe once a month. So we're in the store. Uh see what w what store that was in. Um what store are we in? The the clothing store was? It's outside the store. That's right. It's in that loss. What was named that shopping center, Dariant? Anyway, so we're outside like a little shopping center And I'm sitting thinking shopping, spending my money I mean no, she's shopping and uh looking for some clothes and all that. So I'm sitting outside actually uh reading scripture or whatever And I started get I got tired of sitting, so I started to walk around and here comes this young fellow, maybe twenty at the most. And he said, and he was fearful. He was very can I get your attention? Can I talk with you for a minute? Sure I'd like to give you this. And it was a Christian tract. I looked at this. Oh, this is great. I'm a Christian. I believe in the Lord Jesus Christ as my Savior And so we talked like this, but I could tell he was doing this just out of gut. You know, he wanted to witness for Christ. He really didn't know what to say. He was scared. But he did it and I was trying to commend this. That was good. Good for you to do that. Continue to do this kind of thing. That's what we need to do. So we talked for a few minutes and then and I got busy or shopping or whatever That was my mess up. I should have got that man's name and phone number or email or something, because that is a young Christian, but he needs follow-up. He needs You know, he needs to be encouraged. I totally messed that up. So we've got to think. Not only do we want to do evangelism, but when we talk to a young Christian, or even as you share Christ and someone come to the Lord get some information so that we can pay him a visit, follow him up and and um do that kind of thing and makes it makes our evangelism proper and thorough. Look at this right here. What's I have to what does I have do have the work with with verse thirteen here? Fruit, that I might have some fruit. All these things are little examples of having fruit, but you know the best fruit I can have is my children. My wife. Uh people within my family. If I'm going out here witnessing for Tom Jones or Harry Smith or whatever, and my children are neglected or my family That's not that's not smart. So really my evangelism's got to start with my kids. My now now's my grandchildren And so and I say that I feel guilty 'cause my children, grandchildren, I haven't talked with them like I should for a long time. I think we gotta do something about Lane especially. Get her for get her over for dinner here. Wonderful girl Lane is a tremendous girl. I'll tell you her story some other time. Okay, so here we are. That I might have some truth. So I will ask this question, getting ready to close here. What is your fruit? What fruit do you have? Can you think of fruit? Now it doesn't but doesn't have to be winning someone the Christ. That's good fruit. But anything you do for the name of the Lord is fruit, isn't it? When you help a poor person, when you give food to a hungry person, that's fruit. Give it to them in the name of the Lord. That is fruit. We were on one of our missionary journeys in the Caribbean Islands and I'll never forget this guy. He's just the image. So much of that I've already forgotten because I think I'm losing some of my mind already anyway, you know. Just And you get that certain age, you forget all kinds of stuff. I have to say, how do how do I get to the church? Stand US one? Do I stay on that? Okay, so We're walking down the street and here's a guy sitting on the pavement, has a little cup, you know, and he's like in a white robe, I guess, but it was all ripped and tattered and You know, he was dirty and a uh just look awful. And he was, you know, poverty stricken. And everybody's walking past him like he's just sort of ignoring him. And and I think, oh Don, you know, you're a Christian. Should have some kind of compassion, but how do I know he's not a fake? I think that that's terrible, but I think that way sometimes. I don't want to waste my But what if he's for real? What if this guy is desperate and he's for real? So you know I gave him some money. Not in a whole lot, but it was something to be helped by. But you know what? You know who is really helped by that more than that? Me It's good for me to do that. It's good for my psyche. It's good for my spirituality to be able to to go out of my way to help the poor people, to help those who are poor. You know, give some of your time, talent, money to those who are down and out. Look at the life, look at us here. We're middle class people. Probably every one of us have more than one car We're going to go home to a beautiful house. We're going to go home with a refrigerator full of food. And that's a wonderful thing. Thank God. What a wonderful blessing that is. But you know there's a lot of people out there still don't have any of that And we just can't forget them. Even Jesus told us this that we should the Word of God goes on to tell us to care for those that were that are that are without, that don't have proper food, clothing, protection But you know what? When we do this, that is fruit. That's another kind of fruit. Helping the poor, helping who are down and out. Going out of your way for somebody else. That's fruit. When you would you make an offering here, when you put your money in all that's you're bearing fruit. So there's many things. It's not just winning souls to Christ, although that's one of them, but there's many ways where you can bear fruit fruit for Jesus Christ. So I would ask you to think, okay, so what fruit have you borne? And of course you have to answer that for yourself. But you want to be a Christian bearing fruit. And that's not what we have here, that I might have some fruit among you. That's why Paul wanted to go to Rome, not just that is Rome and see all the temples and all this. He was there for fruit And may it be when we do things, whether for going shopping and you're waiting for your wife or you're going getting whatever, be on the lookout for fruit that we can have win fruit for Jesus Christ. Amen? What I say? Amen? Amen? That's much better. Oh my gosh, everybody's going to sleep. Okay, let me see. Okay, so what else am I going to say? One more thing in this text and we're out of here. Okay? Because I think we're having a luncheon afterwards, right? Well those lunches are really good. That's when I'm driving down here feeling good today. Nice lunch and this is gonna be good. Okay. Now, but finishing up here, that I might have some fruit among you even as among other Gentiles. Okay. Alright, so the Gentile. Now we know that Paul was a Jew, came to Christ, and we also know this. In the world where Jesus, that world of the New Testament, there was a great division between Jews and Gentiles. You know that, a big racial divide. Like we have an arc between black and white or or or you know whatever race you want to throw in there. They're there all everybody is uh everybody's mad with everybody else, but the Jews and Gentiles had this In this, during Bible times, there was this great division. So the miracle of the church, one of the miracles of the church, was that the Jew and the Gentile could sit together. in harmony and worship God through the Lord Jesus Christ. And that was a miracle. We don't we don't really get into that that much, but that knowing that Social tension between a Jew and a Gentile is the same thing that we have between white and black in our culture. And so but what does that tell you? That the racial divide, like everything else, can be solved. With the preaching of the gospel. When people have Christ in their heart, things begin to change. And when the Lord comes into the heart of a white man or a black man who at four at first was prejudiced. Man would begin to see that person as a child of God, worthy of of the blessing of God, just like I believe I'm worthy of God, and so and It begins to put things together. But I'll also tell you, racial harmony probably will never come to America without the preaching of God's word. And it may actually even get worse Unless you and me are faithful in getting the Word of God out. Unless the preachers behind the pulpit preach the gospel. So that sinners get saved, they're born again, have the Holy Spirit in them, and then they're set to go out into the world and to make a difference in the world. And that's what the beautiful gospel does here. All right, so let's conclude here then. Let's bring this thing to an end, shall we? We go back to verse what? 12? That is that I may be comforted. So we'll start with 12 and we'll end with 12, with that word comforted Why did Paul write all this? Why are we going through all this? Why that he might be comforted because he had a burden that needed to be addressed. Alright, how about you when you walk out of here today? What's your state of mind? What's the state of your heart? Do you need to be comforted? Maybe there is someone you need to forgive. Maybe there's someone who has offended you. And you have a right to be angry and bitter, but you know what? You really shouldn't. Even though you have a right to do it, you need to surrender that to the Lord. Anybody here that way? Maybe you know somebody talked against you or hurt you in some way and you okay. Maybe not gonna physically hurt them but you know in your heart you have anger and and unforgiveness. You need to deal with that. And this would be a good time to deal with it right now before we you know before we're gonna So what what what is in your heart? Is there something in your heart That would interfere with you having a close walk with Jesus Christ. Whether if it be unforgiveness, maybe I don't know, lustful sin, sexual sin. Um financial sin, relationship sin. You know, you think about it. There are all these kind of things that we are subject to, all of our sin. You know, when we get saved, we're not excused from from from the misery of this world And sometimes we get sucked into it. And maybe somebody here is like that today, and what you really need to do is Conclude with a good prayer of confession, a good prayer of just talking to God about your life. Confessing your sin unto him. What's 1 John 1. 9 tells us what? If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Isn't that beautiful? Is that I wonder if the Spirit of God is bringing up in your heart right now sin in your life of what you need to confess to God and forsake it. Confess it to Him And leave it at the throne of the Lord, and you go on your way, forgiven, filled with the Holy Spirit, living a victorious life for the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray together, please. Our Father, we want to say thank you today for bringing us together together. Thank you for this church, the existence of this church, O Lord. You have founded it, you have protected it, you sustain it, and here it is today. Gorgeous, wonderful. And we thank you for this. We know that the demons of hell would like to come against this church and shut it down, burn it down, get rid of it, shut the doors. Maybe our government's going to tell us that one day. Shut the doors of this church. We can't carry this on. We know that your word will go forth, Lord. Nothing will stop this. The gates of hell will not prevail against the Church of Jesus Christ. Father, I pray now, could there be someone here today, right now, who has an issue that they need to talk to you about? An issue of unfaithfulness, an issue of anger. uh um uh being greedy as being lustful of being uh unforgiving There's a myriad of things that could be lodged in our heart which interferes with our joy, our happiness, and even our effective ministry Is there a dear soul here today for whom you died, for whom you shed your blood? And if they were to die today, they'd go to heaven. But right now the ministry is hindered because their heart's not right for whatever reason. And if that situation does prevail here today, right now, help us to address it Dear believers, analyze your heart. I'm going to recite that verse one more time. Be quiet for 30 seconds for you to talk to God about the issue of your heart. Because the wonderful promise of God's Word is if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And you know when we do this. When we confess our sins like this, then we, like Paul, can be comforted. And we then can go forth in our life of confidence, boldness, and joy. Talk to the Lord about your life right now. Father, thank you for bringing us together this day. Thank you that we are saved. Thank you that we are in your family. And we know That you will never kick us out. We know that we cannot lose our salvation because of the work and doing of the Lord Jesus. We know that one day all of us will be in heaven together, rejoicing through all eternity. How glorious But Lord, while we are here, help us to roll up our sleeves and get busy for you. Help us to get busy working here within the framework of this church, witnessing. Doing discipleship work, doing physical work around the ground, giving so that the bills are paid and that missionaries are paid and that a great work will continue to flourish right here, Lord. So minister to us, guide us, that we will be faithful stewards of the Word of God. Thank you for bringing us together. Thank you for loving us. We thank you for the many promises that are in your word. If God before us, who can be against us? Thank you, O Lord. And we thank you through Christ, who shed his blood on Calvary, was buried, and resurrected. Through him, we make these requests. Amen.