Moses did his best work after he was eighty, as a matter of fact. So let's open our Bibles, please, to um our scripture reading, um the Gospel of John In chapter 14, follow along if you would please. I'll be reading the first 11 verses. John 14. Beginning at verse 1. Jesus says, Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God. Believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again. and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also. And whither I go, ye know, and the way ye know. Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest, and how can we know the way? Jesus said unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. If ye know me, Ye should have known my Father also, and from henceforth ye know him, and have seen him. Philip saith unto him, Lord, show us the Father, and it sufficeth us Jesus says unto him, have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? He that hath seen me hath seen the Father, and how sayest thou then, showest the Father. Believest thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me The words that I speak unto you, I speak not of myself, but the Father that dwelleth in me. He doeth the works Believe me that I am in the Father and the Father in me, or else believe me, for the very works' sake. We'll end here with our scripture reading. May God be pleased to bless it to our hearts. Let's pray. So, Father, we open this your word and are mindful of these texts. whether from the Psalms or from the Gospel of John, and help us to allow our hearts to be receptive to your Spirit's teaching today. uh to be uh ready to receive truths that your spirit will guide us to understand and those truths to be planted deep within our hearts to produce an abundant crop of of life and righteousness through us for the honor and glory of yourself. Lord, we pray for our world and for uh the fears allayed by various things that are going on around the globe, uh whether it's viruses or economies or uh wars and rumors of wars. uh the just the totally unsettling attitude of people towards life. We're thankful that we can pause in our day and consider the giver of life and the truths that you would have us to know whereupon we may be planting our feet, our hearts, in order that we might be peaceful in the day in which we live Forgive us of our sin, we pray for that which has been so destructive in tearing us away from the sweet fellowship that that relationship we can have with you. and restore the joy of that salvation. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Well as we near the end of our familiar Psalm, Psalm twenty-three, I Wanted us to look at things as we've gone so far. It's only four verses, but there's a tremendous amount of material. Um we look at it and and I and I rehearse things like this simply because as we as you hear Psalm 23 or you hear certain parts of scripture I want you to be able to to reflect on and say, wow, that's there. I remember that. I can attach my myself to that. It's true. It's real It's just not something that we go through and say, oh, that was nice. It's applicable here, but it's more applicable outside in the way we deal in the world in which we live There's a tremendous amount of material that David experienced in his own life, and he writes about. But it's also applicable in our lives because we experience those same things. Rise and falls of emotions, those interactions with people, situations that are what happens, you know But he concludes with this psalm, or ties it all up in a ribbon with this psalm, and I think it's a beautiful reminder for us to focus on. The Lord is my shepherd. We'll emphasize my. It's a relationship that he has with his shepherd. He owns me. And I was hold on to that. Christ has provided us a relationship in ownership to the eternal God. And so he says, he is my shepherd, and he follows that up with, I shall not want. Because I'm owned by him, I'm not going to be lacking in anything. the necessities of life. And obviously we'll say, yeah, that's true, but boy, I could sure use some, you know. At the end of David's day, he could say there was nothing that I needed that I had not been provided by my God. And to the end of our day, we can clearly say all through my life, all those ups and downs of things that I wanted or didn't want, you know, God provided me exactly with what I needed And then he became very detailed. Maketh me lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside the still waters. We talked about the sheep finding rest and security. And that's the time when they will be fed and know that there's no danger around them. He provides them with the still waters, the nourishment that is there by his word and by his spirit. He restoreth my soul. And we talked about cast down, the cast down sheep, the one that have fallen over on their backs and they can't get up. And how many times in life are we cast down? David says, Oh, my soul's cast down, but he restores it. And so he finds that joyous confidence. Leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Wow, where do I go? Well, how do I do this? What's the direction? So he leads, he provides this in righteousness, not in all types of other things that are going on Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. And we mentioned the wholeness of life is the shadow of death. Life is just like that. Whether it's uh uh the world and community in which we live, it may be not safe or just driving on the highway or whatever, you know, it's it's there And he says, I will not fear because of his presence. Then he adds to that the security and the protection provided by the rod and the staff. And we said they were two distinct pieces. two tools that were there available unto him, guidance and comfort, rod and staff. And then last of all we saw, thou preparest the table before me In the presence of mine enemies thou anointest my head with oil, my cup runneth over the shepherd's provision in overflowing abundance, all through life as it has been. All that the shepherd does, providing, guiding, protecting over his flock, beautifully summarized in the last two verses. All of the things that he's gone on before, preparing for this summary, surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. With such a shepherd, these sheep had a privileged position. For him to say that, and for us as sheep under our great God. What a privileged position of all of the people on the earth. And that's always it's it's something that's always being evaluated. Oh, look at that house, or look at that boat, or look at all of that. They're privileged. No We are the privileged people, by the words of our dear David here. All the benefits living under a skilled and loving manager, that has been David's testimony. The love of God showered upon David throughout his life is our testimony. From ownership to guidance to provision to protection, each and every day So that no matter what may come in the future, he is assured that goodness and mercy will follow him all the days of his life. Four verses lead up to this summary. And I says, I'm guaranteed on this. You can be challenged to read to the books of Samuel and Kings and Chronicles. And find David's exploits from a young man all the way up to his final days. And you'll see he made some uh terrible mistakes. Warts it all, you read of David Some things you say, don't do that, you know? And nevertheless, he is a man after God's own heart. And as he summarizes that life, of good and bad, of of power and of weakness, of relationships, of everything, he says, I can clearly say that these personal experiences give David the strongest confidence. that the mercy and goodness of God will be his throughout life. Wow. And if that's true of David, how true is it for us, you know? God, by the guidance of the Holy Spirit, provides us with not everything, but a sufficient amount of every niche and corner of David's life. And you say, boy, that was a stupid mistake. That was really dumb, David. You shouldn't never have done that. And and yet it's there for us to be able to say, look at my calendar, look at my book. You know. I you know, well look if David can say with confidence Goodness and mercy following throughout life, then we can surely cling to that very thought. So what does the psalmist mean when he says goodness and mercy? Well, first of all, it's not two distinct thoughts. They're really tied together. They really work together as one. More than synonyms, these two words complement each other. God's goodness is a stream that is sourced in the fountain of His mercy. You've experienced God's goodness throughout life. And sometimes there'll be high points this day or this month or this relationship. That's God's goodness. And if you were to follow that stream back in time, in place, you would eventually come to the fountain of God's mercy. Which says, you don't deserve this, but he's given it, the source of it all It's God's open hand of bounty which finds its root in his loving, merciful heart. He offers us this and he offers us this. He supplies this, unbeknownst to us most of the time. And if you follow that back, you follow it from his hand, and you go all the way back, you'll see it in his loving-kindness of his heart. What type of God do we have? People will often look at say, Well, he's a god of love, you know, love, love, love, but they don't describe it because it's it's the source of those things that as it touches us. It's his goodness. It's his mercy. That really describes this beautifully. Now, what does he say about this goodness and mercy? He says that it will follow him throughout life. Follow him throughout life. Hebrew lesson here. There are a number of words in the Old Testament Hebrew that are just translated as follow. But in this particular one, that's called Radaf. And Radaf is actually the idea of to pursue, to set off after someone in order to catch them, to chase. It's not just simply to follow. And let me give you two examples in the Old Testament where this word is translated not as follow, but as they are. First one, Joshua 7, 5. And the men of Ai smote them, meaning the children of Israel, about 30 and 6 men. For they chased them from before the gate. Remember Israel's mistake in in uh Jericho and then the next city to take was Ai, and they made some foolish maneuvers and God Put the squeeze on him. So here, children of Israel taking off, thirty-six have been killed, and it says the men of Ai chased after them. They followed them. Just not following But the idea they wanted to catch them, to give them a whooping. That was the intent. Another one. Judges 8. 4 And Gideon came to Jordan and passed over, he and the three hundred men that were with him, faint yet pursuing them. Pursuing them. Gideon and these men chasing after the enemy, and they were tired. But he says, They followed them. They pursued them, chased after them, with the intent of catching them. So, as we see in David's life, God's goodness and mercy didn't follow him fifty yards behind. Or three hours behind, or a week behind. Goodness of uh mercy of God was right there chasing after David as he's experiencing this He says, I haven't been left out. I haven't been forsaken. It was chasing after me, and it will do so throughout my life. Again, look at the words of verse 5. He says, surely, without a shadow of a doubt. Was it Ben Franklin who said there's two things that we know we're gonna get? Taxes and death. Well, if Ben Franklin was a believer, he could say taxes, death, and the goodness and mercy of God. You know, he could add that in there. It's the same idea. Guaranteed, he says, Surely Goodness in mercy shall follow me. Another confident boast. Surely it's going to happen And shall, it shall, confident, a certainty, foregone conclusion, that the goodness and mercy of God will follow him all the days of his life. Now how could he say that? How could he say that? Was it based upon his his lifestyle, his ability, his spirituality, the number of times he worshipped in the day, number of prayers that he said? How well he looked in front of the people? David's confidence in saying this was based only on the one who was doing it, upon God. For David can say with us, I don't deserve the goodness of God. I don't deserve the mercy of God. I don't deserve his loving kindness. But because he is my shepherd and his interest is in me as his sheep, he will follow after me, chase after me, pursue me, chase until I have been caught again and again and again and again. throughout life. Now David's not saying that to say, well, I'll do whatever I want, but he's just saying that whatever situation he finds himself in, I have confidence and comfort that he is there. How many Christians actually feel that way about their relationship to Jesus Christ? How often do we think about his goodness and mercy following after us, chasing after me, catching me, and such a hold that we have with him? How many of us are truly convinced that no matter what occurs in our lives, we're being followed by the goodness and mercy of God? Now Naturally, when things are going good, we say, oh yes. And that you note on your bulletins, that's going to be the the last hymn we sing. Surely, goodness and mercy shall follow me. When things are going good, we'll say, Ah, Amen. Mercy and goodness of God is there. You know, my health It's not bad. Income? Yeah, it could be more less, but it's okay, you know. Uh Family's doing good, I got friends that like me, you know, all of those key things that we really evaluate life on, it's okay. Everything seems to be doing okay. During such times we sing, surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. But when the body breaks down, And the bank account dwindles to very little. When I find all of a sudden that my kids aren't really doing very well in school and hanging out with the wrong group And for some strange reason, unbeknownst to me, my friends are no longer my friends. They have become my enemies. Or at least that's how they look at me. Do I still look at surely goodness and mercy as following me? You see, that's the key component in being able to evaluate. My trust in his care of my life, my relationship to Christ. Like the prophets said of the uh to the uh the prophet Elijah to the prophets of Baal And and they danced around that altar, you know, and and again and again. And he said, Hey, why don't you call louder? Maybe he's on vacation, you know. Maybe he's sleeping, you know, maybe he's on his computer doing some other stuff. He's not listening If we perceive that the mercy and goodness of God is only when things are going good, we're like them. It's all the time. David says, because you own me, because you've done this, you've taken care of me, you've provided for me, you've protected me, you led me, you did all of these things in an abundance. Given me all of this, why would I ever think that you've ignored me? But we do. But we do. Let me toss out a few questions. Something to chew upon, digest. Does the goodness and mercy really pursue me, chase after me, or is it just some simple pious phrase? If it's a truth in the Bible, if this particular, verse 5 is a particular truth, then it's got to be truth, period. Or is it just something that we say, oh that's the Bible, you know? Uh some people go they'll go through the Lord's Prayer and just what's your prayer? We just know it just by heart, you know, Psalm 23. I hope you were able to recite it in unison today. I'll give you a clue next week going to say the same thing again. Okay. Yeah. Uh i i is it just something that we say it's a pious, nice thought to say, but I really don't believe it? Was David duped? Was he deceived in saying that? Did he feel real religious one day? And he says, Oh, the Lord's my shepherd, you know, and goodness and mercy is going to follow him. Boy, that's really nice And people are going to sing about that, you know? But when things go bad, David says, Ah, I'm on my own. Does goodness and mercy follow me only if I believe it? If I have enough faith. And some people will do that. I only receive God's blessing because I have enough faith in it, because I believe it. Who is it based upon? Is God pursuing his children, chasing after with the desire to catch them with his mercy, with his loving kindness, based upon me? No, it's based upon him. It's based upon him Does the Lord pursue me in life with his loving kindness or not? It's a practical question. We think, sure, when all is fine, he's pursuing me. But when the hammer comes down hard, am I confident in his care at those times? Is he there? Has he been there? And will he be there? And you see, we have to solidify this because there will be times that the question marks of life come up. Because we've got picture of God designed only as goodness and mercy. Times are going good, but there will be those times, and we're all experiencing them. When I don't see that, and it doesn't mean he's changed. It's just how I, my heart and my my brain, how I perceive him. And you've got to come away with this by saying, if I am his sheep, if he has purchased me, if he has led me, provided for me, given me his word, taken me by the streams Done all of this, directed all of if that's been the case, then I have to constantly say every day, every hour, every second, beyond here now, it's going to continue And you've got to anchor yourself with those very same thoughts. Here's Paul's own words of his experience. I know both how to be abased And I know how to abound. Everywhere in all things I am instructed to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. Paul's testimony was like: oh, I've been everywhere. I've been at the fullest expanse. of the emotional roller coaster. I've I've felt it all. But he wraps it up by saying the goodness and mercy of God is there because I can do it through Christ. He strengthened me to that end. When Paul was beaten by rods or shipwrecked in the Mediterranean or chained up in some gank prison, he surely could have felt that, hmm. Maybe making tents would have been a better choice, you know? Maybe sitting out there and doing some other job that's not quite as dangerous. You know, a little more security. Maybe I don't have much in that, you know, but he didn't. His confidence was in Christ's care through all things, and so it kept him going When things get rough, I have a tendency to worry and be afraid and even ask why, because I didn't know what God was doing. You ever do that? Wonder what God's doing now. Would you, if you knew, would you feel any better? I doubt it, you know, because the overall plan is in our purview. Our plan is just to trust and obey in life. He didn't notify me beforehand that I would have cancer, or that I would lose my job, or that I was going to be sued 1988 over a million acres were burned up in Yellowstone National Park. We had our uh church synod up in Callus Bell, which is not too far from the park. And I heard one of the most beautiful blessings that came out of a free day that we had. We went up into the Glacier National Park for a walk around and Park Ranger was talking about some things and and uh uh word got about to the fire over there and he says, you know, what is really neat, there is called the Lodge Pole Pine And it really was taken up a lot of the the the trees in the section of the the the yellowstone that was burned at that time. And the large pole pine has a pine cone that is tightly sealed up in its sap. And the only time that pine cone shoots out its seeds is under fire. And so as that fire swept through there It it melted the resin and seed shut out and provided such a an abundance for uh the the new growth. And so what seemingly was disaster, you know, all of a sudden comes around for some people who wouldn't know it, he says, wow, here's a blessing. In the illustrations of life, how many things do we know and don't know that God has put us through that we looked upon and saying, Oh You know, worry, hardship, tears, pain. I m my path has changed from what I planned. And and we look back on it later on and said, Wow. You know, it was hard, but I got through it. And it was better off for me getting through it. And it just not for me, but even for other people in other situations around us. Looking back on life, we realize that one who is truly in Christ's flock, no hardship can arise, no seeming disaster, no dilemma appear in life without eventual good coming out of chaos. And that's the foundation of our faith and confidence in Him. If we don't have that, we're like the rest of the world. What are we gonna do? You know. We were on coming in and listened to the news and radio and and it was a doctor from the uh Um Center for Disease Control and he says, those uh those masks that people are wearing, he says, they're really kind of worthless And he says, uh unless they're actually sealed up all the way around, you know. He says, I get ones in, they're called a bub-ba-ba-ba type, you know And and he says, I get ones and he says, you have to adjust them and adjust and when you adjust them you get little air pockets and he says it can be worse, you know. But everybody whoa you know well what happens is it happened but nonetheless You know, God's hand is there providing and overseeing these things. This is the essence of all that has gone on before in this psalm. All the care, all of the work, all the watchfulness, all the concern, and much more born out of his love. I am the Good Shepherd. The Good Shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. He looks at us and he says, look at you people, but I love you and I'm going to give my life for you as a sheep. Hereby perceive we the love of God, because He laid down His life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. We understand that relationship that's existing. The prime factor for which we are his children is such an expression of goodness and mercy. So there's one final question I must ask. Is this overflow of goodness and mercy to me to stop in my life and stagnate within? As a recipient of God's goodness and mercy, I've received it day after day after day after day, even as David says, we're the same. Does it just come to me and I take it in and it just stagnates within me? Don't I have a responsibility to go beyond me and have that spread out? In all of these things, there's a tremendous illustration given in the Holy Land The water of the Sea of Galilee has the Jordan River from the north and goes into the Sea of Galilee. And the Sea of Galilee actually has it's a salt salty water. Initially I thought it was just all fresh water, but it's not because of the soil content. And then it continues on uh down some hundred and twenty miles and it gets to the Dead Sea. And the Dead Sea has probably the same content as far as its its uh uh soil makeup is bedrock makeup. But nothing can live in the Dead Sea because it has no outlet There's no flowing through. The Sea of Galilee has the water coming in and going out. The Dead Sea has the water coming in, but there's no escape for it. Of all that God has given us, we ought to be like the Sea of Galilee, full of life providing for for all that is around there and not like the Dead Sea where I've received all of the goodness and mercy of God and it's just I don't know what to do with it You know, I act like there is nothing whatsoever that is a blessing to me. What is the impact that I have on others? When I leave this earthly existence, will I be seen as a blessing or a blight? Is my life now a pleasure to people, or is it a pain? Sometimes the days go on faster than others. Sometimes in youth we don't think much about that. Phil Keller tells the story of two friends who had stopped by his house some years ago out in the West. And he said uh uh they were talking about a journey that they were taking and asked him to come along on this journey. And he said, sure. Checked with his wife and that was fine And so they took off. And a couple days down the road, one of his friends realized that he lost his lucky hat, his favorite hat. And apparently it was the days before um cell phones, um and possibly, you know, even a place to call, you know, something like that. But in any case, he had to write his wife And she wrote back eventually by the time the response came to him about the hat. She said, I have combed the house from top to bottom and I can find no trace of the hat The only thing those men left behind was a great blessing. Was a great blessing. The only real practical measure of my appreciation for the goodness and mercy of God extended to me is to be prepared to show goodness and mercy to others. As it's provided for me, then I naturally am to be changed to be ones to show the very same thing, forgiving and extending forgiveness to the lost. Showing firsthand of God's loving kindness to others as it has been to me. Let me close with this hymn. I was going to ask Bob to have seen this one, but I know we never make it. 1903, Harper G. Smith wrote a hymn, which is today entitled, Make Me a Channel of Blessing. The first stanza goes like this. Is your life a channel of blessing? Is the love of God flowing through you? That's an interesting way he phrased it, you know. The love of God in me, well, it's there, but is it flowing through you? Are you telling the lost of the Savior, are you ready his service to do? And the refrain goes, make me a channel of blessing today. Make me a channel of blessing, I pray. My life possessing my service blessing make me a channel of blessing today. Of all that David experienced, of all that we experience, it's just not for us It's that which we are built upon foundationally in our salvation. And the daily graces and mercies and goodness of God heaped upon that in order that we can profit the lives of others. It's good to be a witness to go around and hand a gospel tract and tell people about the love of God or share this, but it's also so much more gracious and easy for us to live such a life before the people around us. In our interchange, in our horizontal context that we have in life, that I would be a channel, a vessel, one that takes from point A to point B the goodness and mercy of God. May that be applied in our lives, that God can use it. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that um that which David experienced by the guidance of your spirit was penned down so beautifully, as his heart was opened up, he spoke with the most tremendous confidence of a of a wonderful relationship he had with his shepherd. Our lives, Father, are not less than that we can truly see that our great shepherd, the Lord Jesus Christ, by his death, by his payment of his blood Paid for our sin upon that cross, resurrected according to the scriptures themselves, and sits now on your right hand. And he is our good shepherd He is one to whom he has proffered unto us the Holy Spirit to walk with us. And we can apply that, in truth, that your goodness and mercy pursues us. chases after us with the intent to catch us, even as we wander, even as we stray, even as we go our own way, you will not let us go. Oh, how we praise you for such. May Father as we leave this place and enter into our work week and rub shoulders with those who are still lost in sin. May goodness and mercy uh be channeled to them. May Jesus be upon our lips for praise. The simplicity of life to make practical applications that your spirit may win the lost also with them. We prayed in Jesus' name, Amen