So I would have told you, I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am, there ye may be also. And whither I go, ye know, in the way ye know Thomas said unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest, and how can we know the way? Jesus said unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh to the Father but by me. If he had known me, he should have known my Father also, and from henceforth ye know him, and have seen him. Philip saith unto him, Lord, show us the Father, and it sufficeth us. Jesus saith unto him, Have I not been so long with you? And yet hast thou not known me, Philip? He that hath seen the Father, and how sayest thou, then showest the Father. Believest thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me, and the words that I speak unto you, I speak not of myself, but the Father that dwelleth in me He doeth the works. Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me, or else, believe me, for the very works' sake. And then down to verse 16 And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever, even the spirit of truth. whom the world cannot receive because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him. But ye know him For he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you. I will not leave you comfortless. I will come to you. Yet in a little while, and the world seeth me no more, but ye see me, because I live, ye shall live also. May our God bless to our hearts through reading of his word this morning. Let's pray. Father, we'll pause this moment and again request that your Spirit to be our teacher And hiding your servant and the the beauty of the word as it is provided unto us by um the the inspiration of the Spirit to these authors and read over generations, decades, centuries, in order that your children would profit. Our humble request as this table has been set for us that we might dine upon it and enjoy the spiritual banquet that is provided, and we'll rejoice now for what we'll receive in Christ's name. Amen. We're about a month away from Resurrection Resurrection Sunday, and I wanted to just have us to notice here in this Gospel of John, if you read through John and kind of understand it. John spends a considerable amount of time talking about Jesus' final time here on earth and his earthly ministry. A lot of chapters, a lot of words given over to it. Uh if you look in uh ch uh chapter uh eleven, i it's about the raising of Lazarus, um going from uh the place of death uh open to that and and he links some good illustrations. The next chapter, uh chapter twelve, uh after they've had the resurrection of Lazarus uh the the people who are following him advance on towards Jerusalem and those come out from the city and and we have our triumphal entry and we remember that as a Palm Sunday The next chapter, chapter thirteen, Jesus washing the disciples' feet, and they have the Passover and the Lord's Supper. All of these chapters, if you're a disciple following along with him, you're hearing words and you're gaining situations where each of them are getting bits and pieces of things that are going to take place. some changes. And they're taking their notes. They're kind of following along and say, what am I hearing? Am I hearing all of these things correctly? Remember these people have had no idea of the betrayal, of the arrest, of the mock trial, of the beatings and crucifixions, those things which are to come Jesus knows them, but he's talking to them and kind of encouraging them, training them and building them up. They had feelings though, with all of their summaries, that Jesus was going to leave them. All of these situations. Chapter 10, 11, 12, 13, and so forth. There's something that's bothering them. As a matter of fact, you get to the end of chapter 13, and we read: Simon Peter said unto him, Lord Whither goest thou? Jesus answered him, Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now Well here's Peter saying, and be Peter being Peter, always sticking out, you know, let's hear what's going on, tell me the truth. He said, Where are you going that we can't follow? Tell me the truth, you know, plainly. You know, we we we're thinking about these very things. So Jesus, knowing what he's taught hearing Peter's questions and probably looking at the group at itself and seeing their faces filled with anxiety, some concern. What's going on? You know, we were approaching uh the city here, and he says to them in the first verse of fourteen, let not your hearts be troubled. It's in context of what he's been training them, teaching them about. In the context of what he knows is going to happen. And they don't. And what they already have heard, and it's been disturbing to them. And so he says: don't let your hearts be troubled. He's not speaking as a cardiologist, but he's speaking of one who knows their concerns, and that they will be going through a season of real hardship Even though he could tell them about all of those things, they will still not really accept it. Nobody accepted it until it actually occurred. And he says, I want you not to have these concerns The crucifixion is coming. Men would feel abandoned. So he says unto them, Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me. You know, one of the best antidotes for a troubled despondent heart is faith and trust in God, isn't it? It's simple, but it's a principle that we've come to understand, the Bible giving forth, and one upon which we have leaned And brethren, this is something more than verbal dissent. I trust in God. I trust Jesus. And yet my actions following those words don't necessarily say that I really believe what I've said I act despondent, even though I may say I trust in him. It's setting your heart to believe God instead of allowing the troubles to overwhelm you. It's true of myself. Even currently now, I find things come up and I hear about it, I think about it, and it rolls over in my mind in the early hours, and all of a sudden my heart's burdened with it And yet I say I trust in the Lord, and yet I have a response that not necessarily reflects upon that same trust. The things that I know currently, as well as the unknown future. The men of Israel cowered at those verbal assaults of Goliath of Gath. Remember how he stood forth boasting how he would tear them apart and destroy them? But a little lad felt that those boasts were nothing more than insults to the Most High God And he withstood him saying, How can you defile the living God? So in other words, he he wasn't allowing the obvious threats because Goliath was big. You know, his his his physical prowess, his his military understanding could have sliced them all to pieces. But he says, I would prefer to trust No, I don't prefer. I actually am trusting what God's word says to my heart rather than the power of the boasts that are around me. John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, we read of Christian and hopeful captured in giant despair by giant despair and taken into doubting castle. You ever read Pilgrim's Progress? Go there, yeah. Superbook. And they're taken into the uh the the prison and assaulted, I think it's something like four days. And as the time goes on, just one after the other after the other after the other, it's described as the nasty and stinking dungeon where we lie for four days, quote, without one bit of bread or drop of drink, or light, or any to ask what we did. The burdens that continue in life, whether it's these disciples or us here, can keep upon us tremendously. But as the passage goes on, Christian says, What a fool I am! Thus to lie in a stinking dungeon when I may well be free and walk at liberty. I have the key in my bosom called the promise that will, I am persuaded, open any lock in Dowding Castle. The promise, what God says versus what seems to be threatening and oppressing and overpowering, the logic is there. He understood it. The big picture here in John 14, Jesus is saying, do not allow your hearts to become troubled. It's just not saying don't stop right now, and then it's inferred in that, but he's saying don't allow this to approach your heart. the obvious attacks and the obvious threatenings that are now in that which is before you. Solomon Understood this, Proverbs 423. Keep, guard, protect thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Protect the heart, the seed of our emotions, the seed of all that we are. Keep it from those threats, those attacks. those enemies that would persuade us from anything other than holding on to what God's Word says. Solomon knew that the heart feast upon hatred or fear or jealousy, the entire man would be driven by fear or hatred or jealousy. Whatever I'm eating, whatever I'm devouring, whatever feeds my soul is the direction for that which my heart would go. In the same sense, however, for focused upon feasting upon the goodness and the mercy of God, there should be no occasion where fear or hatred or jealousy or any other trouble would grab a hold of my soul. What I'm eating becomes what I am. And if I allow those things to approach, and if I if if I forfeit the privilege of the key that that that Christian had of the promises of God, sure I'll remain locked up in the prisons of doubt and fear and concerns Let not your heart be troubled, Jesus says. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you I go to prepare a place for you. Believe also in me. Believe in what he says. Believe the words that he says about my father's house are many mansions. He says, believe the truths that I have here. That's an interesting saying, isn't it? In my father's house, we even had it in our in our Sunday school this morning talking about this. The Greek word used here for house doesn't necessarily mean a a physical structure like the temple that was used in the Old and New Testaments, not the concrete stone marble structure. It's a little different. Paul uses the same word in 2 Corinthians 5. 1, where he says, For we know that our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God A house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. You see, the Jews were very familiar with the idea of God's dwelling place, it was heaven. Jesus taught his disciples in the Lord's Prayer, what? Our Father, which art? In heaven. His place. That's where he is. So it was understood to them that was that residential place for him. So you see, Jesus was just merely presenting unto him, unto them, in my father's house in heaven are many mansions. Uh a mansion just literally means a large dwelling place. Uh it doesn't necessarily have to be as we often think about it as those multi-million dollar homes with pools and four-car garages and jacuzzi's and the whole bit. Uh that's how some people have often thought about it. And I don't want you thinking that Jesus was merely saying heaven is filled with such places But he's merely saying that heaven is not a place where overcrowding is ever going to be a situation that you'll ever experience. It is open, it is available. For all to whom he has called, there is plenty of room. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you. I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am, there ye may be also As you think about this passage, let me ask you, what were the disciples worried about? He starts out the verse, verse 1: Let not your hearts be troubled. What was their trouble? Was it the fact that Andrew was concerned whether there would be room enough in heaven for his whole family? Was it possible that James was wondering if he would have a four or five-bedroom mansion Or how about Nathaniel? Was he troubled at the thought that he might not be able to recognize Moses or Abraham in heaven? What were they troubled about? They were going to be abandoned. Remember leading up coming all those chapters, even chapter 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, there's talk about Jesus. What? I'm gonna have leaving him. He's gonna be dead. He's gonna be crucified. And and as they got into the to the to the upper room afterwards Windows and doors all shut. Why? They were afraid because their master had left them. They're on their own. So Jesus, knowing these particular situations that they had. He says, let not your hearts be troubled. Don't allow that type of thinking to enter in. Don't let that be there. That's what he says. I go to prepare a place for you. I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also I will go. I have to go. But I'm not going to abandon you. I'm not going to leave you. That was their whole concern. That was his thought to present unto them. So that covers the future. And we cling to that too, don't we? I hope you do. We cling to that fact that those who have left are in glory. And that there is a place that has been prepared and we will see them once again. And however that works out, and that's a whole subject in and of itself, you know. Am I going to see you? Are they going to recognize? What age are they going to be? All that other little tidally stuff that we kind of spend a lot of time talking about. But Jesus says that it is prepared and I've prepared it for you and we rejoice in that. And that's what he's telling them. But again, he's talking about also the present. To these disciples, let not your hearts be troubled. For the future, don't worry, the future is okay. But what about the present? Go down to verse 16, the next section that we gave. And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter. Who is the first comforter? But himself. That's why the relationship between Jesus and the disciples was such a blessing. He was the comforter to them. He was their teacher. He was everything to them. That's why the attachment was made was so dear and beautiful. But he says, if these things are going to take place, I will send you another comforter, a guide, a friend, that he may abide with you How long? Forever. Now seal that in your mind. He's not saying future. He's saying, currently, forever, even the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him But ye know him, for he dwelleth in you, and shall be in you. Verse eighteen I will not leave you comfortless. I will come to you. Yet a little while the world seeth me no more, but ye see me, because I live, ye shall live also. Wow. He addressed it all. As the second person of the trade, the living God there, he understood everything that was to come up, but he says. As Jesus always did, he had great compassion for those that he was with. Those who were blind, those who had lost loved ones, those who were crippled, and all this, and his disciples, and their hearts were troubled He has compassion. He says, Don't worry, I'm not going to leave you comfortless. And those few brief moments after I go The spirit of God comes and resides and provides that great comfort. Now, did they understand it Probably not. But the pieces were there. The framework of it was there. That when he did go, they could say, wow, this is what he told me. This is now it's all being put together. Well that was a long introduction to a short message. Where are we? Psalm twenty-three, verse six Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Last week we looked at the Lord's provision for David. And naturally for ours through Jesus Christ. As David saw this relationship to the Great Shepherd, uh so we have through our Lord Jesus Christ. We talked about David's bold confidence in God's goodness and mercy, pursuing, chasing after, with the intent always to catch him, that God was always there to supply To meet those particular needs that David had. And he said that all the days of my life. And that's where we stopped. Verse 6 finishes though with a very similar confidence, the same basis of the confidence that David could say. God's goodness and mercy will chase after me all the days of my life. And he comes to this summary thought. And I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. The same thought, the same grasp, the same hanging on, is saying, goodness and mercy will be with me, I can say as boldly that I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Early in 1988, we felt the Lord leading us from our work in the Philippines to come to a little town in western Pennsylvania, Apollo, Pennsylvania. And we met with a small congregation there, about twelve folks. They had no home, no parsonage or whatever, so our residence was up in the balcony of the church Church went back to eighteen the building went back to eighteen seventy something, I believe. Um and there was an African American congregation up in the top, and then in nineteen twenty-three they went out to get their own uh church. And so they converted that balcony upstairs into two bedrooms, a living room, a bathroom, and then we shared a kitchen uh downstairs with with the congregation. And we did that for a number of years. Um and and we could say that we were never late for church, um, had no problem with clocks changing, you know, any of that kind of stuff Uh it was right there, no long distance travel or or anything. Is that what David meant? I will dwell in the house of we'd dwelled in the house of the Lord. You know, sometimes it seemed like forever, you know. But Is that what he meant? I would dwell in the temple? He was looking forward living in the temple? No. Hardly. David looked far beyond that. His confidence was far more than that. Listen to Psalm 27:4. One thing, one thing have I desired of the Lord. that I may seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord, and to inquire in his temple. David says that there's one thing I'm looking after. Did David have the temple, by the way, when he was king? He didn't. It was Solomon who built the temple. So he's not talking about a physical building of concrete, marble, you know, stone, or whatever like that. David's eye, David's heart was on far more than that. When Jesus came to these disciples, And he says, Let not your hearts be troubled. My father's house are many mansions. Was he offering them each, you know, 36,000 square feet, pools, jacuzzi's, tennis courts, and so forth Was that his offering? Would they have been satisfied understanding that? No. They looked for something even as David had sought. That I may dwell in the presence of the Lord all the days of my life to behold the beauty of the Lord. Is this offering is this presentation only for heaven? Is what was being offered David's prayer in Psalm 27. Was that only for when I go to heaven? Is what Jesus was offering to his troubled disciples at that time? He says Well, this is only going to occur after you die. You know? Is there no hope here on earth? Obviously not. Surely goodness and mercy will follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house in the presence of God after I die. No! I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. He had the confidence at that moment. David writes this. He says, I'm assured that as God's goodness and mercy follows me, pursues me in life I will also dwell in the presence of God, in his house, with him. Pursuing Christ Seeking to gaze upon his beauty is a daily discipline for us as Christians. And when I say discipline, I mean discipline. The presence of the Lord being offered unto us isn't some vision, but it's the assurance of the relationship that He has made possible through what He has done. on Calvary's cross, the empty tomb, and his resurrection in the heavens, sitting at the Father's right hand. He said, They are mine And when he says to the disciples, I will not leave you comfortless, I will send Spirit to you, that means the presence of God is with us. And for us to seek such, to look for, uh gaze upon the beauty of our Lord. Is a discipline because you know the world in which we live and the prince of the power of the air of this world doesn't want you gazing at that. He'd prefer you looking at all kinds of other things Satan would have us focusing upon the giant virus, the failing stock market, the news that is filled with horrible crimes, and whatever else drags me into Doubting Castle and throws me into the bonds of such a prison that doesn't allow me to see what God has offered me. And we've been down that road, you and I, as individuals, as couples, as a church, as as it is as believers in general. What Christ has offered unto his disciples, he tells us even the same. Don't let your hearts get into a place of troubles. You believe what you believe in God and what he says, believe what I say. Because I've prepared a place, there is prepared a place for you in glory, but The present relationship that you can have is forever, and that's what David was hungering for. That's what David was looking for. We should want to know and serve and love and obey Christ because we should desire Him above all else. Again, this vision does not come easy. When it comes to priorities of my day, when it comes to looking for that which is necessary. It requires discipline, the engagement of both mind and heart, and is a holy pursuit, that which I should strive after. But it doesn't come easy. And anything that obstructs our view must be abandoned. Over the past years, during my annual eye check, the optometrist says, Well, Keith. Looks like those cataracts are developing nicely, you know. He's kind of the comedian guy. He's got pictures of the three stooges around in his office, you know. He says, someday we're going to take care of those Mm someday it'll be all made clear. Someday those things that obstruct my vision. You know, wearing glasses was one thing, you know, that was wow, I can see But now the cataracts, you know, and everything else. Whatever obstructs my vision, the clarity of Christ that it ought to be in my life needs to be removed. It needs to be taken care of. Steps. On the flip side, anything that enhances our view of the Savior must be embraced Because nothing can prove to be lovelier to our souls, more worthy of our affections, or more glorious to our minds than Jesus. What would enhance that relationship? What would help me in that growth? And oftentimes that's the same coin. You know, this obstructs flip it over. Wow, this. So if I block that off, and if I get rid of that, all of a sudden I find on the other side, wow, this gives me time too or listening to that, or watching that, or reading this, or whatever it is that's involved in. You know, make those adjustments and all of a sudden there's profit in them. Christ is our pursuit in this life and in the next. Paul says, for me to live as Christ and to die is gain. To live. The vision of Christ is my goal in life. To dwell in the house of the Lord forever is another way of Paul, what Paul said. You know, to be in his presence, to allow that to be my constant companion. Friends, as we go about our daily work, do it with Christ in view. As we seek to parent our children and grandchildren, to love them and train them, do it through the prism, the keys of having Christ in view. Allow that to direct. As you read your Bible and pray, do it with Christ in view. It's not a matter of routine to check off another piece on my list that I've done, but it's in order that I might have that greater vision. That I might have that closer walk. That I might have a better confidence. Whoa look what happened to Peter. That happened to me. Look what happened to the psalmist. That happened to me. How we grow and how we develop in that relationship. Plead with him every morning to give you a greater vision of his beauty and thank him at the evening hours for the delights that he's bestowed upon you throughout that day. Start the day and say, Lord, give me an opportunity to see you better today. And it could be a challenge. You know, something that's knocking on your door and says, this doesn't look too good, but by his grace it's conquered. And when we finish the day and we look back and say, Wow, how did I get through that Well, how did we get through? Lord, you brought me through. We can connect the dots. Start and ask and then praise Him at the end of the day. As we pursue a vision of him by faith, his promises of vision of him by sight into this world come. Let this motivate us to the end. We do that because that is our heart's drawn labor to steal every slight view of him in the present and looking forward to the future that he holds We know by faith what our future holds. And that seems to be sometimes way down the road As we sat there with Mrs. Gensel in ninety-nine, you know, her road has been longer and longer and longer and longer, yet it's always been a constant of saying that God has walked with them down the road One of the sons says on our trips, he says, all nine of us in the car, he said, we would sing these songs, and so many of them were hymns. He says we'd come up to a light, he says, Dad would stop, and he said uh we'd all stop. And then the light would change green and we'd start singing again right where we left off. And he says that was part of it. It was It was what I grew up under. It's what I understood. It's what developed and formulated my life because that vision of Christ was sought after. Paul says, for now we see through a glass darkly, but then face to face. Now I know in part, but then shall I be known even as I am known. Uh we don't see everything perfectly, do we? Sometimes we'd prefer to have some clarity in what's taking place. What's gonna happen? What you know, a car wreck, you know, how are we going to get through this? You know, uh illness, how are we going to handle this? Or you know, the the this bill, or all of these other things, how are we going to handle it? Yet he says, don't let your heart be troubled Don't allow your heart to get into a place of trouble. You believe in the Father, you believe what he said. Well believe what I say too. Because I will not leave you comfortless. You will be allowed to go through some difficult times. But he has not abandoned us. Goodness and mercy has followed us And we shall, in his eternal state, right there, he is with us through every step of the way. Ask him in the beginning of the day. Walk with me, Lord, give me a better vision. And at the end of the day, thank him. Lord, you've been with me. You've carried me. You will not forsake me. Let's pray. Father, we um We all yearn for that day upon which we are called to heaven, whether at the end of this earthly life or in the rapture of the saints, where we see all those who have gone on before and understand completely and more fully as we are uh uh departed, divested from this earthly body and all of its limitations and and put on a glorious heavenly body And not only to be able to see those who have gone on before with great clarity and understanding, but to see our Savior. But even in this earthly existence, Lord, we recognize that you are with us. Your word states it clearly. And the battle that we are engaged in being a spiritual battle Would have our eyes and our hearts to be focused on things that have no value whatsoever in eternity By your grace, Father, each day may it be a closer walk. May we draw to a better understanding of what's been promised to us as your children. Which is ceded by the perfect payment that was made by our Lord Jesus Christ upon Calvary's cross, and that you will not leave us nor forsake us. That indeed goodness and mercy does follow us and shall all the days of our life. And we indeed will dwell in the house of the Lord through all eternity. For it's in our Savior's name. Amen.