It's a glorious day, isn't it? You know? As a child I remember Easter as really an emphasis in even in the community on the resurrection. Um and today, even in the news, you uh one mention of of somebody over in Rome doing something, you know. And beyond that, nothing Just nothing. Oh, the Easter egg you know, the weatherman sometimes they'll come out and they'll say, well, it'll be good for the kids getting out and searching for their candies, you know. Not even about those who are getting up and going to to to church, you know. And maybe it's a reflection of the time. I d I don't know. Um there's just a pushing away from it. But it it is a joyous, absolutely joyous time of the year. 2 Timothy chapter 1. Millie saw this on the bulletin and she says, Oh, is that a mistake? And he says, No. Second Timothy one be reading verses eight through ten You know, I find it most interesting and comforting that I didn't deal with this particular section when we were in 1 Timothy 1. Or I mean 2 Timothy 1. I I mentioned it and kind of added it to the part that we were working on. But as far as the particular details, I didn't give it the attention it deserves. Now on this resurrection morning, I see why the Lord had me kind of fly over a little bit fast. So we can come back and look at this. He wanted this passage for today. Beginning in verse eight. Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner. But be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God, who hath saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began. But is now made manifest by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who hath abolished death. and have brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. I just pause for prayer. Father, as our thoughts, at least here within these walls, are uh attended to uh the empty tomb. uh the real meaning for what uh the world refers to as Easter, this resurrection morning. Um we're thankful for your word. and that it can speak uh volumes as our hearts are sensitive to it and and willing to let your spirit be our teacher. So the things, Father, that you bring to our hearts' attention today through the eyes and the ear gates and allowing us to feed at this particular portion. uh may it be a blessing to us. And just not words that are good words to hear and words that are agreeable, but uh seeds that will plant uh be planted within our hearts, deep into the uh fruitful soil that it may produce that is an intended effect, not only today, but throughout life. Thank you for the victory in Christ Jesus that we have. In his name we pray. Amen. Here in the US, um and the statistic is is from 2019, but around 7,750 people die. in the US every day. Uh in the state of Maryland, about 144. That's about six people uh every every minute um or every hour. That's before the COVID. And again, those statistics and I think once this goes past those the particulars will come back in place But what makes this more than just a statistic is that sometimes the person who dies is our father, or our mother, or our spouse. Our child, our brother, or a sister. The statistic becomes personal When our children die, it takes the future from them. And when our parents die, it takes the past from them. It's it's a reality of life. It takes a part of us when a loved one dies. C. S. Lewis celebrated a marriage with Joy Davidman, and it was put together in a play. And then later on in the movie uh Shadowland, if you haven't seen it, I'd I invite you to do that. It's it's very good. Um it was a relationship that was short-lived uh joy took cancer. And when she died, Lewis wrote that uh it wasn't necessarily a pain that was in a particular place or a particular time But he said that her absence is like the sky spread over everything And I think he expressed that what pain he felt for the loss of his wife and what we experienced at the loss of a loved one. It goes over everything. It isn't just scheduled here or scheduled there, but that's what takes place. Every death is a loss. And loss brings pain, and pain causes uh caused by death is the price we pay for loving somebody. It's just the experience of us as human beings. Back on March twenty fourth, I drove down into Philadelphia for memorial service for Pastor David Jalaladin And uh church there in Philly was pretty much full uh with Pakistanis. There were probably a dozen or so of us with uh not black hair and not of Pakistani descent, but I could look across them and I could see how many of his congregation were there and those of the Pakistani community and how they loved the man and how his loss, and it was somewhat expected, but how his loss affected them. And then um his wife at the end got up and and gave a brief testimony and it was hard for her and I could tell it was painful for that expression of her love for her husband to be uh brought forth. Yet death not only comes to others we love, death will eventually come to us. Ernest Hemingley wrote this. He said, every man's life ends the same way. It is only the details of how we lived or how we died that distinguish one from another. It's true, isn't it? It comes to everybody. You know, it's just how do you know this person by what he did or how he died? That's really the specifics. King David's words to his son Solomon. He drew him in. He knew his time was short. Came for Solomon's approach to his bed. David says, I go in the way of all the earth. Lots of other great powerful things, but he says, this is the way it happens in life, David. This is what happens generations before that. Joshua brings to the attention of those listening. And behold, this day I am going the way of all the earth. A common hebraic phrase that just says, I'm doing what everybody else has done and what everybody else will do. Thirteen-year-old boy in Pittsburgh dies after collapsing from playing a football game in the park. 41-year-old Kobe Bryan, wealthy, athletic, extremely popular, finds his chapter closed in a helicopter ride. Rush Limbaugh ends his uh seven years with lung cancer. And I don't know how many of you knew Beverly Cleary. My boys read his books. author of over forty books, most of them children, at 104. You know, life moves along and and numbers don't always relate properly When God created Adam and Eve, placed them in the garden, he gave them some very powerful strong words. Of every tree in the garden thou mayest eat freely, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil thou shalt not eat of it, for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die. And they did, and they did. They ate of it and they died. They didn't listen to him. They didn't obey him. He did it and they did. And as we being children of Adam and Eve, we will also. And so will all those we love. No one will get out of this world alive. It's part of who we are. It's our makeup. It's life. Because of that, coming to grips with the reality of death is one of the major tasks that we face today. Every day that we get older, every day that we pass on. I remember my grandma living with us during a third of the year and get the newspaper and the first thing she did was go to the obituaries to see if any of her friends had gone on before her, you know. Uh that was grandma's habit. So has God given us Scripture to help us? It is God's intent to bring us along through this thing that we face. Of course, He has. He's provided that for us. The Apostle Paul writes in our passage today, beginning at verse 9, within verse 9. According to his purpose and grace, this is God. According to God's purpose, design, and the grace that He gives to us that which we don't deserve. Which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began, from all eternity past. God's plannedness, but is now made manifest from eternity past to this moment, Paul says It's all of a sudden been made understood, revealed, been made manifest by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who hath abolished Death, and have brought life and immortality to life through the gospel. What a powerful promise! I had a dear brother in Christ back in Western PA. Told me of his experience down at the VA hospital. Um he was a veteran from uh the beach in Normandy, uh passed through all of those trials and and uh almost at the age of ninety and went to the hospital and had some other things done and He says, uh, when I'm about to be released, Doc says to me, Well, Mr. Miller, he says, you're good till about a hundred. And he says, a hundred? He says, how can you say that? He said that's how long the battery in your pacemaker is going to last, you know. And he he he chuckled at that. And and those are promises, you know, he took lightly, but oftentimes Not understood as people think of life. Not much of a promise from the doctor for the Hindu. Reincarnation? How much of a promise is there? You know? What am I gonna come out as? You know? All my relatives? Am I gonna be like this? The Buddhist The Buddhist who considers these various stages of life in reaching nirvana, you know, but there's no assurance. Man, I just hope I can if I can possibly, you know, do enough good things. Possibly this summer you're gonna get the knock on the door. It's going to be from those p people smiling and and from the uh the the willingness of them trying to be one of the hundred and forty-four thousand, you know And he asks him, he says, how much assurance you have if you do it all right that you're going to be one of the 144,000. Well, I don't, you know. But here, God provides. Jesus, declaring in the Bible, brought forth life in immortality to light through the gospel. Paul's not just throwing out some good thoughts because he's about to die. Remember, he's in prison. Timothy, I want to encourage you. You know, here's some hopeful thoughts to think on. He tells them powerful truths. He says, Jesus brought life and immortality to light, revealed in the gospel Which means he had to die, had to be buried, he had to rise again from the dead and be received up into heaven. That's the picture of what we've got today. However, the phrase that I want to focus our attention on this morning is that which Jesus did to death. That which Jesus did to death. The Bible says that Jesus abolished, He destroyed death. He abolished a death. The original Greek word means to make thoroughly inactive. He didn't remove it. Kind of an in neat way of doing it But Jesus made, by what he had done upon not only the cross, but being raised back to life, he made death Inactive. Made it of no power, no worth, deactivated his power in his life and deactivated the life of the power of death in our lives. Yet how could he have done that? How could Jesus have done that? Well, first he experienced death just like everyone else. His humanity experienced to the fullest. Like every human being who lives on the face of this earth, Jesus knew the experience of death. That's a remembrance of Good Friday. You read through those passages. You try and place yourself into everything that he felt, and we can't. But he felt it in such a way. Romans, you know, learning from all of history, one of the most the most powerful ways that we can cause a man to suffer before he dies. You know. They knew exactly those pictures. Yet, it was no antiseptic experience for him. Some people would say, well, he's God Therefore, he had some superpowers and he didn't feel death, or he wasn't worried about it. He just went through the whole thing in order for it to be accomplished. Yet, as you read the prayers that he has there in Gethsemane, my father, if it be possible that this cup pass from me. He knows what's coming. He sees ahead. He sees the pain and the suffering and the loss of everything on him. He says, if it's possible. That this cup of suffering pass. Nevertheless, let thy will be done. And then he's on the cross at the end. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Not antiseptic, he experienced his father turning his back on him His eternal son, as he felt the wrath of God on him because of sin, Adam's sin, for all our sin. Jesus' life began in the womb and it ended in the tomb, just like all of our lives. He knew the reality of death. Far more than we ever will. And yet the difference is that Jesus came back to tell us about it. The death of Jesus was interrupted. The process of what we consider death interrupted by a resurrection. He knew it was coming. He told his apostles about it. Three days later, be risen from the dead. And so he did. Made himself alive. That they would know that he had abolished death. Romans 6. 9 says, Knowing that Christ has been raised from the dead dieth no more, death hath no more dominion over him. It has no power over him. Death has no power over Christ. Jesus abolished death by winning victory over it. But there's more. Did you ever see those things? You know, offer you this. Boys is a good deal. Wait, there's more. And this is this is absolutely overwhelming. It's not only enough that Jesus abolished death, but he provides for us. He changed death, not just for himself, but for all who are his own. Romans 6. 4 puts it this way Therefore, we being buried with him by baptism into death, that like Christ we should be raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we should walk in the newness of life. He made death inactive for him, but he also provided death being inactive for us. Newness of life, he talked about. But what does that mean, practically speaking? How can I then look at life differently than I would have otherwise? being without Christ or being in this world before uh Christ had ever come and did the work that he had done. What does it mean for us today that Jesus abolished death? Well, first of all, Jesus took the mystery out of death. In life, we learn primarily from experience. From experience, we learn, good or bad, what to do next. Matthew's got his permit, right? Yeah. He's going to get behind the wheel at times. You may not want to be in the parking lot when he's there. But he's going to learn from experience. You know. But he learns because the next time he gets in he's learned from that past experience. We all do that. That's what life is all about. Learning from those experiences for the next time. However, with death, there's only one time, isn't there? We can't go and die and then say, no, let me come back because I've experienced it once. Let me come back and do it differently. But Jesus did. Jesus experienced that, which we can't He experienced death and came back to tell us about it. And what he told us is that death has nothing to fear, for it simply brings us into the presence of God. What Christ experienced in death and in resurrection brings me to the place that I in Him experienced the very same truths. You can illustrate this truth by thinking of I don't know if you ever did, but we did, going on those vacations as a child. Maybe as a parent you had this. And you go way up to somewhere we'd go up into Canada and and on our way back it'd be that long trip and in the back of the station wagon or the van and you're back there and we little guys just fall asleep. And the next thing you do, you wake up in your own house in your pajamas and you, wow, what happened? Well little did you know that mom and dad Get the littles and they get 'em back up to bed. They get off their old girdy clothes and they put them on the pajamas and they tuck them in bed and they wake up in the morning. In the most simplistic way. That's what the Lord does. That that the presence of this world ends, the mystery of it, and then one day we awaken And we're in glory. He's taken off the old garments of our unrighteousness, and he's put on the righteousness of Christ, and when we awaken, we are not only in his presence, but we are dressed appropriately. How glorious, how powerful, what a beautiful picture to be held by Him. Death is like that. Somewhere in life's journey, we feel the same. The heavenly garments will be there forever. So death becomes abolished, the mystery is taken away, but secondly, Jesus dealt with the finality of death. Not being the mystery, he dealt with that which we consider as finality. Because we usually think of death as the enemy that brings an end to life. And this concept is often experienced in our own lifetime, as we've seen. And we share an illustration from Pastor Brian Harbour. He wrote, My family moved from Ganado in South Texas to Rogers in Central Texas. It was hard for me as an eleven year old to move, primarily because we leave behind our friends. My two best buddies, Calvin and Danny, both lived in the country. With both I enjoy horses. Both were good friends. Not long after I moved, my friend Danny was trying out a new horse, and somehow the horse stumbled and fell, and fell on top of Danny and killed him. Although I never articulated it, what I felt in the inside is that this enemy called death had destroyed my friend. He saw death as the end of something. He saw that which is which ended his life in his own experience. He says, that's how I looked at it for many, many years. The view of death as a destroyer prevails in the world in which we live, for a majority of its inhabitants. They view it and you you read a book or you listen to a commentary or you watch a movie and they make it out as something is absolutely powerfully horrible. And yet, that's not how Jesus saw it. The Bible says that Jesus abolished death and showed us that death is not a destroyer, but a rearranger. A rearranger. To clarify that, we can think about it this way: life begins as we know it with two cells carried in mama's womb. And for nine months we live within that womb, a place of of safety, of security, a place of of nourishment, a place that becomes really Home, you know. And then all of a sudden, we're thrown out. He says, it's time to come out And you could almost view that as death. Yeah, I'm getting thrown out of my comfort zone, the place that I've been been nourished and taken care of and provided for, and it is just so nice here, but then I'm thrown out into the world. Oh, the tragedy of that finality. But then pretty soon we find out that I can learn. I grow. I'm nourished. I I I find I I I I adapt to my surroundings and this Instead of the nine months, uh three score years and ten becomes our familiarity, our comfort zone, until we come to that place in time. Where all of a sudden we have to face that finality, that thought of death as being something so tragic, so powerful, the trauma of disruption And yet when Jesus abolished death, he took the finality out of it. It's not an end, but it is just a moment of transition. We shall never die. As a child of God, we shall never, never, never, never, never die. Into eternity we go, into the presence of Christ. 1932, Tommy Dorsey, a Jasmine songwriter, was singing at a revival meeting in St. Louis, Missouri. And he received some awful news. This young performer handled a telegram which read, Your wife is dead. He left her go on this this musical tour. She was pregnant and in that absence She withheld uh fell asleep, and both she and the child died. Uh struggled immensely, pained, suffering within his heart. He rushed home and was there for uh the burial. Both mom and child were buried in the same casket Dorsey fell apart, he wrote. His soul, his inner peace was shattered, even his faith. It was difficult the struggle of life. But the following Saturday after the funeral, he said that he drew close to a piano and sat down and started to fiddle with the keys. And the Lord brought a melody to his heart, some lyrics formed in his mind, and out of the shadow of death came these words that we often sing today. Precious Lord, take my hand. Lead me on, let me stand. I'm tired. I'm weak. I am warm. Through the storm, through the night, lead me on to the light. Take my hand, precious Lord, lead me home. That's our faith. That's the reality of what the apostle presented to Timothy. Because of Paul's own experience and absolute comfort and assurance that Paul says, I can be persecuted because I know The moment I leave, the moment I open my eyes from this prison cell or whatever it is that I'll be executed from, I'll be in the presence of God. And Tommy Dorsey had that same principle of truth. It's our faith. That's where our text gives us reason for hope. According to God's own purpose and grace. Which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began, but now is made manifest, seen, understood by the appearing. Mary Magdalene, Peter, the the two in the road to Emmaus, eventually the five hundred, all of those people, to the appearing, they saw him, no doubt about it. Of our Savior Jesus Christ, who hath abolished death and have brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. So Paul says there's now no fear. There's no tragedy. He says the mystery has been taken away. The finality has been taken away because Jesus has abolished it. Yes, it'll still be in our dictionary, and yes, the obituary columns will still be written. And yes, we'll still have the services of of rejoicing and memory and so forth. But the reality is once death comes, it is only a word. And out of that comes life. For that one who has left us now in the presence of Christ, and now for all of us who have trusted in him. Because Jesus abolished death, we are able to face this apparent mystery and finality because our Savior lives. So shall we. Every single one in Christ. Irrespective of what they may tell you, I've got a good feeling, I've got this, I've got that, I've got that. If they don't have Christ as the center of their life, Savior, Lord in their life, then they don't know the Savior that the apostle has presented to us. I trust the truth of these things seal upon us because of this day, because Jesus is risen from the dead, that we have tremendous hope. Hope that's just not a, I guess so, but hope that is an assurance of more than anything else you'll ever experience in life. Let's pray. Father, we pause at this moment and wish to thank you for the grace that is presented to us as your children. And to those here in this auditorium that have experienced the pain and the suffering of loss, to those who will experience the pain and suffering of loss. We're thankful for your spirit that works grace in each of us, that brings us peace and comfort. The apostle writes to the church at Corinth, and he says that you are a God of all comfort. And the comfort that we receive by your Spirit enables us to comfort others. Not with just sympathy, but with truth, that as we awaken from this world, we awaken in glory. Put behind all of the tears and the pain and the suffering and the hurt that has been part of that which we experience as children of Adam. But we are really children of the living God, redeemed from before the foundation of the world, seated and promised. That which not only Paul, but all who live in Christ, have the assurance of. Grant us, Father, peace within our hearts, encouragement to live for you indeed that the Saviour has risen from the dead, and all we who are in Christ shall also one day be with him, and all the saints who have gone on before. Worthy of praise, O Fat, in Jesus' name, Amen.