News items from this past week to begin with, and one is about the uh The vaccines that they're given to everybody now. They had a headline that a Nobel Prize winner warns vaccines facilitate development of deadlier COVID variants. urges public to reject the shots. And this is a guy who specializes in that type of thing, got the Nobel Prize for Research with HIV. And he says that it's like with antibiotics, you know, the more antibiotics you take, the more resistant they get And it's the same thing with these vaccines. It's going to make more resistant and worse strains of the uh COVID. And so that's an interesting thing. And then another thing is, there was a headline this past week or so. Who is Edwin Poots? Anybody know? Edwin Poots, not exactly a household name, but anyway, he's uh here the headline says fundamentalist Christian and former farmer elected leader of the DUP uh the majority party in Northern Ireland. And uh they tag him here as a fundamentalist Christian. And you know uh The thing is, is he's got basically the most important post in the country in the world today in Northern Ireland And uh, you know, fundamentalist Presbyterians are very rare in the world today. Very rare. And there's not very many of them. Of course, I go back to the Bible says, the days will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. And so I believe the fundamentalist Presbyterians have the soundest doctrine around, and people won't endure it. And so there's very few of them around. And there's just the Bible Presbyterian Church, a few independents, and the Free Presbyterian Church. Well, anyway This guy who just got elected there as head of the government in Northern Ireland is a free Presbyterian, fundamentalist Presbyterian. over there. Of course he's of the same group as Paisley in the past. And uh anyway, so uh we might think that we're so small and tiny and we have no influence But uh we're not that small and tiny as fundamentalist Presbyterians. And in fact, going back, uh Dan Quayle said that he was a Bible Presbyterian, the vice president under Ronald Reagan. Well, let's go back to our Bibles to Revelation chapter 20. Revelation chapter 20. Revelation chapter 20. And we'll start reading with verse 7. Revelation 20, verse 7. We're continuing in our study of Revelation. We're getting to the end of it here. And we're up to 20 out of 22 chapters. And Revelation is the great systematic presentation in the Bible of prophecy. And it goes systematically through the time of the end. And you know, you have bits and pieces of prophecy all through the Bible, but here it's systematic in the book of Revelation. And it's chronological. And here we're getting toward the time of the end. In verse 7, and when the thousand years are expired, Satan shall be loosed out of his prison. And shall go out to deceive the nations which are in the four quarters of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together to battle, the number of whom is as the sand of the sea And they went up on the breadth of the earth, encompassed the camp of the saints about, and the beloved city, and fire came down from God out of heaven and devoured them. And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are, and shall be tormented day and night forever and ever. Let's stop there. Let's bow in prayer, O Lord. We pray that thou would bless the study of thy word this morning. Forgive us of our sin. Help us to be the Christians that thou would have us to be. Give us light so far as the time of the end. In Jesus' name. Amen. So here we have, we've been going through the book of Revelation, and you know, Revelation is chronological, chapters 2 and 3, the seven churches. 4 through 18, the tribulation period, 19, Christ comes back. 20, the millennium period, and now we have the battle of Gog and Magog. here in this section of Revelation chapter 20. And so God is wrapping things up with this world here. In Revelation chapter 20. We just had the millennium period, the thousand-year reign of Christ on the earth. And Satan is bound He's kept in prison, and he deceives the nations no more for a thousand years. Well, we're not going to dwell on it today. We talked about the millennium last time. But we just say a word about Satan being bound. Does Satan seem to be bound this morning? That he seemed to be bound as one of our members was driving to church this morning and Satan wanted to harass her. And you know the thing is, is that Satan is not bound today He's out there opposing. And he's opposing the gospel. And our all millennialist brethren would tell us that Satan is bound today. But he's not bound today And uh he's out seeking whom he may devour. And of course they say that that binding is just, that he's bound because the gospel goes forth to the ends of the world But that's an artificial distinction there. And you know, you look back at the Old Testament. Was it Satan that was keeping the gospel from going forth in the Old Testament? No, it wasn't. It was not in God's program at that time for the gospel to go forth in its power It wasn't that Satan was keeping it back. You know, God did send the gospel forth sometimes at Nineveh, the great revival at Nineveh. We had people come to the Lord in the Old Testament, Naaman, Ruth, and others. So the devil didn't keep the gospel from going forth in the Old Testament, but he hindered it, and the devil is still out there hindering the gospel today. And it's just like it's always been down through history until the time of the end. And so here we have verse 7. When the thousand years are expired, and once again, what is the plain sense of thousand years? What is it? Thousand years. Years, 365 days times a thousand. And you know, when we go to the Bible, it's very dangerous not to take the clear sense of the words. And many of our millennialist brethren don't do that. They make this thousand years into being not a thousand years, but a long period of time. But it's repeated over and over again, thousand years here. And when the thousand years are expired, Satan shall be loosed out of his prison. He was in prison. He's loose now. And he shall go out to deceive the nations which are in the four quarters of the earth, Gog and Magog. To gather them together to battle, the number of whom is as the sand of the sea. And so we've just had this thousand-year reign of Christ on the earth, Christ has been reigning. The devil has not been deceiving people. Of course, there's still been sin, because sin comes out of our human hearts both personally and corporately in society in the world. But you know, Satan hasn't been deceiving. Christ has been ruling. And the saints have been ruling with him. It's been a time of light and justice in the earth for a thousand years. And after that thousand years of light and justice, Christ right here When the devil is loosed, what do the people in the world want to do? They want to all rise up in rebellion against Christ. And you know, it just shows the total depravity of man. Total depravity of man apart from the Spirit of God working in hearts. And it's just after all that they've seen, Christ reigning on the earth, they're ready to rise up against him as soon as Satan is loosed. So Satan goes all over the world, the four quarters of the earth. He gathers God and may God to battle. You remember we just read in our responsive reading from Ezekiel. Ezekiel 38 and 39 have this battle of Gog and Magog. Gog and Magog. You notice when we were reading in our responsive reading, it had those names right there, Gog and Magog. They were right there. And so this is back in Ezekiel, we had this battle And so the devil gathers them together as the sand of the sea. And verse 9, and they went up on the breadth of the earth and compassed the camp of the saints about, and the Holy city, the beloved city. And so you remember during the tribulation period, the devil was after the saints, and the saints were per protected in the wilderness, primarily Israel at that time And now the same thing is repeated again here at the end of the millennium. The same thing. The saints are gathered together, they're protected there in Israel. And the Satan and all of his armies are surrounding them. We have the beloved city here. The beloved city. What city is that? Well, that's Jerusalem, the beloved city. Uh, you know, I I was just watching a uh video this past week of Jerusalem where they go around to all the different sites in the Holy Land. A lot of people like to make pilgrimages to Israel, to Jerusalem, and see the holy sites. But you know, when you get right down to it, when you go over there, there's almost no sites over there that anybody can be sure of That something actually happened right here. They can't be sure about practically anywhere in Israel. And they can just be sure of it was in this area, in this city area that these things happened. You know, they had the Via Dola Rosa where they had the stations of the cross and all that But nobody knows that Christ really went down that road. He might have. That's what it's always. He might have and he might not have. But anyway, that's the beloved city. And it's been the beloved city down through history. And today, they are attacking the beloved city right now, today, over there and have been. And they always like to attack it. And you know, uh, in this problems with Israel and the Palestinians, it's not so much that the Palestinians want land, it's more that they want to destroy the Jews. is what they want to do. But anyway, so we have the beloved city. It was still going on after the millennium. They're gathered together there. The saints are gathered together and fire comes down from heaven and devours Gog and Magod, nations that are gathered together at the time of the end. Uh Gog and Magog have been associated with Germany and with uh Russia in the past. But anyway, here's the name for the whole army and assemblage that goes against the Lord here. Fire comes down from heaven. The Pentecostals like to call it talk about how they call down fire in their meetings. Well, that's a thing of judgment we see m most of the time in the Bible. So the fire came down from heaven. And verse 10: the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire, and the false prophet and the beast. The satanic trinity, they're all cast into the lake of fire. And you know at this time, right now, we have heaven and we have hell and this earth. But you know, things are going to change here at the time of the end. There's no longer going to be hell. Hell is going to be cast into the lake of fire. There's going to be the lake of the fire at the end. And there's not going to be heaven as we have today. There's going to be the new heavens and the new earth there at the time of the end and the new Jerusalem. So here we have the devil was cast into the lake of fire, and they're tormented there day and night forever and ever. That's not a very pleasant thing to think about. even for the devil, or even for uh Adolf Hitler or whoever, and be tormented day and night Forever and ever. But you know, God is not mocked. We had our call to worship this morning. God is not mocked whatsoever a man soweth. That will he also reap. And how much wickedness has the devil sown? How much has the beast and the false prophet sown? Well, they have to pay for it. You reap what you sow. And that's for everybody, everywhere, for all time. We reap what we sow completely with justice. Well that's the battle of Gog and Magog. Then we go on to verse 11. And here we have the great white throne judgment. After the battle of Gog and Magog. And I might mention before I get into this, you know, back there in Ezekiel 38 and 39, it has a long section there. After the battle of Gog and Magog, they have the cleanup after the battle. And it says there they burned the instruments of war for seven years. And number one Uh it wouldn't be very easy to burn instruments of war today and our instruments of war today. But, you know, if you think about the fact for a thousand years there was no war. And so people went back to primitive ideas on war and had stuff made out of, will have stuff made out of wood and different things, and maybe some advanced type of wood, I don't know what But anyway, and so they'll be burning it. And they'll be cleaning up for seven years. And it has their Ezekiel 38 and 39. They go through the land and they find the bodies of the people from Gog and Magog. They put a sign by it and people come by and bury the bodies. And they're burying and cleaning up and burning the stuff for seven years. They don't take any wood out of the f uh woods, they just burn all these instruments of war for seven years And you know, I was looking at that, it seems like at the beginning of the millennium period, there's a seven-year period, the tribulation. And it seems like maybe God has that matched with a seven-year period after the Millennium Period, where the cleanup is done after the Battle of Gog and Magog before you have the new heavens and the new earth and the great white throne judgment, which we have here. That's what it seems like. So let's go on into verse 11. And I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from whom the earth and the heaven fled away, and there was found no place for them. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and the books were opened. And the book, another book was opened, which is the book of life And the dead were judged out of the things which were written in the written in the books according to their works And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and the death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them, and they were judged every man according to their works, and death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. So here we have the great white throne judgment. And it says here: when God sits on the throne, the earth and the heaven flee away. And I think this is the time when God destroys this present world. This present world will be destroyed at this time. They flee away, and we're going to have a new heavens and a new earth. So they flee away. There was found no place for them. And so here we have the judgment. And here is the judgment of the unsaved. They stand before God, small and great, and books were open. And you know, God has a perfect record of everything everyone has ever done. A perfect record. As I've said before, nobody in this world ever gets away with anything. They might rob a bank and nobody catches them, but they don't get away with it. They might murder many people and nobody knows about it. But they don't get away with it. Nobody gets away with anything. There's books where everything is listed that everyone has ever done in their lives. And those books will be opened. And the books of your life and my life, God has a perfect record of everything, has perfect justice And so the books are opened, and the book of life is opened. And if you're in the book of life, you're not in this judgment here, it would seem, and you're in the judgment seat of Christ But here they have the book of life, and it's these people are without excuse. They look in the book of life, their name is not there, and of course, and they're judged out of their works. According to their works. Everybody is going to be judged according to their works. Christian and non-Christian. Everybody according to their works. And of course, those two different categories, the Christian in heaven with the Lord, and the unsaved in hell, apart from the Lord. But they're all judged according to their works. And how does that work out? Well, it works out that there's a great gulf fixed between heaven and hell, but the saved up in heaven, they're judged according to their works. For their rewards. More rewards or less rewards. The people in hell are judged according to their works for more punishment or less punishment. And so we're going to see a little bit more about that as we go on here. But anyway, they're judged out of their works. And then verse 13: the sea gave up the dead that were in it. You know, uh people are buried at sea and uh their bodies disk disintegrate in the sea, the fish eat them or whatever. And but can God reconstitute them? Can God raise them up? Yes, he can. He can do everything. And of course Uh I talked about creation cremation different times and when somebody's cremated, can God still rec resurrect him? Sure. But we don't want to be the one, you know, uh destroying the body completely. Uh it's not in keeping with the resurrection. And so the sea gave up the dead. Death and hell gave up the dead. They were judged everyone according to their works. Death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. Whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. So at the time of the end, there's a new heavens, the new earth The lake of fire. Let's go back to Matthew chapter 11. Matthew chapter 11 and verse 20. Matthew chapter 11 and verse 20, talking about the unsaved being judged. Matthew chapter 11 and verse 20 Matthew 1120. Then began he to upbraid the cities wherein most of his mighty works were done, because they repented not. Woe unto thee, Khorazin, woe unto thee, Betheda! For if the mighty works which were done in you had been done in Tyre and Zidon. They would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. Now, is there degrees of punishment in hell? A lot of people don't believe that, but you know it's taught right here. It's taught right here. More tolerable in the day of judgment. More tolerable. And here we can see that it's dependent not only on what we do, but also how much light we have. And if we have a lot of light and we reject it, that's more to our account for punishment than if we didn't have much light. And you know, it's often been said, well, what about the people that never got the gospel? What about the people that never had the gospel presented to them? How could God send them to hell? How could God judge them if they've never had the gospel? Well The thing is, they are going to be judged less than the ones that did have the gospel and rejected it. But God, of course, we believe that He chooses who's going to be saved. And he's chosen his elect. And of course, that's why we go out and are missionaries. You know, if somebody who has never heard goes to heaven because he never heard Well then it'd be better not to go out and preach the gospel to them and have the chance that they'll reject it. No, we have to give out the gospel to them, try to get them to get out of hell and go to heaven. So here, Tyre and Zidon, those are Phoenicia just north of Israel, they were known as ungodly cities. And here it says that they would have been in, they're going to be in better shape at the judgment than these cities where Jesus preached, in Khorazan and Desseda. Because Korazan and Beth Seda had all that light, the preaching of Jesus, him right there, and they rejected him It'll be more tolerable in the day of judgment for Tyre and Zion. And then you go on here And thou Capernaum, which art exalted unto heaven, shall be brought down to hell. For if the mighty works which have been done in thee had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day. But I say unto you that it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment than for thee. And uh that brings up a question. Uh here Jesus says, if if mighty works had been done in Sodom, they would have come to the Lord. So then why didn't God have mighty works be done there? Because it was not according to his choice, according to what he chose and what he didn't choose. And he did not choose for Sodom to have those works done there. And of course, uh we had in Sunday school this morning it was mentioned the Sodomites. That name comes from Sodom. It was a very wicked city, known for its homosexuality. But it says here that Capernaum will be worse off in the judgment than Sodom. You know, today you can go over to the Holy Land and you can see the ruins of Capernaum. Capernaum there, the ruins of the synagogue there in the Capernaum and all those things. But you know, they had Jesus there, but they had great light, but they rejected it. And it'll be bad in the day of judgment for them. And then let's go now further. Let's go over to actually Over to 2 Corinthians chapter 5. 2 Corinthians chapter 5. 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 8. And here now we get to the Christians. The Christians. 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 8. We are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. Wherefore we labor that whether present or absent we may be accepted of Him. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. that every one may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men But we are made manifest unto God, and I trust unto you, and I trust also are made manifest in your consciences So here we have the judgment seat of Christ. We have the great white throne judgment for the unsaved. We have the judgment seat of Christ for the Christians. And it says, absent from the body, present with the Lord. You know, a lot of people believe in soul sleep. They believe that people die, they sleep until the judgment. But no, it says, absolutely from the body, present with the Lord. As soon as we die, we either go to heaven or we go to hell. And we don't have a time of sleeping. No soul sleep. As from the body present with the Lord. Remember, Jesus said to the thief on the cross, Today thou shalt be with me in paradise. You know, the people that believe in soul sleep, they explain away that verse. They say that Jesus said unto him, Today, you will be in paradise. They put the today with I say today instead of today I will be in paradise. But that's not how the Greek reads. Today you will be with me in paradise. And so absent from the body present with the Lord, we hope to be accepted with the Lord, whether present or absent And we must all appear, all Christians have to appear before the judgment seat of Christ. And here it says that we'll receive, according to that we have done, whether good or whether evil And we'll have our rewards according to that. And is it selfish to want rewards in heaven? No, it's not selfish. Jesus tells us to want rewards. He tells us how to get rewards. The Bible's full of that. And we shouldn't want those rewards. We should not want the rewards here on the earth We want the rewards in heaven. And sometimes God gives us rewards in this earth, many times, but uh our our true reward is in heaven. At the end of our day, just like a workman at the end of his day, he receives pay and rest. At the end of our life on this earth, we receive pay and rest. And as long as we're still on this earth, God still has a job for us to do. Why is Mike Britton still on this earth? God still has a job for him to do. of some witness to be given. And uh, you know, uh the thing is, is that we will all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, and we need to be busy in our lives serving the Lord. You know, back in the book of Ecclesiastes, we have the book of Ecclesiastes, back with Solomon. Solomon was the wisest man who ever lived. And he reasons through the book of Ecclesiastes as to life on this earth. And he says, Vanity of vanities, all is vanity, saith the preacher. And he sees that everything is vanity on the earth as earth and he tries different things to live for. And he lives for getting wisdom, like a lot of our researchers today. He lives for pleasure. He lives for all these things. He lives to get things. And what does he find at the end of the book of Ecclesiastes? He finds, let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man For God shall bring every work into judgment, whether it be good or whether it be evil. And so we should be living our whole life In light of judgment day, that God is going to give us according to what we've done. And we want to be earning rewards during our life. We want to have a lot of rewards in heaven. And we reap what we sow. Everybody reaps what he sows. So we need to be busy for the Lord each day that we walk here on the earth. There in the resurrection chapter in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. It goes through all the proofs of the resurrection, and then it comes to the last verse of the chapter there in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. It says, therefore Therefore we have the resurrection. Therefore, my beloved brethren brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as ye know that your labor is not in vain. in the Lord. And our labor is not in vain in the Lord. The Lord will reward us according to what we have done. And so we should be living in the light of that day of judgment day. And uh, you know, we need to come to grips with that. The world does not come to grips with that. The world doesn't want to think about when they die. But you know, we need to think about that. Think about that day of judgment. And praise the Lord. The Lord's paid his debt, paid our debt of our sin. He died on the cross for our sins. And we need to trust in him as our Lord and Savior. We need to give our life to him. We need to pray for the forgiveness of sins. We need to serve him with our whole hearts. And that's how we get to heaven. And then after that point, God wants us to serve him. He wants us to be earning rewards. He wants us to be working and busy for him. We don't get to heaven by our good works. But they determine our rewards, and that's what he wants us to do for him, because we will all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. Let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we pray that thou would bless these thoughts to our hearts. And oh Lord, help us to be busy in our lives. Help us to be looking forward to that day of judgment. the judgment seat of Christ and help us to be ready for that day. And O Lord, we pray that thou would just bless the gospel as it goes forth today. We pray that people might see that everyone reaps what they sow. In Jesus' name, Amen