Today we're looking into Romans chapter two, and I've been going through Romans verse by verse when I when I come here. Which is once a month, which we enjoy. I enjoy coming here. We look forward to to being here with you. This is a great church. Hope you realize it. Sometimes you don't realize it. Because you come here every week and you're sort of familiar with everything. This is a great church and you've got great potential and you're doing wonderful work. And I expect big things of this congregation. So keep on praying, getting the word of God out, and one day we'll have this place filled. And um I can see that happening. God has his handle in this congregation and every time you know and it's a drive, you know, it's a drive for an hour and a half or an hour and twenty minutes or whatever. But you know you always look forward to doing it because, you know, we love this congregation. Okay, so what I'm trying to say here, Romans chapter two, I want to comment on verse number four, Romans two four. However, Just by way of looking at the context, we know that Romans chapter 2 verse 1, not you know I preached on this what four or five weeks ago, so I expect you to understand all that, but no But ro verse one is about judging others. If you read through that, that's basically the thought there. Verse two is about God's judgment. So here we're talking about judgment. Verse 3 is basically about God's judgment. And verse number 4 is about the goodness of God. And we we we talked about some of these in in some detail. So let me see, where shall I pick up here where I left off? I don't want to repeat myself what I've done here before Um so why don't we look here in chapter four, Romans chapter two, verse four. I'm going to start with that. And of course I don't know if you want to hear the the Greek rendering of it. Hey tu playutu tas blah blah blah but you know anybody here know Greek or otherwise no sense we don't go on through that, right? Okay, so verse 4. Tells us, or despisest thou the riches and goodness and forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leads you to repentance. Now since this is God's word, let's pray together. Our Father, we ask now that you will. You will be the teacher, Lord. Get me out of the way. I'll just add confusion. Get me out of it. But in some way use my mouth, you lose my lips in speaking to present the truth of God's word to bless this congregation, Father. This is a wonderful, wonderful congregation. We call down your blessing on them. And they will be and do all that you would have them to be, that they'll meet their potential and just do great things using their spiritual gifts that you have given to them. And we thank you for the wonderful blessing that is here. Now Lord, help me to communicate something helpful to these people, Lord. Help me to do this If it's just me here, it's going to be a mess. If you're involved, it'll be a great experience. Please help us, I pray, through Christ our Lord. Amen. Alright, so let's just take the way I like to go through it, sort of boring, but you know, I think if you bear with me, you may get something out of it, hopefully. So I just take the verses verse phrase by phrase, verse by verse So the first thing I see here is the word or despisest thou. So let's ask, since this is a divine and errant inspired word, this is not just Some frivolous writing of someone, we gotta take every jot and tittle very seriously. Despise us thou. That comes, by the way, from the word cataphonio Despise thou. And it literally means to think down upon or think against. Other definitions in your concordance says that it means to regard one as nothing, or to despise, to utterly despise, or to treat with contempt. So this is a strong word. This word despiseth thou or cata flanio. Now, does anybody come to your mind when I say these things You know, some people that we know are very pleasant and encouraging and we like to be with them, and other people, because they're people, may not be as encouraging. And and when I'm thinking about different kind of personalities, what came to my mind here was it was uh my own father. Now you never you didn't make my father My dad uh um actually um quit school uh in um tenth grade. He attended um Upper Derby High School in Pennsylvania. And because of the depression he had to drop out and go to work. And and that and but my dad was a smart man but never had education. Couldn't get never did get back to school But yet he was was a very smart person, but he knew the had a great personality. That was his strength. He he could get along with everybody. And um He won me to Christ through his influence. He was a Christian. He would bring us to the Marble Presbyterian Church every Sunday and and uh Through this we we got saved and uh so what I'm trying to say is my dad was a very gregarious, friendly, cheerful man. Now I'm trying to teach by opposite. So you got that picture, but I want to talk to you about the opposite of this. So who would that be? Someone who is down, sad, maybe angry? Hostile. That's the word we have here in our text, the word despising. So we're looking here or Or thou that despisest, looking at this word, despising. And what are you despising? In this text that we're looking into today, what is being despised? What are we despising? The riches of his goodness. Let's take that phrase for a minute. The riches of his goodness. Now the word riches, pleutos Going back to the original rendering, and it means that which is possessed by God and exercised toward men. See that which is possessed by God, it truly means what God gives, what God has, what he distributes, is the meaning there. God possesses riches and blesses his people with them. That's really Trying to take that weak nonsense out and put it so we can understand that's what it means. That God possesses great riches and he blesses his people with those riches. Now think for a moment about that statement before we move on. Hasn't God blessed you? Every one of you here, think how you were blessed. And we take this for granted. You know, we're American citizens, so we expect to have liberty, freedom, money, lights, air conditioned, heating, cars, you name it, we've got it, right? And we take it for granted. We don't think about it. Do you ever think about that? You get up in the morning, you get on, you maybe go to work, you have a nice job, you have a beautiful car and all this, and come home, you have plenty of food, and you don't really even think about it. But people in the other world do. They think about it and are aware of it. That God has blessed us as individuals, but He's blessed us as a nation as well. Just think for for you, your life You know what you can do that thousands of people would give everything they have to be able to do? And you know what that is? This. Walk. To be able to walk. How many people are in hospitals or in wheelchairs because they can't do this? And we do it every day and don't even think about it. And there are those who do this but with great pain. Oh my arthritis or whatever. And we do it and we feel good. But the point is we take a lot for granted. And we're people blessed of God What about use the word th thinking? We can think. We're rational creatures and we're able to do this. Although I do read sometimes people I'm not sure if if they're thinking or not, or I'm probably the one that's not thinking properly. But look at this You can hear. You can hear me speak. You can see. Do you ever work with a person who is blind? I worked with a blind person a couple times. You know, they got that stick and and they can't see. I'm thinking, oh my. So he'd have to go around here like this and try to feel his way around. And and you know what? I take I just walk right up to it and take it for granted. Think of the blessings you have right here and then think about this. You're saved. You love the Lord. Now, don't quote me on this, it's my understanding that of all the people that have ever lived and ever will live, A minority number is going to heaven. The majority aren't going to heaven, if I understand scripture properly. But the point is, you are. You believe in Jesus. God saw fit that you had either the parents or the church or the circumstances for you to come unto the Lord. And not only that. If we look clearly in scripture, God gave you the faith, the trust in Christ. This is such a blessing, such a blessing here. And so and then and then we could go on on with this kind of Thinking, you know, we're saved, and then we have heaven to look forward to. Think about that. Now I hope we all like each other, because we're going to spend a lot of time with one another, like eternity, right? That's what you've got waiting for us. If you know the Lord Jesus Now, I'm getting to know you over the coming here. How long have I been coming here? About a couple a year or two maybe now? So I you know I look as I say I look forward to this. But I don't know all of you like closely So maybe there's somebody here today that's not saved. I don't know. You could be w just religious or like fellowship. I don't blame you. We love coming here. Do you all know the Lord Jesus? Have you received him into your life? Put your faith and trust in Christ. And if you haven't, obviously, you know, I would like to Convince you to do that very thing. And then also think about the family that you came from. I mean you're all well, for the most part, educated people and and pleasant to be with because you had good upbringing. So these are the things that we have Not everybody has this. And there are many people many people in the world who have none of this. So God has blessed us. He has enriched us And I'm trying to come play on this word here, the riches of his goodness. And certainly the riches of his goodness to us is abounding. Not only because we are saved, that's the best blessing, but we have all these other things to give us comfort in living. So yes, we are experiencing his riches. But now this text goes on to talk about those riches. And what's the next word? The riches of his goodness. Let's talk about that. The race to taste is the word riches, and it means that which is upright, that which is righteous. It refers to a certain kind of heart found in God when placing his grace and mercy upon us Think about this. When God placed his grace on you, and again, he did not place it on everyone. As a matter of fact, he did not place it on the majority of the human race, but he did place it on his people, on you, and you're one of them So think about that blessing. Think of the joy that's given you and the security and understanding that has given to you, that you know Christ as your Savior, as your Lord, and you're part of a local church You've got the blessings of blessings, and this is a very good church. We look forward to coming here every in every month. Oh good, here it is. This time of the month and we're we're coming here to to Bible Press here and we certainly enjoy it here. This is a wonderful church. I'm not just talking about Any other church, I'm talking about this particular one. There's something unique here, and you got a great thing going, and we want to say thank the Lord with it. Going on here, looking at the riches of his goodness, and then the next word we see, forbearance. Let's talk about that for a while. What do you want to talk about forbearance? Because it's in the Bible. We're here to study the Bible, right? So we're going to look at forbearance. Anoxai, coming from the word, the Greek word anoxai, and forbearance literally means a holding back or a delay of punishment. It's not punishment, it's the delay of punishment. Now, I'm sure you've all had this. You've been in a situation where you know punishment's coming, but it's been delayed, and you know, whether it be from your parents You know, you messed up and you know what's gonna happen. Yeah, and you know I'm thinking, it just just really didn't really plan on this case came to my mind with my children when they were young. I had a paddle And I couldn't really take any too nuts nonsense because my my first dear wife passed away and so my I'm raising my my children, you know, and they're at the age where they're very impression and I couldn't take a lot of nonsense from 'em because I we just couldn't c tolerate it. So Somebody gave me a paddle years ago, I don't know. Anyway, I always held on to that paddle. And so now I'm gonna have to start to put it to you. So I say, you know, Troy or Donnie or Bridget or Lance You do that one more time and you and I get the hold of you're getting this. And that would all well they y yes daddy and there we go. But without that in my hand, they do whatever they want. You know, if you get that paddle thing they they know something's gonna happen here And so they they forbeared, shall we say, with this paddle in my hand. They don't have to deal with this issue. Um, but God does that with us. He holds back Or delays punishment. Now we know this from what is it, Hebrews 12? Who the Lord loves, he chases and scourges every son who he receives. You all know this. You're his son, and I'm sure you could meet this may be interesting, by the way. If we all had it give you I'll give each of you two minutes to get up here and share with us Some of God's a blessed uh some of God's discipline in your life. How does God discipline you? You're his child, he will discipline you. As we obey him and follow him, get what we get you know strength and encouragement, but when we disobey God and we're into sin and playing around where we ought not to be, the Lord can discipline you. And I'm sure you all know y I'm looking at somebody here who's been disciplined. Pretty serious. And I know that You have too because you're you're God's child. And that's what this word. We're looking here at our text, the word long suffering. Long suffering mean means like patience, steadfastness, perseverance Having perseverance, you know, and I'm thinking what could I do to illustrate perseverance? I'm trying to think back in my life, whatever happened, and and this I had a thought that came to my mind, I hadn't had it for, gosh, 30 years, 40 years And yet Matt once I got this topic is clear in my mind. And what had happened. Um was playing baseball, like American Legion baseball. I don't know where it was, but uh what I do know I was on third base, wherever the field was, but I'm on third base. Okay. So the batter The batter, oh, he missed a signal. That's what it was. It was a squeeze play. Hey, I'm on third base. The coach gives the signal for the squeeze plate, and that is the batter bunts the ball, and I'm come I'm run I'm running home. So once that pitcher winds up, lets that ball go, I'm going full speed to home plate Assuming the batter is going to bunt the ball. But the batter missed the signal. So I'm kind of running home, and he's standing here. He knew what's going to happen. And I run right into him And my cleat gets hooked onto his foot and it was probably one of the worst injury I ever had. In my my Foot went button back like this. And oh boy that that hurt so I couldn't get up. They said go on get up. I can't get up. And it was such I they brought on it to get an ambulance. Russians in the hospital, you know they x-rayed it and all this and uh I think I was there like for a day or two trying to deal with this thing. So anyway, when I come out of that and I got now I gotta crutch it. Now I gotta walk like this for six weeks. Oh, it was awful. Why do I say it? I'm thinking you're long suffering. That's what I was doing. I was, you know, now I got probably four to six weeks on these crutches and then the foot still was very sore and had to go to a doctor. Oh what a mess that thing was As a matter of fact, I could probably take my shoe off. My ankle still puffed up. I had surgery on that angle and all kind of and the things stalled. It doesn't work. But anyway. The point is long suffering. Now, you could each give a story about long suffering. I'm sure we all have, you know, we all have these things come into our life. That would be another interesting thing to do. Why don't each of you get up and talk to us for about three minutes about long suffering in your life? Anybody want to volunteer say something about how you long suffered with something in your life, whether it be physical, mental, emotional, financial? But you know we we have long suffering, and that's the picture here The word of God is trying to show us in terms of sin and difficulty. We have forbearance. We have long suffering. And what about these attitudes that we're talking about? The next phrase we see is Agonio is the Greek term here, and it means not knowing. You see that phrase there in your Bible? Not knowing. So it's drawing a picture of ignorance, not knowing clearly what you're going to do, where you're going to go And what is it that they don't know? What's that all about? The next phrase, on to Zerastos, or the goodness of God. What they don't know what's talking about is we do not know, understand the goodness of God, referring to the character of God. We know that God is gracious, kind, merciful And so it's making the point here. We're not knowing this, not appreciating this. And what is it that the goodness of God does? According to our text, what is the goodness of God doing? It leads you to repentance. Now that's a key word in scripture. Repentance. Repentance coming from the word metineo. Now it literally means to change your mind. Now, God help me if I'm saying this wrong. I don't think that I am, but you check me out because you hear sometimes that repentance means to turn from your sins. And that's not what it doesn't mean that. It means to change your mind. But it implies turning from your sins. I'm just being technical, that's all. So we're talking here about repentance, going back to the original Greek, which is the word metanoia here in this particular text, means a change of mind, which leads to a change of action. So if I say I'm tired, very tired, I'm going to sit down and rest my feet. And as I approach the chair, you know, I changed my mind. You know, I'm going to stand back here behind the pulpit a couple more minutes Well, you know, I just I just metaneoed. I just changed my mind. I was going to do this, but I changed it. I'm back here again. Well, this is what the scripture says when it leads you to repentance, meaning it leads you to a change of mind So that if you are rejecting Christ, rejecting the Bible, that's you repent, your mind changes from that to Following the Lord, following Christ, and you know and all of you did this, all of us did this. We all had a time in our life where we repented From following the world, rejecting the church, rejecting Christ, to the point where, yes, Lord, come into my life, save me. You realize you were a sinner, you realize you're headed for hell And the Spirit of God made that real in your heart to the point, yes, Lord, save me. I am a sinner. And so and what a beautiful thing that is for the Lord to let us know that we are sinners and for you to respond to it. So we're looking here in this text. That leads you to repentance. It leads you to change your mind and therefore to receive the Lord. Now here's a bigger question. Here's perhaps the most important question today going to be asked. And here it is Why? Here's the question. Why do some people repent and others don't There are people who have heard the gospel over and over and over and they hate it. They will not, they will not, they will not come to Christ. You probably kn know people. shared Christ with you prayed for him and and brought him to church and did this and that they will not come to Christ. So but the question is, I'm trying to get a little bit deeper. Why is it why do some people will reject it and reject it and reject it. And others hear that God, that's what I want. I want Christ. Yeah, Lord, save me. And we're asking now the why is this? And what what is the description that God gives us? And we're trying to answer that question from Scripture Not trying to answer it from secular theol uh philosophy or whatever, but we're looking here. What how does the Bible explain why people reject the gospel and will not? They won't do it. They will not come to Christ. Well, to save time. I have the answer. And it's found in 2 Timothy chapter 2 and verse 25. We'll give you an answer to this. 2 Timothy 2, 25, and it says Peradventure, God may give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth. And there it is, that God grants repentance. But I dare say that if God does not give you repentance, you're not going to repent. You won't repent. You will die out there first. You'll deny the Lord, you'll curse the Lord, you'll do whatever, but you will not change your mind over the unless the Lord calls you and he gives you. It's a gift that he gives to his elect. You may use that word elect. He gives it to his elect. Now now here's a mind-blowing question though. And I still struggle with this myself. So we ask now, okay. God gives repentance to his erect, and they will repent. It's not they're going to resist, they're not going to resist. They will repent, and that's why you're here today. And but now I ask that, well why, Lord, why if there's so many how's that how's the verse go? Many there is here to be to find it. Many who knows that verse, who can say that? Many do what? Many How what how's it go? Many are called, the few are chosen. That's it, there it is. Many are called, the few are chosen, and and few and it ends up by saying few that be defined that find it. Well, for whatever reason, we're part of that few. We found it by the girls by the grace and mercy of God. And so uh You know, so we repent and we we have the Lord Jesus Christ as our Savior, but if we do don't repent obviously then, you know, what do we have? So by the grace of God, here you are, and every one of you have put your trust and hope in the Lord Jesus, and that's why you're here today. But this change of mind, which is the word repentance, you're changing your mind from whatever you believed in, and you're now calling upon Christ to be your savior. Why is that? Because you were born in a state of depravity. You know, but the Bible talks about depravity. Now, being Calvinistic in our theology, we believe in total depravity. That is, you are not saved, you're going to hell, and you cannot save yourself. You cannot figure it out and make the only way you're saved is if God opens up your heart and understanding and he actually gives you the faith to trust in Christ. And then you're born again and you have all the joys, you get the Spirit of God in your heart, and it's a beautiful thing. It's a beautiful thing. But man left to his own will never repent. And I have some people in my life I pray for, I've talked to, and they will not. They're just not gonna do it. And so I don't know what else to do. I I really don't say much anymore 'Cause it's in God's hands. You may know that as well. But you know what? I that I shouldn't have said that's not a good oh never give up praying. You know, if you have people in your life, in your family who don't know Christ Pray for them, pray for them and never give up praying for them and and give them a track once in a while. If they get offended, so what? So what so what if they get offended? Um give them, bring them to church sometime. But you know what? I know these people what they'll do, they would rather die than go to church. Oh no, not but keep in prayer. And let the Lord do his great work upon the natural man. And said just like he said, listen, if he saved you, if he saved me, he can save anybody. The blessing of God. And you know, here's another thing. I'll just tell you this real quick and then conclude. But I think about when I said this, I may have given this example before if I did take about a thirty second nap and then wake back up again. But I give you the example of my brother have an older brother. Have a brother six years older than me. And boy I'm getting up there. It seemed my next birthday I'll be eighty. Can you believe that? Holy Marco. Anyway. So here's my brother Neil. He's six years older than me. And we're growing up together as kids, and we had um difficult time growing up, different situations occurred. Um but anyway, um I got saved before my brother Neil and I was in um Bible college. And I just had a burden for my brother, and we would m we would pray for him and write letters to him and all this. And he would just mock it. I don't want that. It's all phony stuff. I don't want any of that. And he was just na nasty. Pretty nasty guy, actually. Wish he was he would you would know And then what happens? I cry every time I tell you this, though. I guess I told you, you know, where were we living? We were living, I was a student of Florida Baba College. Live in a little apartment there and um the phone rings. Yeah, hello. Hey Donnie, yeah This is Neil. Now, he never called me before. Never ever called me. And now he's calling me. Yeah? What what's the matter? Did Dad somebody I thought somebody in his family died? Did dad die? What's the problem? No, no, no, I'll tell you why. Why? Mike, what do you tell me? He said, tonight, Sidney and I got saved. Uh wait wait wait a minute wait a minute here hold on a minute what did you say? I thought you said you got saved. No, what did you say? Yes, tonight Cindy and I got saved. And and he goes on and on about his salvation. Now this again, y if you knew him, you say that could never happen. He's the most nasty person you ever he got saved. And he did Very next Sunday he and hey he wanted to know about church what do I look for and the church not so we talked about that. But he he and his wife got into a church They got active and they're still there to this day. They're still serving the Lord. And it's a wonderful but whenever I see somebody and I think, oh, this person's too wicked to get saved I think of my brother, and I think what the Lord did to him. He made mincemeate of all his rejection. He loves the Lord today. And I can't tell you, right in this hour, right now, he's in his church doing something And uh the Lord gave him a wonderful Christian wife and and and so it's a wonderful story, but it's a true story. Okay, let me conclude let me conclude with this. The ways of God are meant to lead sinners to repentance. Does that make any sense? The ways of God, how he interacts, was intended to Lead sinners to repentance. Think of the things that have happened in your life. How did you get saved? What's the story of how you came to Christ? Was it a parent? Was it a friend? Was it somebody in college? Was it a next-door neighbor? And all these stories are very interesting to see how the Lord works in our life. And so that's the one thing I want to live to. The ways of God are meant to lead sinners to repentance. Maybe you have a friend who you're praying for, they're not saved yet. Or you have a brother, sister, relative, they don't know the Lord. Continue to bring them to the throne of grace and realize that the things that happen in their life could be God's plan gradually, step by step. Bringing them to bow the knee to the Lord Jesus Christ. What a beautiful thing that is. And see, that's what happened to you. I mean, look at there was a time when you weren't saved, and where are you now? You're sitting here in a church service. You're the leaders of the church. Every time I come here, I see this, for the most part, the same people, and that's good. That's a good thing. You're leaders. You're consistent. You're strong And that's what we want to see. Of course if bring more people unsafe, bring them in here, that obviously that's a good thing as well. You're here in church today, and I wanted to ask you this, give you this challenge though. Okay, you're here in church today where you belong, and that's a good thing. But now I have some questions to ask. And what you think about this, and I'm going to have a couple one more question to ask and then I'm done. You're here today in church, hearing your Bible, praying, helping the brethren. Beautiful. Okay. What about when you go home today? What are you going to be like when you go? And I've known people, man, they're in church. Praise the Lord. I love my Lord. Praise God. And then they go home and they're like a different creature. And what was this? What's this guy? I thought he was in church singing, look at him now. What's this all? That happens I don't know if somebody like I don't know. You may be, I don't know. Examine your heart. So what I'm asking you now before I have a closing prayer, examine your heart. Is that you? Or maybe you know someone Oh yay, I love the church. I love the pastor. Great, great. And and they'll talk. Great preaching pastor. Very good. And I knew that guy you know, knew some things about that guy. It wasn't good. And he's telling me how great a pastor how he loves the Lord. So we have to be on guard and be aware of that. And I'm but I'm trying to talk to you about these things as well. What are you like when you go home? Are you the same at home as you are here? If so, good, beautiful. And that's what we should be able to assume, but that's not always the case. You know why? Because we are frail creatures. By nature and by choice, we're sinners. And we struggle with these fish issues all the time. One more two more qu three more questions and I'm done. What do you like when you're at work? Are you carrying your Christian banner when you're at work? In the secular world, people cursing around you, being tempted by men or women or all kinds of things going on. How are you there? Are you still strong for Jesus? So you sort of shrimp away a little bit. What about when you're alone? When you're alone and nobody's around? What's going on there? What about when you're with your friends? Hey Don, let's go drinking them. Come on. How many times have I had to put up with that? Oh man. No, I'm not going to go ahead. But no no no. What about you? In other words, investigate your own heart. Here we're in church and this is a great place to investigate your heart. And you know what? If if you answered yes to any of these, I wouldn't condemn you because you're a human being, a sinner like me But what but I would condemn you if you leave here without confessing that to the Lord. That would be the danger. If I said something here that touched your heart, okay, you're a human being, you make a mistake, we all do But what you don't want to do is walk out that door without confessing it to God and and tell him you're sorry and you want power to break away from it. Then things start to change. But you can either do that or hide, you know, continue to hide it and carry on, you know, your little double life or whatever. Okay, last question I want to ask here is this. God works, God's work is always effectual. Just as if the word of encouragement. The work of God is always effectual Our work is not always effectual. We try things. Sometimes they work, sometimes they don't. But God does always work. His work is effectual. And we know this. Again, think this will blow your mind That God evidently decreed before the foundation of the world That you would be saved. Even before you were born, even before your parents came together. It was already settled in heaven. You're going to be a believer and trust in Christ. And again, the amazing thing is that doesn't happen to everyone As a matter of fact, it doesn't happen to most people, but it happened to you. You've got every reason to fall down flat on your face. And give God thanks and praise Him for His mercy and Grace on you. Because you don't deserve it. I know I don't deserve. I know that. But I know you don't either, because you're in the flesh. You're like, you know, we're all we all stru struggle in that way. So we want to conclude today by just um, you know, we are all creatures subject to God's decrees. And I put a little note down here. In these issues about talking about God's decrees and talking about Saving sinners before the foundation of the world. This raises up all kind of philosophical questions. And I found a book many years ago that helped me tremendously. And I want to recommend it to you if you struggle with these things of election, foreknowledge, predestination, and all that kind of thing, which will clear so much of it, clear so much of it up for me Because it g it goes deep, but it's written simple. For a simpleton I can I can get it. But it really goes into deep issues. And the name of it is this it's called I may have told you this before. If I did, then just check it off. But it's the Reformed Doctrine of Predestination, it's called. The Reformed Doctrine of Predestination by Lorraine Bottner Now here's a surprise by Lorraine Bottner. So I'm looking on the book cover to see leave a picture of the authors there. And the author is a man. Would you ma could you imagine naming your son Lorraine? Here's a little baby you boy. What you work on? How about Lorraine? Oh, okay. Well, that must have happened or something. Anyway His writing is very good. The Reformed Doctrine of Predestination by Lorraine Bottner, I recommend if you have any questions about this, get it. It's simple, yet it's deep. Gives you real clarity on these issues. Because up until I got that book, I was totally confused on it. I taught in a Bible college and I was confused on it. I prayed at a church and I was confused on it. Until I came to that book, cleared up everything. But you know, this is how Brothers and sisters, help one another. Okay, so we're going to close today. We started with that statement, you are inexcusable, O man, whosoever you are. That judges. And we're going to conclude with talking about the sovereignty of God. God is sovereign over his creation. And that's why you're a believer today. God set his electing love on you, and you didn't resist him. You came to Christ and you love the Lord. As I come here once a month, and as I say, I love enjoy coming here But you know I see which is good. It's good and it's bad. It's good that I see usually the same people every time. Good. Praise God. You're faithful, you're loyal I guess if there's a complaint, we need to get maybe some more people here. Maybe drag some more people if they'll come. But if they don't come, what can you do? You can't do anything about this But we're seeing here that the sovereignty of God is effective in your life. He saved you. You're in a local church. You're active in a local church. You're leaders in a local church. That's a beautiful thing to behold. Your life is counting. You're making a difference. And that's a beautiful thing to see and to do and to experience. So we say, Praise God. We conclude with it with a with a It's a statement of celebration over the sovereignty of God that He had saved us in His power, in His in His uh power drawing us air What's His drawing? And again, you learn this in this book. His drawing is what? Irresistible. We learn about the irresistible drawing of the Lord. As the Lord draws you to himself, you will come. There's no such thing. I don't want to cry. It doesn't exist. When God calls, you will come. And it's a beautiful thing to watch and to behold. Okay, two thoughts in application, and I'm giving a closing prayer. Number one, check for A judgmental attitude. Sometimes we get this. We're judgmental about maybe other Christians, the zeal of other Christians, or the you know, different things. Just watch, be careful for judgmental attitude. Number two Let the sovereignty of God give you peace. See a lot of people complain of sovereignty of God? Well that's not fair because uh and they're going to some ridiculous nonsense Really you want to thank God that He is sovereign. You want to thank God that His will cannot be and will not be resisted. Because if it could have been, you wouldn't you probably wouldn't be here. And no, I wouldn't be here. I'd be doing fulfilling the lust of my own flesh and doing my own thing. Thank God he overcomes all our nonsense and draws us irresistibly unto himself. And we want to thank the Lord for this. So with that, I shall say amen and have a prayer. Let's pray together. Our Father, we want to say thank you now for this wonderful congregation, Lord. This is a special congregation. There's no doubt your hand is on this place. And we ask, therefore, your protection because we know that the world, the flesh, and the devil will do all they can to discourage, to neutralize, to wipe out Unless you preserve. Not only this church, but all of all of us believers, we just ask that you will continue, continue. Well, we pray for the elders of the church. We pray for the leaders of the church. We pray for Tim that you will guide and direct him and protect him and his family. And uh We just ask the Lord for for this congregation that you'll be upon them in a great and mighty way Thank you for bringing us here today. Thank you, Lord. All these wonderful people. You met me behind the pulpit. Now that is a miracle. That is truly a miracle. These people don't understand this, Lord. They don't understand what a great miracle it is to let me preach to these people. Oh boy. Thank you, Lord, for your grace and mercy. And so Thank you for bringing us together, and I thank you through Christ our Lord. Amen. Amen