Continuing our study of Revelation. We're in Revelation chapter 18. And the Bible devotes a lot of space to Babylon the Great. We got two full chapters. On Babylon the Great here. At the time of the end, at the very end of the tribulation period. We're coming to the end of the tribulation period. Next chapter, we have Christ coming back Then we have the millennium and the eternal state. But here at the very end of the millennium, I mean of the tribulation, we have the judgment and destruction of Babylon the Great. And as I said last time If we are near the time of the end, which it definitely seems to be, remember Jesus said, when you see the budding of the fig tree, you know the end is nigh. And we have seen a lot of budding of the fig tree. We've seen things getting worse and worse. We've seen the apostasy of Babylon the Great. We've seen Israel going back to the land. We've seen now Jerusalem becoming the center of things over there in Israel just recently. And everything's shaping up. And there's a movement all around the world for a one-world government. A one world government. And it will come out with the Antichrist in the end. And uh why are people so much against uh a wall down on the border down with Mexico? They're so much against it because it goes against world government. World government does not like any borders. No borders. They want it all to be one pot. And uh so uh if we have borders and then we presume to build a wall on the border, well they just don't like that at all. Those that are for one world government And of course, you can see how efficient government is. And you know, the one world government is just getting bigger and bigger and bigger government Under the elites that know what's best for us. And so that's what we're leading up to. That's what people are working for in the world around us. And so here we have, as I said before, if we are near the time of the end, I definitely believe that Babylon the Great is the United States. It's the only one that fits, especially this chapter 18. We saw how it fit fitted well with chapter 17, but now chapter 18 it fits even better. And it's uh It's really United States. You know, we hate to say that. I like, I love, I don't like, I love the United States. You know, I love what it was. I love what it should be. And you know, it's uh it's a sad thing to think about our nation being Babylon the Greek. It's a very sad thing. But when we see all the abortion going on and all the sin going on and the gay marriage and all the stuff that we're purveying all around the world, that we turn turn from God Uh my uh we had a family get together last night and there was a big discussion actually after I left that I heard about, but there was a big discussion about the Constitution And one person said, well the Constitution is the law of the land, and then the other one says, Well nobody cares about the Constitution today. That doesn't it's kind of ill irrevol irrelevant You know, but uh you know that's true. Most people don't care about the Constitution, but it still is the law of the land. And we need to go back to it So, anyway, here we have chapter 18 of Revelation. And we read the first ten verses in our responsive reading, so we won't read that all, but we'll point out some things here. We have an angel comes down And he cries with a loud voice in verse 2: Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen, and has become the habitation of devils. Well, what about the United States today? We got plenty of devils out there today. Plenty of demons out there. Become the habitation of devils, the hold of every foul spirit and cage of every unclean and hateful bird. Well, I remember back when I was in high school There was uh Jack Van Empe used to go around preaching on end times and he used to talk about how in Israel today, this is back in the 70s Uh in Israel in the 70s the land was full of vultures getting ready for the last times. Well, I don't know, that was a long time ago now, but anyway, uh it might be a little bit. But anyway, there's going to be plenty of unclean and hateful birds at the time of the end, and they're around today. And then verse 3: all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication We talked about that all already, how the United States purveys uh terrible things all around the world, terrible wickedness in Hollywood. on the internet, on movies, on TV, and their music especially, on the computers, on the games, on all these things. The United States is the center of of all these cultural things. They go out all over the whole world. And, you know, I was in Brazil and I You know, I came to mind some movie in Hollywood, and I would bring that up, and I wondered if they knew anything about it, and they knew all about it And it was like, oh yeah, sure, we know about that Hollywood movie. They knew about it all. That's what they have in the theaters down there from the US So they have drunk of her fornication. But here we get to that part that really fits the United States, where it says they have committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth are waxed rich Through the abundance of her delicacies. Did you ever hear of balance of trade and that the United States has a big problem with balance of trade? Because the United States is the big buyer. It buys merchandise and it doesn't sell as much as it buys. And so we have that problem with balance of trade. And so here in chapter 18, it's always Babylon the Great is the great buyer. And the other countries have waxed rich through her. By selling to Babylon the Great. When you go in the store today, hardly anything is made in the U. S. , or not too many things And it's made everywhere you can imagine, all over the globe, especially in China from China, but we got Vietnam, we got Pakistan, we got uh every country you can imagine Have things you buy in the store. They're waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies And then verse 4. And I heard a voice from heaven saying, Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her place. And you notice here, we're at the end of the tribulation period. Everything today with the United States is not completely as it's going to be at the time of the end. This is at the end of the tribulation period. And if we get taken out with the rapture, the rapture could happen today, there'd still be another seven years of concentrated things happening before the very time of the end here. And so the United States could definitely and will definitely go further and further down into the abyss. And here it says, those at the end of the tribulation period that are still in Babylon the Great, I believe that people are saved during the tribulation period. They're saved, and these saved people that didn't get taken out with the rapture because they weren't saved yet, they got saved during the tribulation period. They're told to come out of her. Well, you can take that a couple different ways. Perhaps they should get out of the United States, go overseas, or something. Or it could be a rapture there for the people during the tribulation period as well. Because the people during the tribulation period that get saved They missed out on the first rapture. There might be a little rapture here during the revelation. Come out of her, my people. Come out of her. And then verse 5, we want to look at that closely this morning. Her sins have reached unto heaven, and God hath remembered her iniquities. You know, it's a saying that's often been said that God's judgment grinds exceeding slow and exceeding fine. And you know, the thing is, people can go on and on in their wickedness, nations can go on and on in their wickedness But eventually there comes a day of reckoning. And that day of reckoning for the whole world is here during the tribulation period. The world has been sowing sin and sowing sin and sowing sin, huge amounts of sin. And then there's huge amounts of judgment in the book of Revelation. And here we have that judgment of Babylon the Great. And her sins have reached unto heaven. Her cup of iniquity is full. And in verse 6, reward her even as she rewarded you, double unto her double, in the cup which she hath filled, filled to her double. And the cup of iniquity of the United States is not yet full. But it's getting fuller and fuller. And we're seeing a little bit of God's judgment today. in different ways with hurricanes, with tornadoes, with with our Chinese flu, with all kinds of things. And so her sins have reached unto heaven, and God has remembered her iniquities. Does that mean that God forgets things? No, God hasn't forgotten her iniquities, but God is now going to concentrate on her iniquities and bring them up for judgment. He has remembered her iniquities That she's gonna be held responsible for all these abortions, four thousand every day, was the last statistic I I heard Thousands every day, millions every year, a huge amount of them. And you know Unfortunately, it looks like it's uh you know it really looks not very good for getting rid of abortion. We've had it for 50 years now. And we're working to get rid of it and we should work to get rid of it. And we have these hopes about the Supreme Court that we got new justices on the Supreme Court. But the trouble is it always seems that when push comes to shove, the uh justices on the Supreme Court they get in line, just like they did with Trump just uh just just recently that uh they seem to be conservative and of course that's why a friend of mine said he'd given up on all conservatives because they when push comes to shove they're really not conservatives and whatever. Well, we have to go by what they say at least to a certain extent. And we should favor those that oppose abortion to the those that say they oppose abortion to those that say they favor abortion. But The trouble is, is those iniquities are piling up and up and up and up. And then verse 7. How much she hath glorified herself and lived deliciously, so much torment and sorrow give her And you know they talk about the income of different people around the world, and they talk about, well, certain countries have higher annual income than those in the United States But you know, those countries they talk about are much, much smaller than the United States. On the scale of Babylon the Great, the scale of the United States, nobody else compares And she lives deliciously, so deliciously. Yesterday my son stayed in the campground there in Delaware for the holidays from North Carolina. He came up But anyway, you go up, go into the campground, and what do you see in the campground? You see these humongous campers there Most of them are big and humongous luxury campers. Nobody people don't have just little campers anymore. But far be it to think about a tent. No, we don't do tents. We we we we don't even do little campers, most of it. It's huge things. Nobody in the world has those. Nobody. Nobody has the the scale, the big stuff. And uh that's she has lived deliciously Everything's bigger here. Our roads are bigger, everything's bigger, our cars are bigger. The uh thing is when I was in Brazil, I had a Honda Civic. And in Brazil, that was a big car. In the U. S. , that's a small car. And that's how it compares. She has glorified herself, lived deliciously. And she says in her heart, I sit a queen and shall see no sorrow. There's an old saying, it can't happen here. Well, it can happen here, and it's going to happen here. And uh so it was Babylon the Great. And you know, people want to come to the United States. They want to come to Babylon the Great. They don't want to go to the other countries that much. And people here in the United States, people in my own family, they don't want to go outside of the United States. And uh they asked one person, uh, why don't you travel? And she said, because I'm already there. Because she was where she wanted to be already. And so that's how it is with a lot of people here in the United States. And she hath lived deliciously. Everything's luxury. Verse 8, therefore shall her plagues come in one day Death, mourning, famine, she shall utterly be burned with fire. Now I believe what we have described here is a nuclear holocaust That the Babylon the Great, the United States will be destroyed by nuclear weapons. And it seems like a complete destruction by nuclear weapons, a complete picture You see here, it's going to be in one day. It's not only going to be in one day, it's going to be in one hour, we're told. In one hour. Death and mourning and famine. Of course, this is at the end of the tribulation period. She's utterly burned with fire. What do you have with a nuclear explosion? You have a lot of fire, a ball of fire. And then verse 9. The kings of the earth and all the people around the world that have committed fornication and lived deliciously with her shall bewail her. They're going to bewail her, and they're going to bewail her for selfish reasons. They're going to bewail her, and they're going to see the smoke of her burning. Well, what do you have with a nuclear explosion You have the big mushroom cloud. It's really easy to see the smoke of her burning. The big mushroom cloud. And then we have verse 10: Standing afar off. Now, if you have a nuclear explosion, do you want to get too close to that? No. You want to be afar off. Because of all the radiation. And it's uh something you do stand afar off. And so they're standing afar off, they're saying, alas, alas, that great city, Babylon For in one hour is thy judgment come. You know, it would have been a hard thing to conceive of this before the atomic age. And it says here, it's not God that destroys it directly in one hour, it's the ten kings of the revived Roman Empire, they destroy her. There in one hour. First God puts them up to it. And then verse 11, let's continue reading And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her, for no man buyeth their merchandise anymore. So what country in the world would people be mourning over because they're not going to buy their merchandise anymore? It's the United States more than any other place. The merchants are going to weep. And then it goes on to a long list of all the merchandise. When I was in the Air Force over in the Far East in Taiwan and Thailand, we had the BX, the base exchange And you could get some things from the United States, the base exchange that you couldn't get in the local country. But there was a lot of things you couldn't get. And we used to always talk about the U. S. as the land of the Big Bx. And that's what it is And here we have all that merchandise listed that you can get in the United States. You can get anything. Twelve. Merchandise of gold, silver, precious stones, pearls, fine linen, purple skillets Purple silk scarlet, all fian wood, banners of ivory, precious Wood, brass, iron, marble, cinnamon, odors, ointments, frankincense, wine, oil, fine flour, wheat, beasts, sheep, horses, chariots, and slaves and souls of men. Well you might say, well, hey, you can't buy slaves and souls of men in the United States or the United States doesn't have anything to do with that. Well just coming up here in the car, there's a billboard in Cecil County and it says what? It says Cecil County is against human trafficking. Right there. And so that's around. And what about their genetic things they do with body parts from aborted fetuses? And that's traffic in slaves, souls of men. And the fruits, verse 14, and the fruits that thy soul lusted after are departed from thee. And all things which were dainty and goodly are departed from thee, and thou shalt find them no more at all. Well, you know, the United States people are pretty dainty, uh pretty fussy about things. People in other parts of the world aren't fussy. They have so much trouble with depression in the United States. In other countries, they don't have that much trouble with depression. Because in the United States there's such plenty And people have time and uh to g get concerned about being depressed. And uh just the little example is uh uh one of our relatives that was with us for For Thanksgiving. She hardly eats anything because she doesn't like anything. And so we always have to try to uh jiggle the menu around so it would be something that she eats. And you know, that's you can afford to be dainty like that in a place like the United States. But other places you can't be like that. And so dainty, the things that are dainty and goodly are departed from thee. Thou shalt find them no more at all And you know, you have all these Hollywood movies about the nuclear holocaust like Planet of the Apes, you know, everything's been destroyed. And it's and all you got is uh Hulk of the Statue of Liberty or whatever, you know. That's how it's gonna be with the destruction of Babylon the Great, just like that. And then verse 15: The merchants of these things, which were made rich by her, shall stand afar off for the fear of her torment, weeping and wailing. They're wailing because they're not going to get any more riches. They got loads of merchandise in the ships, and they have nowhere to sell it. They're weeping. And they're standing afar off. They were made rich by Babylon the Great. And then verse 16 saying, Alas, alas, that great city that was clothed in fine linen and purple and scarlet and ducked with gold and precious stones and pearls For in one hour so great riches is come to naught. One hour. And every shipmaster And all the company and ships and sailors and as many as trade by the sea stood afar off. So what do we have on our coasts? We have the big cities on our coasts, on the west coast, east coast, the big ports on the west coast and east coast and they'll see the mushroom clouds rising. They'll be sitting out on their ships. And uh they have merchandise that they can't sell. No man buyeth our merchandise anymore. They're in the ships. People have thought that that Rome is Babylon the Great. Rome doesn't fit this at all. Rome is no big buyer of merchandise. It doesn't have a bunch of ships sitting out there. They're in a whale because nobody's gonna buy the merchandise Of course, you leaves alone the people that like to spiritualize the whole thing, the all-millennialists. But how do you spiritualize things like this, all these things? You just come up with all kinds of fanciful things And no, we like to take it as literally as possible, and the words mean what they say, just as all through the Bible. So anyway, they're in ships. And in verse 18, and they cried when they saw the smoke of her burning, the mushroom cloud, saying, What city is like unto this great city? And they cast dust on their heads and cried, weeping and wailing, saying, Alas, alas, that great city Wherein were made rich all that had ships in the sea by reason of her costliness, for in one hour is she made desolate. And so the great buying nation, not the selling nation, but the buying nation, because it sells quite a bit, it's merchants Then verse 20: Rejoice over her, ye heavens, thou heavens, and ye holy apostles and prophets, for God hath avenged you on her. And as I said before, Babylon the Great, the United States is responsible for a lot of martyrs through history. And the 20th century, responsible just alone for the fall of China and the many martyrs that were there, you prophets and apostles, for God hath avenged you. And a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone and cast it into the sea, saying, Thus with violence shall that great city Babylon be thrown down and shall be found no more at all. It's gonna be a complete nuclear destruction And the voice of harpers and musicians and pipers and trumpeters shall be heard no more at all in the that's fitting. The United States is the great center of music in the world. Everybody around the world listens to American music. And they shall be heard no more at all in thee, and no craftsman of whatsoever craft he be shall be found any more in thee. And you have all your high-tech stuff coming out of the United States. And the sound of a millstone shall be heard no more at all in thee, and the light of a candle shall shine no more at all in thee And the voice of a bridegroom and of a bride shall be heard no more at all. He talks about energy here, the light of a candle. Part of how you can see the great opulence of the United States is in this renewable energy stuff. It's all a losing thing. making this uh wind power and solar power and all these things. The thing is, is that is that these sources are not dependable And the wind quits. The sun goes in. Whatever. And then what do you do? Well, nobody here would ever want to be without power for one second. And so when the wind quits, when the sun quits, there has to be a power plant fired up, ready to go on the second to take up the slack. And it really doesn't gain all that much. And they said they're having trouble finding what to do with old windmill blades and having trouble finding what to do with all the old solar panels and all these things. And uh of course we have money, excess opulence to deal with all that just because we think it's uh it's green. And of course, uh they talk about the climate change and that's all a thing to try to get more and more power for the government. But anyway, the light of a candle shall shine no more at all in thee. The voice of a bride and bridegroom, no more joy. And then it tells us in no uncertain terms, for thy merchants were the great men of the earth. Well, who are the great merchants of the world? It's the U. S. , generally speaking. They are known for being the big companies, the big great men of the earth, the merchants. By thy sorceries were all nations deceived. And then verse 24 again, and in her was found the blood of prophets and of saints and of all that were slain on the earth. As good as all the earth, all that were slain on the earth All these prophets and saints, and of course in the tribulation period, it's going to get worse, and the United States will probably be much more responsible for these things. And so, you know, Babylon the Great, the book of Revelation, they illustrate the great scriptures there in Galatians. Let's go back to Galatians. Galatians chapter 6. Galatians chapter six and verse seven. Galatians chapter six and verse seven It says, Be not deceived, God is not mocked. For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. Whatever a nation sows. That will it also reap. Whatever the world sows, that it will also reap. And so the whole book of Revelation is the world reaping what it sowed. The destruction of Babylon the Great is the reaping of what Babylon has sown. And that's the same in our own individual lives. Whatever we sow, we reap. It's all marked down. God does not make any mistakes. He keeps perfect track of everything we've done, everything we've said. He keeps perfect track. And he gives to every man according to his works. He gives to the unsaved people according to their works. And you know, a lot of times we get the idea, well, it's just the difference between in heaven being in heaven and hell And if I'm in heaven, well, that's all there is to it. And if they're in hell, that's all there is to it. But there are grades of punishment in hell. And there are grades of reward in heaven, all according to our works. And of course, there is a really big difference between the two. But uh I've heard of evangelists saying to people, well, if you're not going to accept the Lord, be as good as you can be. He says. So just so they don't get so much punishment in hell. But anyway, you know the thing is, and that we want to be concerned in getting rewards in heaven. And doing things for the Lord, being busy for the Lord. And uh rewards in heaven are something to be sought after in our lives Be not deceived. God is not mocked. For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. Then you go to verse 8. For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption, and he that soweth to the spirit shall of the spirit reap life everlasting. And so we want to sow to the Spirit. We want to be living in the Spirit. We want to be seeking to serve the Lord each day. We want to be doing things for the Lord, not just sitting wherever we are. You know, in the Bible, all the time with the prophets and the Old Testament different stories, at the beginning of it, God says, Arise! Arise! Don't be just doing what you always do. Make a special effort to do something different for the Lord. And that's what we need to do. We need to be busy for him. And we need to trust in the fact that the law of the universe always holds. And you know, it's terrible to think of these things. It's terrible to think of all these judgments in the book of Revelation. It's terrible to think about a nuclear holocaust in the United States. It's terrible to think of all that But it's just God's judgment grinding on. And people get what they deserve. Let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we just thank Thee for Thy Word. We thank Thee for The fact that Taoist regarded us as friends, that Taoist uh shown us those things that will happen in the future And O Lord, just help us to be serving Thee with our whole heart and mind and soul and body. Help us not to sow to the flesh. Help us to sow to the Spirit. In Jesus' name, amen.