Okay, so let me see. What are we gonna do here today? I gotta make up my sermon here as I go along. I'm just kidding, I've run a really worked through this. Okay. So what we'd like to do today is to have you open up your Bible, because that's our authority, is the Bible is certainly not me or any man or denomination, it is the Word of God. So let us look into Romans chapter 1, please. Romans chapter 1. Now, something interesting here, and that is Uh I spoke on Romans chapter one, I'd say maybe six months ago at the at the probably the Marcus Hooke Church. And the last time I was here I I spoke on Romans chapter one verse three, so I want to do four here today with you. So I began to to you know to to write out this sermon on Romans chapter one verse four and then I realized, wait a minute, I did this Six months ago, let me see what I did said six months ago. So then the point I'm trying to make is this message is somewhat different, although it's the same text. It is somewhat different than what I gave about six or seven months ago. And that just shows you that God's word is alive. It's living. It's not just some static thing like a gigantic rock and it doesn't move. God's word is it is alive and productive and and does things. It's effectual in all that it does. But my thought is this, why is this message that I'm going to share with you different than the one that I gave to Marcus Huck? And the only reason I can come up with is that the message produced today is here for somebody in particular here today. Then that's just my conviction. Is that true or not? I don't know, but I think that's my conviction. What I'm going to share with you today is going to hit home to somebody deep in your heart. And uh maybe all of you, or at least I know one of you, there's something here that God has, and that's why this message is going to come out the way that it does. And so I'm pretty excited about that and I want to see what effect the Spirit of God will do in your life and in mine too when I'm preaching. I'm preaching to myself. I'm not here just laying it out on you. I've got to think about these things myself So if we're going to look in the Romans chapter 1, verse 4, of course it tells us here, and declare to be the Son of God with power, according to the spirit of holiness by the resurrection of the dead. However, this comes in a context, obviously, and when we look at God's Word, we cannot forget that. This this does come with a context, so the first thing we want to do is to make make mention of that context. So that we can see this verse in the proper setting. Well, the context. Verse 1 is about the Apostle Paul. The human author of this book, the Apostle Paul, we believe that he wrote the book of Romans while in Corinth. So he's the human author of Romans. Verse 2 is about a promise that God has made to his people. Verse three is about the parentage of the Lord Jesus Christ. And then verse four that we're going to look at too today is about a Is it about a proclamation or a declaration? Of course you do notice all these words start with the letter P. Right? Did you get that? Paul Promise Parentage Proclamation. Sort of way of remembering things if you can do this. But here's the larger point I want to stress for you today. When you go home, or maybe tomorrow, or something, you may mention to someone that you you attended church. And some sarcastic person's going to say to you, I bet you don't remember what the pastor preached about, even though you went to church. Well here it is. The pastor preached about a proclamation. That's the theme. A proclamation. So what did the pastor preach on? A proclamation. Why is that? Because that's what verse 4 is all about, a proclamation or a declaration. The proclamation is about, obviously, duh, the proclamation is about Jesus. And I want to make this point before I go on. Your whole Bible, 1,189 chapters, 31,102 verses. 788,280 words of your King James Bible. And you know what it's all about? Jesus. All of this is directly or indirectly about the person of Jesus Christ. Let's never forget this. It gives little different insights about him, but it's all about Jesus. The Pentateuch, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy. What's it about? Jesus. You go into the historical books. Jesus, the major minor prophets, Jesus, the New Testament, the Gospels, about Jesus, the epistles, about Jesus The prison epistles about Jesus, the general epistles. It's all about Jesus. And here what we're looking here in verse number four, Romans chapter one, verse four. It's about Jesus and it's mentioning here that he is declared to be the Son of God. And that's what we're going to find in verse number four, it tells us Four thoughts about this Jesus, about which the whole Bible is about. Verse 4 tells us that Jesus, number one, is the Son of God, that He came with power. That he came with the spirit of holiness, and that he resurrected. So these are four things about the Son of God who visited the earth to reveal to us the nature of God and our responsibility to Him and His love for us. So let's look at this. It'll take but if we take five minutes to each one Four or fives are twenty. We're done in twenty minutes. And we're all whatever you want to do. Of course it'll be longer than that, I think, but maybe not, maybe shorter. Let's see what we have here today. One other thing I want to say before we actually get into it. Again, I don't know your state of mind, but I know when you have a group of people, there's always something going on. Could there be someone here that may have within their heart a root of bitterness? I don't know. Maybe within your family. Maybe here within the family of the family of God, here within the church or at work or whatever, you have this thing, this nasty nurning thing within you Maybe someone has an issue of unforgiveness. Maybe you have been offended by someone improperly, and you're holding a grudge. Could that be here? And you know nothing will deaden our growth than to hold on to a grudge. And we're all you know you know we're all offended from time to time. We've got to learn to deal with it, and then move on. Um maybe someone has a financial problem. You know, there's all kind of issues. They could, because we live in a world of sin, we ourselves are sinners, all things You know, we deal with all kinds of issues. The point is this, we're praying that this message today will deal with whatever issue is in your heart. And so to hopefully help this to occur, let's have a prayer calling down God's blessing upon our time together. Our Father, we ask now, we want to say thank you for letting us be here today, O Lord, that we were not traced away uh with the propaganda of of uh health issues, although we do want to be wise and careful, yet at the same time, what's our value system? It is you We want to follow you, and if there's a cost in following you, so what? Who cares? So be it. Thank you for giving the leaders of our of this church wisdom. to hold this time of worship today and not to fold at the slightest little issue, which most of the Christianity does. So, Lord, we ask that you will grant, that you will fill us mightily with your Holy Spirit, that you will grant us insight, wisdom, peace. As a result of look and learn above all, we ask for accuracy as we discuss the holy word of God. God forbid, what a tragedy it would be. For me or anyone to stand here and say, Thus saith the Lord, but in reality the Lord didn't say it. So, Lord, keep us from being presumptuous. Guide us that our statements will be accurate, that they will be effectual, and minister to the needs of the people today so that when we disperse When we go home and live forth the rest of this week, that we will have your peace in our heart. Perhaps we will grow closer to you. Perhaps we will deal with the issue of sin. Perhaps you will make us more bold. We all need remedy. We all need help in some area of our life. Guide us to that end. And again, thank you for bringing these people here today. They had a perfect excuse not to come. And here they and and they put all this aside and here they are. So I ask that you will give them a special blessing for this. And we pray this through Christ our Lord. Amen. We see here in Romans number chapter 1, verse 4. It begins first of all, declare to be the Son of God. The last thing I want to add, by the way, I want to put forth a challenge to you. Memorize this first. As a matter of fact, memorize Romans chapter 1, verses 1, 2, 3, and 4. Get all these things memorized, and it will be a great a great help to you as you begin to make it a habit to memorize Holy Scripture. And I'll tell you more about that in just a moment. But here we see in Romans chapter 1 verse 4 declared to be that this is about Jesus, the historical person, Jesus Christ declared, someone said it, that he is the Son of God. Well who made the declaration? As you go through the gospels, we find numerous people who walked with Jesus, who talked with him, who saw him, who touched him. Their confession is that this person Named Jesus, known Jesus of Nazareth, was and is the Son of God. That's quite a statement to make. And yet, for example, we have Martha. Now, as you leave through the New Testament, especially the Gospels, we can trace all this. I just arbitrarily selected three. Here is Martha from John chapter 11, verse 27, and she makes the statement: I believe that thou art the Christ, the Son of God. Now understand this is a contemporary of Jesus. This is not a historian looking back and saying, oh yeah, that's my this is a person who knows Jesus Philip, one of the disciples of Jesus, says in Acts chapter 8, verse 37, he says, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. Now there's Philip who walked and talked with Jesus. Remember when Jesus was in a ship? In the Sea of Galilee, and those that are in the ship with him make a declaration of a truth: you are the Son of God. And there's many more illustrations I could give you today. For brevity's sake, I just leave it there. But there are numerous people who, again, I can't stress this enough. They are the contemporaries of Jesus. The contemporaries, those who saw him and lived with him and heard him speak, their conclusion was this, and by the way, it was very costly. Very costly for them to profess, as I'll share with you later, that Jesus is the Son of God, and that's what we have here. It's interesting to notice that Peter, in Peter's writing, in 2 Peter 1, verse 16. Now before I give it to you, just out of curiosity, does anybody happen to know that verse? Does that ring a bell? 2 Peter chapter 1 and verse number 16 give you a clue, and it says For we have not followed. It goes on to say, Cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power and glory of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of his majesty. And you see, that is the beauty of the Bible, especially the gospels. They were eyewitnesses of what they're writing And their eyewitnesses about Jesus Christ being the Son of God. Not a son of God, the the definite article, the son of God. So we did not follow some cunningly devised fable, some trick, some idea. And you know there are scads of explanations about Jesus, how that he is not the Son of God, how he tr literally tricked everyone One of the most recent ridiculous things I've read was uh someone was suggesting that Jesus and during the lost years of Jesus, you know, we know him as a child and then then you don't see much of him until about the age of thirty Well where was he by the time when he was a child and we lose contact with Jesus and then he shows up at the age of thirty? Well what what what's going on during all this time And when the heretic speculated that, he went down to to India and learned how to do tricks. He learned how to do magic in India. And then he came back. to to Galilee and to Jerusalem and began to perform his tricks, you know, miracles. And instead of this non people will go to all kind of nonsense to discredit the word and power and majesty of our Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible declares he was declared to be the Son of God. And secondly, it says with power. You see that word power comes from the word duname. You go back to the Greek rendering, Duname, and actually in this particular text it's uh duny duname, I guess you should say, and that means that is the Greek word for dynamite And that's where we get the word dynamite from duname, and uh which is translated here power. Now we've all seen examples of dynamite. Let you see that on the television where You know, he's the train's coming, he's going to blow up the train, and here comes the train. He pushes down, and the thing blows up. Well, that's power, that's dynamite. And that is the word used for the Lord Jesus Christ. He came from Duna. He came with Duname, with power. He did not just make grand statements But rather he actually did something. Things changed as a result of his presence. How did he demonstrate his power? Many, many ways I've I've just arbitrarily selected three I want to give to you quickly, just to list them for you quickly. I'm looking at at Mark chapter 1, verse 40. And by the way, when I say that I'll tell you this little thing. This may encourage you to do something. Take a break from this. I want to move over to a little illustration and get right back to it. But remember that years ago I went to a a a Christian meeting And the guest speaker got up and he recited, verbatim, the book of Mark. The whole book of Mark. I learned later, when that was over, that he was not saved. He was a professional actor, and this is what this was his shtick. And I'd get up here and he would recite the book of but I began to think, wait a minute. If this man who is not saved can memorize the book of Mark, how much more should I, who is a pastor? So I set out on this lecture to memorize the book of Mark. And it's it's the smallest of the gospels, so if you're going to memorize one, that would be it. And then then you're going to ask, well did you do it? And the answer is no, I haven't. I'm still working on it And and I really haven't worked on it for quite some time. It takes I mean it takes years to do something like this and you have to be at it all the time. So I think I got up maybe up to chapter eight or around there and I've really well I gotta get back Vicky you gotta get me back on this to get back on my memory work here. But the point I want to share with you is Mark chapter one verse forty And here it's about a leper comes to Jesus. And he says to Jesus, if you will, you can make me clean. And the next verse says, And Jesus moved with compassion, put forth his hand and touched him and said, I will, be thou clean. Next verse says, and immediately, as soon as he had spoken, the leprosy departed from him, and he was cleansed. Talk about duname. Talk about power. Here is this one with leprosy. And that was a kiss of death in that day and age, and your skin rots off you and You had to be put in a colony so you couldn't spread it to other people. And Jesus comes on and touches this man and it's gone. Talking about duname, talking about power, there it is. Our text, Romans chapter 1, verse 4, tells us Jesus came with power. Being the Son of God, he came with power. In that same book, Mark chapter 7 and verse 25 speaks about a certain woman who has a daughter who is possessed with a devil. And the woman makes her approach to Jesus and makes an explanation. And making a long story short, it tells us in verse number 30 that while she is talking to them to Jesus. The evil spirit is driven out of her daughter, and she returns to find her daughter in bed, laying free of the demonic interference. Again, another healing by Jesus without him even being present. And these are the examples of power, P-O-W-E-R, or Duname, Jesus, who walked this earth. had grand power. And I give you one other example, and this also is in Mark chapter 7, verse 32. And there it's an account of a man who is deaf. And has an impediment of speech. Now could you have you ever thought, I I guess I'm sure we've all tried this, I've tried this, what would it be like to be blind? Oh Mary, I mean could you imagine just for five minutes try that? If I'm blind, what am I gonna do? You know if I'm trying to get around here? I'm not peeking, I'm blind. But you know And and if I were to speak to you and and hear your voice, I don't know what you look like. I don't know you know it's what's about me here. But I'm trying to get along and we take all this for granted. You know, we have our eyesight And we take that. But if you don't have it, you're s but think about it, if you are deaf, you hear nothing. I'm sure you'll have the radio on, the T V on or the computer or something on and you hear things all day long. But think if you can't hear not you can hear nothing. So I can I can still hear myself a little bit. Uh of course my wife accuses me of being deaf because she'll talk out of listen. But could you imagine being this way? Now if you're born that way, certainly you're going to have a great impediment of speech. How can you speak? That's with the condition of this person here that I'm sharing with you from Mark chapter 7 verse 32. But what happens? Here this man comes to Jesus, he he he deaf has an impediment of speech. If you will, you can make me clean. And Jesus says, I will. And the verse tells you in verse 35, the ears were opened, and the string of his tongue was loose, and he spake plain. He could speak. One encounter with Jesus. And what is all this doing? It is showing us here that He has power. Jesus has power. What's our text tell us? Mark, or excuse me, Romans chapter 1, verse 4, declared to be the Son of God. And how does he do it? With power, not just speech. Although he gave some of the greatest sermons ever given, but this Paul is bringing forth the power shown By the life of the Lord Jesus. But I want to give you one more example of the power of Jesus. And probably it's going to show much more power than what I already gave you here already. And you know what that is? You. I'm looking at it, demonstrating the power of God. Why are you here today? It's a beautiful day outside. You could go to the mountains. Go to the beach a little early, but you could do that. You could go for a walk in the woods. You could be still sleeping and be you could do all kind of things and you're here. Why is that? Something happened to you. Something happened in your heart. That's the power of the Lord. And think of anything that can change human behavior is very powerful. And the power of the Lord is so grand that you're here for worship service. That is a demonstration of tremendous Power. God in his grace and his mercy saved a miserable sinner like you. He saved a more miserable sinner like me. And I know that is true power. I bet some of you for this church, maybe you sacrifice money. I'm sure some of you have shed tears over issues of people or the church. And why do you do this? Because the power of God has entered your heart through salvation in the Lord Jesus Christ. This is a movement of great power. And that's what Jesus came. He is the Son of God, and He came with duname. He came with power. The third thing our text tells us is that He came with the spirit of holiness. Think about this thing, this thing of holiness that the Bible tells us. Agasune is that word for holiness. Agasune. And that's a key word in the Bible. It is found 654 times. This whole issue of holiness. That's the distinction of the Christian from the rest of the world. that our Lord will move us toward holiness. And when we say holy, we mean something such as m a kind of moral purity. It's that which set you apart from the rest of the herd. You have the herd running this way and you're going over this way because of holiness you are different from the rest of the world. When you go into the classroom There's something different about you because there's holiness in your life. The world doesn't care about holiness. The world ridicules holiness. The world is anything but holy. But when the Lord saves us, he leads us to a life of holiness. And it is that which distinguishes us from all others. It is avoiding sin and attempt and the following. None of us do it perfectly. We all make mistakes, and that's what you have 1 John 1. 9 in the Bible You all know 1 John 1 9. You can recite that with me. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. That's what we do when we do sin We try not to sin, but let's face it, we're here. We're all flesh. We all have weaknesses. We all and when we do, we want to fall upon our knees and and confess the sin, name it And by the power of God, leave it and go on. But holiness is to keep us from sin. In the life of Jesus, holiness served as boundaries. Jesus was bound by holiness. I've often thought. Silly, silly false, but you know this thought has gone from if I was Jesus and had all this power, I would be tempted to go to the First National Bank of Jerusalem and take all the money. And if Jesus used his power to accumulate wealth, he could have taken all the wealth and think of all the healing and and the money he could charge for the healing. Why he could take all the money in the Middle East and take it with him and and disappear some and go to India, as that man suggested. But he didn't do this. And you know what? He couldn't do it. Because he is bound by holiness. Holiness would not permit such activity. While he had all power But you notice, I believe it says in the Westminster Confession of Faith that Jesus could do all of his holy will. All of his holy will he could do, but he cannot do beyond that which is holy. Because Jesus was perfectly holy. That's why he resurrected. He was perfectly holy. There's no sin in him. He was bound by holiness. And what is what is what are we finding here in Romans chapter 1, verse 4? He ministered in the spirit of holiness. Luke chapter 1, verse 35 refers to Jesus as that holy thing. He was known for his holiness. Hebrews 7, verse 26 refers to Jesus as he who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate, separate from sinners. And you see that description of holiness as we describe Jesus Christ. Now I want to ask you a question before I move to the last part of this verse. A word which describes Jesus given to us here in Romans 1 4 in our text is holiness. Okay. If I were to ask you, This can become humors, I I think. But if I were to ask you, what one word could we use to describe you? What would that word be? Would it be holy? He l you live a holy life with those around you say, yeah. Or let's put it better better. If someone if I were to ask someone What what is the major characteristic of that person there? What would they say? Would they think holiness or you know, what what would it be And I'm just dramatizing the point. Jesus, our Lord, was holy. And we see it everywhere in Scripture. This was his life. This was his difference from the rest of the crowd. Jesus lived a perfectly holy life. But we as followers of Christ obviously should attempt to attain the same thing, a life of holiness. Now I'm a hypocrite when I say this because I am not by nature I'm not a holy person. I have to train, I have to think, I have to discipline myself, because no holiness will come from me unless I'm totally disciplined by the power of the Holy Spirit And many times that happens, or sometimes it doesn't occur as it ought. But of course, this is our Savior, perfectly holy, and that is what We see in Romans chapter 1, verse 4, the Holy Spirit brings forth mentioning to us his holiness. The last thing we want to mention, we've looked at Jesus being the Son of God. We saw that he walked with power, duname. We see that he had the spirit of holiness, true, perfect holiness. And the fourth thing our verse deals with us today and mentions he does these things by the resurrection of the dead. Speaking of the obviously Jesus Christ resurrecting from that which being dead. His heart stopped. He died. His physical flesh was dead. Not like Some of the books that come out, of course, you know, mankind does all he can to discredit Jesus, to discredit the Word of God. And there was a book out years ago. I I may have been a bestseller because it has a great name. It was called the Passover Plot by Hume Schoenfield, and he tries to make this discussion. Well, Jesus really never died. He was the and and When they gave him the vinegar to drink, that was just a drug, which slowed down his heart and made him appear as if he was dead. Now of course they did you know crucifixions all the time. They knew when someone was dead and when they were not. And then he goes into the grave. And now he n and now he suddenly revives himself. Oh, and and and doesn't w you know the the scars on his hands and his feet don't matter and then it's it's absolutely absurd. But you know the world will go to any end to try to discredit our Lord Jesus Christ The Bible tells us our text today mentions how that Jesus resurrected from the dead. And the Bible's full of evidence of this. The four Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, you know, if you compare what these evangelists wrote. There's only a few passages which all four of them comment upon. The gospel and the resurrection. Is one of the few that all four speak in depth about. The resurrection of Christian, and that is to say, it cannot be denied. Jesus resurrected from the dead. First Corinthians chapter 15, the resurrection chapter. And there it makes the point. That witnesses observed not just the apostles. It says at one time 500 brethren at once saw the resurrected Christ. So this is a fact in history, which if we're looking at the facts, we cannot deny. This person, Jesus of Nazareth, died upon the cross with witnesses watching this. Taken down from the cross by trained Roman soldiers who knew when people were dead, put in a borrowed grave. And three days later makes an appearance and is seen of many witnesses and walks upon this earth for a number of days and eventually he ascends up into heaven. But no, our text is telling us that our Lord Jesus Christ resurrected. Now, here's one thing we observe. As we look at the ministry of Jesus Christ. And we look at his apostles. Have you ever done an in-depth study on the apostles? Early on in the ministry, they were really like more of a more of a problem than a help. They doubted, had little faith, they stumbled across here, they offended people, they had many problems. But we observe in Scripture, following the resurrection of Jesus Christ, these people were transformed. And you compare their life and their character after the resurrection. as opposed to before the resurrection, and there is a major change in their lifestyle, in their commitment Following the resurrection of Christ, they take on a new transformation of power, energy, and boldness. And what did they do? Did they just hang around Jerusalem and Judea? No, they went out As Jesus gave the great commit the great command, go out into all the world and preach the gospel. Finally, they got the message after the resurrection, and they went out to proclaim the Word of God. These people who were heretofore fearful. One might even say lazy. But when they saw the resurrected Christ, they saw this with their eyes. They handled and touched the Lord Jesus, and they knew this is indeed the Son of God. So what happened? To these apostles. We know this. Andrew, the apostle Andrew, after the resurrection of Christ, went to Asia Minor, that's like around the Turkey area. Preach the word that eventually he too was crucified like Jesus. I mean can you imagine that the crucifix? Can you imagine The spikes going in your hands. I mean, how could you handle that? But Andrew, knowing his life was at stake, preached it, and he got crucified. Philip, we've already talked about Philip. Philip, the historians tell us that he was arrested for preaching the word. And the language used, he was cruelly put to death. But we don't know exactly what that method was. Matthew, remember the tax collector Matthew, that miserable tax collector who the Lord saved. But what happened to him? Was he still in the staunch pro-Roman mindset? No. Matthew traveled to Persia and Ethiopia, proclaiming the word, and he met his death. as he was stabbed in the back as he was preaching in Ethiopia. That's Matthew. Remember the sophisticated tax collector. Ends up in Ethiopia preaching, proclaiming the word, and he lost his life in the process of this. Bartholomew And Thomas together. They went to India, Armenia Ethiopia and Southern Arabia, both of them died as martyrs. I mean, this is astounding. Every one of these apostles of Christ went out. And proclaim the word of God to their very own death. James, the son of Atheus, in scripture there's about three or four Jameses, but James, the son of Alpheus. Historian Flavius Josephus reports that he was stoned and then clubbed to death They stone them. And then he falls down and they club and they beat him to death. For what? Preaching the gospel. Simon the Zealot. Now we've all read about Simon. What was he zealous about? He has some zeal. Why did he get that name Simon the Zealot? He was zealous about the overthrow of the Roman government. He wanted Jesus to rush in and take over the Roman government, be the Caesar. And so he's called, he referred to as the zealot. So you have here Simon the Zealot ministered in Persia and was killed after re refusing to sacrifice to the sun god. Because when they went to these other areas, they had their own religion. And if you didn't worship the sun god or the god of the Mars or whatever, there's a great cost to it. Matthias, we all remember Matthias, he's the one that took the place of Judas. Tradition sends him to Syria along with Andrew, as I mentioned him before, killed in Asia Minor. The only one that did not die as a martyr was John. And he was banished to the island of Patmos there to perish there. So we do believe he died of old age. Of all the apostles, he was the only one who did not die a martyr. Now, why is this? How can you explain this sudden transformation? Not in one or two of them, every one of them How do we explain this? Other than what this says is true? How can you explain your behavior? How can you rationally explain why you are here today How can you explain when the offering plate went by, I bet you put things in there and and you're sacrificing? How can you explain this? Other than Jesus resurrected. That indeed He did save you, that indeed the Holy Spirit of God does live in you, that your future is as bright as the promises of God, because these things in fact are true. Verse 4, and declared to be the Son of God with power. According to the resurrection, from the dead, according to the spirit of holiness from the resurrection of the dead. And I clue I conclude with this I conclude with a question. The only obvious question. What obvious question can you ask when you are done sharing God's word? And it's this, are you saved? Now I've seen you be you know I've seen you here, I've been here before and I've seen you and you lovely, kind people, but I really don't know your heart. And I've had numerous um examples which drives the point home, never assume If you don't know the people, never assume that they're saved. You should never assume it. Now, if I'm part of the church and I s you know see you interacting and all this, then yeah, then I have a but I I really don't know you that well. And quite frankly, you don't know if I'm saved really do you. So so I'm asking the question, do you know the Lord Jesus Christ? Are you saved? You know, I give these examples. I'm not sure if I gave this to you. If I did, bear with me. I'm probably somebody that hasn't heard it. My wife mentions it. You gave you that example before. What are you giving it again for? Well, uh, because I am, that's why Uh but but I'm thinking of of Earl, Ear Earl and Era. Now they were an older couple, came to our church, uh, and but Earl would drive Era to church. She'd get out, you know, walk in and be part of our church, part of our congress, a lovely, lovely, lovely woman. But when the church service is over, then she would walk out and her husband be there by the road there to pick her up and take her home Well, in time I asked the obvious question to Era. Oh, well he you know he's taking care of the kids or he has this and all that, but but you know he's He he's in favor of of the church and what we're doing. Okay, so so it it came where I was going to make a visitation. And we went out to and no, here's why Earl began to come. He came two or three times, and I said to Vicky, we need to get out and visit them and just see really what's going on. So we did a visitation and you know when a Monday night or whatever we did a visitation there and we had a nice dinner. They invited us for dinner, so we had dinner there Following dinner, uh Vicky and Eric went to another room and Earl and I so I had a chance to talk with Earl. And so I said, Earl When did you come to the Lord? He said, oh, he said about two weeks ago. What? Two weeks ago. You gave an invitation. I received the Lord at that time. What? I thought you were saved all this time. Well I've you know I've I've been raised in the church. I'm not a I'm not a murderer, I don't kill but I but I got saved two weeks ago I'm sorry I tear up when I say this, but uh that taught me a lesson. Never assume that your people that you're talking to are saved you know until you Fuel them out and talk with them. Because you never know. You never know what's going on in the heart of a person. John 112, as many as received him to then give you the power to become the sons of God, even to them which believe on his name. I didn't realize this when I first wrote that verse down in closing. How similar is that to Romans chapter 1, verse 4? John 1 12, as many as received him to them gave you the power to become the sons of God To them which believe on his name. And so I would close with that question. Do you believe on the name of the Son, the Lord Jesus Christ? Have you received him as he's presented in the Bible? The Savior and the Lord. Have you received him this way? Has God opened up your heart so that this is clear to your mind that you won? to receive the Lord. If not, then I would encourage you to do it right now or talk to the Lord about this. If you have any doubt So um to God be the glory and we pray he'll take these words and and take them in your heart, in my heart, as I say when I preach, I preach them myself, because I need it probably as bad as anybody here. So let us close with a prayer together. Our Father, what a joy it is to share with the brethren here. At the Pilgrim Bible Presbyterian Church. Lord, we want to call down your blessing on this congregation. That you will give them encouragement, that you will give them wisdom and boldness and a fresh spirit of energy, especially now with the with the meetings coming here in two weeks We ask that you will give them help and organization and skill and encouragement, all that is necessary. For the brethren to be well treated and cared for, and the meetings bring forth proper, powerful results. For the Bible Presbyterian Church. Our Father, we ask even today, you know our hearts right here today. Is there a dear soul here today who has never bowed the heart to Jesus Christ as Savior and as Lord? And my dear friend, if that exists, why don't you do it right now? What my friend friend Earl? Now Earl's in heaven. He's in glory now. Why don't you do the same thing? Receive the Lord right now. Come unto me, all you that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. You will have rest in the struggle of this world. Rest from indifference, rest from the misery that this world can give you, the deception that this world can give you. Flee unto Jesus right now while he is offered while you can. Our Father, thank you for bringing us together this day. I thank you for my dear wife Diffi, who who is a great support. Without her support we couldn't be doing this And I thank you for her, for bringing her into my life when I was in desperation. And so I pray that you'll make me a good husband to her, to bless her life. I pray for the married couples here, the families that are here, Lord. We ask for your blessing on them. We pray that our husbands here will truly, genuinely love their wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. And that the wise will will follow their husbands. We pray for the children that they will grow in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, that you will raise up a great host of believers right here. in the Pilgrim Bible Presbyterian Church. That you'll do a great work right here. Thank you for bringing us together today. Thank you, Lord, for giving me the privilege to be able to share this. It's always a Honor and a privilege to put forth your word. Thank you so much for letting me do this one one more time. Thank you, Lord. Guide us now as we go our separate ways. And I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen