If you note the title of my message today is Eat Please Eat. Has nothing to do with reference to our meals after church, but if that works, that's fine. Let's just pause before we look to God in prayer. Our Father, we open up this portion of our morning worship with a reading and proclamation of your word. that which our souls so uh earnestly need, and we pray that our souls so earnestly desire to have such a word. We thank you for its uh convenience that uh we have an abundance of Bibles and and uh Christian materials throughout life And yet, Father, there is at times not a heart's desire to feed from it. We pray that as we walk through the various passages and the things that we'll share today That your spirit will again be our teacher, shall hide your servant, and Christ will be honored in all that we say and do. For it's in his name we'll pray it. Amen. I'm sure you've all seen pictures of children suffering from starvation. There are a number of ministries that will bring up the pictures, very thin, maciated arms and bulging eyes and bloated stomachs. And they're they're hard to watch. Um the flies and uh and the feeding them a little bit and this and that and it's it's something that we sometimes just turn away from trying to ignore it But today, I think I'd like to talk about malnourished adults, which are often much harder to diagnose. Children, it may be easy to see, but uh I'd like to talk to you about adults. Some of the signs of malnutrition in adults um weakness in uh muscles and fatigue. Uh the body muscles seem to uh waste away and they become tired and exhausted, uh not able to move about leaving them without adequate strength or the ability to carry on the activities of a normal day. Many of them complained about tiredness and lack of energy. I have to remind myself that I'm not malnourished and I complain about tiredness and lack of energy at the end of the day, but putting it all together, there's an increase in susceptibility to infections. I think we saw some of this or have seen in some of the nursing homes and care homes with the many who have uh passed away during this recent uh coronavirus. Uh small wounds and cuts are often very slow to heal. Um fingernails and and hair often becomes skin becomes dry and brittle um uh as an obvious sign. Uh depression is commas common in malnutrition and uh for many again considerable uh loss of muscle uh mass. Uh they just become thin. I'm sure Faith has has seen uh a lot of these uh situations. And when you start to ask why the malnutrition in adults, there are a number of areas that it's often related to, and oftentimes they don't necessarily think of themselves as being malnourished. There are health concerns such as dementia, dental issues, chronic illness, the use of certain medications and difficulty in swallowing. Uh they just don't feel right as the ability to eat and eat the right things. It's it's it's it's hard uh restricted diets, uh whether that's of their own choosing or or somebody else is watching and they're not really eating the things that they're supposed to be eating Uh limited income. A lot of statistics will show that families oftentimes just don't have the money or individuals don't have the money to buy the right foods. And and that's where in recent years the studies talk about how junk food had been so easily purchased and that becomes their diet and this brings upon malnutrition. uh reduced social contact. Uh I've talked with and seen many about just eating alone, being by themselves And they just don't want to cook. They just don't want to prepare meals and therefore they're not eating the things that they should. And then depression Statistics in the United States show an estimated three point seven million adults uh are malnourished. I'll say older adults Um and for those of you who have parents who are still alive or grandparents, you might say, well, what would I do if I knew that my mother or father was in such a situation? But I just let it go? Obviously not. Uh we would not take uh we'd take the action that would be necessary to get them the proper nutrition, or at least put them in a place where where professionals can help them and assist them in seeing that that proper nutrition is there. What about you? As you get older, your spouse or yourself, you know, what do we think about in those situations? What would you do? If we have any heart of compassion or love, um we wouldn't have a second thought about seeing that my wife, my father, my mother, uh whatever, would get whatever is necessary to put them on the road to recovery, uh, to see that they are taken care of physically. Dietary needs are met I mean, even the heathen do that. Even the heathen have such an attitude towards such. But what about spiritual malnutrition? Do you know the symptoms? Are you aware of what goes on? Do those symptoms show up in the lives of your family members? Or the people you hang around with, the people that we rub shoulders with. How about looking in the mirror? Are the signs of spiritual malnutrition in me? Author of Hebrews writes 4. 12. For the Word of God is quick and powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit. joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and the intents of the heart. Here the author says the Bible is intended to be a scalpel performing deep surgery. Cutting well beyond what is the exterior, what we see, or what may be perceived as who we are, down into the soul of each one of us. No matter how I may look on the outside, how well I may be dressed, how I may move about certain circles of people, how I can talk certain biblical talk or religious talk That may be on an outside, but on the inside, how am I? What is the picture that is seen by me, honestly, or others? The prophet Jeremiah accurately writes: the heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked. Who can know it? That's true for the unregenerate. The unsaved man, he has no clue of what's going on. His heart has deceived him in such a way that he thinks he's well. He thinks he's in good stead, but he has no idea. But I think the principle still carries on to those of us who are believers. My heart still retains a principle of or a power of deception. To where I think I can, am sufficient, I don't need to go any further in my Spiritual new church hunt. I'm okay. Day by day, I am doing well enough. How do I look on the inside spiritually? The author of Hebrews saw some signs in those who was writing and was quite troubled by it And he wrote in our scripture, and I'd like us to take a look at that, Hebrews chapter 5, and just follow along as we'd be reading verses 10 through 14. Hebrews 5 Beginning at verse 10, he writes, called of God and high priest after the order of Melchizedek. Of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing. For when for a time ye ought to be teachers Ye have need that one teach you again, which be the first principles of the oracles of God, and are become such as have need of milk and not strong meat. For everyone that useth milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness. For he is a babe. But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use Have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. Now, look there in verse 11. He says, we have many things to say Okay? You're looking at this as a letter. And and I started at verse 10, but really you could go into the the entire chapter that's there. He says, I have many things to say. In other words, he's come to this place and say about what? Many things to say about those things that were talked about previously, and what was that? Well, he's talking about Melchizedek about Jesus Christ, our great high priest, who was of the same priestly order and the same priestly office as Melchizedek He's talking to them about that. And so he says, we have many things to say, but eh, brakes are slammed. He says we're going along, and then all of a sudden he says, a lot of things can be talked about, but and again when you see that you say, why is he causing us to stop? What's he wanting us to look at? But You know, any time you at least I would surely think today, most colleges and universities when you open up a uh uh a a course book uh college catalog or go online and see what they're offering. Uh if you're looking for a certain degree There are a lot of prerequisite classes that are necessary in order for you to obtain this particular degree uh an accounting degree and they say, well, a prerequisite here is that you need math one oh one and math one oh two, you know. Uh nursing degree. Well you're gonna have to have some prerequisites and in uh biology and aton uh anatomy and and other sciences and so forth before you can get into that particular field that you want to get into The author of Hebrews writes to these brethren and says, by now you should know that teaching should be something you should be doing. You should be preparing and teaching others of these very same things, these deeper spiritual things. But he says, but you have to go back and take those prerequisite classes again You didn't really pick it up. Again, verse 11. We have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing that ye are what? Dull of hearing. Has nothing to do with their ears, their physical hearing. They There it wasn't that their hearing aids weren't working or that Tannitus was kind of overruling and that they couldn't hear what was being said. He says there are a lot of things that are hard for you to understand. It's hard to make clear to you Because you no longer want to understand. You no longer try to understand. He says you're hard of hearing, they're just not listening. Even though it's being presented again and again, these truths that are necessary for their spiritual maturity He says, we've kind of turned it off, and they are hard for you to understand. It wasn't a matter of hearing, but it was a matter of the head and the heart. Our author says, by now, at this particular stage of their spiritual growth, he says, you ought to be able to explain to others the truths of the Christian faith, the basics. This is the early church, this is the early believers, but you ought to be able to explain to those who are asking. As parents, they should have been able to explain to their children, as neighbors, to be able to explain to neighbors as friends, to be able to explain things of eternity to them. Not the great deep things of theology, but to answer the simple principles of life that they had come on, and he says, you can't do that. You're not able to do that because you quit listening. But they could not The author of Hebrews is saying that he sees some signs of spiritual malnutrition in their life, some signs that are of concern. You're only sucking on that bottle of milk, and you should be having fork in hand and you should be chewing uh the meat that has been being able to be presented unto you. Now, again, beginning in the middle of verse twelve, he says You have need that one teach you again. Remember, we talked about prerequisite classes. Got to do it again. Which be the first principles of the oracles of God And are become such as have need of milk, and not strong meat. For everyone that useth milk is unskilful in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe. But strong meat belongeth to them that are full age, or if we say mature, even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. This isn't the only place that the Bible talks about using milk and meat. And I think that's a neat illustration, something that anybody of any age could understand. That's why it's used in the scriptures themselves the uh perfectly easy understanding milk babies, mature adults eating solid foods, gluten-free, sodium-free, non-GMO products That's a different version of the Bible, but just in case you wonder about that. 1 Peter 2. 2. As newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word, that you may grow thereby. If so be that ye have tasted, the Lord is gracious. Here Peter writes and he says, and it's an easy illustration. You go to that newborn baby, eyes are closed, and he's looking for something to drink, whether it's from mama or from that bottle, and you see those lips go and he's he's he has that natural sucking. He wants that And he says, that's natural. And he says, for the child of God, spiritual babes in Christ have the natural desire, born again, to get into the word. I want more. And that's kind of a neat sign when somebody makes a profession of faith in Christ. The follow-up that the Spirit of God does is that they says, I need to get into the Word. I need to understand where I've been more so and where I'm going in the direction of life and things like that. He says that's that's naturally what takes place. And so Peter uses this as a wonderful picture of growth and spiritual development. The Apostle Paul writes of his spiritual son Timothy And he says, and that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. Not literally, but I think Paul is acknowledging the fact that Timothy grew up, started in those early years of his life, from his mother and from his grandmother from other believers that were around him, and he started on that milk. And you see, see, developed naturally that which was natural for him, and the Spirit of God working in young Timothy to a place that he became a meat eater, solid things, and to a place that Paul acknowledges. Now, Timothy, you're at a place of responsibility You've grown out of those baby things and you've grown into this. And so Timothy is given position of responsibility. He says it's evident how the milk developed into the meat, and how the meat, in order to produce the things that the Spirit of God caused, brought him to such a place. There's another passage in the New Testament that doesn't necessarily speak of milk and meat as something that he has seen as good. Paul writes to the church in Corinth, 1 Corinthians 3, 1 through 3. And I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal. even as unto babes in Christ. I have fed you with milk, and not with meat. For hitherto, really up to this point you were not able to bear it Neither yet now are ye able, for ye are yet carnal. For whereas there is among you envying and strife and divisions, Are ye not carnal and walk as men? Powerful condemnation, Paul says. Peter looks to his recipients and he writes and says, Boy, it was good to see that you desired that milk, and that was a natural progression of spiritual life. Paul comes to the church at Corinth and he says, you started out with the milk, and all of a sudden you're still on milk And he says it's evident because, and he refers to them as carnal, worldly. He says that it was evident by the way they acted in life. He writes of spiritual malnutrition, evident in their worldliness. He says, envying and strife and divisions. Therefore, are you not? Isn't that obvious? You haven't grown up. You still got the baby bottles sitting there, and you're not even thinking about going anywhere beyond that. I guess we could say that even a child can't grow physically properly, drinking a bottle, drinking milk all his life. It just doesn't produce uh very long-term good results. Um milk is good. I looked up in an eight-ounce class of milk, there's 103 calories. You got potassium and sodium, protein. vitamins A, C, D, B six, B twelve, iron and magnesium. That's all good qualities, all things that are profitable and possible to uh do the things that are necessary. But that's not enough to sustain long life. The physical demands of life, warding off disease and illness, can bring about proper growth if you only drink milk. I think it's the same way that we can't grow on spiritual milk. You all know, Jesus loves me, this I know, for the Bible tells me so. And we say, boy, that's great. Simple theology. Nothing can be clearer from the truth. I love him because the Bible tells me. And we say that. But is that enough to carry me through as a father or as a husband? As somebody who works here? Is it interactions with the world around me? If I just Yeah, well that's a basic thought, but it it doesn't take me to another level of responsibility, of growth, of dealing with situations that we deal with in life. To know that Christ died for my sins on Calvary's cross is fantastic. To know the verses and be able to share them and repeat them to the Romans road. You know, going on down through those particular passages showing that we're sinners and that Christ died and made an atonement for my sin and that if I receive them by faith I can become a child of God. But its limitation is only with there, but it doesn't help me to deal with the other aspects of life. Interactions and reactions and worldviews and everything else They're good, but it's like the milk by itself. It isn't sufficient to meet the needs of life completely and bring about spiritual growth. I don't know about you, but it's possible that maybe some of us here today may be stuck on a spiritual diet of milk. And that may not necessarily seem bad because I feel okay. Um I'm I'm I'm amongst believers, I'm I'm you know, dealing with stuff like that But it doesn't necessarily mean that I'm able to face the situations in life that will come along and have come along, because malnutrition has come in Jeremiah says, Thy words were found, and I did eat them, and thy word was like unto me a joy and rejoicing in my heart. Jeremiah says the word simply was something more than a good taste, but he says it was to the joy and rejoicing of my heart. I delighted in the word. I found it as nutrition to my soul, and it caused me to want more. Jeremiah couldn't explain and pronounce the power of what the word had provided for him. Unlike the temporary satisfaction of the food that we often will find, frequent unhealthy aspects of junk food, spiritually that has its parallels too. And there has to be more than just the milk of the word. The psalmist says, How sweet are your words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth? Psalm 119 103. The words are sweet by nature, but only understood until they're tasted. The psalmist says these are true. They are powerful truths, but only until they're tasted, only until they are digested, will we find the value of them in life. Will I find an understanding of how powerful these words are? And like anything, sweet to the taste, but we want more. Ezekiel 3:3 The Lord tells the prophet. And he said unto me, Son of man, cause thy belly to eat, and fill thy bowels with this roll that I give thee. Then did I eat, and it was in my mouth as honey for sweetness. That roll, the scroll, the word of God. He says, Eat it. That's the encouragement, the direction the Holy Spirit gives us all the time. Feed upon it, eat it, be nourished thereby. And he says, and it was sweetness to me, it was a delight to my soul. When these spoke of this delight in eating and digesting the Word of God, it wasn't just a matter of acknowledging facts. Because anybody can just memorize and and understand facts as they are and regurgitate them upon notice But it's saying here that there is a knowing of the Word of God and understanding how it applies. Not just a memorization of facts, but a saying that this is the Word of God. For any fool can pull out those statistics, but it is the child of God who becomes a very part of the Word of God. Let me close with this. Earlier we mentioned the causes of physical malnutrition, and I'd like to draw some parallels to spiritual malnutrition. We talked about the general health concerns for physical aspects: dementia, dental issues, chronic illness, the use of certain medications, difficulty in swallowing On the physical, spiritual side, it's the same thing, but it's the three-letter word. It's sin. Sin is that aspect of life that keeps me, the general overall spiritual health keeps me from delighting in growth and the Word of God. Whatever that aspect may be. Remember in Paul's letter to the Corinthians, he was evidencing the malnutrition by saying it was envying and strife and divisions And that kept them in infancy. He said, this is what you should see yourself as. He said, you say we are this, but he says, by these evidences of sin, you're not. You're not growing And they can be in our life as anything such as jealousies and angers to to anything that it becomes a blatant sin. But sin is sin. And whatever delight we may have and say we have in the Word of God, Satan's delight is to keep me in sin, in order that I cannot find delight in the Word of God. However that may be understood or justified in my own mind, it keeps me from that growth that I ought to have. We talked about restricted diets. We had a teacher back in college, both he and his wife taught and And uh the wife went home to be with the Lord and and this teacher towards the end of his days um met with some friends and and he says, uh I'd like you to come out with me. And he says he went around the back of his station wagon and opened up the trunk and it was full of cases of insure. He says, Well he says, this is all I need. All I'm gonna do is just drink all of this, you know. And my friend says, uh that's not really it, you know. Uh i it was his own mental thought of of a restricted diet, you know, uh that was going to keep him going I need to ask myself about what I'm feeding my soul with. That may be very well having little to do with spiritual benefit. It may be a series of books that I'm reading, or some television program, or some game on the computer. In and of itself, it's not an issue. Examining him. It doesn't it's not approaching sin. It's it's not bad. It's nothing wrong with it. But is it, and I have to ask myself, is it keeping me from the proper diet and the spiritual aspect that I ought to be finding. Don't restrict yourself to feeding spiritually for an hour on Sunday morning. There's plenty of good online radio preachers throughout the week And I find great joy in hearing certain ones that I enjoy listening to. Good Christian literature in book form or electronic forms. That are available. And I'm not saying that we eliminate, we're we're going to cut everything out of the world. What I'm saying is that there are some things that I need to feed my soul for or and and if it is keeping me from allowing the word of God in one fashion or another from feeding my soul, I've got to move something out of the way. I have to make some adjustments to do that. We talked about reduced social contact, eating alone, uh loss of interest in cooking and eating. Uh one of our former board presidents um in his retirement years was in a uh a personal care home And uh his wife had gone home to be with the Lord and he he was reduced to a wheelchair and and he says when it came time to meal time they wheeled me into the dining room and and he says he put me up to the table to these different ones and and he says that he's he's a guy who just loved to talk talk about the Lord And he says, Hey, my dem is back and forth. And he says their heads were down and they were just interested in eating I said the next day he said, Let me try somebody else and he put him on another table. Heads are down just like that. I couldn't get beyond that, the the social contact, the social wall that was there. the division that occurred. And he says, it was hard on me. But he says, I persisted. I continued to to talk, at least try to talk with them. Um I think on the spiritual aspect avoiding contact with believers, and I don't necessarily mean the physical contact, the heart contact I says we can be, you know, physically in the same room or not in the same room, but our hearts need to be in contact with each other We have to have that understanding of this is the body of Christ and and and that social interaction is necessary for us Uh there are a lot of churches and congregations who uh continue to meet on the on the virtual scale. And I know there are a lot of folks that were yearning, hungering to be with each other Not just to see them because they're good friends and so forth, but the interaction that occurs because they are, there's a malnourished aspect to being socially distant and not having their hearts in interaction I remember when Millie and I came to know the Lord, the church that we were going to, uh they had a group called the Middlers, and it was when the husband and wife's ages did not exceed 70 And therefore if you had little children and so forth, when we found uh with one son and and meeting with these other couples who were more mature spiritually, that we had a lot of things in common that we could ask them questions. that we could exchange uh different views and thoughts and just on life in general, kind of an informal interaction. And it was powerful It was necessary to have such a a social interaction within the heart. It brought upon, I think, some great growth with us. And then we talked about depression. I think the farther away we are from the Lord, the more hopeless life seems overall. And it goes back and forth. The hopelessness pushes on the depression, the depression pushes on the hopelessness. But Christ has to be there in the center of my life In every aspect. I have to see that. I have to understand that. I have to demand that of me. Malnutrition is nothing to take lightly. On the physical side and especially on the spiritual side. Know what to look for in the warning signs. For ourselves, it's hard, I think, maybe even hardest, but even with others Those who are people that we know there's some issues and something doesn't seem right. We have to be able to know those warning signs in friends and loved ones, and again particularly in myself I'm sure you realize when someone is physically malnourished, the cure is not simply to put a giant meal in front of them. Uh I've seen rescue missions to uh groups in third world nations where there's a lot of starving people and you just don't put a huge table out and let them eat whatever they want to eat. They feed them slowly And I think for spiritual malnutrition we have to realize that the road to recovery is peace at a time, a little bit at a time. Slow growth, piece by piece by piece by piece, step by step by step by step, in order to strengthen the body, in order to have the soul and spirit strengthen in the Word of God. It's the same spiritually. We understand how those things work. Bible reading, prayer, good fellowship, a steady diet. It profits us all. It profits me. It profits everyone involved. When next we meet, I'd like to be able to discuss some foods. that we'll be ordering up in order to make our souls strengthen. But I think I'd like to just keep this within this framework. that we recognize the hardships that are existing. Uh we talked about praying for our nation and praying for the condition that's around. We didn't get to this place in our country in our communities because everybody was spiritually strong. We got to this particular stage in life because there was a a lethargy uh towards spiritual things. Failure for one generation to meet the needs of another generation, taking for granted, because I grew up in a church that I naturally part of the church. And then slowly by slowly you travel around and you look at the cities and you see all of the church buildings that are out there. And they are no more. They are something else. Some other group has moved in. Um at our mission we go through addresses at time to see where our mail is going and how it's reaching and say, oh, this place is closed Well, this one is taken over by somebody else. Well this one they had to move to someplace else, you know. It isn't as it used to be because there were malnourished souls. So we take it from where we are, and we pray that the Lord will give us an awareness of these things, and asking Him to be gracious to bring us back on the path that will make us strong in the Lord and in the power of His might. Let's pray. Our Father will pause here this morning with these seed thoughts in our hearts and minds, and they may be good words to think about and to agree with But only until your Spirit takes them and brings them into our hearts and to produce an action that's necessary will there be profit. But Lord, you have to make us willing. As uh the man told Jesus, Lord, I have faith, but increase my faith. Uh Lord, I believe what you're saying, but Lord, increase that in order that I can believe it more, that I would have the ability to go forth Help us, Father, to be able to do that self-examination properly, to look in the mirror of the Word and say what is needed in my life the hungering and thirsting that I have and I still have uh is an evidence of mm m a malnourished condition in my soul And for those that are around us, uh people that we see uh that should be groaning and they're not, uh may we come to our knees and pray for them that your spirit will work in them to bring others across their path, that they would hear a a radio broadcast or uh find a piece of Christian literature, a gospel tract. uh just an invitation to a good Bible-believing church that their hearts might be strangely warmed in order that uh the seed will be producing once again as you would have it We pray again for our country, and we ask, Lord, that you'll continue to be merciful and gracious to it, and that we might see, through those who are faithfully proclaiming your word, uh as being the sources of the changes that are necessary way beyond anything else. And we'll praise you for it in Christ's name. Amen.