Well this morning I'd like us to look at 2 Chronicles. Let's go back to 2 Chronicles where we read the responsive reading earlier. Let's go back to 2 Chronicles chapter 22. Go back a little back, a bit behind. And we come to Thanksgiving this morning. And for Thanksgiving this morning, we want to focus on a negative example of Thanksgiving. What Thanksgiving is not. And so, and of course we'll have positive things to say as well, but this is especially an example of what Thanksgiving is not. Here with Joash, the king of Israel. And by the way, we'll get back to Revelation next week. But for communion, we did something different, and we did something different today. But we have chapter 22 of 2 Chronicles in verse 10. Verse 10. But when Athaliah, the mother of Ahaziah, saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed all the seed royal of the house of Judah. But Jehoshap Jeh Jehoshabeth, the daughter of the king, took Jo Joash, the son of Ahaziah, and stole him from among the king's sons that were slain, and put him into his with his nurse in a bedchamber. So Jehoshaphat, the daughter of King Jehoram, the wife of Jehoiada the priest, For she was the sister of Ahaziah, hid him from Athaliah, so that she slew him not And he was with them hid in the house of God six years, and Athaliah reigned over the land. So here we have a Joash in the history of Israel. And here we have Athaliah, the wicked queen. And Aphaliah, the wicked queen, she kills all of the royal seed. And she takes the throne of the kingdom. She becomes queen. And you know how she got in this position was by Jehoshaphat, the Godly king. He took the daughter of Jezebel, Athaliah. to be be the wife of his son. And Jehoshaphat had no separation with the ungodly And it was said, shouldst thou help the ungodly and love them that hate the Lord? He was personally godly, but he had no separation. And so Athaliah came in, and she killed all the king's sons when she had the opportunity, but Joash was hidden by Jehoiada and his wife. And so Jehoiada hid uh Joash from Athaliah that she was not sla that he was not slain And for six years we have here Athaliah reigned over the land. Then let's go over to chapter 23. Chapter 23 and verse 11. This is where we read in our responsive reading. And here verse 11 of 23. Then they brought out the king's son and put upon him the crown and gave him the testimony, and made him king. And Jehoida and his sons anointed him and said, God save the king And so here we have a godly revolution. And Atheliah was the de facto government, but she had usurped the throne illegally. And killed who should have been on the throne. And so Jehoiada the priest arranged a revolution. And it was a godly revolution, and they got rid of Bataliah and put the boy Joash on the throne. They put the crown on him, gave him the scepter, and you notice here Jehoiada and his sons. Anointed him king. And we're going to come back to that later. Then let's skip over to verse 22. Verse 22 of chapter 23. And all the people of the land rejoiced. And the city was quiet after that they had slain Atheliah with the sword. And so this was a godly revolution, much like our American revolution here in America. And they put down the oppressive government and got a godly government in there. And what was the result of that? The people of the land rejoiced. The land was in quiet. And then we go on to chapter 24, verse 1. Joash was seven years old when he began to reign, and he reigned 40 years in Jerusalem. His mother's name also was Zibeah of Beersheba. And Joash did that which was right in the sight of the Lord all the days of Jehoiada. And so Jehoiada saved Joash's life. He put him on the throne through a revolution, made him king, and guided him all through his reign for many years. And so Jeolash owed everything he had, everything he was to Jehoiada the priest. He had Jehoiada the priest had saved him, crowned him, kept him, he owed everything to him But then we go down to chapter twenty-four, chapter twenty-four, go on further down, down to verse fifteen. But Jehoiada waxed old and was full of days when he died. 130 years old was he when he died. We heard about somebody else today that was 130 years old when they died. Which was Jacob. And they buried him in the city of David among the kings, because he had done good in Israel, both toward his God and toward his house. You know, that would be a great epitaph on your gravestone. You did good toward God and toward your house. And so Jehoiada was a very godly priest. He had this revolution. There was a godly revolution. And you know, we're not supposed to always obey the government no matter what. We have to keep in mind, you know, obey those things which they have the right to demand. Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's and to God the things that are God's. And Caesar can't demand everything, and he can't demand things that are God's. And so here it was a great blessing for Jehoiada here. He was buried in the city of David among the kings. This priest was buried among the kings. Because he had done good. And back here in the Old Testament, you see over and over, it matters if you're buried and how you were buried. And uh it uh is a special note here. And they buried him. They didn't cremate him, they buried him. And you know, I was thinking this past week, you know, a big reason why we shouldn't cremate is the imminent return of Christ. When can Christ return? Any second. And you know, it would have been totally out of place to cremate Jesus after he died on the cross. Because he was going to rise from the dead the third day. And nobody would have been completely out of it to cremate Jesus because he was going to rise again. Well, what about us? You know, if Christ can come by at any time, he could come back tomorrow. And we've cremated somebody today. It's out of place for the imminent return of Christ. But anyway, back here in the Old Testament, there's a reason why. It always talks about burial, always talks about a good burial. They buried him, the city of David, among the kings. And then we go on here, verse 17. Now, after the death of Jehoiada came the princes of Judah and made obeisance to the king. Then the king hearkened unto them. And they left the house of the Lord God of their fathers and served groves and idols, and wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem for this their trespass. So the kingdom went very well all the time of Jehoiada the priest, but then after his death The princes came, note that the princes came, and they urged the king to have a new time there in Israel, a new age, a new era. And they left the house of the Lord God of their fathers and served groves and idols. You know, we were traveling this past week and we went by a building site there and it said the future home of Old Paz Baptist Church. Well, I thought that was a very good name for a church, Old Paths Baptist Church. That's what we want. We want the Old Paths of the Bible. We want to stick with the Old Paths. Today no one wants to stick with the old past. They want everything new, everything new. They want new music, they want new preaching, they want new Bibles, they want new, new, new everything. But you know, that's what they wanted here in Joash's time as well. They left the house of the Lord. They wanted new things, new groves, new idols. But wrath came upon them from the Lord for this their trespass. And then verse 19. Yet he sent prophets unto them to bring them again unto the Lord. And they testified against them, but they would not give ear. And the Spirit of God came upon Zechariah, the son of Jehoiada the priest, which stood above the people, and said unto them, Thus saith God. Why transgress ye the commandments of the Lord that ye cannot prosper? Because ye have forsaken the Lord, he hath also forsaken you. And they conspired against him and stoned him with stones at the commandment of the king in the court of the house of the Lord. Thus Joash the king remembered not the kindness which Jehoiadah his father had done to him, but slew his son. And when he died, he said, The Lord look upon it and require it. So Here we have Joash and Israel departs away from the Lord, Judah. God sends prophets to them. To bring them back to the right way. What do you think the prophets did? They did just like Zechariah did here. They told them that they were doing wrong. And of course, it's always been the job of a prophet to tell people things they don't want to hear. And that's what Zechariah did, that's what the prophets did, but they didn't listen. So finally this son of Jehoiada got up and said, Why transgress ye the commandments of the Lord that ye cannot prosper? You know the prosperity religion is really big today, especially in Brazil. And it's God wants you to prosper. And there they take promises out of the Bible where God says he wants to prosper somebody. And they take those promises out and they run with them. But you know, there's never any attention given to whether the people are serving the Lord or not. It's just God has promised to bless everybody. Just take his promise to heart. But they have to be serving the Lord. And here it says it very clearly: if you transgress the commandments of the Lord, you're not going to prosper. Right here. And because ye have trans forsaken the law of the Lord, he has also forsaken you. And so then the king gave a commandment to stone. Zechariah and Kilim. And Zechariah was the son of Jehoiada And it tells us in no uncertain terms in this text here in verse 22, thus Joash the king remembered not the kindness which Jehoiada his father had done to him. And he was one of the greatest ingreats of history. He had been given his life by Jehoiada through the instrumentality of Jehoiada. He had been given the kingdom, he had been guided in the kingdom. And all it took was for his son to say that he was doing wrong, for him to kill his son. His son actually participated in putting Joash on the throne. And Joash remembered not that kindness. He was unthankful. And you know, if we're thankful, it should lead to action in our lives. And if Joash had been thankful, he would have had respect and honor for Jehoiada and for his family, and for his sons. You know, I uh uh a few years ago we went over to Scotland, to St. Giles Cathedral, over there, where John Knox used to preach And here's a picture from there. And it's a modern example, more or less modern, of this very same thing. And here we have Alexander Campbell. He's buried in St. Giles Cathedral, Knox's Church And there's a sign up above him that he was killed by the king that he had put on the throne. He had put the King Charles II on the throne, at least helped put him on the throne, and then Charles II, as soon as he became king, He killed the Protestants, the Covenanters. And here he killed this man of God, Alexander Campbell. But Alexander Campbell says here his last words were talking about that he was going to a better crown, even though that he had put the crown on the head of the king Well, you know, that's what it is here with Joash. He was an ingrate. Charles II was an ingrate, and you notice how things are turned around. Now we have a big monument for Charles II outside of St. Giles Cathedral, and we have John Knox buried underneath the parked cars. And that's how things are turned around in our modern world. But anyway, Charles II was an ingrate, and so here we have Joash. He was an ingrate. And so that brings us to children. Children are so often ingrates to their parents, ungrateful to their parents. That's the age in which we live right now. Children do not appreciate what their parents have done for them. And of course, here, Jehoiada was like Joash's father. He bro raised him up. And Jo Ash didn't didn't remember that. And uh today it's the this the society it was mentioned in Sunday School of entitlement today. Everybody's entitled to think. And children are entitled to everything because the parents had them And therefore, they're entitled to have everything provided for them. They're entitled to everything. And they don't need to be grateful for anything their parents have done for them. And it's a sad situation. And why is it that uh so people few people want to have children today? Well, that's one reason right there. You know, they see, well, if children expect everything and don't give anything back, why have children And a lot of people have that attitude. Of course, we're not supposed to have that attitude. The Bible says that we should have a full quiver. It's good. But you know, it's terrible to have ungrateful children. And it's terrible to have a spirit of ingratitude, of entitlement. And of course the liberals, they encourage that spirit of entitlement Everybody's entitled to everything from the government. The government should give us everything. And today they got free food giveaways out the ears everywhere. In our town of Smyrna, we got a couple big free food giveaways going on and it's everywhere all of a sudden To get people dependent on the government. Get the idea of being entitled to everything. Well, let's keep on going in our text here, verse 23. And it came to pass at the end of the year that the host of Syria came up against him. And they came to Judah and Jerusalem and destroyed all the princes. Remember, it was the princes that had turned Joash away from the Lord. They destroyed all the princes of the people from among the people, and sent all the spoil of them unto the king of Damascus. For the army of the Syrians came with a small company of men, and the Lord delivered a very great host into their hand, because they had forsaken the Lord God of their fathers So they executed judgment against Joash. And when they were departed from him, for they left him in great diseases, his own servants conspired against him. for the blood of the sons of Jehoiada the priest, and slew him on his bed, and he died. And they buried him in the city of David, but they buried him not in the sepulchres of the kings. Once again, it matters if we're buried and how we're buried, in fact. And Joash was not buried with the kings, but Jehoiada was. And it's interesting here that we have the opposite of one chasing 10,000 Yeah, with the Christians being the one chasing 10,000, here we have the one of the ungodly chasing 10,000 of God's country and nation here. The small company of the Syrians came in and defeated Joash and his big army. And as the Bible says many times, the battle is not to the strong. Many times, many times the biggest army loses. And so it's not the strong, and they came in, they executed judgment upon Joash. And then Joash was murdered by his servants. And it says he was murdered for the blood of the sons of Jehoiada. And what we sow, we will also reap. And of course, we have a good example of this the biggest army doesn't always win in Vietnam. In Vietnam, the U. S. had a lot more than the Vietnamese had, but they didn't have the will to win, and we didn't win. Well, anyway, here we have Joash, a good example of ingratitude, of how we're not supposed to be. We're supposed to be thankful for everything. The Bible says, in everything give thanks. That includes everything, even sickness. It includes calamities. It includes everything. We're supposed to be thankful for it. And how can we be thankful for bad things? Because we know God is working everything together for our good. Everything is being worked together for our good if we're Christians. And so we can be thankful for every single thing that happens in our lives. Thankful to the Lord. And we shouldn't have that spirit of entitlement. That we're entitled to things just because we're a child of our parents or just because uh the government's there. Uh you know, we're not entitled to things You know, you have people out there, they talk about how I'm a self-made man, and I've earned everything I've gotten And I don't help anybody, and I don't expect anybody to help me. Well, you know, those are bad attitudes. You know, how do people prosper? It's God that prospers them And it's always really the being in the right place at the right time that God allows it to happen. And people aren't rich. Jeff Bezos isn't the richest man in the world just because he's smarter than everybody else in the world. No, he might be kind of smart, but he's he's not that smart. No, he was in the right place at the right time. Time and chance happeneth to them all, we're told in Ecclesiastes. And so we ought to be thankful for everything that God has given us. Everything. I was reading a book recently by William Jennings Bryan. And he was talking about things we ought to be thankful for, and he was talking about our education we ought to be thankful for. You know, the fact that we had an education. that we had a school to go to, that we had teachers to teach us, that uh uh for all the things that our parents have given us, all the education in our lives, we ought to be thankful for it. Thankful for all the opportunities. That God gives to us from day to day. And of course, a big thing that we've always said that we're thankful for is our freedom. Our freedom to come together and to worship. And we, you know, down through the years, I and others, we've talked a lot about our freedoms that were guaranteed that our forefathers fought for and died and and gave us. And that's all true, and we still do enjoy a lot of freedom in this country, but it's really being whittled down today And you can see today with this coronavirus that basically our freedoms are no longer guaranteed to us. You know, a guaranteed freedom does not depend upon the situation. Upon the emergency of the hour. A guaranteed freedom is always there. And who would have thought years ago that the churches would all be closed down? The government would issue an edict that the churches be shut. You wouldn't have imagined that in the past. And so we're really thankful for the freedoms that we have, but they're on a very tenuous foundation today. They're on the whims of the government, basically, whether we have our freedoms or we don't have our freedoms today. It's unfortunate, but that's the situation. It reminds me of France in the time of the Huguenots. You know, the Huguenots, for the first part of their existence there in France, they fought for their freedoms. And they had the Huguenot Wars. And they had strong places fortified, and they had castles, and they had armies, the Huguenots Well finally, Richelieu and the French king took all that away from the Huguenots. And the last fortress, great fortress the Huguenots had was La Rochelle. And that was a port city, and it stood for many years, but finally it fell. And after the fall of La Rochelle, And fall of their armies and their fortresses, the Huguenots were at the mercy of the King of France. And their fr freedom lasted for a few years until Louis XIV And Louis XIV came in, he said, L'état c'est moi, which is the state, I am, I am the state Whatever he said went. And finally, one day he issued an edict. He revoked the edict of Nantes. And he said there was no more freedom for the Huguenots, and all Huguenots had to leave the country or become Catholics. And through those years after La Rochelle fell, up until Louis the Fourteenth revoked the Edict of Nantes. The Huguenots were had their freedom only by the whim of the king. The king let them have their freedom for a few years. And that's kind of the situation we're in in America today. We can be shut down at any time, according to the whim of the government, but praise the Lord for the freedom that we do enjoy. And praise the Lord for the sacrifices that were made in the past to have our freedom. And of course, free uh we have our great uh saying that uh uh that uh uh Carl McIntyre used to say, freedom is everybody's business, my business, your business, the church's business. A man who will not use his freedom to defend his freedom does not deserve his freedom. And so we always need to be fighting for our freedom. And we praise the Lord for that. But everything we have, everything that we are, we owe to God. And we should give thanks to God. And if we give thanks to God, what should that lead to? It should lead to action in our lives. Should lead us to giving our lives a living sacrifice unto the Lord because we're grateful, because we're thankful for all that God has done for us. And you know another thing that thankfulness leads to? It leads to contentedness. That's something that's a little bit rare today, somebody being content. Paul said, In whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content. And that doesn't mean that we might not want a better job, we might not want a better sofa, we might not want a better something. But if we're content, we have the attitude: if I never get a better job, I'll be content. And I'm thankful for what I have. And we need to be thankful. We need to be contented for everything that we have and everything that we are. And should lead to action. Giving ourselves to the Lord, giving ourselves to the Lord in service, honoring the Lord with all that we have. And we need to stay away from sin. Because we're so thankful to the Lord. We need to lay aside every weight, and the sin which does so easily beset us. And run with patience the race that is set before us. And so praise the Lord. There's so many things to praise the Lord for. One of the things I like to say that I like to praise the Lord for is for all the things that didn't happen. For the accident that I didn't have on the way to church this morning. And for all those things, for the sickness I didn't get yesterday. And praise the Lord for just so many things that we have. And everything give thanks. Let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we just thank thee for thy goodness unto us. O Lord, we just thank Thee for thy many wonderful works unto the children of men. We thank Thee for this church. We thank Thee for this country. We thank Thee for the freedom that we still enjoy, we thank thee for our families, we thank thee for the opportunities we have, for the education we have, we thank thee for all these things. And we pray that we might be the Christians that thou would have us to be. In Jesus' name, amen.