Whatever they may say, as it always is. Nice to be. Hey, that's a great looking here into Romans chapter one and what is my claim if we continue on. If it's negative or positive, at least by reverse phrase. No, you're here. And that's a good sentence by sentence. Even if the whole community would against looking this be a good thing that they know that you're here. And I'm asking, does Romans has does anybody know how many are witnessing going through the community and being the community? Do they 133 places Faithful people divided in the sixteenth chapter. Paul is talking about the faith here in Romans chapter. And we know this. Saving faith Is a gift for God. You know that is, but not anyone can just okay um four hundred and thirty-three verses, so that's not how it works. And if God doesn't give us a good thing, I've never thought I've never worshipped the Lord Jesus Christ even a book. So today we were going to be looking into Romans chapter one and looking into verses eight and nine. So let me read that to you, and then you can recite in your heart. Common chapter two, verses eight. First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you and your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world. In the gospel is easier to understand than without ceasing, I make mention of you always be memorized. Okay, let's pray over these verses. And all things understand that we are using and reading the inspired in Arabic was already probably worth Ephesians chapter two verse. I can confuse it and distort it. I don't want to do this by grace that you might fill me with the Holy Spirit, that the Spirit of God will be the true teacher Not of yourselves of God that will receive any mansion and use it for your honor and your glory. Where by grace to that end how are you safe to accurately dissect your words and distribute it? And may it be received. We pray this now of words. No. It's a gift God gives to you. And you do know the message in the Bible you can boast. For God so loved the world he gave his only begotten Son that he used to be raised in him, saying, I can walk around. But thank you very much, my dear. Now there is a kind of faith that's just not saved also. You know the for example. You came here today Whosoever believes in the church. But you did not know for sure if it was going to meet. You assumed that it would meet. You knew it would meet. You have always gracious So you're driving to the church and you sort of have to be a very good thing. But that's not the kind of thing the Bible talks about having Christmas personally. I'm wondering who the Lord Jesus Christ is eight and nine. That faith will not unit. Maybe that faith will always be strong. You're whatever denying transformed by the Holy Spirit If the Lord Jesus Christ is in your heart and he has saved you, that is the faith that he gives and that therefore we do for repentance and optimism and power when you're not going to be able to do that. But we go forth. Because if you die in your optimism, you have eternity. The Lord wise has given to us Jesus. It's a beautiful thing. Our Father, we have what we see here is scripture of Paul. The beauty of the thankful speech even today, even this moment you may be human irresistibly to yourself. Free you see how Jesus bondage of sin intercede on the sin. We use the word for this undo it to try to describe Because you give them the Lord Jesus in a time of prayer as we pray to God through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. If this is comparing what they had to go through, America has. We are so blessed we take it for granted. Amen. I know I take it for granted. Looking at these verses I remember in my seventy six years of life as peace, actually I have selected my notes here, I have selected eleven things to share with I don't think we all want to at all. But that was another story. And it's interesting. If you were going to teach all these exercises, what would you bring out? There's very little. And I'm sure each of us would come up here and have a little different angle. So here's what I've come across lesson that I would like to share with you from this. And then we just talk about chapter one, verse. What we see on your beginning. Let's talk for a moment about the spirit of the world. Because again I stress there is a beautiful thing this is. All men grateful to God. Either you have a saving face of what believe in Jesus. But I would love him. Look at the glory You want them to be our Lord now today. Certainly here we are and none of us are persecuted. No fear of persecution. But that's right there. And when we do mess up, yes, we want to confess that our lordship forsake it Maybe your neighbors may have friends that wash your pattern and have a nice afternoon preparation. Especially and they do all that. And they're wondering why do you do this? To them, it's they look at it with wonderment. It doesn't make sense to me. The liberty of money because they don't know Christ. They don't have saving faith in their heart. And so you will be a mystery to them. They will live with this. And that will help us to reach out that we have every day. Of course, win them to the Lord Jesus Christ as we're all familiar with verse. Going then verse verse number eight. I'll say it anyway. But there it says it says first eight. First I thank Christ Jesus concerning you. For you all that your faith is given away, your faith is taken away, not out of the whole world. Hunky Dorian the way you want to do they just in all things. of the church usually what we're going to do is complain and be spoken and ruin the day. The language is here. The whole worst thing we should do is not vegan. And as a matter of fact it's going to come from that other all-inclusive terms because yes that's And now we're seeing it here for the Holy Spirit. The name of God in Christ Jesus concerning you Talking about the first time. When we have this gospel, God does miracles and I know he can become whatever conversation sometimes to nail down how you're talking about the church And I would ask you the Church of Rome. Are you in the center of God's will for your life? Unless it has to be a good thing. Think about what is Rome. But here's the commerce and the center about God's will for your life. And people can give thanks to Rome and ships A grateful spirit has it have joy in our claims. Be thankful for what the for the Lord's grace and mercy want to bring out here because I seen this is Uh they came I thank my camels, they came walking and putting this together and preparing this message. I thought my guy Through Jesus Christ. Not everyone that hears that God will receive Christ. And what do they do? They return back, they get back on their camel or get back on their ship. Wherever they came from around the globe, and they share the gospel. In that way, the faith of the Church of Rome is known, spoken of, around the world. From the work of missionaries or Christians, hearing the word of God Um now that's how I understand this. You may understand it a different way, but that to me seems to be talking about a larger explanation of that faith. You're around your house And you go over the same. Assuming you have the flower. Or a plant. Have a grateful spirit. Have the beauty of go there with a hose. With your hose. How can you? And you're going to water the garden. Secondly, we remember the Lord Jesus how he intercedes an time of prayer. As you picture yourself warning the power of the Church of Rome historically and saying what they have called this phrase And the sacrifices and the free Jesus Christ. And reign hours. And then we see the faith. Is there faith Was it was recognized. But we can't be technical, but we are to pray to God the Father. As we more m move on briefly to verse number nine, for there we see in verse number look at the language here. Look at this phrase for God is my witness. Steve stop right there. What does a conduit In time, we are we know God the Father. We pray to God the Father. How do we pray with God? Watching him. And that's the example that we see here in a pattern for prayer. So when you hear first Paul gives something which can help you in your Christian life. And that is probably what he's sure who is he giving thanks for, he says for you all. As you're driving the car, as you're walking down the sideboard, as you're shopping, what does that represent for you all? If you are conscious that God is there and watching you and Paul is giving thanks to the case. You know what that will give to you? That will give you a way. It will give you a lot of people. Especially two ways to define that. You may have empire or mature crisis. But as you are aware that God is there, watch you have the gift of the Holy Spirit to environment in that city. That gives us boldness in a New Testament church there in that To live with the Lord, it is appreciation and confidence to make the brain and what he does. And you look in scripture of the many people who do all the things the situation What came to my mind as I'm thinking about this and putting this together was an equalistic in your Samuel 17 and verse 45. I haven't marked that on this one, but I wanted to summarize it. And share it with you, but you know I couldn't get it memorized. At least in time for this memory, but I hope to get it memorized at some point. So I'm going to read to you. Just a verse I want you to see. I'm going to be looking here by verse number forty-five. And I'm not giving deity story to Caesar about Goliath. And another who's a pagan giant. But how tall was it? One God is ten feet tall, he is a warrior and one reason why can you imagine this attack? Now also if you look at the timing of this You know, t that's a basketball group. When you're playing basketball and you can't get away, this was a time when it's ten feet tall. Caesar's aroma. So here it comes against the church? Uh The giant uh Goliath and he's able to stand and discover that each hit the top of his head a different policy towards the children. And here is David withstanding the church warrior ten feet done. Now what was David? They're not bothering anybody. What he was. And so but this particular time to the time of persecution against the against the church. David says that the Philistines was the we believe me. You come to me with a sword Caesar at this time. And with a spear. Taking Goliath and place and You come to me with a sword and with a spear and with a shield. Caesar against Israel. That I come to you and the name of the Lord of Educated the God of the Army of Israel whom you have defiled He became murdered. Verse 45 or 46. This day will the Lord deliver you in the country and violence and I will smite you and take your head from you under him. And I will give the code of the host like we Philistines this could be really identified. And to the wild beasts of the earth and to all the earth may know that they're in that hiding about here. That's what we have in view. And so then it goes on to say, and all this assembly shall know that the Lord saves not with a sword and with a spear. But the battle is the Lord and He will give you into our hands. Secondly, no scatters, ladies and natural suburbs in this plan of God in your why more Jesus. That's what motivates a conduit. And that's what we see here in Paul. We know we do great things for God. They're conscious. We know God helps. Always conscious that God is there. is watching. Always conscious that God cares around the church lighting in your situation. Looking here in the beginning of verse 9, for God is my witness. Certainly Paul was well aware that God was his witness. And brethren, we need to be the same way. When we leave here, get in our cars and go home and do what we're going to do, you need to know that God is. . Men, when you're talking to your wife and caring for your wife, no, God's listening. Wise when you speak to your husbands and and you're doing things one with another, know that the Lord is there. Watching, watching your life together as you serve one another. As we go on here, then looking at maybe another thought or two here in verse number nine, it goes on to say, For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit. Just look at that phrase. Paul says, whom I serve with my spirit. Now this flies in the face, of course, what all our kids are being taught in school of evolution. You know, the nonsensical idea that life and even actually the universe. All this beautiful, fantastic universe came from nothing. Can you that's what ultimately if you talk to an evolutionist, he has to somewhere say that Somewhere there has to be a first cause and it had to just personally just generate, self-generate. Now what in the world do we know what what can self-generate? Nothing. And yet that you're all this sophisticated universe is supposed to come together. And y you know the whole thing of then then of life and evolution and man just being the highest form of this el evolutionary process and He's just a dumb animal, and when he dies, he goes back to the earth from which he came and as if he never lived. But that's not what the Bible tells us. The Bible says we're made in the very image of God, and we have a soul, we have a spirit And that's what Paul is making mesh r making mention to here. He serves God uh with his spirit. And um What does that tell you? That we are a creature made in the image of God. And think about yourself for just a minute. As you look at yourself, I may have I think I may have shared this with you before. I don't know. Maybe it was the other church. My wife tells me sometimes I say the same story all the time. Well again I don't know who I'm talking to. But think about this. Here I am, here's Don Britton. Now if you cut off my arms Am I still Don Britton? Yes. If you cut off my legs, am I still Don Britton? Yes. If you take my eyes out, am I still Don Britton? Yes. If you Pull my ears off am I still Don Britton? Yes, well when am I not Don Britton? The whole point is I'm not the body, it's the spirit of Don Britton that that will live forever And for you as well. And that's what the Word of God is saying. Paul is talking about his spirit, whom he has serves in his spirit. We are creatures made in the image of God and we have we and our spirit will live forever, and then it never dies. The physical body will die, and the issue is where will your spirit live? In heaven forever, where there's no more sin, sorrow, sickness, and disease? Or will it be in hell where there's damnation, no hope of escape, and total misery. Lord save me that I can escape hell and have have eternal life. Let me give you one more thought here. There's actually there's a couple more, but Here's one I want to get into here. Let's look in verse 9 with me again. For God is my spirit. We talked about that. But I left out this phrase, whom I serve For God is my witness, excuse me. God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit. Get the word serve. Paul says, who I serve with my spirit. Now who was Paul? As we look into his life, we know that he was a Pharisee. And I've heard of several authors who made the statement that they believed that Paul may have been one of the most Greatest intellects of the world in his time. He was a very well educated person. Now, some of the apostles and even Old Testament prophets are just plain people with very little education. But some of them are very smart, educated, and Paul is one of them. He's probably first in line of those who received the wisdom of the world, heard about it, studied it. understood it, of course rejected it, but he was a very well-educated man. And he says here, for God is my witness whom I serve with my spirit. He saw, and this is his self-image. Paul saw himself as a servant to serve others. And that was what Jesus was. Here's Jesus, the Son of God And yet what was he? He was he became a servant, even to the point that he would permit people to put him through the mockery of a trial and put him upon the cross. Because he came as a servant. Now think of what Jesus could have done. He could, hey, I'm not taking this and or maybe come down off the cross and I like what Dr. Cameron used to say. He'd say, Well if I was If I was Jesus, I'd come down off that cross and slap those Roman guards in the face and get back up on the cross again. But thinking of what The Lord Jesus could have done, but he chose to reveal himself in the form of a servant. In like manner, what does Paul refer to himself as a servant? And I hope that you and I get the message there That's what we are, servants of the Lord. We have no maybe our pride will make us walk around with pride, look what I've done, look what I've accomplished, look what But that's nonsense. If we're truly going to live a biblical life And follow the pattern of scripture. We need to take the form of a servant. I want to give you one more verse. To commit this to memory, it will serve you, serve me many, many times in my own life. Now I'm going to ask if somebody can recite this. I have a prize I'm going to give you. Not much, but a little prize. But here it is. The verse is 1 Corinthians chapter 9 verse 19. Does that ring that bell, anybody? I mean you say Ephesians 2 8 and 9, that sort of rings a bell. John 3 16 that rings a bell, but what about 1 Corinthians chapter 9, verse 19? It's a powerful verse And it says this. This is Paul's writing. He says, For though I be free from all men, yet have I made myself a servant unto all that I might gain the more. Think about that. Paul, free from all men, yet he made himself a servant. That he may gain the more. In other words, there's much to gain by humbling yourself and being a servant. And I think if we were going to follow the example of the Lord Jesus Christ, that's what would happen to us. We would adopt more of a servant's attitude. Now again, in our pride and our arrogance we want to you know I don't mind somebody wants to serve me, okay. I mean look at all I've done. That's worldliness. We really should assume the role of a servant. Lord, what would you and wouldn't this be a great way to start your day in a prayer? Lord, what would you have me to do today? Now I know when I in and my pre and I I'm really preaching to myself here. I really just right now convicted myself of my own sin. When I pray, the way it goes right now I have this like it's a mental list that I go through. And on but you know what? Very little do I say. Saying the Lord's speaking to me right now, very little do I say, Lord, what what would you have me to do? I'm busy and Lord, bless this person, bless that person, help me to do this, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And I never say, Lord, what would you want? Isn't that something? I'm under conviction right now. Lord, forgive me of that That's awful to be convicted of something even as you're preaching about it and I'm I'm the violator of it. Yeah, we need to say, Lord, what would you have me to do? Because my skill, my desire may not be what the Lord has So we need to do that. Humble ourselves and say, Lord, what would you have me to do? As I serve him, as Paul said, For though I be free from all men, yet have I made myself a servant to all. that I might gain no more. Beautiful, beautiful verse there. So I'm thinking here, should I stop here? Let me give you one more. Can I just say one more? I know you're probably getting matches Sunday school and all this and the pastor won't shut up or what kind of mess we're in here This will be the last one. Although there's two or three more points, I'm just going to do one more, because this is really where it's at. Looking at that verse, for God is my witness. Whom I serve in my spirit, here's the phrase, in the gospel of his son. The gospel. Now I I tell you You know, I'm not an expert in the Greek language or the Hebrew language. I'm not really well versed in eschatology. I'm not a great public speaker. There's probably many things of the Old Testament I don't understand. But one thing I know by God's grace is the gospel. That I know. Oh, by his I won't brag, that by his grace. And I think that this is something we should all think about. All of us should do this. We should know what the gospel is. Know how to present it, and know how to defend it. As I say, we may not all be Bible scholars. But we should be scholars in the gospel. That's the heart and soul of the Word of God. The gospel So if we're going to define the gospel, which I've already done three or four times, every time I speak, I do it, and that's okay. You're tired of hearing it, but that's okay. It'll get in your head, and that's what I want to do What is the gospel? Death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, as defined in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verses 1 to 4. That's the gospel. What's the gospel? The death, the burial, and the resurrection of Christ. That's the message. Many times would we preach, we've preached Christ on the cross and then get into our message and leave him on the cross But the significant part of the gospel is, yeah, he died on the cross. Yes, he was buried showing to us that he definitely died, but then he resurrected three days later. Never forget the resurrection when you're sharing the gospel. That's part of it. Do you so you know what the gospel is. Now do you know how to share that with people? Now I'm gonna give you this testimony and I'm I'm gonna keep saying I'm gonna stop my notes in the annoying. The preacher gets here, he's going to stop, he doesn't stop, he goes on, he's boring everybody, and oh will you please sit down? You keep saying they're going to sit down, so this is my last story. But I know in my own life I came to a point where That's what I wanted to do, be an expert in the gospel. That's it. And I began to pray, Lord, I don't know how this is many, many, many, many years ago. Lord, help me. To know the gospel to be able to present it and to defend it. Now here's the thing. Now I'm going to issue forth you, issue to issue forth to you a challenge. The problem is you will not under you will not I will not be able to communicate the depth of this challenge. But if you accept it It will radically alter your life for good if you accept this little chance. And maybe some of you have already done this, but probably not everybody. And that would be this. Center center your life around the gospel. Center your life, don't let it just be an addendum to your life. Center your life around it. Center your life around knowing what the gospel is, understanding it. And then learning how to give it to people. One of the the prayers I had that with which really led me to go to Bible college was Lord I want to present the gospel to any person under any kind of circumstance. That's the way I worded it. I want to look I want to give it to any person under any kind of circumstance. And with those two requests, that's why there was the Bible college to do that. And for the most part, the Lord by His mercy answered that But I want to give that challenge to you as well. Make that doesn't mean you have to you're you're going to be a minister or a preacher. No, you're going to be whatever you are, but you'll you'll have a proper balance of knowing what's important in your life and knowing how to share the most significant message in the history of mankind, the simple gospel of Jesus Christ. Know how to present it. Going back, knowing what it is. What is it that I want to present? Death, burial, and resurrection of Christ for salvation. How am I going to do this? Now that's going to take months to target. It's just a variety of ways of doing this. As a matter of fact, I have a a a um What I've done is is is have have a uh what shall I call it? A witnessing. I don't want to call it a program because I don't know programs, but anyway, an approach to share the gospel And we've done this with people. We meet with them and talk about how to share the gospel and then actually take them out and do it. So let me just and you know when you do this When you start doing this, you'll find out the Lord will place all kinds of situations in your life, and it will be it'll make your life. I'll give you one quick example and I'm quitting. Here I have a man whose first name is Bob. I won't tell you his last name. I don't think everybody knows him, but I won't say. So Bob, no, we meet together. We talk about the gospel and we talk about how to share it with actually what do you say? How can you start a conversation with someone? So we we we go through we do this And then when some we get a visitor at church, we have a little card for that person to fill out. We get that card. And then on Monday night, seven o'clock at their front door, seven o'clock in the evening They open the door. Oh, Pastor, how you yeah, we're just gonna come by and say hi, thanks for you know for c visiting visiting our church. Well come on in, come on in. That's what we're hoping they're gonna say. Come on in. Sometimes I'd walk up the door and slam the door. Come on in So we go in and oh well come on nice thanks thanks Pierre for coming sit down so we go into his house uh I s I'm sitting here Bob, my trainee is here on my left. The homeowner is right across from me, and here's the television. The television is on and it's a little bit loud. So it's a little hard to communicate because the television is But you got you you have to learn how to deal with that. Okay? So without any warning Bob, my trainee, gets up out of here, walks over here to the television, turns it off. Goes back to his chair. That visitation was over. You don't go in somebody's house and turn the television off, especially without asking permission. You just get up and turn it off That's like getting a buck of cold water and just turn you know everybody. But the thing is once you start sharing Christ with regularity It very interesting things occur. Many times now when you get in there and have somebody want to pray to receive Christ. Think about that. You go into somebody's house, you share the you because you know the gospel, you share the gospel. And that person hearing the gospel starts to have tears coming down his eyes, and you ask him, do you want to see Christ as your Savior? And they can't wait to say yes. And they f fall on their knees sometimes. We pray and you know they receive the Lord and now you have the work of discipleship follow-up. But that's how these things happen. And that's what Paul's doing here at the Church of Rome, getting Send in the letter to them and sharing with them the gospel, that that's his message, the gospel, the gospel, the gospel And many of our churches are getting away from the gospel. They've given it as as already mentioned, the social gospel, keeping everybody happy and yay, let's you know, let's have some fun and all this. But And you don't have the preaching of the gospel as we should. Praise God you have it here and it's that's why we love to come here and share fellowship with you because it's a beautiful thing to do. Let's pray together. Our Father, we want to say thank you for bringing us together today. And Father, there's no one here who would disagree with the statement that we deserve hell and we deserve damnation. And yet we have been rescued. We have been rescued by the Lord Jesus Christ, who He looked at us and for some reason had mercy. And Saul, our miserable condition. God the Father, loving us and seeing our misery, sent his only begotten Son. Don Britton is a lost wretch. And he deserves hell. But I'm going to send my only begotten sinless son to die for his many sins. And for everyone of my elect who I'm going to call, I'm sending my son for their sins. Thank you, Father. And right here we have a room of those who you have sent your son for. And they heard the gospel and received it. How glorious, Lord. So we want to say thank you. For bringing us together today at another day of worship. Guide us, Lord. Guide us as we serve you through this week. Bring us back together again in your timing. Thank you for this day, and we thank you through Christ our Lord. Amen.