Had the assassination of Charlie Kirk and uh there's been a quite a bit of a good witness that's given out uh as a result of that has been given out And praise the Lord for that. I put out my journal to Brazil that I put out once every six months. I put that out uh a week ago. And the first upper page article, the front page article was Charlie Kirk Martyr, and put that on there. And of course the guy who killed him was a guy who's uh lover of a transsexual and he was arguing with Charlie Kirk at the meetings and was definitely trying to silence him. And it's not an accident, I think, that he shot him right in the neck. And so uh praise the Lord for the witness that's being given out And praise the Lord for that. And you when somebody gets too dangerous, they want to take them out. And I think of in particular George Wallace. George Wallace was too dangerous. And in fact, George Wallace got taken out right here in Maryland, right? In Silver Spring. And uh, you know, George Wallace, it looked like he might have become president He was on a roll, he was winning the Democratic primary primaries, and they took him out. And Larry McDonald was taken out too. Anybody know who Larry McDonald was? You have talking about uh children error? That's right. I yeah, what was the name number of that plane? I forget. Yeah, that's a good question. The uh anyway, they took him out. He was head of the John Birch Society And evidently Russia, of course the John Birch Society is very anti-communist, has been, and uh so they decided that he was too dangerous and the Russians got in on it And Larry McDonald was, of course he was a congressman from Georgia as well. And he also was a personal friend of Pat Knight. You know we know Pat Knight from some of the meetings of the church, at least some of you might have known her. But anyway, he was flying over to Korea and going by Russia, and the Russians sent out a fighter plane and shot down the airliner. And the airliner had 200, I think it was like 283 people on board. And people said, well, how could they shoot down 283 people just to get Larry McDonald? Well that would be no problem for them. They don't have the slightest problem with taking out huge numbers of people. And uh of course Stalin he said that one death is a tragedy, a million deaths is a statistic. And that's how he viewed it too. So anyway, um they took out Larry McDonald, they took out uh George Wallace, they took out Charlie Kirk, they tried to take out Trump, and they also tried to take out Reagan and didn't succeed. So anyway, praise the Lord that they didn't get didn't succeed with Trump, but praise the Lord for the witness that's gone out. from Charlie Kirk's death and praise pray that that will continue to be used. And we have Presbytery right here on Friday And praise the Lord that it was a good presbytery and we want to thank the church here for their good hospitality, that uh put on a really nice meal and that uh everything went well. And so thank you for participating with that. Let's turn back in our Bibles to 2 Kings chapter 25. 2 Kings chapter 25. We're here to the very end of Second Kings. The last time I spoke, we spoke on the final siege and the final fall of Jerusalem And we're going to continue with that today. And we're going to actually maybe take a little bit of a flashback to right before the fall. But anyway, what we read in our responsive reading was talking about how the Babylonians came back to Jerusalem after it fell. And I think what this was was the the city fell when the king and his army, the king of Jerusalem, Zedekiah, when he and his army fled, and they fled for their lives And they got down to Jericho, but the Chaldeans, the Babylonians pursued after him with their army, and they took King Zedekiah and his army. And so here they come back to Jerusalem, and they come and break down the whole city. They break down the house of the Lord. You know, God said that he would put his name there, but it was a conditional promise that he would put his name there forever. And they had turned away from the Lord, and God took his house away. this first temple. And this temple would be reconstructed seventy years later. They would come back to the promised land here. And who would come back to re- reconstruct the temple? Anybody remember? Well, we have Ezra. Ezra and Zerubbabel. And they came back and reconstructed the temple. And they also break down all the wall of Jerusalem around, the Babylonians did. To make sure Jerusalem doesn't rebel anymore, that Jerusalem is not strong anymore. They broke down the whole place And 70 years later, somebody or a little bit more than that, somebody would come back to rebuild the wall, and who would that be? Nehemiah. Nehemiah. Yeah, Nehemiah would go. So Ezra and Nehemiah are books a couple books further on in the Bible here. And they are aware that people come back to rebuild the temple and rebuild the wall of Jerusalem. So they burned everything down. The walls of Jerusalem were all broken down. They carried away everything. They carried away the gold and the silver and the brass. Huge amounts of brass they carried away. They had these big pillars in front of the temple that were uh very high and they were all made of brass and they said it was like without weight the amount of brass. And they carried that all away. You know, we still use brass for things today. Dave was telling me about brass on Friday. He was telling me that I better not trust my old radiator for my Barracuda because it's made out of brass. And that goes bad after a while. But anyway, the thing is that's brass today, but the brass of all those things, they carried it all the way. And you know, that was a big thing to the Jews for them to carry away all their vessels and things. They were very proud of all the vessels of the temple and the things of the temple, all this gold and silver and brass. And they carried it all away, and you go down to verse 12, verse 17 there. It's interesting there. It just says that they the on the brass there they had pomegranates formed on the brass, cast in the brass. That's a type of fruit. And you can still get that today. But anyway, uh some people like to talk like the Jews wouldn't have any images of anything Well, they did have images in the temple. They had images of pomegranates. They had images of angels. They had images of other things. And the problem with images, with the Jews, with the Ten Commandments, was not to make images to bow down to them. Well, let me go on here to verse 18 and just read a couple more verses here And the captain of the guard took Sariah the chief priest and Zephaniah the second priest and the three keepers of the door. And out of the city he took an officer that was set over the men of war, and five men of the men that were in the king's presence, which were found in the city, and the principal scribe of the host was which mustered the people of the land and three score men of the people of the land that were found in the city. And Nebu Zaradon, captain of the guard, took them and brought them to the king to Babyl of Babylon to Ribla. And the king of Babylon smote them and slew them at Riblah in the land of Hamat, so Judah was carried away out of their land. So here we have the final fall of Jerusalem. We've had the final siege, a year and a half-long siege there, and they've taken the city, they've broken it all down. And you know, the usual thing with sieges back in Bible times and in the Middle Ages was that if the people being besieged would surrender before they had to go into a full siege of the place, they would spare the people in the city basically. But if they continued resisting and made them do a full siege of the place and be there for a year or however long it was. that they forfeited their lives and they would slaughter uh most of the inhabitants of the city. And that's what they did here. Well here they got some example people to take to the king of Babylon, to Nebuchadnezzar And they took the principal scribe, they took one of the captains there, they took 70 people, they took all these important people, took them off to Babylon, to the Nebuchadnezzar, and he killed them Right before his throne there in Babylon. Well, today that's all we're going to cover right here. But let's go back to Jeremiah. Jeremiah. Chapter 37. Jeremiah chapter 37. And do you know that Jeremiah was there at the fall of Jerusalem? Jeremiah was right there. That's where his ministry was. That's what he was doing. We have the whole book of Jeremiah. He was one of the major prophets. And he was there at the siege And he was contending with the false prophets during the siege. So we're taking a little bit of a flashback before the Jerusalem falls. And we'll see about Jeremiah. What was Jeremiah doing just before the fall of Jerusalem? What was he doing? And so here we have chapter 37 and verse 4. It says, chapter 37, verse 4 of Jeremiah. Now Jeremiah came in and went out among the people, for they had not put him into prison. They hadn't put him into prison, they were going to put him into prison because Jeremiah was telling them what they don't want to hear. And as I've said so many times, that's what a prophet did. He told the word of God, he put out the word of God, and a prophet then told people what they didn't want to hear, basically. And so Jeremiah did that. They're at the fall of Jerusalem, and they put him into prison, but he wasn't yet put into prison here. And then it tells why, verse 5. Then Pharaoh's army was come forth out of Egypt. And when the Chaldeans that besieged Jerusalem heard tidings of them, they departed from Jerusalem. And so here was a development when the siege was going on there of Jerusalem was that Pharaoh and his army from Egypt were coming up to help them. And to lift the siege and to fight against the Babylonians, because the Egyptians were also against the Babylonians, as well as Israel, as well as Judah. So Pharaoh and his army came up out of Egypt, and it looked like they were going to come fight with the Babylonians. And then we go on here, verse 6. Then came the word of the Lord unto Prophet Jeremiah saying, Thus saith the Lord the God of Israel Thus shall ye say to the king of Judah, that sent you unto me to inquire of me. Behold, Pharaoh's army, which has come forth to help you, shall return to Egypt into their own land. And the Chaldeans shall come again and fight against this city and take it and burn it with fire. Thus saith the Lord, deceive not yourselves, saying the Chaldeans shall surely depart from us. For they shall not depart. For though ye had smitten the whole army of the Chaldeans that fight against you, and there remained but wounded men among them yet should they rise up every man in his tent and burn the city with fire. So the Egyptians had come up out of Egypt, but they didn't get very far They saw that the Babylonians were too strong for them, and so they gave up on coming up and fighting with the Babylonians, and so they went back into Egypt. And Jeremiah told Zedekiah he told the people of Judah that that was going to happen, and that's what happened. And once more he told them what they didn't want to hear, that the Egyptians were really not going to help them. And of course, where could they look for help? The people in Jerusalem that were being besieged. They were in bad situation. Where could they look for help? Well, they looked to the Egyptians to help them. And of course they should have been looking to the Lord uh only, really, and they shouldn't have been putting their trust in man. You know, back during the Civil War Uh who was the South looking for to help them during the Civil War? England, exactly. They were looking for England to help them, and England almost helped them. And England was already to recognize the Confederacy until the Battle of Antietam. And then when the Union more or less won the Battle of Antietam, well, then England decided not to recognize the Confederacy. And of course the only reason the Union more or less won the Battle of Antietam is because they found the orders for the battle laying around. uh from Lee and they knew what Lee was going to do and they were able to counter and and do things and it's an amazing thing that they didn't slaughter the the Confederates but they just barely managed to hold back the Confederates there even having their plans. But anyway, that was according to the providence of God and Jefferson Davis During the Civil War and during that time, he quoted the scripture: put not your trust in man and in princes. Put not your trust in England. Well, they found that England wasn't going to help them, and that it was the same exact thing here with Judah and Jerusalem. Egypt was not going to help them. And of course, the Babylonians heard that the Egyptians were coming up, and so they decided to go out against the Egyptians, and they left Jerusalem. And that was an encouraging thing for Jerusalem. Wow, the Babylonians have left. And they're going to fight with the Egyptians. And they thought that was great. We're saved. But they weren't saved. And uh, you know, sometimes when you get your hopes up, like with that, then when it doesn't come to pass, it's worse than the beginning, worse than having your hopes up at all. I don't know if you've ever watched the movie Khartoum. Uh with Charlton Heston and And anyway, that's a true story there. It's a true story of a Christian general, Chinese Gordian. And he was in the Sudan fighting the Muslims there. And they were besieged also in the city of Khartoum, this capital of the Sudan. And this Christian general was there. And they sent off a call for reinforcements and they got back a message that the reinforcements were coming. The message got through and the reinforcements were coming. And they were all happy And then the Muslim leader called in, Heston called him in, the leader of the British. And he had uh Charlton Hesson sit before him and he pulled the head of the messenger that was going to get the uh help. out of uh uh a bucket he had there. And and he showed him the ring of the guy on his finger and he knew his ring and he knew that the messenger had never got through And then it was Hessen would say, well we heard that he got through and the reinforcements are coming. And then the Muslim said, Oh, we just sent you that news to get your hopes up to be more uh down in the dumps after it didn't happen and more discouraged and did surrender. And that was kind of how it was here with Jerusalem. They got the news of the Egyptians coming, and it didn't come to pass. Well, let's go over to chapter 38. Continuing with Jeremiah. And his fight and struggle there in Jerusalem before the fall of Jerusalem. Chapter 38 and verse 2. Thus saith the Lord, he that remaineth in this city shall die. This is Jeremiah speaking from the Lord. Thus saith the Lord, he that remaineth in this city shall die by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence. But he that goeth forth to the Chaldeans shall live For he shall have his life for a prey and shall live. Thus saith the Lord, this city shall surely be given into the hand of the king of Babylon's army, which shall take it And so Jeremiah here was giving them other things they didn't want to hear. They didn't want to hear that the Egyptians weren't going to help them, and they didn't want to hear that the city was going to fall. And that they were going to be given into the hands of the Babylonians and be slaughtered. Of course, nobody wants to hear that. They definitely didn't want to hear that, but that was the truth. That was the truth. And Jeremiah was giving it to him. And he was telling them: if you surrender the Babylonians and don't make them go through the whole siege, well, you're going to be able to live But they wouldn't listen to Jeremiah. Jeremiah was given the news from the Lord, the prophecy from the Lord, then go on to verse 4. What was the reaction of the people in Jerusalem to Jeremiah? Therefore the princes said unto the king, We beseech thee, let this man be put to death. For thus he weakeneth the hands of the men of war that remain in the city And the hands of all the people in speaking such words unto them, for this man seeketh not the welfare of this people, but the hurt Then Zedekiah the king said, Behold, he is in your hand, for the king is not he that can do anything against you. So the princes there, the nobles of the land said, Jeremiah needs to be put to death. For saying that the city's gonna fall. For saying the truth. Let me go on here. Verse 6. Then took they Jeremiah, they didn't put him right to death, although they were going to give him a slow death, I think, here. Then they took Jeremiah and cast him into the dungeon of Malachih, the son of Hamelech that was in the court of the prison. And they let Jeremiah down with cords, and in the dungeon there was no water but mire. And so Jeremiah sunk in the mire. So they decided that they would, it was too quick of a death for Jeremiah to just put him to death. They put him down this pit. Well, I think really this pit here is a sewage pit, you know, like the outhouse. And this is the outhouse and the prison. And so they put him down into that. It's called mire here. He sunk down into the mire. And we see later on how it looks like it's the sewage pit, the outhouse pit. And so they put Jeremiah down in there with no food in a very, very unpleasant place. And he was just sitting there. But God took care of him here. Verse 7. Now, when Abedmelech, the Ethiopian, one of the eunuchs, which was in the king's house, heard that they had put Jeremiah in the dungeon. Benjamin. The king then sitting in the gate of Benjamin, Abed Melech, went forth out of the king's house and spake to the king, saying, My lord the king, these men have done evil in all that they have done to Jeremiah the prophet whom they have cast into the dungeon, and he is like to die for hunger. In the place, let alone being in there with the sewage, but he's likely to die for hunger. in the place where he is, for there is no more bread in the city. Then the king commanded Abed Melech the Ethiopian, saying, Take from thee hence thirty men with thee and take up Jeremiah the prophet out of the dungeon before he died. So Abadmelech took the me the men with him and went into the house of the king unto the treasury, and took thence old cast clouts and old rotten rags, and let them down by cords unto Jeremiah in the dungeon to Jeremiah And Abed Melech the Ethiopian said unto Jeremiah, Put now these old cast clouts and rotten rags under thine armholes, under the cords. And Jeremiah did so. And they drew up Jeremiah with cords and took him up out of the dungeon. And Jeremiah remained in the cord of the prison. So anyway, we can see again that it was probably sewage by the fact that they didn't want to use anything good to take him out of there. They wanted to just use trashy uh rags to take him out because they didn't want to dirty up anything that was any good. So they used these old rotten rags to draw all them up. But the Lord did take care of them. And it's interesting here, God took care of them by a black guy. One of the few black guys in the Bible. There's not too many. And of course, the only way we know when somebody is black is it says they're an Ethiopian. The Bible says, can an Ethiopian change his color or a leopard his spots? And so Ethiopians were blacks in the Bible, and here we have this black eunuch of the house of the king And he was there in the house of the king, and he went to bat for Jeremiah, and he asked to have Jeremiah released and pulled up out of the sewage pit, and the king said, Okay, and they did They lift up Jeremiah out of there. But Jeremiah, he told them the proof, truth. He told them that the city was going to fall. And yet he was suffering for it, suffering greatly. You know, yesterday I preached on Jehoshaphat and Micaiah. Not too many of you got a chance to hear the message yesterday. And I may preach it again here sometime. But anyway, I'll just tell you that we had the message about Jehoshaphat and Micaiah. And you know Jehoshaphat was a good king But he had one problem. He'd like to unite with the ungodly, with Ahab. He liked to unite with them and have big deals. Well, what do our people in the churches want to do today? They want to have big deals. They want to unite with everybody. Well, God's not pleased with us uniting with the false prophets and with the unsaved. And so Jehoshaphat united with all these people and was there with Ahab, but they wounded up being defeated in the battle then that took place after that. But Micaiah was the true prophet And Micaiah spoke and told them that they were going to be defeated in the battle. And they didn't want to hear that, and so Micaiah ended up suffering just like Jeremiah. And you know, in all these situations, we have one guy. One guy that stands against the crowd. Micaiah stood against Ahab, Jehoshaphat, all of them And he suffered, though. And Jeremiah stood before everybody here in Jerusalem, here at the time of the end, and he suffered as well. Let's go back to Jeremiah 27. Jeremiah 27, see a little bit more of Jeremiah in the In the siege and the false prophets he had to contend with. Jeremiah 27 and verse 16. Jeremiah 27 and verse 16. Or actually 14. Jeremiah 27, 14. Therefore, hearken not unto the words of the prophets, here's Jeremiah speaking, that speak unto you, saying, Ye shall not serve the king of Babylon. For they prophesy a lie unto you, for I have not sent them, saith the Lord, yet they prophesy. A lie in my name, that I might drive you out, and that ye might perish, and the prophets that prophesy unto you. Well, Jeremiah told them what they didn't want to hear, but the false prophets, what do false prophets always tell people? They always tell people what they want to hear. And here the false prophets said that Jerusalem was not going to fall, that they were going to be fine. You know, I'm okay, you are okay. You know, we got the false prophets in our land today. They preach prosperity. And they say that God has thoughts of peace toward you Toward everybody. Everybody that names it and claims it is what the false prophets say here in America today. And in Brazil especially. And uh, but those are things that are not true. God doesn't proclaim peace for everybody, He proclaims peace for His own And then we go on here. Another false prophecy, verse 16. And I spake to the priests and to all this people, saying, Thus saith the Lord, hearken not to the words of your prophets. The prophesy unto you, saying, Behold, the vessels of the Lord's house shall now shortly be brought again from Babylon. For they prophesy a lie unto you Hearken not unto them, serve the king of Babylon and live. Wherefore should the city be laid waste But if they be prophets, and if the word of the Lord be with them, let them now make intercession to the Lord of hosts, that the vessels which remain Which are left in the house of the Lord and are in the house of the king of Judah and at Jerusalem go not to Babylon. And so here we have a second prophecy the false prophets were making. They were saying that the city would not fall. And then second of all, they were saying that the vessels of the temple that remained there would not be taken to Babylon. And you know, of course, there were two captivities of Jerusalem. There was a first one in 605 with Jehoiachin. And the Babylonians took a lot of them and took a lot of the things there, but left quite a bit there in Jerusalem. And then there was the final siege and the final fall of Jerusalem with Zedekiah. And so the Babylonians had taken some of the vessels. earlier. And so the false prophets were saying, oh well, the vessels that have been taken to Babylon they're going to be brought back again. Not only is Jerusalem not going to fall, but the vessels were going to come back. And the people really wanted that. They wanted to hear that. But Jeremiah said they're not going to uh come back. And in fact the vessels that are left here now are going to be taken to Babylon. That's what we read earlier. There in 2 Kings chapter 25. The vessels that are left will go. Then verse 19. For thus saith the Lord of hosts, concerning the pillars, and concerning the sea, and concerning the braces, and concerning the residue of the vessels that remain in this city, those big things of brass Which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took not when he carried away Jechaniah, that's also Jehoiachin, when the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, from Jerusalem and Babylon And all the nobles of Judah and Jerusalem. That's when Daniel was taken captive with that first captivity with Jehoiachim. Yea, thus Seth. You know there's a lot of details here, aren't there? A lot of details. But you know, if we're interested, we can learn a lot of details. Did you know that? We can learn a lot of details Do you know that I'll bet you you know people that that that are fans of the Orioles, you know what? They know all the details of the Orioles They know every home run and every good guy and every good pitcher and ERAs and all that. It's because they like it. And we can learn a lot of this stuff here, too. But anyway, here we have that the things that they didn't take and carry off to Babylon, they were going to be carried away too. Verse 21. Yea, thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, concerning the vessels that remain in the house of the Lord and in the house of the king of Judah and of Jerusalem, they shall be carried to Babylon. And there shall they be until the day that I visit them, saith the Lord, and will bring them up and restore them to this place. And of course that'll be after seventy years, God will restore them again And so these Jeremiah had to contend for the faith. What are we supposed to do today? We're supposed to contend for the faith. In Jude, we're told that we're supposed to contend for the faith which was once delivered unto the saints. And that means we're supposed to fight against false doctrine, fight against false associations, fight against those things, contend And Jeremiah here was contending. He was contending. And chapter 28 and verse 1. And it came to pass the same year in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah in the fourth year and ninth month That Hananiah, the son of Azar, the prophet, which was of Gibeon, spake unto me in the house of the Lord, in the presence of the priests and of all the people, saying, Here a false prophet is coming up to speak to Jeremiah, Hananiah. Thus, and in Hananiah says, Thus speaketh the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, saying, I have broken the yoke of the king of Babylon. This is what the false prophet is saying. Within two full years I will bring again unto this place all the vessels of the Lord's house that Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, took away from this place and carried them to Babylon. And so this false prophet, he went a step further. Not only did he say that the vessels would come back, But he also set a date on it. And he said that they will come back within two years. He was really bold and arrogant here, and he was even putting dates You know, today, this week, they were setting dates here in America. Did you know that? I saw that on the internet. It was on the internet a couple times. about how some people I didn't even read the article, but it said that there are some people that were saying that Christ was going to come back this week. And I don't know why they were saying that or what their reasoning, I didn't bother to read it, because I know Christ is not going to come back this week. Because if you say he's going to come back this week, he's not going to come back this week. Because he says no man knows the day or the hour. When Harold Camping said Jesus was going to come back in 1994, you knew that he was not going to come back in 1994. And so anyway, we have people setting these dates. And they set them out of their own head. And then here we have Hananiah. He sent a date of two years for all the stuff to come back. And he hoped everybody would forget about it by the time two years came about. And then we go down to skip down to verse 9. Skip down to verse 9. Here's what Jeremiah has to say. He says, the prophet which prophesieth of peace, when the word of the prophet shall come to pass. Then shall the prophet be known that the Lord hath spoken, hath truly sent him. And you note there are tests of false prophets. There's three of them in the Bible. Three tests of a false prophet. Number one is right here. Does what he prophesy come to pass? That's a simple test Did Christ come back in 1994? No, that was a false prophet. Prophecy. That's the first test of a false prophet. And the second test is: do they speak according to this word? Do they speak according to God's Word? If they don't speak according to God's word, they're not a true prophet. And then the third one, remember what Jesus said. By their fruits ye shall know them. That's another thing. The fruits of the false prophets. You can know that whether they're false prophets. Well then verse 10. How did Hananiah react to Jeremiah? Then Hananiah the prophet took the yoke from off the prophet Jeremiah's neck. and break it. Jeremiah evidently he was at this point he was wearing around a yoke to sh give an object lesson to them, you know a an oxen's yoke, a thing that they use when they're pulling the wagon. Jeremiah was wearing that to have an object lesson that they were going to be under the yoke of the king of Babylon And the prophets sometimes would use object lessons. Well, anyway, Hananiah, the false prophet, took the yoke off of the prophet Jeremiah's neck and broke it. And verse 11, Hananiah spake in the presence of the people, saying, Thus saith the Lord, even so will I break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, from half the neck of all nations. within the space of two full years, and the prophet Jeremiah went his way. Well not only did this prophet say that vessels were going to come back within two years, but he also said that Jer Nebuchadnezzar's reign would be over within two years and everybody would be freed. And that was all false. False and it was proved to proved to be false. Then skip down to verse 15. Verse 15. Then said the prophet Jeremiah unto Hananiah the prophet, Hear now, Hananiah. The Lord has not sent you, but thou makest this people to trust in a lie. Therefore, thus saith the Lord, Behold, I will cast thee from off the face of the earth this year This year thou shalt die, because thou hast taught rebellion against the Lord. So Hananiah the prophet died the same year in the seventh month. So Jeremiah said to Hananiah, Since you have preached rebellion against the Lord, you're going to die. And he actually did die. And that showed that Jeremiah was a true prophet. He died the same year in the seventh month. And so anyway, one more scripture we want to look at is Jeremiah 23. Jeremiah 23. Rap thing to wrap things up here, Jeremiah twenty-three Jeremiah's conflict there in Jerusalem before the fall. Verse 14, I have seen also in the prophets of Jerusalem an horrible thing. They commit adultery and walk in lies. They strengthen also the hands of the evildoers, that none doth return from his wickedness. They are all of them unto me as Sodom and the inhabitants thereof of Gomorrah. You know, if you tell everybody that God loves them, And that God's got thoughts of peace for them, no matter what they do. Are they going to turn from their wickedness? No, they're not. They're not. That's strengthening the hands of evildoers. And we have people around preaching that all over today. All over. And you know the thing is, that's what Jeremiah here cries out against. They strengthen the hands of the evildoers that none does return from his wickedness. Then skip down to verse 17. We read this at uh well 17. They say still unto them that despise me: the Lord has said, You shall have peace And they say to everyone that walks after the imagination of his own heart, no evil shall come upon you. All you got to do is name it and claim it. There's nothing about giving your life to the Lord. There's nothing about serving him. There's nothing about turning away from sin. No evil shall come upon you. They say that you shall have peace to everyone that walks after their own ways and not after the ways of the Lord. We have the prosperity preachers. We have the churches that say, come as you are You know, come as you are sounds like a good thing, you know, come as you are, and we believe that more or less that people can walk in here off the street. But the problem is Their come as you are is basically meaning stay as you are. Come as you are and stay that way. You don't have to change anything. And you know, that's not how it is. We do have to change when we come to the Lord. And then skip down to verse 26. How long shall this be in the heart of the prophets that prophesy lies? Yea, they are the prophets of the deceit of their own heart, which think to cause my people to forget my name by their dreams which they Tell every man to his neighbor, as their fathers have forgotten my name for Baal. The prophet that has a dream, let him tell a dream, and he that has my word, let him speak my word faithfully What is the chaff to the wheat? Is not my word like as a fire, saith the Lord, and like as a hammer that breaketh a rock in pieces? Well, we got people out there telling their dreams. I remember old Roberts. He had uh I don't know whether it was a it was like a 700-foot-tall Jesus, he said, next to his hospital that he was building. And that was the most ridiculous thing in the world. We got a faith healer building a hospital But anyway, he he uh 700-foot hole told Jesus there, and he told everybody about it. And they were putting out pictures of that, of that vision that he had, his dream that he had dreamed. He had a dream. And then he said also, believe me because of the miracles. You know, God isn't the only one that does miracles. The devil can do miracles. The demons do miracles And no, we believe because of God's word. We have to look to God's word. We need to dig into God's word. We need to dig in to those details and learn them And so we know the right way, so we know when the false prophet comes away. As it has been said many times, how do you tell a counterfeit bill, a counterfeit $100 bill Of course, in the past they used to have thousand-dollar bills and more, but now all they got is $100 bills because of counterfeiters. But how do you tell a counterfeit $100 bill? Of course they have their ultraviolet ray, they put it underneath today, but but you know, if you're looking at them, the only way you can tell a counterfeit is by knowing the good one very, very well. And that's what we have to do. We have to know God's word well. We have to study it. Study it. Dig into it. So that we'll know it well and we know when the false prophets come around. And praise the Lord for the testimony of Jeremiah there in Jesus' name. And let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we pray that thou would bless these things to our hearts, and O Lord, help us to be able to discern False teaching help us to be able to discern false prophets, help us to dig into thy word, to be able to tell the difference, and we thank thee for the great example that we had of Jeremiah. In Jesus' name, amen.