Let's open with prayer. Father, we will pause in uh this portion of our morning worship to give you uh a word of praise from our hearts for that which has been ours even to this very second. Our past week has been a week upon which we've been challenged, yet your faithfulness has been evident, and it continues to be evident We recognize that through uh things that people have shared with us, items of need and prayer, things that are obvious uh to our own eyes and ears and and uh situations that are around us, it can be troublesome. Yet we have access to the throne of grace, to you, O Father, who handles all of these things perfectly in order that your uh name is glorified, in order that your children would come to love you more and more. Give us patience, Father, as we open your word now and look upon it. as our a map of truth uh in order that we might be able to apply it in our hearts and days Quiet your servant and let Christ speak forth in truth. Let all of our hearts rejoice as we feed from this document, this page, this truth of Scripture. In Christ's name. Amen. Open your Bibles please to uh Luke chapter two. You'll be reading eight through fourteen. And it's not Christmas But there's a purpose behind my madness. Luke chapter 2, and follow along with your eyes as we look at this very familiar passage. And there were in that same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord And this shall be a sign unto you. He shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in the manger. And suddenly There was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. I'm not sure if this portion of Luke 2 affects you the same way it does me, but I get down to verses 13 and 14 And there's an audible chorus in my brain that just kind of clicks in, and it's uh the the sixteenth and the seventeenth movement of Handel's Messiah. You know. Glory to God an highest. And and the text here says uh th they were saying, well, I can't think that the host of heaven were just saying. I mean there had to be melody and there had to be just beauty within the things that were there. It's most exhilarating Can you imagine what it was like that night? As a shepherd? Normal, no reason to think that anything different would happen. The sheep bedded down. Might be a little bit of noise here and there, but they're used to that. And then there comes to them a messenger, the angel of the Lord. suddenly appears. And obviously it brought fear because the angel responds to him. He says, Fear not. You know, so their heart's attention is focused on not only him But the message that he brings forth, the long-awaited Messiah, those things that they had been no doubt taught from their youth all the way through This joyous announcement was really uh uh powerful and I'm not sure how long it took You know, we could just read these few words and say, well that was it. Uh maybe it lasted longer. But as it's going on through here uh the shepherd's whole attention is fixed on the angel of the lord when suddenly it says there is this choir uh pronouncement glory to god in the highest this heavenly host uh angels proclaiming this most wonderful announcement that they were excited about That they themselves were enthralled with of the beauty of it. Now, what was it that was their focus of attention? Giving glory to God, the announcement of this thing. Again, we don't know how long the heavenly choir was there or the angel of the Lord Um but this choir stayed on for sufficiently that the message was burned into the hearts of those shepherds that were there. We have no indication that there was anybody else And it was sufficient enough for them to take this message, to go on into Bethlehem and find the Christ child, just as they said, in such a way. And it was burned into their hearts and their brains sufficiently that it was passed on. So by the time Luke comes along and pens it, Luke says, I've got an accurate account. I've got an account of something of eyewitnesses to this this glorious glorious announcement, the beauty of which we can't even hardly imagine Reliable sources for the glory of God. Let me ask you a question that's of utmost importance. What is the glory of God? The glory of God. Glory to God in the highest. What wonderful news. But what did that mean? Was it a visible thing? Was it an audible thing? Was it something that took place in their lives? How would you describe it? Well, let me calm your fears a little bit. It is probably one of the most difficult things that anybody could answer. One man even said, it's like describing beauty. Uh you understand it, say this is beautiful, and yet you can't necessarily put or words to it or define it or or or quantify what that beauty is. And so it even comes to this matter of the glory of God. Dr. Martin Lloyd Jones wrote this. The glory of God is something which no man can define. Makes me feel better. The glory of God is his essential and ultimate attribute. It means his greatness, his splendor, his majesty. The real trouble with us is that we do not know God, the glory of God. Have you ever thought about it? Martin Lowe Jones says, it is in essence him. It is his key attribute. This is God. His glory, another definition that I think may help, the glory of God is the reason for every act that God ever did, does, and will do. His glory defines everything that he's done in the past, that he's doing now, and that he will do in the future. Everything! We plan our day according to you know what we think is going to happen and we adjust it and so forth, but it always doesn't come out like that, does it? You know. Uh even what's taken place in the back the days before. We've planned and we did, but boy, it didn't work out. But here, everything that God has is and in the future will is his glory One more that I think will help. The glory of God is the invisible qualities of God made visible. the invisible qualities. What does God look like? Well he's spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in his being, wisdom, power, justice, holiness, goodness, and truth. The Westminster Divines give us that, but what does that mean? So everything that's invisible about God becomes visible when we say that's his glory. That's his glory. No doubt we have the joy of understanding that more perfectly, as Pastor Mike does right now. He sees it one day. We have a hint of a definition from the angelic choir that night as they announced glory to God in the highest Now what was their what was their their melody if I call it that? What was that announcement, that saying, that thing that handles Messiah just pounds in my heart? W what were they focusing on? The birth of Jesus Christ, the God-man, the Emmanuel. But just not his birth. It wasn't, it was obviously it was a miraculous birth. But it is his life, it is his death, it is his resurrection, it's all that Jesus Christ is. In other words, glory to God in the highest, because it is the redemption of sinners. Me. You. That was their their proclamation. It was so powerful that they said, redeeming sinful mankind is What God is glorified in. And how rejoicing is that! There's no other way for us to be saved other than God glorifying himself in Jesus Christ his Son. And glory to God and eyes. And and these angelic beings look down and says, for all of history, since the fall of Adam and Eve into all mankind, It was just tragedy after tragedy, uh the the Old Testament bringing you through that which would come up one day to be Messiah But only that completed act of what Messiah did did that bring it to definition. We continue in our messages today with the Psalms. And what better Psalm to continue on than Psalm 19? If you would look on your Responsive reading. And I'm going to read again specifically this morning the first six verses. Psalm 19, verse 1 through 6. The heavens declare the glory of God. The firmament showeth his handiwork. Day unto day uttereth speech, night unto night showeth knowledge. There is no speech, nor language, where their voice is not heard. Their line has gone out throughout all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them hath he set a tabernacle for the sun. Which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber and rejoiceth as a strong man to run a race His going forth is from the end of the heaven, and his circuit unto the ends of it And there is nothing hid from him from the heat thereof. His going forth is from the end of the heaven in the circuit unto the ends of it, and there is nothing hid from thereof. How glorious a thought The psalmist says, look to the skies. Look to the firmament. Look to his handiwork. Those cold nights that we've had have been in part the result of no clouds. And and all of a sudden we were out last night and we looked up and I said, look at that. grandson was with us, says, Henry, he says, look at those stars out there, you know. You can see the patterns. And and he brings forth this beautiful picture that's been there for eternity, proclaiming God's handiwork. It's an affirmation of this glory. I always enjoyed watching the Antiques Roadshow on PBS. People bring in their treasures, something they expect to become millionaires with and only to find out that it was a three dollar reproduction and they go back to, well, you had a good time, you know. But the ones I enjoy are the artworks Especially the paintings. And there'll be a painting that will come in and and it is just beautiful. The the colors, the shadows. um the the scenery and and and it's one of those that you just fall into and say, boy, this is beautiful. And and the the art critique guy comes in he says, you know, this is just, you know, beautiful and da-da-da, and so forth and so on. It was one of those that you have hanging on your wall and you just want to sit and look at it. Just and just admire it And their price is appropriate, you know, a little bit beyond my pocket, but nonetheless, this is that's that's what that's worth. And then there'll be some that will come along and one that um actually caught my heart's attention, a painting that was indeed um made me wonder what people are thinking of. It was two frames, um white painted white canvas, and there was uh three three inch brush stroke, a couple of them horizontally and a couple vertically, and they were up there. And uh art guy comes along and he says, wow, I know this work. This is so and so and so and so. This is in his best years, you know. And he and and and he says uh You have any idea what this is worth? And and no, no, I don't. And he says, well, I says that a good day at auction, this would go fetch something around 1. 2 to 1. 5 million And she goes, really? You know? And I'm looking at it and I'm saying to myself, somebody sees this and and and and they presume because of the artist that this is of great value and of great beauty. And and I say, give a monkey a a brush with uh black paint on a white Easel and he could he could slap the same thing up there, you know? It really has no value whatsoever. But when we gaze up into the night sky, just as the psalmist did, we stand in awe of these things. The expanse of the heavens, the beauty of it, the depth, the grandeur, and that's only a fraction of what's out there. That's only a sliver of all that has been done. David shouted the words: the God who created all of these is glorious. And this is the evidence of his glory. The painter, he said, well this is the evidence of his work, and and there'll be some debate as far as the value of it, you know, but most people would say that's garbage But no one can deny, looking up into the heavens, this is a display of the creator of the universe, and it is there for us. Speaking of the Lord God, Isaiah writes, Who hath measured the waters in the hollow of his hand? and meted out the heavens in a span, and comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure, and weighed the mountains in a scale, and the hills in a balance Who hath directed the Spirit of the Lord, or being his counselor, hath taught him? With whom took he counsel? And who instructed him and taught him the path of judgment and taught him knowledge and showed to him the way of understanding? Behold, the nations are but a drop in the bucket, and are counted as the small dust of the balance. Behold, he taketh up the aisles as a very little thing The prophet says, look at the sky up there. He measures it like this, you know, in a span. He takes the waters and just in the hollow of his hand The dust in a balance, just the little scales. It's nothing. Who taught him to do this? How ridiculous to think You know. And yet that's what man comes across with. And he says, Oh, these nations, they're just but nothing whatsoever. But what did David know? What did any of these, Isaiah or David or any of these others, know? They had no degrees. They had no idea what real science is. They they never studied astrophysics or rocket propulsion or astronomy. They had no telescopes to search the universe. They have no idea that we could go back to the Big Bang Theory and find out how all of this universe was created. They're just simpletons of a long past generation. December twenty-fifth, the James Webb Space Telescope was launched from NASA Uh a long overdue project. Um the current price that they had finished the program at was ten billion dollars. And quote, is expected to be able to see more than thirteen billion years into the past To the point in the evolution of the universe when the first stars were being formed, so they say. So the theory is when the Big Bang creating the universe, everything is going out. And there's nothing to stop it from going out. It just continues. So every action Even the very things that are being done, the the you know, Babe Ruth's home run or you know, or uh a raven's loss, again, there's so many of them right there. Something like that. And and all of those things are going out, out, out. So this telescope is supposed to be able to get out there and look to the end of all of these things that are going out. In other words, look past time to all the way to the creation of time I don't know, folks. And when the telescope fails, and it's only expected to last ten years, and they don't see anything of the past, what will they say? How will they explain it? How will they forecast $10 billion in its use? They are showing some beautiful pictures of the things that are out there, but what will they do? David knew, and actually Paul quotes David in saying, the fool hath said in his heart, there is no God. There is no God. We've searched the universe as far as we could see. We don't quite understand maybe it was a technical glitch. David maybe didn't know, didn't have his PhD in astrophysics, but what David did know is far more valuable than all of the scientists equipped with all of the knowledge and all of the equipment they have, even to this very moment. Because he didn't need to know all of the things that they think they're looking for. He understood as he looked up into the sky, as any person can look. And see exactly for all ages what's there. As early as you and I can remember, we've all gazed up into the heavens and seen those tiny specks Some of them are brighter, some of them are in clusters, some of them form patterns that we've come to learn. You know, there's Orion's belt. Where's the Big Dipper? Where's the North Star? You know The men used to ply the oceans by the navigation through those constellations that were there. Yet I think as the years have gone by we've taken them for granted We don't look up with the awe and the splendor that we once did. But the stars, uh, they're up there, you know. Yeah. So Yet day unto day uttereth speech, verse 2, and night unto night showeth knowledge. What would it be like if the skies were always dark? What it would be like if there were no constellations, nothing to see, no moon to reflect the light of the sun. What hope does that give anybody? What hope is there for encouragement and direction? None. Great preacher from England, Charles Spurgeon, writes. Though all preachers on earth should grow silent, and every human mouth cease from publishing the glory of God, The heavens above will never cease to declare and proclaim His majesty and glory. They are forever preaching for, like an unbroken chain, their message is delivered from day to day and from night to night. It's just the stars, you know. But it's not just the stars. It is the panoramic display for everybody on this world to look up and to see, wow. And for those of us who have understood by the grace of God who did those things, it should mean so much more. Verse 3. There is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard. God communicates such glory to all mankind, no matter what the language No matter what the dialect, no matter what the location on the Earth the night sky reveals, that Milky Way galaxy sitting out there, can you imagine? That image, what was displayed before our eyes. But that Milky Way is just but a speck of of of everything even more. It's small in comparison to others. The Milky Way has a diameter of 600 quadrillion miles. I was talking to little Henry last night and he says, grandpa, he says. What comes after a billion, you know, trillion, what comes after, you know, and we get up to quadrillion and that's a six with seventeen zeros And that's just the Milky Way. And the Milky Way is small in comparison to the others that are out there perfectly to see. There is no heavenly host singing glory to God in the highest. No voices at all, no audible indicators in my ears, as good or as bad as they may be hearing. Yet they continually shout forth to his praise. Paul writes the church at Rome, and he says For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made. even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Remember, we talked about what is the glory of God. It is everything that we don't see. But everything that is evidenced, his eternal power in Godhead, that is the reflection of his glory, and it displays it for all. Throughout all history, mankind from every tribe and every tongue, from every nation, from the little tiny islands. all the way to the teeming populations of every metropol m metropolis. They are without excuse for rejecting God Who has given such a clear and beautiful evidence of his power and wisdom? Yet can't deny it. I don't care how many satellites they launch up there and in understanding this is, you know, we're going to tame this or how many times we sit and watch Star Trek and they Zoom to the skies, I said. Now I understand the universe because of these things. We haven't a clue. But we know the one who has made all such. A number of years ago I went up to northern King Kenya, up to the area up there with the Rendillion, there is no electricity. There are no cities. There is no industries. You know, we try to go out in a place anywhere we grow up in and there's always the light of the city somewhere out there, you know, clouding the skies. We we don't get a picture. But there there was none There was no light to cloud anything that was gone. You could see. I saw the Milky Way f really for the first time in my life. You could see the stars. I could see at a certain time of the night a satellite going across like that. You know, you could just it just it was just beautiful how it was displayed for us to see And yet it was the early morning that caught my attention. There was nothing but a horizon And as the sun came up, it comes up in a in a funnel-like, and its rays just shoot forth up into the sky. Most beautiful as it truly was Verse 4, their line has gone out through all of the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them hath he set A tabernacle for the Son, which as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber and rejoices as a strong man to run the race He is going forth from the end of the heavens and his circa to the ends of it, and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof. That sun slowly rises over the horizon and pictures up, and all of a sudden here comes the bridegroom entering in, and it's an announcement as the rays of the sun says, I am here Every single day it does that. All the time. For everybody. And then not only the the the the light of it, but then you've got the heat. And in certain places of the world when that sun rises it heats the earth tremendously. We're we're still waiting for that, you know, come around here. But but it heats it up. And and David says, as a strong man to run a race. The bridegroom entering in, the heat thereof, the strong man entering his race. The power of that display is just one Peace of what God has provided. And every day the same thing happens, faithfully without wavering, all around this tiny little speck of dirt we call earth. Faithfully doing it. So yes, everyone sees it. Yet the testimonies of the heavens, that which proclaims God's glory, is often worshipped more than the Creator. I've no way of knowing, but for as many civilizations as I've tried to look up, they all worshipped the celestial bodies, the sun or the moon, or the stars, or whatever. You look at any of those ancient religions, they all saw it as some source of of of of deity Yet none of them could say this is a display of what indeed was created by the own deity himself. And God was concerned about that. He wrote to his children in Deuteronomy 4. 19, and lest thou lift up thine eyes into heaven And when thou seest the sun and the moon and the stars, even all the host of heaven, shouldst be driven to worship them And serve them which the Lord thy God hath divided unto all nations under the whole heaven. God said we have a tendency to worship things that are a display of power and beauty. But he says, don't. I've just done this as a reflection of me. To show you who I am and what I've done to bring forth such praise to myself. Those stars and planets are not deities or spirits, but they are creations of God. They can't save, but they only give evidence of the only one who can save. So, what does this do for the idea of the glory of God? What does it provide for us as his redeemed children? I think God's glory is of primost importance to us. That's why it's a hard question I ask in the beginning, what is God's glory? If it is so important, we need to have an understanding of it. The Westminster Schroeder Catechism, the first question, what is the chief end of man? Familiar with it? Man's chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. Man's primost, the most important thing in life. is to glorify God. And in doing that, it's inseparably linked to enjoying Him. When I properly understand that He's done all of this and He's put all these things in a pattern That is for my enjoyment. In other words, what is man's chief purpose in life? What was man made for? What am I living for? Boy, that's a rough one, isn't it? We've kind of gone down the some of that road sometimes and then we veer off and we find some uh valley of beauty or in this uh you know uh celestial picture over here or this or whatever and and yet not all the time are we doing things for the glory of God Some would say that my main purpose in life is to move to the top of the food chain. Advance constantly, you know. Get up there. You can do it. Some would say, well, it's really about making life comfortable for me and my family with all that they need. That's what I'm living for, some believe. They may not say it in those words, but by their actions, that's what they do. That's how they accomplish or the purpose for which they do things. It's really, it's all about me. Almost break into a Frank Sinatra song with that picture. And such is the error of the majority of humanity. Trusting in earthly things, trusting in relationships horizontally amongst us here, trusting in their own power and their own talents and their own beauty, or the goodness of others. People may not say that, or we may not say that at times, but by our actions, that's what we come about. I did this today. Well, what if I do 70% for me and 30% God? Or what if we flip it around, you know? Do that way. 95% to five percent. You know what? No. It's all for the glory of God. The Apostle Peter gives us some clarity on this. He says, All flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man as the flower of grass. The grass withereth, and the flower thereof falleth away. Now that is a simple illustration. We can really sharpen that up by knowing Millie, who loves her flowers, and always has. She gets her gardener to uh her her her her uh her maintenance man uh to get them ground prepared and and planted and watered and so by May and and so forth in there you'll see pictures up there and there'll be some things, wow millions are really nice, you know But then the hot days of summer turn into fall and fall into winter and the beauty of all of those flowers is as hard as the maintenance man working at it. They're gone. And all we're left with is a picture, a memory of it. And Peter says this is really what the whole majority of of mankind is living for They're living for something that is gone. It is a flower. There is beauty to it. There is enjoyment. There is there's a lot that's there. But he says The glory of man is as the flower of grass, and the grass withers, and the flower falls away in his hip. You can you can go to you know some some of these prominent uh cemeteries that are around, and there'll be some uh uh there are a couple of big ones in Philadelphia. And there'll be some huge monuments of of of uh marble and and and metals, you know, and all types of stuff there. And and to so and so, doctor so-and-so, this and that, you know, and And I scratched my head and I said, who is this? You know? Never heard of him. Back in his day, everybody would have known his name. You know. That athlete, that businessman, that that tycoon, you know The Lord carries them. I I kind of wonder about, you know, some of those who are the big names in the world today. Will anybody remember them? And they are as the flower of grass. They have their particular time, and then pretty soon it's gone. Remember, Peter says, it's here today and it's gone tomorrow. But what's the chief end of the end? We see past all of that. What is my chief purpose in life? But to glorify God and enjoy him forever. Man's glory is fleeting, but God's glory is eternal. From the time of creation, it has always been the same. If we're looking at the definition of God, as everything that's invisible about him that's made visible, so everything from all creation, time, you know, has always been there. Always worked around for his glory. It is eternal. What are we to live for? Obviously, it is for God's glory. One little picture to close with here. The Apostle Paul writes to the Church of Corinth, and he says, whether therefore ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do Do all to the glory of God. Now that's quite an all-inclusive statement. Whether you eat or drink. Common things. But then he adds unto it, he says, whatsoever ye do, whatever you do, anything you do, do all to the glory of God. It makes my head spin. William Burkett comments on that verse and he says, to the glory of God To make that our supreme aim and our ultimate goal in all we do, all we design, in all we desire. do, meaning the actions that we are involved in. Or my feet go, my hands, you know. In in all we design Things that I am planning on that are still to come. And then all we desire, the things that are tucked down within my heart. that still haven't brought out to making the design part and obviously still haven't come out to where my hands and my feet are involved in So we go all the way back to the seed place of my life, how I plan my day, how I plan everything that's going on, I need to do that for the glory of God. How well are we doing with that? Not real well, was it? You know. And obviously there's not one standard that everybody lives by, because we are individuals redeemed preciously by God, and He works upon us as individuals, at our own rate and our own pace. But I think it precludes the idea that I have to say, God work in me more to bring glory to yourself. And for me, that means something different than for you. And for you, that means something different from somebody else. You know, we we we can't do the you know, if we all do the same thing, you know, we all get the same kind of haircuts and we all wear the same types of clothes and we all get here at a certain time, we all do the same thing, that's not what it means It means as God has brought me to Himself, that Lord, you need to work in me Remove some things and replace it with some things that I get to understand in my planning, in my actions, in my deliberations, what it is for the glory of God. And sometimes I have to ask those questions, Lord, am I doing this for Keith? You know, or am I doing it for selfish reasons? Or to pad my own whatever? Or am I doing it for your glory? And and and I when I say that I don't mean I'm doing this for God's glory You know, I think of the Pharisee and the publican, you know, and uh they come into the temple and And the Pharisee stands up there, I thank God that I'm not like the other people, you know, that I do this and they do that. That's not what I mean. Within my heart To know, Lord, I want to do this for your glory. Between me and you, that we work this out. No judgment for anybody else, but God bring that about. That's for the glory of God. This chapter continues on, and we'll Lord willing tackle the next section uh next week, but it is important. But it begins as I'm on my knees and saying, Lord, you know, make what's up in here, what I'm thinking, connecting with what's here within my heart. When those things are moving, when when I have that connection, then he is glorified. Let's pray. Father, we're thankful that um the example of of uh uh a simple yet uh wonderful man like David could express himself in such terms uh living the life of a shepherd and then as a king that his source of all things was you. And evidence in this particular psalm that he found great delight and encouragement and comfort in the displays of the heavens before his very eyes And how it brought him peace to know that you had done it all, and that he didn't have to know anything more about those celestial bodies other than you had brought them into being for your glory, and that he was a man like unto all, uh a child of Adam, who needed you in order to make him a man that would glorify you. And so it is with us. Father, there's so much to grow in, so many things to learn. We want to glorify you in the right way. Teach us. Help us to be students of the heart, in order that your spirit will work in us to do that which is pleasing in your sight. Bless these uh thoughts to our hearts in Christ's name. Amen