One night this past week, Millie and I had to run an errand over to somebody's house. We'd gotten home from work and we had to do some and then we went out and by the time we got back uh skies were clear as the sun I think sun goes down like seven o'clock or whatever, so it was a little late And I purposely, as I got out of the car, looked up. And there was a crescent moon up there, you know, not half or whatever, but it was glowing and The stars were all out, which meant it was cold because all of the heat had moved up, you know. It was bitter. And I purposely stopped because of what we talked about last week, the first six verses in in the Psalm. The heavens declaring the glory of God. Otherwise I probably would have just passed it up, you know. But I stopped and I looked and I said, indeed, this is glorifying to God. It's just honoring to him And um I I m I made that purposeful choice. We got in the house and and uh a little bit later uh a little phone call and and um The story kind of goes on and on. Uh the person that we went over and visited made this errand to uh is in a situation. Um uh she's has a child through a man that she's not married to. Um and uh we took her over some things that help her out and and um uh uh she told us that she's about to get evicted tomorrow, you know. And um things were just it's a mess, you know, it's a mess. Um we've been close with her and and talks, especially especially Millie. The father of the child refuses to give any financial support Um and he yet benefits by her being taken care of meals at times or or whatever. It's just it's just terrible. So we got off the phone and and we talked a little bit and I went outside and I looked at the stars and and and and I think I could see a certain pattern up there that was telling me what to do. You know I think I could see some the way the s the moon was shining down. And then the next day the sun was out, but there were some clouds and I looked up and I looked at those clouds. And I said, that that confirms it. I know what I ought to do. I hope you realize there was a uh a tongue in cheek there, you know. There's no answers that way. And in a simplistic way, we approach this particular psalm by understanding that the heavens declare the glory of God. The firmament shows his handiwork, day into day, utter speech, night into night shows knowledge. But there's no answer to the rough questions of life up there. There's a source of the person, of the God who's created all those things and he's laid them out there, but it goes beyond that. I can't map out the stars or the clouds or cloudy days or sunny days or whatever and come up with answers to life. It just doesn't happen, although there are probably religions and other types of spiritual things that do that In Psalm 19, verses 7 through 11, there is an abrupt shift in David's thinking and in his penmanship. And he takes us from the place of glorifying, he says, this is the glory of God, to a place where he looks to the word. God's revealed himself in creation praising this same God, but he says, as I approach his word, his law. He says he's glorified even more, and I am even more indeed blessed by what he has provided for me. So if you would, your Bibles are there Psalm 19, verses 7, 8, and 9, first of all. The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. As you look through there, you should be able to pick out um uh David's explanation in a sense in this glorious statement, uh and he uses words like in Psalm 119, in verse 70 he says, law and testimony. like synonyms or adjectives of God's Word. Verse eight, what are the two there? Statutes and commandments. And then verse 9, what are they there? Fear of the Lord and judgments. Fear is a little bit different. We'll talk about that later on. But he brings this, he says, I'm I'm looking at this, which is so important to me. And he says, this is what I want to show you Now, the handout that I've given you is something if you can handle listening to me and your eyes flip over to this, that's fine. If not, it'll work out at any time Just take a look as as the column right under the blue section there. Take, for example, the name of the word that we're looking at in particular in verse 7 is law. Or in general, we would say it's the teachings of God. And then the character of the word. Uh scripture uses perfect. Well, obviously we're not talking about perfection perfection, but he says we're looking at something that's whole and complete and sufficient, lacking nothing and good. The effect of this word, it's converting, or restoring, or transforming, or renewing, or reviving, or refreshing. And what does it do? It does that to the soul, or in general, life. Okay? So it helps you walk through this. In in in the the ver words become rather uh clear, uh but it helps us to make it even clearer and provides us with some uh light on this particular topic. You know, I read those words, uh law and testimony and commandment, and they're not necessarily inviting, you know. They're just kind of Boom, black and white. But when you see what those do, the law or the commandment or the testimony, it it brings joy to the heart or it transforms the soul. It does these things. And that's what David's excited about. That's his that's his investment in this picture. He finds that in his great delight, as a young man sitting out with his father's flocks and looking to the sky, he saw the majesty of God in that creation. But now he takes it to a step further. And we're not just talking about just the boy going all through his life. He says the law of God is so much more And he says, I testify to that, even as I gave that silly illustration in the beginning. You know, creation does a lot, points to the author. But the word of God, David says, is this and this and this and this and this. So, verse 7. First part, he says, the law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. the law, uh the Torah, more than just the Ten Commandments, more than that More than just the first five books of the Old Testament, more than the Old Testament itself, and we can even say today, more than the Scriptures themselves. It is all of God's word presented. And he says this is indeed what we are blessed with. Think what David had when he talked about the law of the Lord. He had the writings of Moses, you know, those first five books. He had some books in in prophecies, but not much. But David could say with confidence that what I do have is complete to minister to me. Now think what we've got from Genesis to Revelation, it provides us with a complete picture of redemption. It expresses in no uncommon terms God's love or God's judgment. This is the sovereign of the universe reaching to me. Far more than what David had. But David, inappropriately he says, by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, he says, this indeed is perfect, complete in my life. Well, if it was complete in his life, why can't we say indeed that it was complete in our life? It doesn't say anything uh about uh certain areas of life. And when we think of being complete or whole and fulfilling all things, the Bible doesn't talk about quantum physics It doesn't talk if I should invest in bitcoins, but as the Apostle Peter says, it is indeed given to us for all things that pertain unto life and godliness. What I do have is of the utmost importance. Scriptures given to me, God's law, God's word, for life and godliness. Living. This this interchange between each other. How do I live in godliness? How do I live with my God? It does all of that. We've come to be able to say it is our only rule of faith in practice. If I have a question about my faith, What do I do? I go to God's Word. If I have a question about my practice, how do I live? It is out of God's Word. There is power in reading and hearing and studying the Word of God that goes beyond intellectual belief. It actually challenges and changes for the better or converts the soul. That would you can't see. That which is me, it changes my thinking, it changes my attitude, it changes what's within me. That's me. And so I see things differently. I hear things differently. I handle things differently. I act differently. Because the Word of God is there converting changing, uh reshaping who I am. And that's what the Lord wants to happen within our lives. Second part of verse 7 The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The second adjective, testimony, you've heard of the courts of law. Maybe you had to go to court one day and you had to give testimony according to some things that you were aware of. In other words, it's bearing the truth. You speak the truth about what you know Well here it is. The testimony of the Lord is sure. It speaks the truth No, obviously, there are naysayers all throughout history that had this Bible, this Word of God from the earliest days It's full of lies and deceptions and so forth. We have to have a better understanding through man's knowledge, through his education about this particular word. The Psalmist 119, verse 89, Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. It's established as a principle of truth. What do I build my life on? What do I gauge everything around me, but other than the truth of God's word? Beautiful indeed it is And because this word is sure and certain and verified, it does the work of what? What does the verse say? Making wise the simple, you know? Think about that. It takes the humble heart It takes the heart that is willing. The heart says, the open, and it takes it, and it brings unto it wisdom. A humble, teachable mind receiving the Word of God, it makes it wise unto salvation. We know enough about the world in which we live But we recognize that the proud defiantly resist this word and dismiss it as a fable, as a joke Francis Crick, co-discoverer of DNA, said, Christianity may be okay between consenting adults in private, but it should not be taught to young children. Warren Buffett, probably the richest man in the world, refers to himself as religiously agnostic. Mark Zuckerberg, Richard Dawkins, Steve Wozniak, and many, many others greatly gifted with intellectual powers far beyond what what this you know noodle can comprehend a whole in that I'd prefer not to have that I prefer to come unto him and say that, indeed, Lord, your word has to offer me so much more. These men and many other prefers the logic and reason of men over to the law of God, and so wisdom has escaped their grasp. They can't see what for us is obvious. I don't get that. You're not looking in the right place. Well, you will one day. True wisdom has nothing to do with intellect or intelligence. It is the ability to respond correctly to life's situations Former President Herbert Hoover had a good definition of wisdom. He says, knowing what to do next From my heart, knowing what to do next. God's word lays down a path of direction in life. Whether it's this or that or whatever he says, knowing What to do next indeed is wisdom. Our next verse, first part of it, the third section. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. Note on your sheet here, we got statutes or precepts of the Lord. This has to do with our obligation to him. Their obligation to our holy God. The word translated statutes is one used for directions or orders or detailed rules of life and conduct Doctor says you're to take this medication twice daily. Once in the morning, once in the evening. Eh, I don't want to. But he's given directions in order to do that. And God's Word lays out for us directions, precepts, statutes. Did you know that life comes with directions, by the way? Praise God. You know, we enter into this world if you're anything like I am. There's a big sign that says, assembly required. Life is messy. We approach life not having all of the parts. You know? And as those parts come out, they've got to be assembled and they've got to be put in the right pattern. They've got to go in the right direction. This isn't an IKEA project, you know. It's even worse than that The different parts of life need to be brought together in this box. And your life comes slowly, piece by piece. And so God gives directions in the Word. And we recognize as children we do things as a childlike manner. And as we raise children or oversee their lives, we see choices have to be made in a certain way. So we help and we guide and and direct But overall God sees, yes, you may be a child in age, and you may be not a child in age, but you're my children, and I direct you through my word, orchestrating your life in the way it ought to go. God's word is not only true, he says, but it's right. The word distinguishes between right and wrong, good and evil, crooked or straight. It helps me. Which way to go? You remember the days before GPS? You know, maps. I've got a box of maps at the office down in the basement, hoping one day that they'll be really valuable, you know We're going on a trip somewhere or missionaries come home excuse me and and we plan out a route to go from here to this church and then to this church and we give them maps and we say Okay, on map one, you go down this route, you know, so forth and so on and so forth and so on. You know, life indeed provides us with a similar picture, and God's word gives us such directions Alistair Beg said, the Bible teaches us what to believe and how to live. It involves both belief and behavior. And that's key, because there are a lot of religions that talk about belief, but not about behavior. He says, again, the vertical direction, this is what we believe, and this is what we have, and this is our God, or this is the direction of life. But it doesn't speak appropriately with the relationship of applying those beliefs in behavior. Kindness and love and forgiveness and and and so on and so on and so on. It doesn't talk about that. So God's statutes grants unto us such a truth. And when I obey, my heart rejoices, he says. The statutes of the Lord are right, they're true, and it brings unto me, he says, rejoicing of the heart, as I follow such, my control center is glad. Ever experienced that? When you got to a certain place and I've done what the scriptures have said, all of a sudden my heart says, that's right And even though others don't understand or believe or what have you, my heart says, is it the control center of my life provides me with such a rejoicing in my heart. Second half of verse eight. The commandment of the Lord is pure enlightening the eyes. I read that and I see I see statutes and commandments, and they sound very similar. They sound similar principles that are here. Commandments, however, are what God has ordered men to do or not to do. And as such, David says, they are pure because the author is pure I know when I've given command to my boys when they were young, it always wasn't out of right motives or right actions. Sometimes I said it selfishly, sometimes out of anger, or whatever. But here he says the commandments of God that he's given They indeed are pure because our author of these commandments given to us is pure. He has no ulterior motives other than expressing his love and his desire for his children to grow as they ought to grow. God's commandments enlighten the way to keep us from sin. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. Thy word have I hidden my heart that I might not sin against thee. Why would I want to sin? But that's just my nature. Why would I want to go this way? Because that's my nature. But God's word shines on these areas and points them out as I'm willing to take them in and feed upon them, bury them within my heart, and use them All of a sudden I find indeed that my eyes are enlightened. How many men and women and couples and families could have avoided the bypass the tears and trials of tragedy had they only taken God's word to truth. How many, how many sufferings have gone on in life, you know, heartaches and other things, had they only allowed God's word to be seated and to be brought in line with what they ought to be doing and avoided all of this kind of stuff that's going on. They only allow the pure commandments of the word to be there. Jump back a little bit. We had talked to this couple some years ago. And not only us, but others, pastors. And they talked to them about what they're doing. Was that right? How they were living was not right. And the child that they've brought into this world, that's going to have consequences. But instead of making it right under God's word, it just drove them apart further and further and further. So there was no lightning of the eyes because the commandments of the Lord were not true to them. Verse nine. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. Now this is a little bit different, different from the others, because it's not necessarily a synonym or description of the word of God, but it is that of the author himself. It describes the awe and the majesty of God. The fear of God keeps us from sin. It keeps us from the deception of the evil one. It keeps me on the right track. Oh man, God knows that this isn't right, and I can't go against him. Listen to these two from Proverbs 23, 17. Let not thine heart envy sinners. But be thou in the fear of the Lord all the day long. Sometimes jealousies come up, and I see the way this one is living, or the way what's going on around me. Don't be envious of that, because envy brings me to the place of sin. But he says, in proper perspective, let the fear of the Lord be before you all of the time, because that's not going to bother me what they're doing. 2814. Happy is the man that feareth all way, but he that hardeneth his heart shall fall into mischief. Another word for that is evil or sin. The fear of the Lord keeps my heart pliable to be able to move in the direction that God would have me to move. But he says, the one who hardens his heart shall fall into mischief or evil or sin. I want to read a little statement from Stephen Hawking. Stephen died in twenty eighteen. Uh he was a theoretical physicist and cosmologist and author. You probably recognize him in his wheelchair, uh power wheelchair uh scooting around. Um he knows better right now, but in any case. He said, 2014, before we understand science, it is natural to believe that God created the universe. Think of that. Before science came along, it was just natural for you uh uh stupid people to to to believe in God. But now science offers a more convincing explanation. What I meant by we would know the mind of God is we would know everything that God would know. If there were a God, which there isn't, I am an atheist. So so here the the the the happy is the man that fears the Lord always, but the one that hardens his heart falls into sin. He's hardened his heart. He, like I said, he knows better now. He has approached his his eternity with completely different viewpoint as he does. But as I come to God's Word, God's Word provides unto me such a realization of truth. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. The fear of the Lord grants unto me access to all things because it just puts everything in perspective. And that cogent fear of him But I fear him is I awe and reverence to him. The day that our our brother left this earth and and uh entered into glory, you know He didn't fall on his face so afraid of seeing his Jesus, but he entered into the presence of the Lord with a majesty and awe in front of him. And so it is for all of God's children. Second half of verse nine. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. David wraps up this section by describing the judgments of the Lord. The word judgment, it's a legal term I think everybody can picture that, often used in connection with a verdict from a court of law. So when God speaks on the matter, it is the final word. He says, the judgments of the Lord, the final word, what God says is indeed true and righteous altogether. What he said, he said that as being powerful. Maybe you've heard the statement, God said it, I believe it, and that settles it. Well, that's not really true. It should be. God indeed is the one. He said it. And that settles it. Doesn't matter if I believe it or not. It's already established in heaven because his word is judgment. His word has been established. Things are righteous or unrighteous, true or false. The final word on all things is his. Now, we've reached in these sections here the end of these three descriptive verses, each one having two words that describe the law of God or the word of God. And I want you to notice and remember what these three things or three verses bring to the believing heart, to the obedient heart. It refreshes or it restores the soul. It gives wisdom. It's a rejoicing of the heart. It's purity of life. Enlightening of the eyes. It's endurance. It's truth and righteousness. Wow. You know, sometimes we we perceive the Bible, God's Word, as being a burden as as a troublesome piece of life that we get through with as little as we can. And David says with with from his own experience, no It's restored my soul. It gives me light into life. He says it provides me with endurance and truth and righteousness and wisdom. He says it gives me what I could never have learned or experienced in any other way in life. So in verse 10 He says, more to be desired are they than gold, eh, the much fine gold, sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb. Davis says the value of these things, and I I move along in his life a little bit here to where he becomes uh understanding of what that is. Not just gold, but fine gold In other words, purify it again and again and again to get all of the impurities out of it. He said, that's treasure And then he talks about the honeycomb sweeter than honey was treasured in these areas, and the sweetness of it could not be experienced otherwise than tasting it from the honeycomb w w the other day we went to the store and I got a jar of uh uh honey with uh with uh what do they call it the the the cone in it, you know. And and I got it out and it was like, uh it's like it's like eating wax, you know. I said, This is it really, you know. But then I read where, you know, taking it right from the beehive and he says, That's that's the sweetness of it. Of all the experiences of life, to to the pleasures of of of of the soul, to the the power of of wealth, he says Everything that man desires, he says, just far exceeds it. This is just not an empty boast, but indeed it was. Don't forget David was a massively wealthy man. Yet he's not known for his wealth, but he's known for a man after God's own heart. You know. He he had the treasures and yet the scriptures talk of him otherwise, not of treasure, but of his heart. Solomon, however, was wealthier than David and was known for his riches, but not necessarily known for his relationship to his Lord. Didn't matter the clearness of it all. Verse 11. Moreover, by them is thy servant warned, and in keeping them there is great reward. As Millie and I went to bed that night, we prayed for our friend and her son and the estrang boyfriend. And I thought to myself, had it not been for the grace of God, I'd be there too. Salvation is one thing. We can be a child of God, but if I ignore the treasure that I find within his word, what keeps me from a wandering in the path? What keeps me from going off down this way that seems to be gold and fine gold? Or what takes me f away from thinking that This honey, the sweetness of it, all of the pleasures that I could gain from it. Well, what keeps me from that? But the Word of God. It grants unto me such joy and salvation. Obviously we are far from being people of the Word as we ought to be, but what He has given is blessing. God indeed is glorified in his word, and there are benefits to it. That's what David is saying. He says, the heavens declare the glory of God. This is evidence of God's glory. But much more. The Word is God's glory. We talked last week. What is the chief end of man? But to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. And it comes down, practically speaking, how do I do that? There are some believers and that's up to their own, you know, they glory to God, glory to God, glory to God, you know. And I understand that feeling that they want to do it But that's I don't necessarily see that in the scripture uh imperatives here. It's the way we live and the way we see the things that He's given us Let me close with a paragraph from Samuel Chadwick. He died in 1919. So when he wrote this, I'm not necessarily sure. But I think generally speaking, we're talking uh you know close to 100 years. He says, I have guided my life by the Bible for more than 60 years. And I tell you that there is no book like it. It is a miracle of literature, a perennial spring of wisdom, a wonder of surprises A revelation of mystery, an infallible guide of conduct, an unspeakable source of comfort. Pay no attention to people who discredit it, for I tell you that they speak without knowledge. It is the infallible word of God itself. Study it according to its own direction. Live by its principles. Believe its message. Follow its precepts. No man is uneducated who knows the Bible, for no one is wise who is ignorant of its teachings. They're not Bible thumpers here, okay? But we understand the value time and time again of what God's law did for those people of olden times. And as it moved on through history, the same thing becomes prevalent. And if we think of the wounds and the woes of our world today, what's missing? What's missing? God's Word. You know, w uh a hundred years ago, uh you know, thereby Uh we we were introduced to the brilliance of the theological education from Germany And all of a sudden they came in and he says, Well, this early Pentateuch stuff is really talking about not one author, but five authors, you know And it came around and they sat around the campfires and they talked about this and this and this, you know, and this document and this document, you know. And then it comes over here to this country And then all of a sudden, early 1900s, we got men in the very Presbyterian denomination, the old USA Church, who said, well, to be ordained, to be a minister, you don't have to believe in the virgin birth. You don't have to believe in the deity of Christ. You don't have to believe that the Bible is the infallible word. You don't have to believe that Jesus rose from the dead bodily, you know. They had a whole handful of these things and the church said, eh, just let it go. And now as time has moved on, all of a sudden that same denomination, after the all of the rats are jumping the ship You know, they they decided, well, you know, it's okay to have people of various divergent views of relationships, you know uh of of homosexuality filling the pulpit, of women uh occupying positions of leadership behind preaching God's word, and so on and so on and so on. You get the idea He says, all of a sudden, when this becomes less valuable as a guiding principle, all of a sudden we're not glorifying God, but we're glorifying man. And the byproduct is what we've got. You know, not necessarily believing that when my elementary days, you know Beginning of school, we had a Bible verse read and there was prayer over the loudspeaker, the school. You know? Well, we got rid of that, get rid of that Bible, get rid of that prayer stuff in public schools. Why Because it's just not fair. Well, what's fair today? Come back to God's Word. And he says, God is glorified in his word. Glorify God in His Word, okay? Don't ignore it. Allow it to permeate your heart Allow it to find uh uh itself in a regular pattern. We're not talking about all of a sudden we're going to start memorizing whole chapters and getting up here and reciting them before everybody But it's got to be at a level that you can handle and do. And if you're not, then you're not glorifying God. Plain and simple. There's one more section in chapter 19. We'll get at the next time we meet, but I think this is a sufficient amount to chew on for the days ahead. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, as we again come to a place in our hearts where we see we are woefully inadequate that indeed we are sinners saved by grace. And why you chose us, why you had chosen us from before the foundation of the world and sought to bring us into your family for such a purpose is only known to you. But we are thankful. Thank you for loving us and caring for us. Thank you for your tender mercies, your loving grace. Thank you, Father, for being patient with us. Thank you for your loving kindness and your long-suffering. May it continue. May we find, Father, a greater delight. Day by day within your word, that we like David may say, indeed, Lord, I glorify you. You are glorified in your word. In Christ's name. Amen.