Let's open our Bibles once again to Psalm nineteen. Psalm nineteen. Just look at read the entire section, although we're on the final portion of this. Read the entire passage because it'll help us again to collectively put together the picture that is within this psalm that David's given us. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night showeth knowledge There is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard, their lying has gone out throughout all the earth, and their words to the end of the world In them hath he set a tabernacle for the Son, which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, and rejoiceth as a strong man to run a race His going forth is from the end of the heaven, and his circuit unto the ends of it, and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof. The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart, the commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes, the fear of the Lord is clean Enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold, sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb. Moreover, by them is thy servant warned, and in keeping them there is great reward. Who can understand his errors? Cleanse thou me from secret faults, keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins, let them not have dominion over me, then shall I be upright, and I shall be innocent from the great transgression. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer. As we said, this is the third and final section of this particular psalm. I don't know if you've read it just by itself. They're unusual pieces, you know. It doesn't necessarily seem like they're connected in in in the psalm itself. It goes from uh verses one through six. He talks about uh the heavens. uh declaring the glory of God. And then uh verses seven through nine, it talks about the word being revealed. And then later on, beginning at verse ten, uh he talks about the value of it. And you think about that and you say, well, why is he writing like that? They're almost disassociated sections, but they are bound together with one principle. We've talked about it the very first time. It's the glory of the Lord. It's God's glory. And he's chosen to reveal himself in such a way for us, but for his glory. And as we see it and know it, all of a sudden we say, wow, that is his glory. And you look at the heavens again. Or you open his word, and you say, This indeed is nothing of man, but it is all of God. So he gets to verse 10 here, and he read of the value of God's law More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold, sweeter also than the honey and the honeycomb. And he's saying, This is this is it I mean, of all of the things I would strive for, these represent, you know, the best of all of that. And then in verse 11, he says, moreover, Continuing thought here. Moreover, in other words, in in addition to the superiority of gold and and honey He says, by them, meaning by God's law, is thy servant warned, and in keeping them there is great reward. The law keeps me warned of errors. And if I'm obedient to it, it's common sense. If I'm obeying the law, then there's blessing. And this isn't rocket science. David says this is my experience. And we know this. It's common sense that presents unto us this beautiful truth. Our Saturdays in our house are often, unless there's something pops up, often set aside for some serious house cleaning that has been ignored through the week you know, some projects, some special things to get done. And a couple of weeks ago, it's been a little bit, but we had uh Done the cleaning part and this and that. And in the afternoon the the sun came out and because there's no leaves on the trees, it just came right through the windows, you know. And I and I look around and say Whoa, who who didn't clean here? But it was me, you know. And and who didn't do this? Look at this, you know. The dust bunnies, you know, the the little spider webs that are all around, you know. They were there and it was clean, but it took the bright sunshine to come in and reveal it, to open my eyes to the things that were there You know, David here comes to this place in the Word. In verse 11, he praises it for the law, what it warns and what its obedience to it does But he says it's like the light, the sunlight, and it shines in his life, and he says, Whoa, there's some things I missed. The the law of the Lord, those seven verses seven through nine, does all of those things, but as he's going through it, as he's understanding the great creator God that is there, he's saying, Whoa! He says there's more to it than just that. More to it than I've ever expected. It warns, it rewards, but David thinks about the times and the ways that he ignored those warnings. He's going through the word and he's thinking, well, I did this and I did this, but what about the times that I didn't? And it brings him to the place where he was not obedient to the word. And again, it was the bright sunshine of God's word shining in his heart and illuminating these things. The Apostle Paul writes in Romans, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. Without the law, how would we know what's wrong? You know? How would we know where we have overstepped our bounds? But the knowledge of the law all of a sudden brings forth the the reality of sin. And David says, that's what it's doing in my heart. That's what it's done for me. If he had kept those curtains closed during our springtime and into the summer and used only 40 watt bulbs, those dust bunnies would have run over us. Those spider webs would have taken, you know, taken hold of everything. They had to be dealt with. And so we can ignore God's word. We can put it aside And be overrun by the reality of our very nature. Yes, we are sinners saved by grace, but nonetheless, the word has to be constantly before us. As we look to David's life here, and he confesses in this verse, Cleanse thou me from secret faults. Who can understand these errors? Cleanse thou me from secret faults. Who can understand the way things are going? The Word of God has revealed it to me, and He brings it to the place of cleaning house here. He says, Cleanse thou me of such. You know, David could confess this, cleanse these from secret faults or hidden faults or unintentional sins. Yet, unintentional or not, they are sins. And that's uh not right in God's sight. There's no place for the believer's life to have such. Here we see David speaking of the fact that none of us can truly know all of our ways in which sin lives. Who can understand his ways? You know, we've become creatures of habit. Some things we've done them all our life, some things we were taught, some things we learned by ourselves. And who can understand all of these areas? But that's where the Word of God comes I think I know more than anybody else my obvious sins, you know. I may reveal some of them, you may say, Well, there they uh that wasn't right, you know. I can expose it by the very words that I say or the actions that I take, and you see me. You see, that's that's sin. But it's really God's word that brings forth the truth and the reality of my heart in what's going on. It betrays me But what about all of those that I'm not aware of? The things that David calls hidden false? What about those? Martin Luther struggled with those very things as a priest, and he was locked up in his little uh cloister sh uh room and he says, you know, what happens to me? What happens if I if I confess all of my sin? But then I'm still afraid that I haven't confessed it all, and that fear, that doubt, is a sin in itself. He says, how can I go and perform the Mass? sacrifice of Christ, and I am an unworthy sinner in doing these things. And he struggled with it and struggled with it. And this is the area that God used, or at least one of them, to bring him to himself 200 years ago, a theologian by the name of Adam Clark wrote this, and I think it's going to be profitable as we try to understand this matter of hidden faults. He says, from those which I have committed and have forgotten, sins that I've committed, but forgotten all about it, never even thought to deal with it. From those which I have not repented. Something I've done. I've just left it there, kept it in my pocket, and I haven't repented of it for whatever reason. From those which I have committed in my heart, but have not yet brought to an act of my life. Jesus talks about the commitment of sin in our hearts. You know, I haven't actually done that, I haven't actually murdered, I haven't actually committed lust, but in my mind, in my heart, I've done so Just as guilty as if we've actually done it. Sins of ignorance, and from those which I have committed in private for which I should blush and be confounded had they were made public. An assortment of things that are brought to our heart's attention by putting the Word of God up and saying, Wow All of this, you know, for forgotten, tucked away, moved to the side, hidden, as the scripture mentions it here, hidden false Pastor, nobody's perfect. You know, I I've heard that a gazillion times. It's an old excuse that we've used. But what about those secret faults of greed and jealousy, holding a grudge and pride? Those aren't necessarily things that we would connect with as to murder or stealing and other things like that, but they are heinous in God's sight, and because they are so commonplace So we're born within our souls, we use it all of the time and make an excuse for it. Nobody's perfect. Only God is perfect. And and therefore we don't deal with them. And they became sins and they remain sins. And these are the things that struggled in David's heart and mind. And so he prays, Cleanse thou me from secret faults. Lord, forgive me. Cleanse me. And that ought to be part of our prayer. Sometimes we would do that if we do it in public, so you know, people think, well, why are they praying that? Are they See a lot of secret sins? No. It's our nature, as sinners saved by grace, to be able to say, as long as we're in this earth suit Until the day we're taken out of here, those things happen. They bring a come about. And those things have to be dealt with. So David says, that's part of my life. I know they're there, so he says, God cleanse me, clean me from such. The next step he takes in verse 13, he adds something more. Because David recognizes, again, as he going through the Word, the Word points out something more than just secret sins, but he refers to them here as presumptuous sins. Keep back thy servant from presumptuous sins, let them not have dominion over me. Some translations refer to this as deliberate sins or willful sins Totally different, different, different animal from secret sins, but sins nonetheless. To bring some clarity to the principle of presumptuous sins When we know better and we still do it. You know, I know this is wrong, but boy, I'm gonna get my pound of flesh. And I say it or I do it or I engage in it. I know it's wrong. It's in my heart. When friends have warned me, then I still do it. Godly people, good counsel, you know, hey, avoid that. Don't do that. That's wrong. You know, as a child of God, that has no place in your life. Shh, yeah, get out of here. You don't know my life, you don't know what I'm going through. I'm doing it. When God Himself has warned us and we still do it When God's word sits there and we hear it and we read it and we see it before our very eyes, and it's clear as day, but I'm saying, I'll deal with it tomorrow, but today I've got to do this. my emotions, my feelings, the particular actions that I'm going through, presumptuous sins, willful sins. When we have warned others against the same sins and we ourselves sin. Yeah? Well let me tell you, let me warn you about this matter of gossip. But have you heard You know you shouldn't be doing that. But let me tell you, you know, we we engage in the exact same things we see as being wrong as sin, and we do it ourselves. And the last one when we plan and enjoy our sin. And that can be from the full spectrum of life. You know, when I plan to do evil, when I plan to have this particular enjoyment, but all encompassing within the Word of God which says, it's wrong. It's sinful. It's sinful I think a good example, and I don't know when this particular psalm was written in David's life, but David engaged in presumptuous sin when he committed adultery with Pathsheba. And she has it as a child. And then he connived to be able to say, your husband has to be put to death, so he engaged in that. All of those encompassing this whole spectrum of what a presumptuous sin is. And for us Christians We are especially vulnerable. We tick all of those boxes because we more than anybody else know or have available to us the things that are right and wrong We may say though, well, if I don't read it, then I'm not guilty, you know? But that's not the case That's not the principle behind it. Indeed, the Word of God is there for us, and we are warned by it, and we need to be mindful of the things that are going on. But Pastor, nobody's perfect. Again, the excuse that we bring up. It's not a matter of being perfection. Scripture tells us, be holy as God is holy. Stand on the principle of that relationship and grow in such. It's not okay, because sin is sin. And for David, and I think this is key, it broke fellowship with God. That which David so desperately needed, that which David so desperately desired in his life was the fellowship. He wasn't cut off from God. He wasn't moved away from that, but he says that relationship is that which I so desperately need within my life. And when we commit such, it breaks our fellowship, that which we desperately so need. It doesn't mean that he's forsaken me, that he's kicked me out of that relationship as his only child, as I see him as my only father in heaven. But it does break the fellowship that binds our hearts together and encourages us and directs us as such. Lord, don't allow presumptuous sins to rule over me Don't let them to dominate my life. That's David. And again, there are a number of sins that we read through in the scriptures. You know, he's a man after God's own heart. But he did commit some things that were really some really stupid as you look back on them, but they were presumptuous nonetheless. And so his prayer, don't let them have dominion over me. If you uh know your computer, uh challenge you on YouTube to go and look up the the boiling frog. Um and this guy he's got a his pot and he's talking about the frog and he says frogs have this ability to change their body temperature according to their surroundings And so he's got a boiling pot and he's got a frog in his hand. It's a real one. And as he moves it next to this boiling pot, the the frog senses the immense heat coming off in the steam and he and he takes off But then he comes out with a regular pot and he puts the frog in, and then the frog sits there and and he turns on the heat. And slowly, and he's got a thermometer with it, and the heat slowly goes up, and he says the frog right now is currently changing his internal temperature to match that which the water was He says, What what if I turn it way up? And the next scene shows this frog, you know, like you know, spread out like that. And I thought, how could he do that? You know, but then he moats it, he says, this is a he's got a rubber frog then. It was just like that. He took the real frog out, you know. But isn't that the way sin is? We can find it in such a way, uh secret faults, presumptuous sins, and all of a sudden it just becomes because we change, we adapt with our surroundings. Everybody's doing it. It's the easiest path I can go on. And all of a sudden we find ourselves in the boiling pot. And it's too late. We're cooked. Our testimony is shattered. Lord, keep me back. Notice he says, keep me back. Doesn't say cleanse me, but keep me back from presumptuous sin. So David recognizes his own fallibility. These are the things I've done in the past, Lord, keep me from making presumptuous sins. Keep me from planning on it. What your word talks to me about, what other people are saying I shouldn't be doing. What I know in my heart I shouldn't be doing. Keep me from engaging in that. Keep me from that particular station in life. And so he praises God for that. And he honors God in his prayer. He closes with verse 13, and very comforting, I think, in their very confident words, he says, Then shall I be In other words, God cleanses him, God keeps him from, then shall I be, and I shall be innocent from the great transgression. As this saint of God asked to be cleansed from secret faults and kept from presumptuous sins so that he could be blameless. The picture of blamelessness is pointing the finger at. Nobody. Nobody's pointing a finger. When God's finger points, you're guilty of, he says, no. My fellow man, guilty of, no. He says, I will be blameless, innocent in the great transgression. David knew very well that he needed to be cleansed and he trusted in God's perfect sacrifice. That's the ultimate which in the old mosaic system was the animal sacrifices which prefigured the sacrifice of Christ How could he come and and speak about in the great transgression and be cleansed and be blameless that will be completed in Christ and that he could stand innocent not on his own but through God's grace. You know, that's for us too. You know, when we think of our life and how we know who we are, where we have weakened and failed purposely or ignorantly, who can stand for us? But God's sacrifice, the Lord Jesus Christ, to take such. We've seen in the Psalm the heavens glorified God, his word glorifies him. And he's also glorified by his grace, and obviously his grace for everything. How do I understand the glories of heaven but by the grace of God? Otherwise we would just look at the heavens and say, well, that's part of the great evolutionary plan. How could I understand these words within the law that they make them adaptable to my heart where it picks and probes and he and cuts me open and deals with me as I need to, other than the grace of God. And how can I put it all together to see that this is his hand, but by his grace And as such, out of a blessed heart, David closes with this most beautiful prayer. Let the words of my mouth And the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. If there was a a way that you could uh have a a penny for every time somebody's used that verse on a card or on a on a little placard or something like that. You can be rich. It's everywhere. You know, you go online and search out, you know, uh this verse and and here's it again. T-shirts and coffee mugs and wall pictures and everything like that, you know. And and people read that and they say, are those so beautiful words? You know, they're so I just love that. And people even say it and they pray it. Yet do they really understand what's being said Here is a humble surrendering by this saint of God of his mouth and his heart to God. He's bringing these beautiful truths to him. And he recognizes, I think, that they are bound together. David knew that real godliness It was not just a matter of what a man did, but what a man said and what a man thought. Tied together. And we know that. Whatever comes out of my mouth was first instigated by my heart. I thought it. Sometimes ever so briefly and I recognize the failure of that, and other times when I've actually planned on it and actually said it and and regretted it, or to the praise of God. Remember, cleanse me from secret faults, keep me from presumptuous sins. I got some other verses here just to throw at you, and just to say that as you think this is one verse that David had And I think about his character and this relationship that he had with God, you know, got man after God's own heart. This isn't just one time Psalm 141, 3. Set a watch, O Lord, before my mouth and keep the doors of my lips. Put a guard here, you know. Have a keeper of the doors of my lips The Spirit of God keep me from saying something that is wrong, sinful. Psalm 39, 1. I said, I will take heed to my ways. That I sin not with my tongue. I will keep my mouth with a bridle while the wicked is before me. Wow, while the wicked is before me. You know, well they deserve to be. Well, David says no. He says, let this this appendage here the thoughts that are contained with that are going to be spewed out, contained within my heart, let them be guarded Psalm 51, 10. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Not just keep the guard on there, but the source of my lips, the source of my words, a heart. Create in it, Lord. You are the only one to work that magic within the heart of man to make me as I ought to be. And then jumping out of Psalms Proverbs 2423, hopefully Solomon learned this from his father, you know. Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Garden the heart, put a wall around it, protect it, because out of the heart are the issues of life. As a man thinks, so he is. As a man speaks, so he is. And then probably the greatest uh chapter, at least we'd find within the New Testament, is James 3. The tongue is a fire, world of iniquity. It burns down the forest, it steers the great ships, just a little appendage, you know. The link David clearly understood inseparably from the heart, the mind, to the tongue creates such an advantage for the sinner that he can say whatever he wants and never feel the drop of guilt in but David says no Lord if you're in this in the in the place of of being in charge of my heart Then make the words that I say proper and right. Keep me from the things that I shouldn't be saying. Doing the things that I shouldn't be doing, allow that to be your guide. David wanted to be accepted by this God. He wants to be embraced by God, to know him better. And he knows as he opens his mouth and his heart this combination, as it were, it is a sacrifice. That the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable But just because they're nice words? No. It's a principle of a sacrifice. I sacrifice them to you. I give them to you, Lord. A sacrifice acceptable in my sight, his thoughts. in his words. Let the words of my mouth, meditation of thy heart, be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. How goes it with your words and thoughts? Obviously, you know, we're in deep doo doo, aren't we? Yeah. Because in a fraction of a second, uh a reaction, a knee-jerk reaction, or a well-planned out whatever attack, we can change in a moment. Change in a minute It's so easy to take place. Sure, in public, but also in private. Would God or does God find my words acceptable and pleasing in his sight? For the most part, it's not a question of my union with Christ. I am solid with him because he has redeemed me, and then there's nothing in me that was good in order that I would be made a child of God. But it was Christ who took my place. Hence I am in Christ, and Christ is in God, and therefore I am part of that. But what about my fellowship, my communion, my relationship with Him? And again, that's what David was struggling with, and that's what he prayed, and why he prayed, and that's what we ought to also, you know You know, when we're when we're out of kilter, uh our mates would say, what's wrong? Nothing. You know? You know W we see people that we know. What's wrong with him? Well, he's just having a bad day. Well, what is the bad day source from? You know, it's from my heart My relationship. With the Lord, it is all right. Everything's put in place. Everything's understandable. Everything makes sense. My heart is full of joy. But if I allow sin in there, all of a sudden it throws it all off and the fellowship becomes weakened and distant. In his own weakness, David claims Jehovah's strength. Literally, he says, his rock. In him alone could he resist and overcome? Who's my rock? Who's the one that I can cling to no matter what takes place? How can I be fortified in the days in which we're living? And if you think it's bad now, think of that which is still to come. Go back to 2 Timothy, as we went through that book, chapter 3. And it, you know, these are the things that are happening and are going to happen, and that's really terrible. And we recognize how can I make it? But by the strength, by my rock. And then in the verse he talks about he recognizing that God is also his redeemer. through whom he would get pardon for the past and grace for help in time of need. To this word he adds nothing, as it includes everything necessary for the saint and for the sinner. He says, my strength, my rock, and my redeemer. Now what did David know about a Redeemer? You ever think that? That's a New Testament principle. to redeem, to buy back. The only one that's really prominent was in the Old Testament we find was in the matter of Ruth. And Boaz comes to buy the property from the next uh uh family member and he becomes the kinsman redeemer. He buys back. What Boaz did for Ruth. So there's a seed thought in there, but I think all the way through the Old Testament, precluding what Christ was. There was a seed brought all the way through of somebody to redeem, because the law couldn't redeem. The law only exposed that which we are weakened in where we fail. But the Redeemer comes along in Christ, God's appointed Redeemer, and He pays that price and he brings us into a relationship with a holy God. Otherwise, we are absolutely nothing. As the light of God's word shines upon our life and into our day, word by word, we recognize how easy it is to let our word and our thought slide. to become anything but is pleasing to the Lord. Yet David's words give us hope. To the end that it is not going to be possible, but because he is our strength and my redeemer, our redeemer, we have assurance. We don't wander like the rest of the world. It's getting nice and sunny, the coronavirus thing disappearing, and it won't be long before there'll be the knock on the door. And it'll be those dear witnesses from Jehovah, you know. And he says, Hi, do you have a minute? I'd like to talk to you about something, you know And and we can talk to them all we want, but they have no assurance. I've talked to them before. And I remember a lady, she came with her little son, very cute cute little couple. I said, you know If I had a gun here and I would pull the gun out and I would kill you both, and the little boy just kind of backed up. He says, this guy's really gone, you know. I says, what would happen to you? Well, yeah I I said, do you have any assurance of eternity? Well, I I she didn't And so we come to this principle of those assurances that we have within Christ, within God, that are made by Christ. Close with a little paragraph from David De Haynes. He says, Of all God's creatures, only man can worship, meditate, and plan. The gift of thought sets him apart to love the Lord with all his heart. We're different from all of creation. A heart that God has given us to be able to be sensitive to Him and plan by His grace. He receives glory in us. You know, he's displayed it in the heavens. He's displayed it within the Word, but what better to have that glory of God displayed in our lives? In our thoughts and in our words and our actions. All bound up. We give Him praise. Let's pray. Father, in the quietness of our auditorium here, we're thankful that when words end, the Spirit's work continues. And we recognize how uh woefully we are ignorant of truth uh found within your word. And so we ask that first you would encourage us by your Spirit to delve into the scriptures, never to find it boring, but to taste and see how good you are. to recognize the pattern of the lives of the men and women who profited. And as we are able to read and study their lives and the words that they said and the actions that they were involved in and their reactions. They're so much like ours. And then the beautiful message of redemption from Genesis through Revelation, to redeem us from our sin, to buy us back from that sin, recognizing that one day We'll either depart from this earth in death, or that the Lord Jesus Christ will come back. And at that moment, we'll recognize the relationship that we have from our hearts. So until that day, we pray that you will give us words that are pleasing in your sight, encouraging to others to listen to what this word speaks and says Show what a great God you are, and that you're glorified in us. And where we fail, we pray you'll forgive us. That Father indeed you would cleanse us from those secret sins. Those things that we're ignorant of that we've done and haven't repented, and the list goes on, and they're just a stain. Cleanse us. And Father, also to keep us from presumptuous sins. For as we grow in you, we become more knowledgeable in what is wrong, what is the pathway of sin. Keep us from such, that we might live pure lives in your sight. Thank you, Father, for the fellowship of the saints around your word and the joy we have in Christ, knowing that one day it'll be in perfection as we enter into glory. In Christ's name. Amen.