And the Book of Revelation has the overwhelming government in the Book of Revelation with the Antichrist. Full government control, and that's what we're seeing right now, a little taste of that full government control, total government control and just uh decrees coming out. You can't do this, you can't do that. And you know, we thought we had the freedom to assemble. But we don't have that freedom. And uh, you know, it's uh they they could do away with any freedom we've got in a second just declaring an emergency And this isn't much of an emergency that we have right now. You know, we're it's such a climate of fear. And it's a fear of what might happen, not what has happened, but what might happen And the death toll and the cases are very few so far compared to all the other pestilences and just the common flu. With the common flu, 50,000 people die a year In the US. And 50 million people have the flu. And this is just a variety of the flu, a little worse perhaps, but It's a sad situation that we have. But praise the Lord, we're here. And let's bow in a word of prayer. Oh Lord, we pray that thou would bless as we come together, bless in our study of thy word And oh Lord, just help us to learn something out of Revelation chapter 1. Help us to be the Christians that thou would have us to be, and preserve us from the coronavirus, and preserve us from the government. In Jesus' name. Amen. So here we go back to Revelation chapter 1, and we want to pick up here with verse 10. Verse 10. And we'll go back to verse 9 later on and concentrate on that later. But we want to start with verse 10 And here we have the introduction of the book of Revelation. Revelation is showing us things that will happen in the future. And things that we're seeing right around us right now, preparing the way for all of this. And so here we have verse 10. John says, I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. And heard behind me a great voice as of a trumpet. I was in the spirit on the Lord's day And you know there's a lot of question today about worship, about how should you worship And people say, oh, well, hey, the Bible never says how we're supposed to worship, so we can worship any way we feel like. But you know, the Bible does say how to worship. And John 4:24 tells us God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit. And in truth. And so the Bible does tell us to worship the Lord in spirit. And this is what we have here with John. I was in the spirit on the Lord's Day, worshiping the Lord in spirit. And that's a lot different than a lot of the worship that we have out there today. It's not worship in the spirit, it's worship in the flesh. Today that we have. We have music that appeals to the flesh and not to the spirit. And we have all of those things out here, out there. And you know what the Reformation A big part of the Reformation was reforming worship. And it was the simplifying of worship You know, in our service this morning, we have a very simple worship service. We have just reading the Bible, preaching, and singing, and not a whole lot of other things. But you know, in the Roman Catholic Church they had amassed all kinds of different things in their worship And of course they had their candles and they had their altar boys and they had this and they had that and the priests that changed the uh communion into the body and blood of Jesus and they had all these different things And the Reformation simplified the worship, going back to a worship in spirit and in truth. I was in the Spirit on the Lord's Day. Notice that on the Lord's Day. The Lord's Day is Sunday In the Bible. And Lord's Day is has the changed day of the week from the old Sabbath day on Saturday. We went to the Lord's Day. with the resurrection of Christ. And that's where we see people giving their offerings and worshiping in the New Testament after the resurrection of Christ. But still, just because the day was changed doesn't do away with the Sabbath commandment And we still have the Sabbath commandment. We have the commandment to set apart one day out of seven unto the Lord and to rest. And that's a very important commandment. And people like to make light of that commandment, of observing the Lord's day-to-day And a lot of Presbyterian churches make light of it. But you know, our Westminster confession, it's full of ordinances on how to keep the Sabbath day and how not to keep the Sabbath day. And it's very important to keep one day apart from the Lord, not do the same things that we do all the other days We need to do something different on the Lord's day. And one of the main things we do different is come together and worship. So I was in the spirit on the Lord's day, and heard behind me a great voice as of a trumpet. And then we have verse 11. This voice as of a trumpet said. I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last, and what thou seest, write in a book, and send it unto the seven churches which are in Asia. unto Ephesus and unto Smyrna and unto Pergamus and unto Phiatira and unto Sardis and unto Philadelphia and unto Laodicea. So here we have this message of the book of Revelation was given to John. This message was given for him to write in a book. Books have always been important. Books have always been important in the church. And books are still important. And this book right here is the most important book. God has given us a book. And of course he gave us the book of Revelation and the entire Bible. We need to read it. That's what we looked at last time in our study of Revelation chapter 1. Blessed is he that hears and he that reads. the words of this prophecy. And we have a blessing for hearing this book. And of course in books we have the compilation of knowledge that man has in all of these books. And so Christians should be readers, especially readers of the Bible, and they should be studyers, studying to show themselves approved unto God. And so here we have, write it in a book, and send it unto the seven churches which are in Asia. And we have those seven churches that we preached on. uh here in months gone by, years gone by, the seven churches in Revelation chapters two and three. And those were the first destinations of this book. And then it goes out to the church in all ages. And so here we have the seven churches which are in Asia And we preached on that, as I said. We won't go back to Revelation 2 and 3. We're done with that. And we'll go on to chapter 4 the next time we look at Revelation. But here we have verse twelve. John turns to see the voice that spake with him. And being turned, I saw seven golden candlesticks, and in the midst of the seven candlesticks, one like unto the Son of Man clothed with a garment down to the foot, and it goes on to describe his vision of Jesus here. He saw Jesus. It says here he was one like unto the Son of Man. People get tripped up by that sometimes. And they say, oh well, you know, when it says it's like, that means it's not him, it's somebody like him. But that's not it. That's the scriptural language. Yeah, we l we use that today. In fact, I used that same language this morning when I was here in church And somebody said, there's a car coming in there. It looks like the Moltrups. It looks like. It's like them. And it is them. It looks like. And that's how it is here, one like unto the Son of Man. But it is the Son of Man. Remember the fur fiery furnace, the form of the fourth, and the fiery furnace was like unto the Son of God. But it was the Son of God, it was Christ there with Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. And so here we have one like unto the Son of Man. It was the Son of Man. And the really interesting thing here is: where is he? Where is Christ here? He's in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. We had an ICCC Congress in New Jersey. In back in 1979, International Council of Christian Churches, and the theme of the Congress I always remember was Christ in the midst of the candlesticks. And these candlesticks are what? Well, we see that at the end of the chapter. They are the seven churches. They are the church And Jesus is in the midst of the church. That's where he is. And you know, churches can be big, they can be small. The Bible talks about where there are two or three gathered in my name, there am I in the midst. And right now, today, it's probably better to be a small church. At least so far as not as having services on this day in particular. But anyway, the thing is, Jesus is concerned with the church. He's concerned with it. He's there among the churches, and God has ordained the church to be his chosen instrument on this earth. And people like to make light of the church. And I don't know how many people I've run into. I ran into one at the prison the other night. And he says, Oh well, I'm not much on established religion and churches, but I'm a Christian. Well, you know, there's a lot of people out there like that. And of course why do they say that? They say that because they've seen a lot of hypocrites in the church. Because they've seen a lot of fights in the church, they've seen a lot of splits in the church, they've seen a lot of activity in the church that they didn't like. And you know, we're always going to have those things in the church. Because it's made up of people with sinful natures. And we all got sinful natures still, even after we're Christians. And we still got the wheat and the tares in the church. We still have some unsaved people in the church. And so the church is always going to have problems. And I've been in the church for you know many years. And it's always had problems. There's been one string of splits and fights and this and that and the other thing all through. And you know, Satan is always trying to get rid of the church and break it down. And stir up any kind of fights and problems he can get it stirred up. But we can't give up on the church. Christ is in the midst of the seven churches. He's in the midst of the church. And he's concerned with the church. And the church will continue clear till he comes back. It'll still be around. Even though it won't be much of the church left, but there will be still some. And we're told at the end, uh, you know, will the will we find faith left on the earth? Well, there won't be too much. But there'll be some. And the church will still be there. And we need to not give up on the church. And of course, one reason we're here today is because we haven't given up on the church. The church is important And we have the commandment in Hebrews chapter 10: forsake not the assembling of yourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another. So we're not supposed to forsake the assembling of ourselves together. And that's what we're not forsaking today. And notice the scripture says: the assembling of yourselves together. Today people think that, oh wow, we're going to have an online church, and that will be just as good as being in person. And you know, we're gonna have that. You got the old church on TV and people always used to say, oh, well Hey, I don't go to church, but I watch my favorite preacher every Sunday morning, and I have my church that way. Well, it's not the same. That's not assembling yourselves together. And of course, we as fundamentalists we like to take the Bible literally, as literally as possible, and we like to obey it as much as possible. And when it says assemble yourselves together, that's what it means. And you know you can have these churches online today, but you know it's pretty hard to have exhorting one another in with that. Is that that's individuals exhorting one another. And that's part of the church. Encouraging one another in the things of the Lord. So here we have Jesus. He was in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. And he was very bright, and he was overcoming to John there. But John fell down. We have verse 17, and when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. Tim mentioned that this morning in Sunday school. That was the reaction all through the Bible when people saw the Lord or the presence of the Lord. They were just overcome and they fell down on their faces. They didn't jump up and celebrate. That's what they say worship is today, but it's not jumping up and celebrating. There is celebration in the Bible, but that's something different. But worship is falling down before the Lord. And that's what John did here. When I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. And so he saw Jesus there, and Jesus was bright. He had white hair. We're told, white like wool as white as snow. And of course, white hair is the symbol of wisdom in the Bible, all through the Bible in the book of Proverbs. His pear was white like snow. There's a lot of people in the world that have never seen snow All the people over there in Cameroon that I ministered to over there, they've never seen snow. And the new Bibles, they say, oh, you should never use a word that people aren't familiar with. And so you should use a different word of something that they are familiar with. No, we should use snow when it says snow. And explain what snow is to people that have never seen snow. And so his hair was white like wool, as white as snow. And in his hand he had seven stars, and out of his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword. But what's that two-edged sword? Well, that's the Word of God. The Word of God, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing and dividing asunder the soul and the spirit. And so here we have Jesus. John sees him, and he's completely overcome. And then Jesus says, verse 17, fear not, fear not. You know what, we don't have to live in fear like with this coronavirus. Of course. Trump calls it the China virus and uh that's really a good name for it really because it came from China and they covered it up. And we've had the Hong Kong virus in the past. We've had the Russia, Russian flu the Hong Kong flu, the Russian flu. We've had all those in the past. Why can't we have the China flu now? But anyway, but there's the climate of fear today. Everybody's panicking The grocery stores, everybody's buying up all the stuff there, the shelves are empty, and it's just panic And now the government is taking advantage of that, and that's a great advantage of the government to amass more and more power when there's panic, when the people are upset. We had that back with Roosevelt back in the history of the United States with the Great Depression. He came on the scene as the great savior and put in all kinds of government in the United States and changed the country And uh that's what we got today. The government is taking advantage of this panic. But what does Jesus say here? He says, fear not, even with his overwhelming appearance. Fear not, I am the first and the last. He said that earlier And we had the Lord, uh the Father, we have that same description of him back in verse 8. The first and the last, the beginning and the end, is the Lord, both God the Father and God the Son. Then verse 18, I am he that liveth and was dead, and behold, I am alive forevermore. That's what Jesus, we talked about the resurrection in Sunday school this morning. And the resurrection is uh greatly attested fact in history. Uh they have these disorganizations put putting up billboards today. And uh there's a billboard on the way up to Marcus Hook today, and it says, He is alive beyond reasonable doubt. It says there, and that's very true. All those people saw him after he rose from the dead, beyond reasonable doubt. I am he that liveth and was dead. And of course we have the Antichrist. He comes on the scene in the book of Revelation, and he likes to imitate Christ. He's the Antichrist. And one of the things that the Antichrist imitates with Christ is he has a wound with a deadly wound by the sword. A deadly wound, he died, and then he rose again. We have the Antichrist. At least he seems to, and very possibly does in the book of Revelation. And he's imitating Christ. But Christ really is still living. And present in our lives today. So here we have, I am he that liveth and was dead. And then he says, I have the keys of hell and of death. We don't have to fear. Again, we don't have to fear death. We don't have to fear hell because Jesus has the keys of hell and of death. And as we give our life to the Lord, as we pray for forgiveness of our sin, as we make him our Lord and Savior, we don't have to fear those things. Because he has the keys of hell and of death. And we don't have to stay in those places. Or go to those places even. The second death is what we're talking about. We're all going to die the first time, but we don't have to fear the second death. And then we go on to verse 19. Write the things which thou hast seen, and the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter. Right here we have the outline of the book of Revelation, right here, in this verse. And so this is the outline: the things of the past, the things of the present, and the things of the future. And chapter one of Revelation is the past. It's John's vision here that he saw in the past. And we have chapters 2 and 3, the things which are, the present. And then chapters 4 to 22, to the end of the book, we have the things which shall be hereafter. And so this is a really nice outline here of the book of Revelation, here in verse 19 of chapter 1. And then we go on to verse 20, and we get some of our explanation here, the mystery of the seven stars, which thou sawest in my right hand. And the seven golden candlesticks. The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches. And the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churches. And notice each one of these things stands for something. It's not just some indefinite thing. I think I mentioned last time here, the Omillennialist, he takes the book of Revelation and he makes everything into a very indefinite fight between good and evil. And just different pictures of the fight between good and evil. Who knows what it all means? And that's how they take it. But no, the things have different significations. And the stars stand for something. They stand for the seven angels of the seven churches. Of course, we don't know exactly what those angels are. But uh I think they're guardian angels basically. They're associated with each one of the seven churches Uh many people think they're talking it's talking about the pastors here, which is possible, but it uses the word angel Of course, angel can be messenger, but still it's angel. And so here we have the seven-star stand for the angels. And the seven candlesticks stand for the seven churches. And it's not just a bunch of gobbledygook. And you know, in the book of Daniel, you have the he-goat. You have the ram. And the ram is Persia. The he-goat is Greece. Alexander, the he-goat comes and tramps on the ram, and it has meaning. It's not just an indefinite fight between good and evil. And so here we have that explanation. Well, let's go back to verse 9. And we want to concentrate on that a little bit. I, John, who also am your brother, and companion in tribulation, and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ. was in the isle that is called Patmos for the word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. For the word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ, these words have been used many, many times. They were written in stone above the Chester Church, Chester Bible Presbyterian Church. And I think they've probably covered o covered them over now. I didn't really notice the last time I was there. I don't know if any of you noticed when we had Presbytery there, but anyway I haven't looked for a while, but it was right there in the stone above the door. These words for the Word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ. That's what we're doing as Christians. We're living For the word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. But going back, I, John, we don't have to worry about who wrote the book of Revelation. It's very clear. A couple times John mentions his name. John the beloved disciple, the one who leaned on Jesus. I, John, who also am your brother, notice he's our brother. Our brother. That's a lot different than the Roman Catholic Church. As we said, the Roman Catholic Church has complicated everything. It has had complicated everything before the Reformation And one thing they've complicated is they've made the priest into somebody that's set up above the people, separated from the people. The priest is a guy with all kinds of power. He has power to live a celibate life. That's power. That lifts them up. And he also has power to turn the bread into the body of Christ and the wine. into the blood of Christ. And that's power given unto him, the priest, and sets him up, but he's not the brother, he's father. Father this and father that. But John here, I also am your brother. And the preacher is a brother. He's one that's appointed to preach. We should have some respect, but still he's a brother. And John was a brother, even though being an apostle to Jesus Christ. And he was a companion in tribulation. Companion in tribulation. And in this world, we're told that we are going to have tribulation. And John was a companion in that, and we're going to have tribulation, we're going to have problems, we're going to have viruses, we're going to have pestilences. And of course, pestilences are one of the main things that God has used through history to punish sin and to turn people to Him. And all through the Old Testament, especially with Jeremiah, Ezekiel, they were always talking about how the pestilence would come upon Israel because of their sin. A pestilence, and we've got it today. Tribulation. And unfortunately, everybody has to suffer some with these tribulations. And that's what we have here. But we don't have to fear. The Lord is with us through those tribulations that we have. The Lord is with us. That's a great advantage that a Christian has over the world. The world doesn't have anybody to be with them. And so John was companion in tribulation and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ's spiritual kingdom. We have the kingdoms of this world, and then we have the kingdom of Christ. Jesus said, the kingdom of God is within you. We have his spiritual kingdom, his spirit. So we have the kingdom, the patience of Jesus Christ. We're still waiting for him to come back. And 2,000 years is not that long to wait in the whole scheme of things. And we're still waiting. We have patience for Jesus Christ. But you notice here, John, where was he when he wrote this book of Revelation, when he had this vision? He was in prison. He was on a prison island. And you know, islands have always been used as prisons. They make good prisons. You have all that water around, and it's not very easy to get out of there You can't dig a tunnel out of the out of the island. Just go out into the water. Alcatraz, that was the very famous prison of the United States out there in San Francisco on the island there. And uh when I was in the Air Force over in Taiwan, we some of us took a uh trip out to a prison island that Taiwan had. And it was called Orchid Island. And we went out to this this prison island, and that was what that island was for, but they also had tour tourists came out there And as we were touring the island, there were the prison gangs there working on the roads and things. And so Prisons have always been on islands, and here we have the Isle of Patmos. You can go visit the Isle of Patmos today, over there near Greece. Part of Greece. Well, maybe it's part of Turkey, I guess. But anyway, it's the isle that's called Patmos. And he was there, and why was he there in prison? Why was he there in exile? For the word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. He was suffering because he had maintained the Word of God. He had maintained the testimony of Jesus Christ. And people have suffered all through history for that, for the Word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. You just go all down through history. All the people in the Roman Empire that suffered and the Reformation that suffered, they suffered for the Word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ. And they weren't afraid To boldly declare that they were Christians and that they were serving the Lord, and that they would not do this or they would not do that. And of course, John, back here in the Roman Empire, the big thing back then was that they had all kinds of gods, all their different pantheon of gods. And uh a patriotic Roman was supposed to worship all the gods as a patriot. And the Christians They wouldn't do that. They would only worship the one true God of the Bible. And so the Christians were called atheists, actually. And because they wouldn't worship all those different gods. And so John, he wouldn't do that. And he maintained the word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ. Well, why are Christians suffering in China today? You know, I have my newspaper that I put out, the fundamentalist down in Brazil. U fundamentalista, it's all in Portuguese. But I had an article in the latest issue about persecution in China And you know, the Ch Chinese communists have ramped up the persecution against the Christians over there in recent t times, recent months and years. And in particular, there's one pastor over there by the name of Wang Yi. Wang Yi. And he spoke out. And he had the gumption to say that that that the leader of China and the leaders needed to get saved. And he said that, and he was put in prison. He's still in prison as far as I know. And He was put in prison. His church was shut down. They took all the stuff out of the church and carried it off and closed it down. And this is more or less Presbyterian church, Sarah. And he's suffering. And why is he suffering? For the Word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. Back in the Reformation and before there were the Waldensians. And I don't know if you've heard much about them, but they were the fundamentalists all through the Middle Ages. that maintained the Bible, maintained the things of the Lord, when all the Roman Catholic Church went away from the Lord. And they were in northern Italy, the Waldensians And they were near Milan. Milan is a focal point of the coronavirus today. But anyway, they were near Milan there over in the Alps and the mountains. uh tucked away in the mountains, and they were maintaining the true religion of Jesus Christ. And they suffered many persecutions, were really had a hard time of it down through the centuries The Roman Catholics wanted to snuff them out, but never succeeded completely. But anyway, toward the time of the Reformation, the Wildensians decided that they would try to go along to get along some And that they would submit some to the Roman Catholic Church so that there wouldn't be so much persecution And and they had been by themselves. But then the Reformation came up and Calvin and Luther and they heard about it and they came together to meet with Uh the reformers with Zwingli and others, and they came to meet with them, and they were just thrilled that God's word was springing up. But The reformers had a message for the Waldensians. And the Reformers told them that they needed to stand more for the Word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. uh than what they had been doing in recent years. And they went back and they did and they suffered more persecution. By the Roman Catholic Church. But they did it for the word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. And you know In our world today, we have a postmodern philosophy. And we want to read a little something, a short thing, about our world today and what we're talking about for the Word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. Radical relativity has invaded our cultural consciousness. Absolutes are disdained as idolatrous, illusory, and bigoted. Choice itself is good. And the only choice that cannot be tolerated is that some beliefs are true and some beliefs are evil. Pluralists teach the absurdity that all world religions are equally valid, and that salvation is equally accessible in all of them. But Christians are exclusivists, claiming that when two religions make incompatible truth claims, both cannot logically be true. But our cultural climate is becoming such that to criticize someone's religious beliefs is to be an intolerant bigot. Proselytizing thus becomes the worst social sin or crime And of course, today there is no true, there is no false, there is no good, there is no bad, it's whatever your preference is. And and all choice is good, except when you say that all choice is not good And when you say that there is only one true choice. And that's where we're getting to here in our country today, and where we've been getting to for a long time. And it's getting worse all the time. And we just see today how the government can flex its muscles very easily. Without, you know, they've done all this and there's heart there's not even a whimper of of uh you know opposition to all of this uh amassing of government control. And all they'd have to do is declare an emergency against the Christians of some sort. And where would we be? But anyway, we need to maintain the Word of God. and the testimony of Jesus Christ. And we don't have to live in that climate of fear. The Lord is with us. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we pray that Thou would bless these thoughts to our hearts, and O Lord, we pray that we might be the Christians, that Thou would have us to be keep us from sin, forgive us of our sin, and O Lord, we pray that Thou would preserve us once again from the virus and from the government. In Jesus' name. Amen.