And that's just as a lead up to the One World Church. We have all the Christian leaders getting together and praising the Pope. And Of course there are pictures circulated of Franklin Graham with the with Pope Francis and of Billy Graham with other popes in the past and just leading up to that. I might mention that the election I'm running for in Smyrna is this coming Tuesday. And then one other thing I wanted to bring up this morning, I saw an article recently about AD and CE. Is that the uh the thing is the the thing is is that they're trying to replace A D today. You know uh 2025 AD they're trying to make that 2025 of the Christian era CE And there was an article on the news that I want to read some of. And this is from Fox News. Anyway, it says AD is not only a description, but an explanation. Telling Christ lived 2025 years ago. Now progressive historians insist that all they are doing by using common era instead is separating religion from the scientific study of history. But this is an easily disproven lie. And A D is viewed as part of a dominant culture. That has to have its power over society weakened by the enlightened. Put another way, leftist historians are convinced that using A D imposes Christianity on non-Christians. This is nonsense There was never any significant group of people living outside of ivy-covered walls and ivory towers who were even remotely bothered by the term AD. before the historians started in with all this silliness. Moreover, this change from AD to CE is part of a much broader attempt to erase Christianity not just from public life, but from the history of the West as a whole, of which it is unquestionably the most important force. Christianity didn't grow up alongside Western civilization. It is Western civilization. Or at least was until about ten minutes ago. Not only do progressives want Christian heritage and tradition removed from our society's present and future They want to erase it from our past. As to the restoration of AD in our history books, there is a huge step that President Trump could take by executive order. With the swipe of a sharpie, he could require that all books, documents produced by the federal government or with federal funding use the more accurate and descriptive term AD. It really is not too late to make CE a quirky footnote used during a brief tenure of academic madness in the early 21st century. And so anyway, they want to change our Christian heritage and get rid of it. And they want to get rid of AD, which points very clearly to Christ after death. And uh, you know, they want to get rid of all that, and it's not just a little thing that they're doing trying to put in C E now. And of course, it used to be BC was before Christ. Now they got BCE, which is before the Christian era. It's a sad situation. Well, anyway, let's turn our Bibles to Matthew chapter 28. And we're going to have a second look at the resurrection here, a week late. Since I wasn't with you last week, we'll look at it from my perspective here today. And we got Matthew chapter 28 and the resurrection. And we read verses 1 through 10 earlier, and we won't go through and read all those again. But it says, in the end of the Sabbath, verse 1, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week Came the two Marys to the sepulchre. So when was that that they came? They came early on the first day of the week on Sunday morning. When was Christ crucified? Remember, Christ prophesied that he would be in the grave three days and three nights. And in order to have three days and three nights, he needs to be crucified on Wednesday. And I believe that to be the case, that he was crucified on Wednesday, and then you count three days and three nights from sundown on Wednesday to sundown on Saturday, which is the beginning of the first day of the week. And the first day of the week starts at sundown on Saturday. The Hebrew days, they always started with sundown. And so we want to have three days and three nights. And of course some people the reason they like to say that it's Friday, Good Friday, is because of the fact that they wanted to get Jesus down off the cross before the Sabbath day. And they assume that's the weekly Sabbath. But it was not the weekly Sabbath. It was a Sabbath for Passover there So anyway, here we we have these ladies come. And today we're looking, you know, when we come to Easter, especially what we are looking at is the bodily resurrection of Jesus. Jesus was raised from the dead bodily. His body was raised. In our call to worship this morning, we had the scripture of Thomas. And remember, Thomas was a doubter. And Jesus says, put your finger into the nail hole in my hand. and your hand into the spear hole in my side. It was the very same body that Jesus had when he was on this earth Before he was glorified, that body was glorified, but it still had the nail holes. It still had the spear hole. And that's what we have, the bodily resurrection. And our bodies are going to be resurrected the same way. So these two Marys came to the grave, and what were they going to do there? Were they going to cremate the body of Jesus? No. They weren't going to do that. They were going to take great care of the body of Jesus. They brought a bunch of expensive spices, expensive for them, and they were going to anoint the body of Jesus and prepare it for permanent burial. And so here we have, as has often been pointed out, that the women are appeared to first, and that's good. And so they're appeared to first, and why were they there? They were doing a servant's job of anointing the body of Jesus. And so it was the very same body that they were going to anoint that got raised from the dead and it wasn't there anymore. So here we have they came to the grave, and what did they see? They saw that it was open. The stone was rolled back, and back in those days they would put a huge stone on the grave, something that took a couple guys to move, and it wasn't anything the women could move. And I don't know what they expected to do with the stone when they came. They thought maybe uh somebody would move it for 'em or I don't know what. But anyway They came there, but they found that the stone was already moved. And there's been a very famous book written, Who Moved the Stone? Who moved it? Did the Jews move it? No, they wouldn't want to move it because they didn't like Jesus and they didn't want him to be seen as somebody that was raised from the dead The Romans didn't do it. Remember, the Romans put four quaternions of soldiers there guarding the grave. That's four groups of four. Sixteen soldiers were there guarding the grave. And the Romans wouldn't have s uh stolen the body. And the disciples, the apostles would not have stolen the body, they would not have moved the stone. Because later on they were all martyred. Just about all of them were martyred, and they suffered greatly for Christianity. And why would they suffer greatly for Christianity if they knew it all to be a lie? That they had stolen the body. So who moved the stone? Well, an angel had moved the stone And so they came there and they saw this angel, and his countenance was like lightning and white as snow. He looked white as snow. You know, snow is something that they have very rarely in Israel. They don't have very much of it, but they do have it once in a while. Kind of like almost like Florida. But anyway, you know, like I was a missionary in Cameroon. And in Cameroon and Africa, they never have snow Never ever. It's tropical. It's right near the equator. And so if I was translating the Bible for the people in Africa and Cameroon, should I translate that snow There in this scripture, I believe you should. You should take the words exactly as they are, even though they've never seen snow. But you translate it as it is and then you explain what snow is. And the modern translations, they like to decide, well, nobody knows what snow is, so we'll put a different word in there. like uh white as uh as a l uh lamb's uh wool or something. But no here it's white as snow and that's what it should be Then verse 4, for fear of the angel, the keepers did quake. The keepers are the 16 soldiers there. And these Roman soldiers were, you know, big soldiers generally. They were ones that uh were in battle, and that they they were ones that had been around And they were given the charge of keeping that grave, and when soldiers were given a charge, it was the death penalty if they fell asleep or didn't keep it It was very severe back in those days. Well, here God put them in suspended animation. Here they quaked and became as dead men. And then verse 5. The angel answered and said unto the women, Ye seek Jesus who was crucified. He had just suffered that terrible death on the cross, that terrible death that was devised. that uh to make the person suffer in being put to death as much as possible. Have a very slow death up in front of everybody And that was what Jesus had just suffered for our sins. Well, what did they say? What did the angel say to the women here? Verse 6: He is not here, for he is risen. His body is not here. He's risen. You know when we come to funerals and we have the casket there and we have the body there? And of course I always and I'm continuing to say that that's a good thing to have the body there, that people are reminded of their mortality. They're reminded that they're going to die one of these days, just like their friend died or family member died. But anyway, when we see that person in the casket, it's often been said that the person is not there The most essential part of the person has already gone to heaven. But the body is still left behind, and it needs respect as well. He is not here, for he is risen. And verse 7, go quickly and tell his disciples. So as Jesus is risen, we need to go tell, go tell his disciples. that he is risen from the dead. And so they had great joy in that. We have that in the next verse, verse 8. They departed quickly from the sepulchre with fear and great joy, and did run to bring his disciples word. You know, we are commanded to go out and give the good news, the good news of the gospel. Christianity is a proselytizing religion. It's one where we're supposed to go out and tell about it. Tell about the good news of how to get to heaven and not have to go to hell, how how Christ can give us abundant life You know, not every religion is a proselytizing religion. We have the Buddhists or not. They don't believe in going out and telling everybody about it, but the Muslims are proselytizing And of course their proselytizing though has to do mainly with the sword and with force. They force people to become Muslims and have done that all through history. Well, anyway, here we have, they had great joy, the two ladies here. And then verse 9, and as they went to tell his disciples, Jesus met them. And they held him by the feet and worshiped him. Well, how does that tell us where they were? They were down on the ground before Jesus and they worshiped him. That is worship all through the Bible, as I said before, and I'll say again, when you see worship in the Bible, people fall down before Jesus Fall down and worship. They don't jump around and celebrate when they're worshiping. Celebration and worship are two different things. Well, anyway, they grabbed him by the feet and worshiped him. And once again, this also is a proof that Jesus really claimed to be God. Some people like to say, oh, Jesus never claimed to be God. But he did. And he accepted worship from people. The angels didn't accept worship. Paul didn't accept worship, but the Jesus did. And that proves that he really claimed to be God in the flesh. And then verse 10, Jesus says unto them, Go tell, go tell, my brethren, go tell. We need to go tell as well. Well, let's go on here, verse 11. Verse 11. Now when they were going, behold, some of the watch came into the city and showed unto the chief priests all the things that were done. And when they were c assembled with the elders and had taken counsel, they gave large money unto the soldiers saying, say ye, his disciples came by night and stole him away while we slept. And if this come to the governor's ears, we will persuade him and secure you So they took the money and did as they were taught, and this saying is commonly reported among the Jews until this day. Well, so they got word, the Jewish leaders got word that Jesus wasn't there, his body wasn't there. And so they had a solution for that. They got a bunch of money together and they paid off the soldiers with large money, a large amount of money. And they gave it to the soldiers, and the soldiers were supposed to say that his disciples came by night and stole them away. Well, you know, that's a pretty sensitive thing for the soldiers to be saying. They're not supposed to go to sleep on the job. They're not to fix supposed to sick fail in their job. It's death penalty to do it And of course they were already in big trouble with Jesus' body being gone. And so they were very receptive to this idea of saying we slept to try to get out of their responsibility for losing the body of Jesus. So they were receptive to that. And the Jews said, well, if the authorities hear about this, we will deliver you and not have you be put to death. So, this is one of the stories that have been given for Jesus' resurrection. And of course, it's not a very good story because once again the disciples, the apostles, they suffered greatly. Tradition has it that eleven out of the twelve disciples, apostles, were martyred. And one of them, John, he suffered on the Isle of Patmos in exile. They suffered a lot, and they wouldn't have suffered for something they knew to be a lie. Well, there have been other ideas for natural explanations for the resurrection Some have said, well, you know, Jesus just, it was this it's the swoon theory, that Jesus just fainted when he was on the cross. And when he got in a nice cold tomb, he revived and went out. Well, you know, that's a big problem with the big stone, for one thing. And it's a big problem. They're not gonna, you know, make a mistake about whether he was dead or not when they took him back. And the soldier put the spear into Jesus' side, what for? To prove that he was dead with the water and blood coming out. And then other theories have been that he was drugged and they gave him some sort of an o uh drug or potion that made him simulate death, but then he revived from it later. But that's not true at all. Then we go on to verse 16. Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee, into a mountain where Jesus had appointed them. And when they saw him, they worshiped him. But some doubted. And once again, Jesus was raised in the same body with the nail holes. But Thomas doubted. And we're told in Scripture that we are blessed if we believe without having seen. Thomas had to be had to see it. And then verse 18, and Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world You know, last night I went to Collingswood for their missionary uh banquet there, and it's sort of interesting that the speaker there, he, Gary Johnson, missionary to Africa. Anyway, the speaker there, he used this very scripture last night. And it's the same one I'm using today. But anyway, here we have the Great Commission. The Great Commission is given at the end of every gospel and at the beginning of the book of Acts. And right before Jesus ascends up into heaven, he gives the Great Commission And why is that? To show us that it's very important. Very important. Notice here, verse chapter 28, we got the resurrection. And the very end of the book of Matthew, and it ends up with the great commission, go ye therefore. It's often been said that when you find the word therefore, you need to see what it's there for. And it's therefore the resurrection. We have the resurrection. And because of the resurrection, go ye therefore and give out the gospel to people. Tell them the good news of the gospel. All of us need to be involved in that. Go ye therefore. And anyway, it's interesting in this Giving of the Great Commission. It emphasizes teaching in this one here Not just evangelism telling people how to get to heaven, but it says we're supposed to go out and do what? Teach all nations all things that the Lord has commanded. All things. Everything in the Bible, teaching them all to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. And, you know, sometimes people think that the only thing we need to be concerned with is just uh simple gospel of how to get to heaven. And we don't deal with anything else. A lot of Baptist churches, uh as I said before, I was raised I was in the Baptist church. before before I became a Presbyterian. And the Baptists are the good fundamentalists today. But a lot of Baptist churches, they never get past salvation And every service is a salvation message. How to get to heaven, how to say, God be merciful to me, a sinner. And they have a big invitation in ten verses of Just As I Am. and week after week after week. But that's not all that's involved with the Great Commission. The Great Commission is teaching them to observe all things, whatsoever I have commanded you. And when we went over to Africa and to Brazil, that was more of our ministry over there, was teaching them to observe all things. We did evangelism. I went out to the villages and showed movies, evangelistic films and things. But more of the ministry was teaching in the seminary, teaching, teaching in my journal I put out in Brazil. Teaching in the councils of churches. And so that's what it says as part of the Great Commission, teaching them to observe all things. You know, in the book of Hebrews, it says, let us go on. Let us go on to perfection. Leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ. The principles of the doctrine of Christ are very important. They are beginning principles. But there comes a point where we have to leave the principles of Christ and let us go on. Go on unto perfection. And so here we have that misgiving of the Great Commission You know, when we were down in Brazil, I kind of felt like what we were doing there, of course we were teaching them to observe all things, but we were also doing like what the Germans did with the Italians in World War II. I don't know if you remember that, but the Italians and the Germans were allies in World War II, for the first part of the war at least. And the Italians never were really great disciplined fighters. They were not that much of soldiers generally But the Germans were very disciplined and good soldiers. And so the Germans would put uh German officers and a few German experienced troops in with the Italians to stiffen them up and to get 'em to go forward and to stiffen them up and do the job. Help with them going on with the fight. And I felt that was a little bit like what I was doing in Brazil was stiffening up the church down there as well. But anyway, teaching them to observe all things Let's go over to 1 Corinthians chapter 15 now with the resurrection. 1 Corinthians chapter 15 And 1 Corinthians 15 is the great resurrection chapter. The great resurrection chapter of the Bible And we have chapter 15 of 1 Corinthians and verse 3. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the Scripture. And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures, and that he was seen of Cephas and then of the twelve. And after that he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remaineth unto this present, but some are fallen asleep. After that he was seen of James, and then of all the apostles. So here we have proofs for the resurrection. Everybody saw Jesus after he was raised from the dead. And we had the apostles saw him, Peter saw him, James saw him, and 500 people saw him at once. And one of the great explanations for the resurrection is the liberals say, oh well, people wanted it so bad that Jesus would be raised that they imagined it. And they thought they saw it. Well, can 500 people get that same imagination together? I don't think so. And if Paul says you can check with those 500 people, the greater part are still alive today. And then let's skip down to verse 19. Verse 19. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. And that's one problem with the contemporary church today. The contemporary church concentrates all upon the here and now, and very little upon the hereafter with heaven. And if you look at their choruses, they don't sing about hereafter. They sing about the here and now. Now God's going to be with you right now. He's going to help you with all your problems right now. And no, but here it says, if if in this life only, uh 1 Corinthians 15, 19, if in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. We have hope in heaven. That's the important thing, the most important thing, even though we have a lot of blessings here. Then verse 20. But now is Christ risen from the dead and become the first fruits Of them that slept. For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. So what it's saying here is that what happened to Christ is going to happen to us. Christ's body was raised, and our bodies are going to be raised. And so going back to with Christ there. With Christ, they took great care of his body. They were going to anoint it with the spices, and they laid it carefully in the grave. They didn't cremate Christ Why didn't they cremate it? Well, you know, don't you know is after you die, you know, all the stuff uh falls away and you become dust? They didn't cremate him. Well, especially we know now, and we know from what he said and everything, that he was going to be raised from the dead after three days. And so you wouldn't want to cremate him right before he was raised from the dead in three days. And that just wouldn't make sense. And that's what they didn't do. What about us? Do we believe in the imminent return of Christ? We should. We should believe that Christ can come back at any moment. And so it took three days for Christ to be raised. How long will it take for us to be raised? Well, it could take hundreds of years, although I don't think it's going to be hundreds at this point, but it could take a long time, but you know it could be tomorrow We could be raised from the dead. And why would we be burning up the bio body if it's going to be raised from the dead and it could be raised tomorrow? It's the imminent return of Christ and that we are going to be raised. We need to keep that in mind and take care of the body and have respect for it. And we have the bodily res resurrection of Christ Then you go on and skip down to verse 42. Verse 42 of 1 Corinthians 15. So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruption. And you know, our body does rot and it does fall away and it does get corrupted today in the grave if it sits there that long. That does happen, but are we supposed to help it along by burning it up? I don't believe so. And it's I I think it's uh very similar to, you know, today people are trying to put in assisted suicide. And they're gonna have people when they're suffering for a while, they're gonna choose to uh commit suicide. Well, you know, all they're doing is helping things along, don't you know? And they're going to die anyway, so why don't we help it along? And if the body's gonna rot, why don't we help it along by cremation? I don't think so. It's not in keeping with the resurrection. Let's get down to verse 44. It is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. There is a natural body, and there is a spiritual body. Then skip down to verse 54. Verse 54. So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, death is swallowed up in victory. And this whole chapter is talking about the bodily resurrection of our bodies. Of course, when we die, our spirit, our soul goes straight to heaven. But it's talking here about the corruptible body, the corruptible body. When this corruptible body shall have put on incorruption. And you know the uh this is a scripture that's read many times at funerals. This corruptible shall have put on incorruption And then finally, verse 58. Verse 58, we got another therefore. Another therefore because of the resurrection. Because we are going to be raised from the dead. Therefore Just like go ye therefore and teach all nations, therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as ye know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. This was the favorite scripture of our famous B. P. Carl McIntyre, that the Collingswood Church comes from. But anyway. You know, that's a great scripture there. Therefore, because of the resurrection, therefore, because we're going to be raised from the dead, what are we supposed to do? We're supposed to be steadfast, firm, firm in the old religion, firm in that old-time religion. Be steadfast, unmovable. And then doing what? Always abounding in the work of the Lord. You know, one of the last words that my mother said to me before she died was, Be not weary in well-doing. And that's a tendency, you know, you get weary after a while, just plain weary with doing things and preaching or whatever it might be. But you know It says here, be always abounding, be not weary in well-doing. Always abounding in the work of the Lord. That's the work of the Lord, not our own work, but the work of the Lord, doing things for the Lord. Always abounding in the work of the Lord, and not just to get credit for it, not just to get praise from men or whatever, but doing it for the Lord. Always abounding in the work of the Lord. Because we know that our labor is not in vain in the Lord. And what is going to be important to us after we die? Well, what we did with the Lord. If we said, God be merciful to me a sinner, gave our life to him first of all, and then were we doing things for the Lord here on this earth? Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we just thank thee for thy goodness unto us. And O Lord, help us to be always abounding in the work of the Lord. In Jesus' name. Amen.