So praise the Lord, we got good weather today. And then another thing is, praise the Lord for the good turnout at Presbytery. You had the number of completion there at Presbytery. You had seven people there. And so that was a very good turnout over in Collingswood, and we hope you keep that up. And I wanted to share something with you. It's kind of led in from the Sunday school lesson this morning. In the Sunday school lesson this morning, Tim mentioned about Nigeria. and Christians being killed in Nigeria. I think I mentioned that before too. And I mentioned that uh Trump has had sent uh strikes against the persecutors there. And I have a little more on that. Uh it came from a news story. In Nigeria, Fox News Digital told that terrorists are on the run following U. S. strikes aimed at stopping the killing of Christians in Africa's most populous country, and that's Nigeria. Actually Nigeria is right next door to Cameroon, where we were missionaries According to the Open Doors World Watch List, three out of every four Christians killed for their religion worldwide are murdered in Nigeria. Three out of four. And that is one Christian every two and a half hours in Nigeria. And then pe Christians are still being uh martyred today and they're crying under the altar up in heaven, how long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on the earth? uh mentioned that scripture this morning. Well in the big contact they had a Davos. Trump said In Nigeria, we're annihilating, we are annihilating terrorists who are killing Christians. We've hit them very hard. They've killed thousands and thousands of Christians. A persecution analyst that opened doors said, all these years they have been acting and attacking with relative impunity. But this has changed now. They are scared now that they are hit and realize they can be hit again. Trump told the New York Times that more strikes could be made against Nigeria. If they continue to kill Christians, it will be a many-time strike. And of course, Trump went against the Muslims. Those are Muslims that are killing the Christians in Nigeria. The problem in Nigeria is it's like 50% Christian and 50% Muslim. And so the Muslims wanna take that country over completely, and so they're trying to get rid of the Christians, literally wiping them out And so praise the Lord that that some defense of the Christians is being done by Trump and that uh You know, very few times in history have persecuted Christians have had somebody come to their defense and attack the ones that are attacking them. And so, but that's something good. And it has happened at times, but not very often. And so praise the Lord for that. Well let's turn our Bibles to Hebrews to begin with. Hebrews chapter 5. And I'm going to pick up where I left off at the message in Collingswood at Presbytery meeting. At Presbytery meeting, I was talking about we need as leaders in the church to feed the sheep And here it talks about some fat sheep here in Hebrews chapter 5. And we'll just read a couple verses here to pick up on what we're studying in 1 Corinthians today. Hebrews 5, 11, of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing. For what for when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again which be the first princip which be the first principles of the oracles of God And are become such as need of milk, as have need of milk, and not of strong meat. For every one that useth milk is unskilful in the word of righteousness for he is a babe. But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. And in Presbytery I went on to chapter 6, but we're not going on there today, but we're just mentioning this. And it talks about growing in the Lord. We need to grow in the Lord. And here Paul was complaining when he was talking, or I think it was Paul that wrote the book of Hebrews, was complaining. That these Christians were dull of hearing. They were not growing in the Lord. They should have been teachers. But they had need that one teach them again, which be the first principles of the oracles of God. And so we need to grow in grace and in the knowledge of the Lord. We need to grow in Him And of course, the first principles of the oracles of God are the first two commandments: love the Lord our God with all our heart and with all our souls, and love our neighbor as ourselves And how to get to heaven? Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. Those are the first principles. But then we're supposed to go on from there, as it says there in chapter 6. Let us go on. But the only way we can go on is if we mature. We mature. And how are we going to mature in the Lord? How are we going to get grown up. You know the problem is in so many churches, the churches are filled with big babies. There's a lot of big babies in the church And uh I talked about that at Presbytery, that uh especially in Baptist churches, they uh discuss salvation every Sunday, every Sunday And they never give the the sheep any food really to speak of, just the same old thing over and over and over again. And of course salvation is great and it's good. It's good to talk about that quite a bit, but we've got to talk about other things. And anyway, but especially it tells us how to get from being a baby Christian to being a grown-up Christian. And we have that in verse 14. But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use Have their senses exercised. We have to use what we learn in order to grow And we have to learn some things. We ought to be the sheep need to be fed some things. They need to learn some things, and then they need to use it. We need to use it. And uh it's just like we're going to talk a little bit about soul winning. And of course, Jesus said he would make us fishers of men. And you know you have fishing. And you know you can read a bunch of books on fishing, and you can learn all about how to do it. But if you never go out and do it, how good are you going to get? Not very good. You're not going to grow. You're not going to grow up in your do uh doing of things. And you know, we can talk a lot about soul winning and about witnessing and to giving the gospel to people, but if we don't really do it We need to do it to grow in grace and in the knowledge of the Lord. By reason of use, the babies grow up. Well, let's go back to 1 Corinthians chapter 3. 1 Corinthians chapter 3. Of course, we're going through the book of 1 Corinthians. And we're up to chapter 3 now. We went through Revelation, we went through 2 Kings, and now we're going through 1 Corinthians, back to the New Testament, after the Old Testament, 2 Kings. But anyway, we go to chapter 3 and verse 1, which is where we're up to. And I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal. Even as unto babes in Christ, I have fed ye with milk and not with meat, for hitherto ye were not able to bear it, neither yet now are ye able. And so here we have that same idea that we have back in Hebrews. They're babes in Christ. And this is the church at Corinth. The church at Corinth. And you know, the church at Corinth was a carnal church. It was a church with all kinds of problems. All kinds of problems. And they were like the city that they lived in You know, I was listening to a history of the Greeks, I think it was this past week, and yeah it was, and the uh the guy that was giving the lecture on the Greeks was talking about Corinth. And he said that a synonym for being depraved was to act like a Corinthian. That was a synonym for it. And so that was the environment that this church was in. That was a very sinful environment. The ships would come in and they would come in and go across land to the other body of water. It was on a thin body of land. And the sailors would be in town for days waiting for their ships to be taken across. And they were carousing and having a good time. And it was a sinful city, the city of Corinth. And so that affected the church. You know, it affects us, whatever situation, whatever civilization we're in. And you know, we can think that our church here is not affected by the world around us, but it is. And we're always affected by the world around us. And especially today with our cell phones. And everybody's connected up with their cell phones, and they're connected up, and that connects us up into the World Wide Web, and we're connected into whatever's going on around the world around us Well, anyway, here in Corinth they were carnal. They were not growing in the Lord. Then we go on. Paul goes on to tell them how it is that they hadn't grown. Why was it? Well, verse 3, for ye are yet carnal, for whereas there is among you envying And strife, and divisions, are ye not carnal and walk as men? So he said, one reason they were still babes is they had divisions in the church and envying and strife. We were talking about this morning in Sunday school about envying the wicked You know, wanting to have all the things the wicked have. You know, the news media just bombards us all the time about the rich and famous. They just talk, talk, talk, talk about the rich and famous and all the Hollywood people and all that and all them. And they hold that up as an example. And we don't want to envy them, but we don't even want to envy people in the church. And people envy other people. Why do people envy other people? Because they want to have what the other people have. They're afraid that the other people are ahead of them or something. And you know the thing is we don't want to be envying. And that was in the church in Corinth. And of course, all these sins in verse 3 have to do with being selfish. Is we want our own way, we want to have the best for ourselves, and we're thinking about ourselves And so we envy other people because we're thinking about ourselves. And there's strife, there's fighting. And that's what was in the church of Corinth: fighting and divisions Are ye not carnal? And people want their own way, so they fight with each other. They want to have their own way. And they're divided into parties. And then it goes on here to talk about that. Well, let's go on to that. Verse 4. For while one saith, I am of Paul, and another, I am of Apollos. Are ye not carnal? Who then is Paul? And who is Apollos? But ministers, by whom ye believed, even as the Lord gave to every man. And so they had this party spirit there in Corinth. And you know a party spirit is just natural to people. It's just natural to people. And you know, people tend to divide into groups, it's just natural for them to do that You know, uh uh people like to be with other people that they click with, that they have things in common with. And uh but anyway it says here we're not supposed to have so much groups in the church, separate groups, cliques, uh parties, and we're supposed to try to get along in the church There's envying strife and divisions in the Church of Corinth. And it's in all of our churches too, more or less. I don't know if I ever told you this example of a party spirit that uh I may have already told you this, but we'll tell you to you again. Such a good example of it is when I was in seminary, I was uh riding in the car with some elder uh Christians in the Lord, uh leaders in the church And we were coming into the seminary parking lot, and then uh it was said that this guy was in the laundry room doing his laundry. And of course, he was basically on the other side from us in the car. And so then the one older lady there, she says, let's go in and put some dirt in his laundry. You know, just joking. But you know, the thing is, is that's the kind of spirit. You know, is it is you get so wrapped up in parties Parties, sections, and I am of Paul. I am of Apollos. And you know, preachers many times encourage this They encouraged people to lift them up and to follow them personally. But Paul didn't look for that. He didn't look for that. He didn't want people to be of him. He didn't want that. He didn't want people to say, I am of Paul. No. And then the other one said, I am of Apollos. And aren't they just ministers? Ministers. You know, in many of these countries they call the cabinet members ministers And in the United States we don't use that term so much. But anyway, you know the minister is supposed to be ministering to the other people, not to himself. And so often in these other countries the ministers are lifting themselves up. But in the church especially, we have ministers, that's a term that's used in scripture. And here we have Paul using it And ministers, the preachers are supposed to be lifting up the people in the congregation, not drawing away disciples after themselves. So Paul says, Who is Apollos? Who is Paul? But ministers, by whom ye believed, even as the Lord gave to every man. Well there's a nice Calvinistic scripture there, isn't it? Right there. As the Lord gave. They believed because the Lord gave it. It wasn't up to them to come to the Lord. The Lord gave them to salvation. As the Lord gave to every man. And of course, I like to preach quite a bit on soul winning and witnessing and tracks and things like that. And I talked in Presbytery. about preachers that like to uh ride their hobby horses and uh you know I don't I try not to ride my hobby horse too much But anyway, the thing is, as you go through a book in the Bible, you come to the different passages having to do with different subjects. And here it just so happens, as we're going through 1 Corinthians, we're coming to a very strong scripture, a couple of verses here on soul-winning, on giving out the gospel. And that's starting with verse six. I have planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the increase. So then, neither is he that planteth anything, neither is he that watereth, but God that giveth the increase. Now he that plants and he that waters are one, and every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labor. Of course, we have the Great Commission, very important, to go out and preach the gospel. Right as Jesus was ascending up into heaven, he said, Ye shall be witnesses unto me in Jerusalem, Judea. Samaria and under the uttermost part of the earth. And he wants us to be witnesses. And so that's the last thing, word he gave to the church, to all the people in the church. To be witnesses and give out the gospel. We need to be involved in that. Not every minute of every day, but regularly we need to be giving out the gospel to people And so he likes to hear the planting seed. Planting seed. I have planted Anapollis watered. And that's what we do. And you know, I always talk about tracks. I love my tracks. And the thing is, it's so much like seed. You know, you're giving out the seed. You're planting the seed here, planting the seed there. You're leaving them around different places you go, you're giving them to people. Those are seeds. Seeds of the gospel or watering the gospel. Of course, here the planting is the original giving out of the gospel to somebody, and the person normally doesn't accept the gospel the very first time they get it But although some do. But anyway, but the planting is the first time or first couple times, and then after that is watering the seed, and watering the seed, trying to bring it up, so it brings forth fruit But anyway, here it says, I have planted and Apollos watered. But God gave the increase. And you know the funny thing is here, it doesn't tell us who did the reaping. It doesn't say Peter did the reaping, does it? It doesn't say somebody else did the reaping. But you know, today people so often in good churches that like to preach the gospel, all they're interested in is the reaping. They want to have so many converts, and they want to go out and give out tracts and give out the gospel, and then they want to come back to the church and say, Oh, don't you know we had ten people saved this afternoon? And look at what great results we're having. But it doesn't say anything in this passage about results. Doesn't about so far as we're concerned. Doesn't say anything about who does the reaping. God is the one that does the reaping. God. And that's who the glory needs to go to. Not to us, that we're such great soul winners, that so many people have come to the Lord through our ministry, no. I have planted Apollos waters, but God gave the increase. And you know these tracts are powerful. Of course, we have one example of that leezy right here. Is a that was a big thing in her coming to the Lord. And we had a lady there in uh Collinswood In Collingswood, she picked up a tract in the local diner. May very well have been one that I left or I don't say that for getting glory or anything, but anyway, she picked up a tract Found it and found the name of our church and she came out to our church. And she came for quite a while, and it seems like to me she did get saved. But she doesn't come to the church anymore, unfortunately. She got sidetracked through people online that teach against Calvinism, and she just decided she couldn't take a church that There was Calvinistic and uh of course I use the word Calvinistic, that's a term of convenience. It's not that we're just following Calvin. But it's a clear word for reform doctrine. And anyway, she couldn't take reform doctrine, even though I gave her a whole book on it and everything, but she left the church But anyway, she came because of tribes. She may very well have gotten saved. Because she showed some fruit. And you know the thing is, I have planted Apollos water, but God gave the increase And so everybody wants to be a closer today, a closer, to close the deal. And so they want to grab a hold of the people's uh cuffs and of their collar and say, get saved right now. We want to close the deal. But that's not what we see in Scripture. We're supposed to give out the gospel and to give it out earnestly, but we're not supposed to be so interested about closing the deal. God gives the increase. Neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth, but God gives the increase. And then it goes on to say, verse 8, now he that plants and he that waters are one. And every man shall receive his own reward according to how many souls got saved. Nope, that's not what it says. It says, every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labor. Labor. How much many seeds did we give out? How much planting did we do? How much watering did we do? That's how we're going to get our rewards from the Lord. That's what it says right here. It says, every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labor. So we need to be busy for the Lord. Busy. Of course it's not only giving out the gospel, but doing other things for the Lord as well. But especially here talking about giving out the gospel, we we get a reward according to our labor, not how much results we get. And in the Bible, it's very clear that the people many times that do the best job have the least results. And the other side of that, people that had great results are not doing things right. And that's what we see in our world around us. And so it's according to our labor. Well, let's go back to Luke chapter 14. Luke chapter 14. Luke chapter 14, where we read earlier. Luke chapter 14. Continuing on this subject of Uh sowing the gospel, sowing, watering, reaping. God does the reaping Well, we read this in our responsive reading earlier. We're not going to read every word of it. But we have the setting here in verse 15. Verse 15. And when one of them that sat at meet with him heard these things, he said unto him, Blessed is he that shall eat bread in the kingdom of God. And then Jesus goes on to give this parable. And uh so it's all about eating bread in the kingdom of God. It has a spiritual meaning to this story here of the marriage supper here. And it's uh having to do with spiritual things, having to do with people getting to heaven. Blessed is he that shall eat bread in the kingdom of God And then verse 16, a certain man made a great supper, and bade many. He sent his servant, verse 17 at supper time, to say to them that were bidden, Come, for all things are now ready. To say to them that are now that are bidding, that certain people they were inviting to come to the marriage supper. And you know that's how it is with most gospel full presentations, most uh churches with their soul winning, they like to try to concentrate on leads that they have. On people that visited the church, people leads that they have, family members, things like that. And they say they want to concentrate on those that are busy, concentrate on the leads Because those are the ones that are more receptive and they have more results than just going out and giving out the gospel to everybody. Well, that's true. You get more results from that But that's not all we're supposed to do. And that's very clear in this passage here. But they said to those that were bidden, Uh come for all things are now ribbon, now ready, and they all began to make excuse, make excuses And did you know that you can find an excuse for anything you don't want to do? You can find an excuse for it. Now the excuse might not make much sense, might not have any validity, but we can find an excuse for everything we do or we don't do And uh if if if we want to find an excuse. But you know, if there's something that we really want to do You know, it's funny we don't find any excuses for not doing it. Because we really want to do it. And I've said before, and I'll say it again, a good good uh example of this is Fortz here And you know the World Cup is coming up here in the United States of soccer, and Uh we were saying, well, hey, might want to go to one of the games, and so I finally decided to look up trying to get tickets And the tickets were way long in the past, all gone. They had five million requests for seven million tickets. And uh I'm I'm not saying five they had five hundred million requests for seven million tickets. And but anyway, people love their sports things. And you know, those people that got those big tickets, and actually, even those ones that got the tickets, they paid big prices for them. And they started out at $800 And so the thing is, but these people that got the tickets, are they gonna find any excuses why they can't go to the game? No, they're not. Is that they'll have to be on their deathbed to not go to the game. And because they really want to do it. And if we really want to do things, generally we find a way to do it. And so here these people were invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb, and they all began to make excuses And the one says, I bought a piece of ground and I have to go see it. Of course, these different things that are in life, first we have property. People have property and they're all concentrated on their property, on their houses, and different things. Oh, I'm concentrating my property, then the next guy makes an excuse, well, hey, I got new oxen, just like I got a new car. I got all these cars and that takes my time. And another says, I have married a wife. And I cannot come. You know, he doesn't say that I have something I have to do with my wife. It's just I've married a wife, and therefore I cannot come. Well, anyway They all made excuse. They really didn't want to come to salvation. Of course their hearts hadn't been changed by the Lord. And even, you know, uh when you invite people to the Lord, when you give them tracks and things like that, they not only make excuses, but they'll even mock you. And they'll make fun of you And uh they don't want it. They definitely don't want it. And uh I had people tell me in the past, why don't you go get a job? You know, instead of giving out gospel. And the thing is, is that these don't want the word of God, these ones that were bidden. And then verse twenty-one, so that servant came and showed his lord these things, and the master of the house, being angry, said to his servant, Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city And bring in hither the poor and the maimed and the halt and the blind. Go out and bring in the poor and the maimed and the halt and the blind. The people that can't return or suffer to you, but bring in all these poor people, people that need a physician. Remember Jesus said, they that are whole don't need a physician, they that are sick need a physician. And we're all sick with sin. And we need to come to the Lord. And so they went out into the streets and lanes. And of course with our door-to-door giving out tracks that we do once a month more or less here in the church. So the thing is that's what we go out. We go out in the streets and the lanes And then verse 22, the servant said, Lord, it has done as thou hast commanded, and yet there is room. And the Lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges. and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled. And that's what we're commanded to do. We're told to just give out the gospel indiscriminately to strangers. The poor, the maimed, the halt, the blind. We should be doing that. Of course, we should give it to contacts that we have and uh leads that we have. That's good too. But we need to give out the gospel just in general. We need to leave gospel seed wherever we go. And as I've said before, I believe we need to be like a raccoon. We need to leave tracks wherever we go. And I think that's good. That's good. And so, you know, I have sowed, and Paul said, Apollos watered, but God gave the increase. And you know we need to care about the lost around us. We need to care about them. The people that we come into contact with in the restaurant, the ones that we come to can come in contact with at the gas station or wherever we go. We need to have a concern for their souls. Concern for their souls. And you know, my my rule with tracks, my personal rule is But I give them to people personally that are they're at least slightly friendly. Just slightly friendly. They don't have to be very friendly, but at least a little bit. Generally I I give a trap to them And uh of course i if I don't see 'em for hardly at all, like toll collectors on the toll booths, uh I think the toll collectors on the two toll booths might be some of the highest evangelized people there are, I don't know, but anyway. Uh I don't know them at all, whether they're friendly except that they take the tract. But anyway, uh we need to carry about those people that we come in contact with. And you know it's It's nice to give a whole gospel presentation and a Romans road and go through all that, but we don't have time to do that all the time. We just don't have time and we don't have contact to do all do all that And we just have a few minutes to do it or seconds. And so we need to be concerned with those around us. Well, what does the Bible say about sowing and reaping? It says, he that soweth bountifully Shall what? Reap bountifully. And he that soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly. And you know, we want to have reward in heaven. We do want to have rewards in heaven And as we sow bountifully, we're going to have more rewards in heaven. And you know that's going to be one of the great things when we get to heaven. One of the great things when we get to heaven is we'll see the results from what we have done. And you know, that's one reason people emphasize results so much, because they want to see. They want to see somebody come to the Lord. They want to see the results right in front of their eyes. But you know we're not going to see that with so many things. And when we get to heaven, we're going to meet a lot of people there in heaven That were influenced by our witness. And we'll get to know who they were and where they are. And praise the Lord. for the opportunity to work for him. Let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we just thank thee for thy goodness unto us. And O Lord, help us to be Faithful, help us to be faithful in obeying the Great Commission. Help us to be faithful in obeying the other things that thou dost tell us to do. And guide us in thy paths in Jesus' name. Amen.