We've noticed well talking about uh politics, presidents and politics on the lowest level, we've got the election in Smyrna is this coming Tuesday I'm not going to tell you who to vote for because you're not voting there anyway. But the thing is, is that uh we've been busy campaigning for that And I consider that a ministry there uh uh uh being participating with the government there And so um I was attacked this last week on Facebook, and uh the thing is I was attacked, but I'm not even running. But the thing is, it's I've been campaigning for the guy that's running and they uh attack me then. But here's uh I just want to share with you I put out a a sheet of uh answers to the uh uh attacks and I'm not going to read the whole thing. But if you want a copy of it, you can get it. But anyway, I just wanted to read the the last part of it though here. It says uh Well s uh the attack on me said that I wasn't using facts, I was just using narrative. And I turned that around on this thing to just the facts, not the narrative. And so the narrative, I have seven points here. The sixth one is NERATIP. Ken Olson votes no on some things before the council, which is true. That's actually true, but they fault me on that, that I vote no. Nobody's supposed to vote no Fact, in the past year everyone else has voted yes on every single thing brought before them, with only one possible exception. When Nick Miles, oh there I did use the name, but anyway with the the uh other candidate, when he votes yes on everything, is he showing a fresh perspective And uh he claims to have a f fresh perspective. Well, you know, uh what's the defin definition of a yes man? A yes man always says yes. And they can't stand it that sometimes I say no there in the council. And of course a Christian should say no sometimes And then the narrative also here, the last point, the financial situation of Smyrna is better than ever, they say, after they doubled the taxes. Fact, the financial situation of the taxpayers is definitely not better than ever. And then I go on to say council will never find any suitable cuts in budget or taxes if it has no desire to find them. and need to have a desire to find cuts in budget and taxes. Of course taxes have always been a big issue. They were a big issue in the American Revolution Taxation without representation. Well, let's turn our Bibles to 1 Corinthians. 1 Corinthians chapter 3. We're continuing in our study of 1 Corinthians. And we're going chapter by chapter, verse by verse, through 1 Corinthians, just as we did on Revelation and 2 Kings in the past. 1 Corinthians chapter 3 and verse 9. For we are laborers together with God. Ye are God's husbandry, ye are God's building. According to the grace of God, which is given unto me as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation and another buildeth thereon. But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereon. For other foundation can no man lay than that that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. O Lord, we pray that Thou would open up Thy word to us this morning in Jesus' name. Amen. So here it talks about teaching in the church. Teaching. And what kind of teaching are we supposed to have? And it talks about God's building, and the believers are God's building. This physical building here really isn't God's building in the sense of the church. It's not. I remember I was in a church pastoring and uh we were talking about the building there and One lady in the congregation, she said that when we get to heaven, we're going to present this building to the Lord. Well, I don't think the Lord's really that interested in the in the physical building. He's interested in the spiritual building of the believers. And of course it's nice to have a physical building, it's necessary, it's good, but it's not the most important thing. The believers, the build God's building are what are important So here it talks about building up the believers in the Lord, God's building, verse 9. And that's what the leaders in the church, the teachers in the church are supposed to be doing: building up the building. And the foundation is laid when somebody gets saved. And Paul talked about he had laid the foundation, the people got saved, and then people had to take heed of how they built on that building. Gotta keep building on the building. And then verse 11, other foundation can no man lay than that is laid Jesus Christ. And then we go on to verse 12. Now, if any man build upon this foundation, gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble, Every man's work shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire, and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is If any man's work abide, which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be saved, yet so as by fire. And so God's going to try the works of people that teach in the church. Are they teaching things according to God's word? And so all of our teaching and building up the believers in the church is supposed to be out of God's Word. Supposed to be out of God's Word. God gave us this book. This book is a big book. 66 books in it. There's plenty in there for every aspect of life. And so anyway, it talks about building on the foundation. Gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble. So on the one hand you got the good stuff, gold, silver, precious stones. On the other hand, we got the bad stuff. Wood, hay, and stubble. And so the fire is going to try what's built. And after the fire tries, what's going to be burned up? The wood hay stubble. And wood hay and stubble is when people build things that aren't according to God's word. And of course we have the Reformation And the Roman Catholic Church was full of traditions and things that they had received. And of course, the Roman Catholic Church today is the same way. It says kept all those traditions, the worship of Mary and all the other things Purgatory. And you know, those things, when on judgment day, those teachings are going to be burned up. And they're not worth anything. And things that are taught on according to God's word are not worth anything. And you know, a lot of times people teach and act like it's according to God's word. They teach conjecture. What they have as conjecture about things, and we can't teach those things as fact Of course, our our uh our science, you know, you talk about believe the science. Science is full of a lot of conjecture They tell us that the universe is millions of years old. They say our earth is millions of years old. Of course, the old question is: were they there? No. How do they know? How do they know it's millions of years old? That's just their conjecture according to their system of belief that they have. And so, but they act like they know it. That's the wisdom of this world And you go to the Smithsonian in Washington and you go through the science exhibits and things and the dinosaurs and they talk on and on about millions of years and and they're they're the experts But they're the experts in the wisdom of this world. And you know, people try to fill in details of the Bible. They make up these novels of uh what Nicodemus did and what he thought and things like that and and and you know that It ends up they're adding things to to the Bible. You know, God gives us the details here that we need about His Word. You know, it's one thing If somebody makes up details that are according to the to what went on and might add details to George Washington or something like that. But to add details to the people in the Bible is another thing. And the people in the Bible, we have this inspired record here. And I'm thinking of, you know, today, there's a very popular uh uh show on uh on the TV on the w airwaves talking about Jesus and the disciples and it's called The Chosen. Have you ever heard of that one? It's very popular And uh, you know the thing is people get the idea that that's a good thing that it gives all the details of the Bible. Well it gives some details of the Bible But it mixes in a whole lot of conjecture and a whole lot of other stuff. And how are you supposed to separate those out? You can't separate them out. And one thing, I watched a little some of it, and one thing that stuck in my mind is they have Matthew on there, the apot uh disciple Matthew, Apostle Matthew And they have him on there as this young guy that's obsessive compulsive Now, where did they get that from? There's no detail in the Bible that would indicate that. It's just something that somebody came up with out of their imagination, and then it's all mixed in with the truth of Scripture. And so we have the wisdom of this world. That's how it is all over. The wisdom of this world is mixed in with the things of the Bible, with God's Word. And then people teach it in the church, as if it's from God. And we got wood, hay, and stubble being taught in the church, along with the gold, silver, and precious stones. Did you notice there they got the gold, silver, and precious stones? You know, those things always keep their value. They keep value, gold, silver, and special precious stones. And you know, When it when inflation comes around, it's a good thing to get into some gold, silver, and precious stones. Because when inflation comes from deficit spending and the money supply becomes inflated, the money is worth less as time goes on, but the the solid things uh still are worth things something And so we have them, and here is the description of worthwhile things, gold, silver, and precious stones. And so it says verse thirteen, every man's work shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it. What day is that? That's judgment day. Judgment Day is going to determine whether people were teaching according to God's Word or not And they're going to have a hard time if they were teaching a lot of things that are not according to God's word. And we have all those things that are taught that are not according to God's word, God's word that are all mixed up in the church today They're all mixed together. And so when the fire comes, it'll separate all those on Judgment Day. And you know we have psychology. Psychology. And psychology is like something that's accepted today, but it's not according to God's word. And did you know psychology Is not a science, really. And you can tell that psychology is not a science by the fact that the experts contradict each other on psychology. One psychologist says this, the other psychologist says the opposite of it, and they're all experts. So how can it be a science? It's not a science. It's a bunch of uh things that people imagine. But God's word is the true psychology, and that's what we need to go by And so we have all these things mixed up. And today is a day when the world is totally all surrounding, all encompassing, and everybody's there on their phone. And the phone is connected into the internet, it's connected into everybody, and the viewpoint of the world is there on the phone. And on the TV, and in the movies, and in the news, and in everything. The viewpoint of the world is there. We have to watch out for that And they can get mixed into our Christianity. Going back to psychology, psychology says that if you discipline your children, you are going to warp their personality Well, that's not according to God's word. But we got churches out there that teach against disciplining the children. And then people wonder why the family is in such bad shape today. I mean, I think that's something everybody can agree on. The family is in bad shape. That's because they have taken the viewpoints of the world into the church, into the families Just yesterday, I heard a statistic, maybe it was last night, a statistic about uh the family in America, and it said that forty percent of American families don't have any contact with their relatives. 44, no contact. No contact with their relatives. And why is that? Well, it's the way people have turned in, got the wisdom of the world. Of course, they raise their children with no discipline. They give their children everything they want. And then they wonder why the children aren't grateful and why you don't have any contact with them later on and whatever. And it's that way. And then you have the modern philosophy in the family is Everybody does everything in the family. That just leads to confusion. They say that everybody washes the dishes, everybody does the cooking, everybody uh does the trash. Everybody does everything. But that just leads the confusion. You know, if you don't have jobs laid out and responsibilities laid out, what happens? The other confusion and things get left out. And you got the dishes there, and the one person said, I thought you were going to do the dishes. No, I I thought you were going to do this. And nothing gets done because there's no responsibilities. And you know the thing is there's confusion and there's fighting and there's not one head of the family today The world has entered into the church, and you know you you can't hardly even talk about these things because the world has really entered into the church. And there's no head in the family, and everybody's the head, and so they're butting heads all the time. But anyway, here we have. People are building gold, silver, precious stones, and they're building wood, hay, and stubble. And then we have verse 15: if any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss. But he shimself shall be saved yet as so as with fire. And that's talking about Christian teachers. Christian teachers that got the worldly teaching mixed up with their teaching. Well They're they're not going to get any reward for it. And the Bible says that reward is good. Reward is good right there. It says verse 14, if any man's work abide which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. We're looking for rewards in heaven. We're looking for rewards in the hereafter. It's not selfish to want those. The Bible says we should want them. And so the person that teaches the viewpoint of the world in the church, he's not going to get any reward. He's not going to get rewards that he would otherwise get. Let me go on here, verse 16. Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you? If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy. For the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are. So the Our body is the temple of the Holy Spirit. We have the Holy Spirit in us, and we're not supposed to do things that harm our body. And of course, today, finally, they've got it through their heads and the world around us that cigarettes are bad. And so they tax the cigarettes to death and they make people so smoke here, there, and everywhere. But they haven't gotten it in their heads that alcohol is bad But you know alcohol is a drug. It is a drug like marijuana, a drug like heroin. It's in that same classification And you know the thing is, is I believe the Bible teaches that we shouldn't drink alcohol at all. Get that drug, taking that drug in. And of course, you see what happens with it What happens with it? You got all the drunk drivers out there? You got the people that kill other people? When they're out there on heroin, they're out there on marijuana. Of course, you know marijuana today is like everywhere And Smarina got my next door neighbor smoking marijuana and uh we smell it there, have to close our windows and whatever, you know. The thing is Is marijuana's bad for you and alcohol is bad for you. And and and people get killed, you know, there as I drive to church every week There's a place here on Highway One where their son got killed by a by a guy that was on drugs, on heroin. They got a big Fine up there on the thereabout how drugs killed his son. That's what happens out there on the road And you know, we don't want to defile the temple of God with drugs. We don't want to defile the temple of God at all. You know, of course, suicide is a very popular thing today And that's defiling the temple of God. It was in the news this past week that this lady from England, her son died. There's an interesting way your son died. They said he choked on a tomato in his sleep. I don't know how that exactly that worked, but anyway, the guy, the son died And she's been grieving terribly since he died. And so she wants to commit suicide But they won't let her do it in England. So she's going to go to Switzerland, where they're going to let her let her do it, and she's going to pay fifteen thousand dollars or whatever it is for somebody to kill her kill her And she's got to commit suicide. She's in perfect physical shape. But she wants to just kill herself because she's so distraught and and but you know that's defiling the temple of God And all those things that defile the temple of God, the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are, is what it says here. Then we go on here with verse 18. Let no man deceive himself. If any man among you seemeth to be wise in this world, let him become a fool that he may be wise. For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written, He taketh the wise in their own craftiness. And again, the Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise that they are vain. And you know the thing is, is that These people have set themselves up as experts, experts in psychology, experts in evolution with their millions of years. They seem to be wise in this world And if you advocate uh creation, they look at you as like you're a fool. Oh, how can you believe that Science, don't you know it believes the science? Science teaches millions of years, and all the experts know that, don't you know? Well, that's not what the Bible says. And of course, we have all the creation ministries today that prove that evolution is completely false and foolishness. But if any man seemeth to be wise in this world, let him become a fool that he may be wise. Of course, in my city council, they think I'm a fool to advocate reduction in taxes. That's just unheard of. Nobody ever, ever reduces taxes. Well, it's been done. And in fact, we did a little bit of research, and in Smyrna, taxes were reduced by 26% back in 2006. It is possible to be done. You know, you set the tax rate every year, so you can just set it a little lower. And that's a reduction in taxes. But they look at you like you're a fool. But the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. He taketh the wise in their own craftiness. Of course, today we go to great lengths in the foolishness of the world, that where people can decide whether they want to be a man or a woman. And so they decide that even though I was born a man, I want to be a woman. You know, it's just so ridiculous. And that's pushed all the time in the world. We went to a play yesterday, and they had a guy in the play that was supposed to be a homosexual. And it had a song about, I'm dreaming of a time when I can be what I want to be, you know. And you know, what I want to be is not according to God's word. It's the foolishness of this world And not for things according to God's word. Well, you see, every time that you do something against God's word, there's consequences There's consequences. And you know, if we don't have our families in order, if we don't raise our children right, there'll be consequences. There's a tract, an old tract, about child raising, and it says the title of it is How to Raise a Crook. Well, by not disciplining them. Or you're going to raise a crook. That's it. And so, the Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise, the wise in this world That they are vain. And the book of 1 Corinthians talks a lot about here at the beginning, here in chapter 3, and also earlier, it talks about the wisdom of this world versus the wisdom of God. And they're two different things. Now we go on here, verse 21. And by the way, you know there's people in the church that are called Christian psychologists. And they have studied and they got their doctorates in the psychology of this world, and then they are set up in the church to be teachers in the church because they're a psychologist. Well, that's kind of backwards, isn't it? Because if you're all into that psychology stuff, you're not likely to be totally right on the ball. Then verse 21. Therefore let no man glory in men, for all things are yours. Whether Paul or Apollos, Esephus, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or things to come, all are yours, and ye are Christ's, and Christ is God's So it says, let no man glory in men. Don't put your faith in men. Don't put your faith in me. Don't put your faith in other men. Because they'll let you down. Men are imperfect. Imperfect. We can't put our faith in men. And of course it talks about they had parties in the church, this party of Paul, this party of Peter, this party of Cesus, well Peter, and this party of Apollos. And they were following these men And we don't follow men in the church. We follow God's word. Let no man glory in men. And you know, you can tell, you know, a lot of times with church splits and things. And you can tell that uh how some people are following men, because when the man they're following leaves the church Well they leave too. Is the thing is, is that let no man glory in men And then it says, all these things are yours. Paul, Apollos, Apollos, things present, things to come. And they're ours to discern. In the Bible, we're told to have discernment, to try the spirits, whether they be of God. And we're not just supposed to accept everything that's out there, so we'll be wise as serpents But harmless as doves. Try the spirits. All things are ours to try, to discern right from wrong. And it does matter what the sign of the church says. It does matter what they teach. And then it goes on this last verse of 1 Corinthians chapter 3. It says, And ye are Christ's, and Christ is God's. You know, there's order. Order in the family, and even with the Godhead, there's order. You know, there's separate places for God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. There's order. And God the Son is subject unto God the Father. The Holy Spirit is subject as well. And they're God, but their subject is that order. And that order should be in the family as well. There should be order, just like that. Well, let's go back to Acts chapter 20. Acts chapter 20 on the subject of God's building. God's building. Acts chapter twenty and verse seventeen. Acts chapter twenty and verse seventeen Acts twenty and verse seventeen. And Paul here was talking about his teaching here in Acts chapter twenty. with the Ephesian elders, the elders from Ephesus, where he was longer than any time. And verse 17, and from Milas he sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the church. It's interesting, I've been uh studying about ancient Greece, and you know when the Persians invaded ancient Greece, they had a big naval battle And the big naval battle was right here at Miletus, off the coast of Miletus there. So it figures prominently in the past. Of course that was before Paul. And but anyway, here we are for Miletus, he calls for the Ephesian elders. Verse 18. And when they were come to him, he said unto them Ye know from the first day that I came into Asia, what manner I have been with you at all seasons. Serving the Lord with all humility of mind and with many tears and temptations which fell me by the lying and weight of the Jews. And how I kept back nothing that was profitable unto you, but have showed you and have taught you publicly and from house to house. Testifying both to the Jews and also to the Greeks repentance towards God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. So Paul was giving his testimony here, his farewell address, and he was talking about how he had been among them, teaching, how he had been building up God's building among them. And they knew how he was, verse 18. After what manner I have been with you in all seasons. And of course Asia here is the Roman province of Asia, which is Asia Minor, which is Turkey today. The seven churches are there. But anyway, he was there in Ephesus He was with them in all seasons, and they knew him. You know what's the problem with people that you listen to online and people that you see on TV? You don't really know them. You don't. And people talk, you know, they they they concentrate on these guys online or these guys on the TV. And you know, you really can't know about them just from that. And I may have mentioned before that I was connected with a big ministry. And the preacher in that big ministry, everything he said was good. Everything. But he did not do good all the time. And he had a lot of problems, especially with financial things, with money. And you know the thing is of course he used to used uh people used to say, well, you know, he never got involved with women. Well, he might not have done that, but He got involved in some other things. But everything he said was good. You know that's what Jesus said about the Pharisees. What did he say about the Pharisees? He said, all that they tell you, do, but do not after their works. Everything, Jesus said the Pharisees said everything true, but their actions weren't right. And so somebody might be online, somebody might be on the TV. And they might say everything right, but we still don't know much about them. And you know it's better to pay attention to people that we know, just like Paul said. You know how I have been in all seasons. Serving the Lord with all humility of mind. And did you know the more people that a guy has following him, the higher he gets lifted up. In his pride. But Paul here, he was with all humility of mind. All humility of mind And so here he was, he had all his problems and testings, and he points out the testings came by the Jews. You know, a lot of times people get the idea that Paul and the Apostles had most of their problems with the Roman Empire and with the Roman officials. That wasn't most of their problems. Most of their problems were with the Jews chasing them around and stirring up trouble and dragging them before the Roman officials. And so here he says the lying in wait to the Jews, they were trying to ambush Paul wherever he went. And then he talks about how he kept back nothing that was profitable unto them. Do preachers keep back things? Yes, they do. If things are unpopular, they don't talk on those subjects. And they only talk on the subjects that are popular. And of course, the popular subjects, what they say, might be perfectly true and good, but they avoid things that are not popular. And here Paul said he did not avoid anything. He kept back nothing. And I've noticed that as you preach and you keep back nothing, You know what happens eventually? Eventually you offend everybody. You bring up something that's offensive to this guy, to that one, to the other one, to the other one, and eventually you've offended everybody. But we don't want to keep back anything. Don't keep it back. But here Paul showed them and taught them publicly and from house to house. He went and taught them even in their houses You know, I was in a church there in Delaware, a small BP church there, and I thought, well, it would be a good idea to go visit the people at their work. So I went and visited a guy there at his work, I think it was a butcher shop or something he worked at. And then they came and got on my case and they said, What are you doing following us around? Trying to find fault or whatever. You know, but here, Paul, he talked from house to house. Also publicly. He kept back nothing. And then we go on, skip down to verse 26. Verse 26. Wherefore I take you to record this day that I am pure from the blood of all men. For I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God. Take heed, therefore, unto yourselves, and to all the flock over the which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers to feed the Church of God. which he hath purchased with his own blood. For I know this that after my departing shall three grievous wolves enter in among you, not sparing the flock Also of your own selves shall men arise, speaking perverse things to draw away disciples. After them. So here Paul says he was pure from their blood. He told them the whole counsel of God. And talking to the leaders there to feed the church of God. We're supposed to feed the church as we come together. And as it was mentioned in Sunday school this morning, our primary job in a church service is to feed the sheep. It's not to gather the unsaved. Although we like to do some of that But that's not the primary job. The primary job is to feed the sheep. And people that preach on salvation every week, every week, well, that's not really feeding the sheep to feed the church of God, although we need to preach on that sometimes. And then Paul says that wolves would enter in among them. False teachers are wolves. And do you think Paul would name who the false teachers were? He did do that. Hymeneus and Alexander, he named the false teachers I mean, when you want to warn somebody about wolves, it's really helpful to name who are the wolves and where do you find them, where they are. And then verse 31. Therefore, watch and remember that by the space of three years I cease not to warn everyone night and day with tears. And now, brethren, I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up, and to give you an inheritance among all them which are sanctified. I have coveted no man's silver or gold or apparel. Yea, ye yourselves know that these hands have ministered unto my necessities and to them that were with me. I have showed you all things. How that so laboring ye ought to support the weak, and remember that the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, it is more blessed to give than to receive. And so here, Paul, his parting words, he summed up his ministry. He wasn't preaching for money. And there's a lot of preachers out there today that are preaching for money. But you know, how can you tell if a preacher is preaching for money? Because he talks about money all the time. And talks about sending me money, sending me money. Well, uh he's he's a little too concerned with money. Of course you have to have money to do something, have a ministry, but when you talk about it all the time, uh that's another thing Well, Paul, for the present time that he was in, he was a tent maker and supplied his needs. But later on, in other times, he said that he that preaches the gospel should live of the gospel. That's the the best way. But anyway, he says he commended them to God, verse 12, and to the verse 32. To God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up. And so we have to watch how things are built in the church. Watch how we're building up Watch how our teachers are building them. Are we building them according to God's word? Let's bow in prayer. Oh Lord, we pray that thou would Guide us as we build God's building. Help us to be faithful. In Jesus' name. Amen.