In John chapter seventeen, as you're all turning there, This is called the last chapter of the consolatory discourse of Jesus Christ What is a consolatory discourse? Well, we take the word consolatory. We think of the word consolation, and Jesus Christ himself in Luke 2 is referred to as the consolation of Israel. So, this consolatory discourse is our Lord preparing to go to the cross. And we read in John chapter 17, verse 1: These words spake Jesus, and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, The hour is come. Glorify thy son, that thy son also may glorify thee. As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him And this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. I have glorified thee on the earth. And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self, with the glory which I had with thee before the world was I have manifested thy name unto the men which thou gavest me out of the world. Thine they were, and thou gavest them me, and they have kept thy word. Now they have known that all things whatsoever thou hast given me are of thee. I'd love to go forward and read the rest of this, but just to begin to even start to talk about these first seven verses It's almost blasphemy to do it in one session. This chapter is a prayer. We're very, very familiar with Matthew chapter 6, verses 9 to 13. Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. And that's called the Lord's Prayer. We see some of it in Luke, Luke chapter 11, verses 2 to 4. These always have been known and identified as the Lord's Prayer. They were from our Lord, but they were not for the Lord. The Lord's prayer in Matthew chapter 6, verses 9 through 13 says, forgive us our trespasses. It's for sinners. And our Lord Jesus Christ, of course, was not a sinner. So that prayer was given for us to pray and to recognize Him. That was the Lord's Prayer, how He taught us to pray. It is not a prayer that he would pray for himself. This is the prayer we're reading this evening. Part of it, that was a prayer for him. Well, this is getting ready to happen here. Here, Christ is in the upper room. He's speaking to those whom he called his friends, those who were his disciples. And what he's getting ready to do is to bear our sins on the cross of Calvary, to bear the obscene treatment from the kangaroo course. Of the Jewish council that would carry out the cross and carry out the death of Jesus Christ and dish it off to the Roman Empire, and they would take our Savior. It was almost comedic, the way they treated him. It was almost a parody, the way that they mocked him and they scorned him. The obscenity was so horrible, it's almost scatological, it was so horrible what they did to him. And as I prayed Think about the darkness that happened on the cross, and we rehear the psalmist say over and over again, Lord, shine down upon us the brightness of thy face. The light went out that day. God could not shine down the brightness of his face as Christ bore our sins. It was so horrible. And it got dark, and it was not some eclipse out of nowhere. It was the Lord shutting the lights down Here we read in these verses the glory of the Father for the Son. Many a time did Christ pray to the Father, and sometimes he inferred In the Gospels, we read in the Gospels how he gave thanks for his food. He prayed for the miracles. He gave all credit to the Father, and he thanked the Lord when the miracles were accomplished. And he looked up to heaven. When we look up metaphorically speaking, we have hope, don't we? You hear the statement, things are looking up You ever hear that one? The position of Christ's body was facing up towards heaven in obedience to look at the Father. We say sons and daughters innately look up to their fathers for strength and protection We are to look to God. Matthew Henry states, as prayer is to be made to God only, so it is our duty in prayer to eye him as a father and call him our Father. All that have the spirit of adoption are taught to cry, Abba Father. Galatians 4:6, we read, And because ye are sons, God hath sent forth the Spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying, Abba Father. We look at God as our father, our daddy, our father that we cry out to for help. Our heavenly father was a good father to his precious son on this earth. And he watched over him. What parenting skills we can learn from our Heavenly Father? This is our Father's world. Christ affirms the glory of his hour. How many times do we hear through the gospels? He told the disciples, whenever he performed a miracle, or whenever he was in trouble, whenever the Lord was in fear of uh it's not not that he was ever fearful, but there was fear of him being killed prematurely when they tried to throw him over a cliff, when they tried to take him, they tried to murder him. And many times he would go back to the disciples when they were scared of death and he would say, Don't worry, mine hour hasn't come yet. Think about that. Could you say that? If somebody came to you and tried to harm you or do whatever, could you say, mine hour hasn't come yet? We have no idea. See, we take that for granted. It's one of the most important statements that was normative in the in the in the From the mouth of our Lord Jesus Christ. He said, Mine hour has not yet come. If he could say that, anybody that could say that and mean it And we can watch it play out in the fruition of what he meant and then learn about it right here. He's got to be the creator and judge of all the earth. He's gotta have unlimited power to be able to control his own death and pull himself out of the tomb. That is power. That's unlimited power. And there is no other professing little G E-O-D that has ever been able to do that. Ever. That's incredible. What was his hour? His hour, he affirms, is the glory of the cross. Many times Christ mentioned that his hour had come. John 20 2. 4, John 7. 30. If his hour had not come, Christ would glorify the Father and be exalted in death on the cross and be glorified. He upholds this by praying to the Father. There were other prayers to the Father. Wouldn't you have liked to have seen all those prayers? Wouldn't you like to have a record of all the prayers that Christ said? Wouldn't you like a book that had all of Christ's prayers in them? Well, I can tell you if there was a book that contained all of his prayers, I'll bet you we could we would fill this whole sanctuary up and then some. It says in the end of John, if all the miracles had been recorded that he actually had done, the earth couldn't hold it Can you imagine how the earth couldn't hold his prayers? He upholds, he upholds his word and he confirms it by praying to the Father. And there were other prayers. There were others like Matthew fourteen, verse twenty-three. And when he had sent the multitude away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray, and when the evening was come, he was there alone Luke 5, 16 says, and he withdrew himself into the wilderness and prayed. And here we have a very important conversation in the Old Testament. Psalm chapter 2, verse 7, I will declare the decree, the Lord hath said unto me, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron, thou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. This is a private conversation that Christ revealed from heaven before creation. And it's turned into a prayer. We've been studying Acts chapter 13, Acts chapter 14, and you go back to Acts chapter 4. Peter referred back to Psalm 2. Paul referred back to Psalm 2. They were prayers. They were parts and they were components to those sermons when they were talking about the wicked of the day, they were talking about all of the political wranglings, and they were talking about how the people were turning against Jesus Christ We are learning in Acts chapter 14 how Paul told the Jewish council that you need to go back to Psalm 2 verse 7 where it says, kiss the sun. Lest ye perish in the way, because he was telling them, You need to kiss the sun, not kill the sun. And this is what they did. And they killed him. They thought it was a vent. But as Christ told Pilate, you would have no power unless it was given to you by the Father. He told Pilate that very plainly, very bold statements, very true, perfectly true. Prayer is the needs of grace that is given of God. If Christ prayed, which that's really not a good word to start out with, if, the fact that he did pray, what does it tell us? We better be praying. We better be praying. If Christ prayed in the Garden of Gethsemane, not my will, but thy will be done, that should be the components of our prayer. James 5. 16 says, Confess your faults one to another and pray for one another, that ye may be healed. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. This was a prayer after a sermon. This was a benediction that Christ gave. He had given many, many sermons, and this was a benediction. This was the last words before Jesus Christ went to the cross to die for our sins. This is his last will and testament. So, what's so fascinating about this? What can we derive from this? What do a lot of people go through before that if they think they're getting ready to die? A lot of people, what do they go through? Sorrow, agony, some people become withdrawn. I've had I've even had pr people I've had people in my life tell me when they were when they were thinking that they were dying, where they were getting close Please don't come and visit me in the hospital. I don't want you to be with me. I want to be there alone. I've had people say that People get withdrawn and all of a sudden they can get very selfish if they don't have Christ in their hearts. They can get despondent. They can get very upset and they can get very withdrawn and it can be very difficult And the reason I'm bringing that out is Christ here is the one getting ready to not only be killed But probably killed, no doubt, obviously, in the worst form of execution, torture, and obscene treatment that anybody ever experienced. And the reason we know that is because he had never done anything wrong. And what's interesting about this, he is consoling the very disciples that are about to leave him. High and dry. They're going to leave him. They're going to turn their back on him. And he's consoling them. He knows that in the next three days, within those three days, he knows in the next day here They are going to beat him so unmercifully that when he's hung on the cross, the splinters are going to dig into his bones. He knows that they're going to beat him and they're going to put a spear in his side. They're going to put these big seven-inch nails, which they had many ways of placing those nails, into people they wanted to crucify. They could either drag out the crucifixion or they could make it quick If you were to really give homage to Caesar, they would make your crucifixion a lot quicker, so it wouldn't be so agonizing. Or they could do what they did to Jesus Make it last just long enough so that he would die just before Passover. He could die just so they could have it all cleaned up and they didn't have that mess laying around. That's how they treated our Savior So they put the seven inch spikes and they're probably right back right down here in his hands and in his feet, and they put a block under there just enough to hold him up to make it agonizing. Here he knows all this is coming And he's giving them the consolation. That's what's so fascinating about this. He's consoling them. He's the one getting ready to be murdered, to die for our sins. This was the prayer after sacrament, the Lord's Supper. Christ prayed that God would bless the perfect will of the Father by sending his Son to have his body broken and his blood poured out For his glory. Christ broke bread with his disciples. We read in Matthew chapter twenty-six verse twenty-six. And they were eating. Jesus And he took the cup and gave thanks and gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it. For this is my blood of the New Testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins. And we know that none of Christ's prayers are recorded so fully as this one, where he lifted up his eyes to heaven, given the perfect direction of his seat on the right hand of the Father. He could see the beatific vision. What is that? The beatific vision is Christ could see the Father in his glory. We can't see that. It's not a problem with our optic nerves. We don't have some kind of retinopathy. It's a problem with our hearts. Because of sin, we can't see the Father. Moses begged to see the Father, and God told him, All right, you stand up here in the cleft of this rock, and I'll just stand there, and all I could do is go rush by you and show you the back. You look on me, you will die And you will you will die. This is a prayer for family. Christ affirms his relationship to the Father You ever take time after your supper to rest a little, then open the scriptures and pray? This is what Christ is doing. His word It's God's word. And we see after the Lord's Supper, he prays. Our Lord Jesus Christ's family are his disciples, his faithful followers. As being the son of Abraham who taught his household the ways of the Lord. We see in Genesis chapter 18, verse 19, we see, For I know him, but he will command his children, this household after him. And they shall keep the way of the Lord to do justice and judgment that the Lord may bring upon Abraham that with which he hath spoken. So Christ here would reaffirm his love for his family, as a son of David who blessed his household also. 2 Samuel 6, verse 20. Then David returned to bless his household, and Michael, the daughter of Saul, came out to meet David and said, How glorious was the king of Israel today who uncovered himself today in the eyes of the handmaids of the servants As one of the vain, fellows shamelessly uncovereth him. Christ blessed his family. We are his family Once again, who are Christ's family? Matthew 12, 50 read, For whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is heaven, the same is my brother and sister and mother. And isn't any wonder when the disciples came to the to our Lord and said that your mother's over there, you know, your family's over there. And he asked the question, Who is my mother? Who is my brother? He says, Those that follow me, they're my family. This was a prayer to prepare for sacrifice. This was a farewell prayer. Paul's farewell at Aphasis before he would go to Jerusalem would end in this prayer. He would say in Acts 20, 36, and when he had thus spoken, he kneeled down and he prayed with them all. This was the farewell prayer of our Lord Jesus Christ before he goes to the cross. This was a farewell. And this was a prayer to prepare for sacrifice. Christ is prophet, priest, and king. He prays here as a priest, preparing to offer up sacrifice for the glory of the Father. He's going to be the ultimate sacrifice. Isn't it amazing all of the blood that was shed in the Old Testament and partially in the New Testament, the animals that were quartered? That they were cut up and they bled all over the altar. Not one of them had power in that blood. That was symbolic of the power of the blood of Jesus Christ. That's where the power came from. And it was an absolute mandate that God had given to sacrifice those animals to lead up to the Passover, to lead up to the unblemished land, going to the cross for our sins. That's power in that blood. As the blood flowed from the sheep who were slaughtered at Passover, and their blood flowed Right past Calvary into the Kidron River, known as the Black Brook or the Gloomy Brook, because of the blood-stained walls of the river. Our Savior's blood as the ultimate atonement flowed out for the remission of our sins It was the propitiation to cleanse our sins as far as the east is from the west. Don't ever forget the word propitiation. You have propitiation and expitiation. Expiation, I'm sorry, expiation. They both have the same root but a different prefix. Propitiation is the satisfying of God's judgment. Can any of you satisfy the judgment you deserve for your sins? Well, you're all brilliant. That's the most important thing you will ever know on this earth. And when you go outside of this church, you'll hardly meet anybody that believes that. There's not too many people in your normative lives that believe that. We all have some kind of joy and venture with what Christ did on the cross as the basis of our salvation And that's why the works-oriented theology brawls in millions and millions of people. Only Christ could give that propitiation. And then the expiation. That means it can be his blood is so precious and so wonderful, it can cleanse our sins as far as the East is from the West and is perfect. Perfect blood. Not one blemish in that blood. It was a prayer to avow his mediatorial work. A lot of mediators today. There are a lot of professed mediators in religion today. Buddha, of course the Pope, the priests. They all have some connection to God, don't they? Here is the massive moments of redemptive history playing out right in front of us in the scripture. Christ, who is God incarnate, stands right in front of the disciples. looks up into heaven and no doubt sees the beatific vision and offers prayer right to the Father as the intercessor between man and God. He is the only intercessor And when you pray, the Lord says, You ask in my name, and I will give you the desires of your heart. Your desires of your heart are not your felt needs. The desires of your heart are what God wants in your life. Lord, not my will. But thy will be done. Isaiah fifty nine fifteen Yea, truth faileth, and he that departeth from evil maketh himself a prey, and the Lord saw it, and it displeased him that there was no judgment And he saw that there was no man and wondered that there was no intercessor. Therefore his arm brought salvation unto him, and his righteousness it sustained him. And in verse 20, read, And the Redeemer shall come to Zion, and unto them that turn from transgressions in Jacob, saith the Lord, He will be the intercessor. He will be our go-between, our mediator to the Father. Christ reveals this very quintessential component of our dwelling after this earth Eternal life. Can you even begin to process into your brain what eternal life means? Well, we can take some things out of our life right now and get a little bit of a glimpse. First of all, you can throw your clock away because we're timeless. You can throw your sickness away. You'll never have to worry about that again. You can throw away all your sadness, your doubts, your worries, throw everything away that you know to be that is a border, is a persecution, and is a trial in this life Christ first of all strips all of that away. Then he gives you heaven and the keys to heaven. We go to heaven. And forever and ever and ever, everything we ever desired to protect us on this earth is multiplied times infinity. We can't even I've heard people complain about going down. I don't feel like playing a hard harp every day to God and standing there and playing, well, beats burning in hell, I'll tell you that. I'll play a harp every day if I'm not going to burn in hell for eternity But it's a lot more than that. It's a lot more than that. How come I mean w I don't know that we're going to be playing a harp every second when we're sitting at the marriage Feast of the land, eating with the Lord, walking with Him, talking with Him. There's going to be a lot of things we're going to be doing. And Christ here says, He prays for us. And he says, and this is life eternal, that they might know thee, and the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou sent. Christ says, I am eternal life. So why do we turn to Buddha? Why do we turn to the Mormons? Why do we turn to the Pope? He's going to hell. The Lord doesn't save him. I pray that he does. I pray that he does. He thinks that he is the vicar of the whole he's he's the he takes place of the Holy Spirit and the vicar of Christ. He's not saved. He can't be. I hope he gets saved. But that's not that's not good. You got all these people that think they're mediators, and all these people that have the power of eternal life, and only Christ had eternal life. Christ finished the work and he reifies it in his prayer that we are his. We read 1 John 5. 20, and we know that the Son of God has come and hath given us understanding. And hath given us an understanding that we may know him that is true. And we are in him that is true. Even his son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and life eternal. This is eternal life. And so, how do we learn about eternal life? Well, we go to the consolatory discourse of Jesus Christ. We can go to John chapter 13 to 16. It's a great way to learn all throughout Scripture. You know, it's credible how down through the ages how mankind is infatuated with the eternal and has conjured up endless means by which to get there, drawing in and harnessing the energy from all sources in the universe, paying money to the Catholic Church. uh in to the Vatican to draw one soul out of hell, metamorphosizing it another creature to just physically remain in reincarnation. There's so many ways that man has conjured up this. And it's so simple. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. What could be better? Are you glad you're a Christian now? Are you glad you're a Christian? Christ says, this is life eternal. As Jesus stands before disciples, who are now growing very weary and getting ready to fade into deep sleep, he gives a perfect, precious treasure. the keys to the beautiful gates of heaven and the pathway to that beatific vision, which is the throne of God. Christ stands before his children, faces the Almighty God, and says This is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God. He looks to heaven. That's what we need to do, we need to look to heaven. We need to look to the Lord in our prayers. Remember Remember the drama played out on the very shores of the Red Sea. You had six hundred absolute Madmen following Pharaoh, they were on their horses in the Egyptian army, coming after the Lord's people. They're coming after, and the Israelites are standing there on the shore And there was one person, if you read it, read it really hard. Read that. One person looking to heaven. Only one. Who was that? It was Moses Moses was the one looking to heaven with the rod. The rest of them are looking back at the Egyptians, and they're scared to death. None of them are looking up to Christ. And over their head was the pillar of cloud by the pillar of cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night. Christ was right over their head in an actual miracle. They could literally see that. And the only one that looked to him was Moses, and that's the one that raised the staff, and what happened? The Red Seas parted. That's what can happen in our lives. You look to heaven, and the Lord will part those red seas in your life. He looks to heaven. How can you look at God when praying to a false idol? Pagan nations, lost Israelites, would bow down to their crass idols and trust in their own abilities for the provision of their lives, and this was their means of worship. They were not looking to God, and this infuriated God. God, even until this day. Hate false idols. The heavens declare the glory of God and the firmament showeth forth his handiwork He says, I have glorified thee on earth. I have finished the work. The work is finished, as we saw in John 6, as we can see in John 16, 33. The last part of that verse says, Be of good cheer, I have overcome the world. It is finished. Christ will save us to confirm that the work is completed. John 19, 30. When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head and gave up the ghost. And we see how Christ rejoices and he shares the glory of his Father with us. O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self, with the glory which I had with thee before the world was. What did Christ being glorified confirm and signify? He being glorified and being adored by the Father included all the honors, the powers, and joys of his exalted state, that's paradise. That's what he's sharing with us. All of the honor, all the glory, all the exaltation he is sharing with us. We will be able to share that with him forever. We see in Proverbs 8. 30 it says, Then I was by him, as one brought up with him, and I was daily his delight, rejoicing always before him. Daniel 7, 13, I saw in the night visions, and behold, one like the Son of Man came with the clouds of heaven and came to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him. And there was given him dominion and glory and a kingdom. That all people, nations, and language should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away in his kingdom, that which shall not be destroyed ever. That's everlasting. Daniel said that. That was a prophecy. So I want to leave you that with leave you with that this evening. Isaiah 53, 10, we'll end with this verse. He shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. What do you think the pleasure of the Lord is? It's you. It's me. We love him and we keep his commandments. He's despised and rejected of men for us, and he intercedes for us. I would call that a Good Friday and what the Lord did for us. Let's finish with prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we can't even begin to fathom. What thou were thinking in the Garden of Gethsemane when thou said, Let this cup pass before me. Lord, what did we see? What can we imagine that thou saw in that cup? What was in that cup? The sins of this world, the unbridled assault of Satan, what would happen to those that would be burning in hell forever And when thou went to that cross, thou knew, and thou never turned the other cheek and ran away. Thou went boldly to that cross of Calvary, and Lord, we can imagine what that sight was. As thou were lifted up. Cursed is every man that's hung on a tree, and thou bore the curse. The second Adam. Where the first Adam had failed, thou art the cross of Calvary, Lord, to fix everything. And Lord, because thou died, we live. And Lord, we just thank thee and praise thee, Lord. For us to be of good cheer, for thou hast overcome the world, that means thou hast overcome Satan. He doesn't know it yet He's still seeking whom he may devour, running to and for fro, trying to trying to destroy us. We see it present in this country today. But thou hast already overcome him, so we need to be of good cheer, for thou hast overcome the world. Lord, just bless us, keep us from falling, and I pray for every family here this evening to continue to bless them. Thank thee so much that we're here to fellowship together. And I pray, Lord, that thou wast watch us as we go home and cause us to hide these words on our hearts that we might not sin against thee. And all these things in the name of Jesus Christ. We thank thee and praise thee. Amen.