To the Gospel of Matthew, chapter eight. Matthew chapter eight Follow along with your eyes. I'll be reading from verse eighteen through twenty-seven. That last hymn really picks up part way down in our scripture reading. Matthew eight, beginning at verse eighteen. Now, when Jesus saw great multitudes about him, he gave commandment to depart unto the other side. And a certain scribe came and said unto him, Master, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. And Jesus said to him, Foxes have holes. The birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head. And another of his disciples came unto him and Said, Lord, suffer me to go and bury my father. But Jesus said unto him, Follow me, and let the dead bury the dead. And when he was entered into a ship, his disciples followed him, and behold, there arose a great tempest in the sea. Insomuch that the ship was covered by the waves, but he was asleep. And his disciples came to him and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us, we perish. And he said unto them, Why are ye fearful? Oh, ye have little faith. Then he arose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm. But the men marveled, saying, What manner of man is this that even the winds and the sea obey him? May God be pleased to bless to our hearts the reading of His Word. I've never experienced a hurricane or typhoon or anything like that. Uh it's been always something we read about, thinking of the news as Hurricane Maria's violent winds and rains tore apart Puerto Rico. And then even this past year watching Hurricane Dorian shed the Bahamas. I'm thankful that's not been part of my personal experience. I don't think I would really know and understand how to react I can only imagine the helpless feelings with the 150 mile-an-hour winds tearing the roof off of your house or torrents of water flowing down the street and just picking up vehicles and trees and tossing them aside, or people scrambling for higher ground. In the news, you look at the faces of those people and what they're experiencing and you see this stark reality of everything in essence being swept away. You see the people clinging to those trees, stark fear and the attitude of somebody, help me, rescue me, you know, do something. I'm in trouble. In our scripture reading, Matthew writes in verses 24 and 25 a feeling of helplessness and hopelessness. He says, and behold, there ogrows a great tempest in the sea. This is the Sea of Galilee insomuch that the ship was covered with the waves. But he, meaning Jesus, was asleep, and the disciples came to him and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us, we perish. We perish. Sea of Galilee, as you know, of your Bible maps on the eastern side of the country of Israel. And the mountain range on its eastern side carries the cold temperatures. And as those cold temperatures drop from the mountains and go across the warmth of the Sea of Galilee uh these tempests, uh strong, powerful winds, pick up the Sea of Galilee almost at a moment's notice, and what was calm in one hour can be just a a a A huge, powerful storm in the next hour. Suddenly a violent storm shook the sea. uh was one translation. Shaking the sea, the Greek word used here is seismos, where we understand seismology, uh earthquakes. In other places in the New Testament that same word is translated for earthquake. So you get the feeling, the power of what was being experienced in this boat, just not some waves and tossing and little stomach upset. You know, this is a powerful situation. These were experienced fishermen, on the other hand And I think having spent years, not only as fishermen themselves, but no doubt another generation, their parents and maybe even grandparents fished those same seas. They were very familiar with those storms. They no doubt had rode through or used the sails or you know uh whatever the experience. They've gone through these things before, but this particular situation You could see on their faces there was no confidence, no assurance. They were in a panic situation. Only this this this picture of urgency, Lord, save us. Lord, save us They were so afraid, they were staring death in the face. We are perishing. We are going to die. It's the same kind of look of those people on the roof as they're waving to the helicopters and the waves and water's picking up, but they're clinging to the tree after being uh rushed down and and they're just bodies being pulled by the torrents during those hurricanes But you don't have to go through a hurricane or a flood to experience your boat being rocked, your boat being stormed, powered upon, with experiences of life. We've all had our boats rocked one time or another. Millie and I had a pastor friend down in Charlotte, North Carolina, at the age of 62. A y a young man who was in the the prime of his ministry went in early one day to uh the early morning prayer time and the congregation came in later and they found him on the floor. He had a stroke July 31st, and in one month's time he was gone. His wife, his two children, the congregation. Never expected, their boat was rocked. Smash. You know, you you don't know in those situations. And I know many of you have been rocked. Your boats have been nearly swamped. Maybe a a medical diagnosis, an automobile accident, a fire, a robbery, whatever it takes to make you feel. The knowing experience of your boat being rocked, nearly swamped, just busted away from you. And if that's not something you've experienced, well, hang on. It's life and it'll come along But whatever the particular case may be, storms of life do exist, and they can be traumatic. They can be traumatic. Often where we cry out, Lord, save us, we perish. But again in verse 24, and behold there arose a great tempest in the sea, insomuch that the ship was covered with the waves. I mean, covered with the waves But he was asleep. He. Mark's gospel, it says, he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep, on a pillow. Get the picture. You know. Not only am I feeling the the the the punch in the gut of life But around me, here's Jesus sitting out and he's snoozing away. You got a little glimpse in an earlier part of our scripture reading. Great multitudes came to him. gave commandment to depart on the other side. In other words, his ministry physically was demanding. And he got to the point of the day and he says, guys, let's get a boat and get to the other side. We need a rest He himself and those who were with him, you look like you need to rest. So that's when they're heading across to the other side And yet it isn't necessarily the idea that he was so tired, and we've experienced that. We've had a gruesome day and in the next morning you'll say, didn't you hear the storm? You know, or didn't you hear what was going on? No, I was just so tired. This isn't anything like that. His sleep came from the unfaltering confidence he had in his Heavenly Father. His father. He could lay his head down in the midst of a storm and entrust his care into his heavenly father's hands. And so that made him sleep peacefully. That made him rest in the situation where everything around him seemed to be broken in pieces. He was asleep His peaceful sleep was something that he couldn't quite understand, the disciples not understanding themselves as they came to him. 1735, John and Charles Wesley were on their way to America as missionaries of the Anglican Church. A group of Moravian immigrants were also on that ship from Germany heading on over, and those little barks, those little as we sang our that hymn The little ship uh experienced a tremendous storm. I'd like to read to you a paragraph from Wesley's diary as this situation was occurring. He says, in the midst of the Psalm, wherewith their service, meaning the Moravians, began The sea broke over, split the mainsail in pieces, covered the ship, and poured in between the decks, as if the great deep had already swallowed us up. This is those old pilgrim type sailboats, you know, sail ships. And and the main had been split and water is coming over the sides and it's coming down through the hatches in through where the the the people were. He says a terrible screaming began among the English. The Germans calmly sang on. I asked one of them afterwards, were you not afraid? He answered, No, I thank God, no, I asked But were not your women and children afraid? He applied mildly. No, our women and children were not afraid to die. The storms of life. But it was the relationship of the heart to the one who could bring the storm and calm the storm. Or the one who oversaw all things was the difference between the actions and the attitudes of those others. Jesus said to them, Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith? Why are you fearful? And he stood and he rebukes the storm, the wind, and it says there was a great calm. Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith? Little faith, faith in what? Faith in what? The boat? Their skills to sail, the previous years of experience on the Sea of Galilee, you know, great rowers, you know. There are times when we read about that. No. Their faith was all in themselves and not in the one who was in the boat with them. You know, think of all the experiences they had in life with Jesus. Of all of the things that they had known, of all the things they saw and heard of him, the teachings, the people that came to him, and the healings, and everything that went on. And his words to them, how much he loved them. And then all of a sudden, in a moment, that relationship, all of a sudden, there seems to be a division. Don't you remember what our relationship is? Don't you know how much I love you? I wouldn't let anything happen to you. That's basically what he's saying Oh, you have little faith, faith in me, as I have faith in my Heavenly Father. They should have known that Jesus, with him everything was under control. He says, be silent. And the waves ceased. Yeah! Can't imagine how that must have been. You might have just poof an experience that stayed with them. Say with me if you would, Psalm 23, 1 and 2. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He maketh me lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside the still waters. We've talked about the beginning of this psalm where David says, this is a personal thing to me. The Lord is my shepherd, and he's speaking out of real experience and love. And then we saw he he he he his relationship comes to the next step and says, I shall not want. Because of this relationship, I'm not going to be in need. And now he begins with this beautiful picture of how that need is met. It's interesting that we continue to digest Psalm 23. We go bit by bit and bite by bite. I read where experts say that we are to chew our food thirty-two times before swallowing. Do you ever try to do that? You know, no way. I'd be there all day and my jaw muscles would be tired, you know. But the idea is you know to digest. So as we go through Psalm 23, we chew and we chew and we chew and we chew and chew. And hopefully the digestion part will be a little bit better and we'll profit from it in make it uh to be able to to profit our own souls. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures He makes me to lie down in green pastures. In studying sheep and their um and their life, there are a number of reasons why they will not lie down. I want to just share two of them, two of the basic ones, and make some parallel uh pictures of of why and the experience that they undergo in life Two of the reasons are. And the first is that they will not lie down until they are free from all fear. They're not going to lay down until they're free from all fear. And there's some of us who you'd be in a situation and you hear noises, you know, in the night, you know, stuff like that. I'm not ready to sleep You know, and sheep, if they know there are wolves out there, or coyotes, or other stuff like that, they're hesitant, they're not lying down because they become more vulnerable than that Sheep are helpless creatures. They're very timid. They're easily panicked, and most anything will startle them, like cattle. You see the old cowboy movies, you know, there's a noise and a shot and all of a sudden and they're off. You know, the sheep will do the same thing unless they are absolutely assured that their shepherd is with them, guarding them and watching over them. Back in 1987, uh Millie and I lived in Marikina part of of Manila, and um the house that we lived in shared a common wall. Uh we had big walls around the house, but we shared a common wall. And we woke up the next morning and opened the gate to to drive out, and the street was full of police Full of all kinds of people. Ah, what's this? Come to find out the family next door to us was murdered The husband was a a man on a merchant marine overseas most of the year. Um and they somebody got into the house and they stabbed the entire family except for the baby And so all of a sudden you get a little bit, you know, you know, what's going on? Are they looking for money? Are they looking for whatever? And um the houses have all tin roofs um corrugated uh iron roofs. So you go to bed the next night and the cats are outside and the cats are jumping from roof to roof and What is that? You know what's that noise? You know. Going to sleep just with the thought of something. I hear that noise, and you just can't lay down because of a fear. You just can't rest because fear is is being experienced. It's out there. Wesley couldn't rest because of the fear of the storms of life and didn't have that relationship. uh with them. And eventually we just had to say, Lord, this is yours and you're just going to have to watch over and take care of us. Just as the disciples should have known when they were awakened by Jesus that their fear of the storm was really nothing at all, because the one who made the storm or allowed the storm was the one who could also quiet the storm. And so that relationship has to come to an understanding, that fact, that truth. And until we understand that and put that into practice, we cannot have quietness in our hearts. Paul writes to Young Timothy, for God has not given us a spirit of fear. He hasn't given us that sphere. That's not the attitude that is to prevail, but of power and of love. and of a sound mind or a disciplined mind. He makes me to lie down. I can't get rest through the night or through life. Unless I come to a quiet confidence in the one who has not only redeemed me, but says, I will never leave you or forsake you. I can't rest. I can't have confidence until I know those beautiful truths, not only at night, but throughout life, that my good shepherd is watching over me. John 10, I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. And he that is an hireling and not the shepherd whose own the sheep are not, seeeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and fleeth, and the wolf catcheth them, and scattereth the sheep The hireling fleeth because he is an hireling and careth not for the sheep. Sometimes we put our trust in hirelings. No, my confidence for for these men, their confidence had been in their sailing skills, the boat itself, the sails or the oars or whatever. And we find it, and we'll put our confidence in this And when that breaks, or when that burns up, or when that is lost, or ah, I'm in a panic. What do I do? You know, the storms of life beating on me. But When I come to understanding my good shepherd is there, and he says he has given his life for me, his sheep. That's how David could say, you know, he is my shepherd, because he knew that relationship was patterned in there. Although I have nothing to fear, I know that I am not exempt from the storms of life, and neither are you. Like we said, if you haven't experienced a storm in life, be prepared because they will come in one form or another. So when my life seems almost swamped, we can trust in the one who is my keeper and the lover of my soul, and again the one who has assured us that he's not going to leave He's not going to abandon his own. We go through those experiences in order that we might be better equipped for the life that is ahead. So the sheep will only lay down and rest when they are free from fear. Secondly, sheep will only lay down and rest when they are free from hunger If they're hungry and they're in search of food and they're looking around and just can't do it, they're not going to lay down until they've provided been provided for in that part I think David understood that. He watched over his father's flocks, especially during the dry season from March to November. Green pastures in the Holy Land are hard to find. And if you've ever been there or ever seen pictures, they have the finest crop of rocks. If you ever want rocks, you go to the Holy Land. And so finding green pastures Finding those fields of of of good fertile uh nutrition is not easy. And David understood that. So that was that which he provided for them David knew that once their bellies were full, they were satisfied and ready to lie down. And I think we as human beings are pretty much the same. Ever lay down and say, I'm heading on down where where are you going? I'm heading on down to the refrigerator, you know, get something to eat, you know. It just like that And so, for our own soul's sake, yet we're not talking about our food stomach sake. Listen to what Luke writes. Now it came to pass, as they went, he entered into a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house. And she had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. But Martha was cumbered about with much serving and came to him and said, Lord, dost thou not care for my that my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her therefore that she help me Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful about careful and troubled about many things, but one thing is needful. And Mary hath chosen that good part which shall not be taken away from her. That one thing was needful, Who was hungry amongst the sisters? Who couldn't rest? Who couldn't find satisfaction? Well, Jesus said, your sister has found it. As she sat at the feet of Jesus and she listened to what he was teaching and presenting to his disciples, she found her hunger for truth. satisfied. And Jesus said, she chose the good part. She chose the part that was not only satisfying her soul, but gave her that which she could rest in. And he says, you know, You should be kind of like your sister. You should be resting in these words. The Lord doesn't offer us a dry and sunburned weeds in life But he brings us and he leads us to green pastures. It's available. Left my Bible back there. But it's available there, isn't it? You know He doesn't give us little sparks of of this and little weeds here and little uh burned grass here But as you open the scriptures from Genesis to Revelation, you find a field of beautiful truth, of experiences of men and women just like us of of the examples of of a church or of an individual, the challenges of life. We find all of those things and we can sit And sometimes it's hard to understand, but it's available to us. He leads us to these green pastures in order that we can dine and feast from these very words. Be like Mary, who was filled as she sat by her Savior's side to her soul's delight with the very words of Jesus Don't be satisfied with a few measly words of of of food that are available. Banquet yourself. Allow the Word of God to feast on you. Uh there are some tremendous uh uh Christian radio programs. When I'm in the car, if I can get a program or on my phone, I listen to this and I said, boy, that that fed my soul You know, that profited me. And there are times during the week and we will go along and they say, you know, there's a theme that God is wanting me to pick here and And it comes up again and again and again, you know. Those those times he's brought me to this field. And there are other times when I feel and I've wandered off from the flock and I'm I'm feasting on little weeds or whatever and then all of a sudden I see that I'm I'm anxious or I'm concerned and I find out that I haven't my diet's not been right I haven't been spending time with him in feeding on the things that I ought to. My good shepherd leads me to those fields. Again from John 10, my sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. He gives unto eternal life when When we leave this earth? No. Eternal life begins as He has chosen us and brings us to Himself. And we have that realization that I'm a sinner and I need a Savior And the Spirit of God comes in and quickens my heart to see that I have to rely upon him. And through all of the process, there's not once that he has forsaken us or abandoned us He's given us everything that we need to be provided for. He doesn't answer all of my questions, but he puts me in the direction where I am able to be satisfied his spirit residing within me is saying, this is true, or this is right, or this is the direction to go to. And it's supported as we gather together with others of like precious faith and say, boy, we had the same experience, don't we? And you can pick up and you can travel somewhere else and you find a Bible-believing church and you sit with them and say, Wow, it's the same, because it's the same good shepherd that leads us and brings us to those places and provides for us in the exact same way. So there's no need of fear, as I am trusting and resting in Him, and I can rest with my head on the pillow and say, Lord, this is yours. Watch over me. You know, physically, my eyes are closed. You know what's going on around, you know. We watched the storms go through the other night, you know, and and uh there was one little town Ambler not too far from us And there was an elderly couple and this huge tree came crashing down and and they had to get a crane in there to to get 'em out And I know we've got a huge oak tree in our backyard and I somebody that I live with says, you know, Well you think that tree is gonna come crashing down. I said, Okay, we just trust the Lord, you know. We're not being foolish about it, but I can rest. as the storms go on or whatever. But I can also find rest because his word grants me access to such beautiful truths about our relationship, about the reason that he says you don't have to be faithless. I've showed myself to you, you find that. And so I can find such a confidence in that. And we all do. We find such a glorious confidence together. So he is my shepherd, he is my good shepherd. I shall not want, I'm not going to be lacking need. And the psalm continues. It talks more about that. But this first part of it, you know, leads me into green pastures. And as believers, we say, boy, and I think of my years as an unbeliever, what I was eating, you know, what was I digesting, what my soul was feeding on. It gives us some Some empathy, some sympathy for the world around us. And we see their lives and what they're like. Why are they doing this? But they don't know. They're blind to the Good Shepherd. They're blind to the fact that he has bought them and and brings them to green pastures to feed. And we got a glorious banquet table. So God is good. And we're thankful for that. Let's pray. Father, we're pausing at this portion of our service to give you thanks that this man David, so much like ourselves experienced those things which uh have been written down and preserved in order that we might not only find peace and comfort, but truth As he speaks of you in wonderful, glowing terms, we also see our Lord Jesus Christ, our good shepherd, the great shepherd, providing for us as his sheep. For he gave his life in payment for us, brought us into uh uh uh into his fold, into his flock, and leads us uh to places and situations that we are not in need, that we are not in want. And we're thankful for those green pastures We thank you, Father, for the provision of comfort within the heart during troublesome times at large or some specific instance. We're also thankful for the uh the the the word and the spirit that feeds our souls for those things which you know best. That we need at any given moment. May we never tire of studying and reading and feeding from your word and find it a delight unto our souls, to our soul's satisfaction, for we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.