Let's turn our Bibles. No more Southern Churches of Asia. Now we are to Christmas just for today. And let's go to Luke chapter 2. Luke chapter 2. And Luke chapter 2, and starting reading with verse 8. Luke chapter 2, verse 8. And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you, ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest. and on earth peace, good will toward men. Let's bow once again in prayer. O Lord, we pray that thou would remove from our thoughts thoughts of worldly employments and recreations. And help us to be able to concentrate fully upon the things of thee. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, here we have the very, very familiar Christmas story And uh we could almost all of us quote those verses by heart without even having to look at our Bible. But there's some good stuff here, even so, even though it's been preached on and taught on and read many, many times. Well, first of all, verse 8, we have the shepherds abiding in the fields, keeping watch over their flocks by night. And sheep were very common in Israel back in these days, and shepherds watching them were very common. And we see with the birth of Christ. That it was a common lowly affair, Jesus' birth, so far as the physical circumstances of it. And the people to whom the angels appeared Were the lowly shepherds. They were not considered the higher up in society. They were considered the lower strata of society. But here those angels appeared to these lowly shepherds. And of course, all through Scripture, sheep and shepherds are pictures of Christ and the church. We have Christ as a good shepherd We have us as the sheep who are always going astray. Well, verse 9, the angel of the Lord came upon them. And the glory of the Lord shone round about them. The angel of the Lord. That's a phrase that's used many times in the Bible. The angel of the Lord The angel of the Lord, many people have said that the angel of the Lord is always Christ in the Bible But here it's obvious, I should think, that it's not Christ. Because Christ, he's actually the baby in the manger at this point. And so we have the angel of the Lord appearing unto the shepherds at the time the baby is at the manger and telling them about it. So it would be sometimes the angel of the Lord is Christ in the Bible, many times, but not always. And here we have that. Here's just an angel of the Lord called the Angel of the Lord And so the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. Always in the Bible, when God appears, people are shocked. And awed by the glory, by the power, and they fall upon their faces before the Lord in worship. And that's what worship is, falling on our faces before the Lord. It's not jumping up and celebrating. It's falling on our faces before the Lord. And you notice they were sore afraid. And God is not on the same level as we are. So many people today in the church, they want to reduce God to our level. And it's true that God is a friend. That's true. And it's true that he's closer than a brother. All those things are true, but he's not on our level. He's still God and He's still our Father. And we need to come before Him in reverence. We sang in Brazil a lot of those contemporary new choruses that people sing. And a lot of those contemporary choruses, they make Christ into a lover, like a love song And they say, oh, I smell the perfume of Christ, and it's all that type of thing. And reducing Christ down to our level. I mean, He is someone that loves us and we love Him. But he's not in the sense of a lover. And uh and here the glory of the Lord shone round about them. They were sore afraid. I have a book in my library, or at least I used to, and the title of the book was Are You Running With Me Jesus? And see, in that they're kind of reducing Jesus to a jogger there next to us. And we can't really reduce him to those kinds of levels. He's not on our level. His ways are high as the heavens are higher above the earth. And then we go on to verse 10. And the angel said unto him, and to them, this verse we want to concentrate on this morning, the angel said unto them. Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. Good tidings of great joy. is what we have. And uh that's what was brought to these shepherds at this time. That's what we have today and that's what we're expected to share with other people. Are those good tidings of great joy? And it is good tidings that God has elected to save some in this world. And some people like to find fault with God saying, well, why doesn't God just save everybody? And you know the question really should be, why does God save anybody? And so God has given us good tidings of great joy. That people can be saved from their sins and go to heaven. And so all people are lost without the Lord, all people are lost without his way of salvation that came through Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ came, and we have those good tidings of great joy. We have the free offer of the gospel, which shall be to all people. As we give out the good tidings to people around, we give them out to everyone, because we don't know who their elect are, and we give them to everyone. Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. is what the Bible tells us. Good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people. How are those good tidings of great joy going to get to all people? Well, through us bringing it to them, through the church bringing it to them. Then we go on here to verse 11. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And there were many prophecies. It was referred to in Sunday school this morning about prophecies of Jesus in the Old Testament. And many of these prophecies were fulfilled with Jesus' first coming. And he came, and he fulfilled the prophecies in many different ways. And here he fulfilled the prophecy when he was born in Bethlehem. We read with the call to worship this morning, and now Bethlehem, Ephraim, which are little among the cities of Judah, Jesus would be born in Bethlehem. And that was fulfilled exactly. Jesus fulfilled so many things exactly. From the Old Testament, literal fulfillment. And that's pointed out, especially to the Jews, that they might accept Jesus as the Messiah. And here we have a Savior which is Christ, Christ the Messiah, that was prophesied Well, the angels told these shepherds that they would find the babe, verse 12, wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. Of course, what is a manger? A manger is a feeding trough for animals. And it's not a very fancy place. A lot of times when people are gonna have a baby, they fix All up a room of the house as a nursery in the right color for a boy or girl if they know that, and they're going to get it all fixed up, nice crib and everything. Well, Jesus had none of that He was in a stable here, born in a manger, in a thing that they fed cattle out of, something that's dirty, uh something that's completely rough. And yet that's where Jesus was born in a common condition, in a lowly condition, common and lowly is how Jesus came. And he showed us that the riches of this world don't matter for anything. Being rich, being famous, being high in society matters for nothing. And that uh we all stand before the Lord individually. And so here we have Jesus They're lying in a manger. And you know, that was very offensive to the Jews, all these things with common and lowly. The Jews were looking forward to their Messiah coming, and they were looking for a king, a king to free them from the Romans. And they got this lowly babe lying in the manger advertised to the shepherds. And coming riding into Jerusalem on a donkey. And so here we have that. And is a king supposed to come like that? Well the Jews thought that was complete foolishness And they would not accept Jesus. That was one of the stumbling blocks that they had. But what was interesting, you know, if you go through the Old Testament, you see some places in the Old Testament you have the Messiah suffering. And you have some places where he's reigning. And the Jews always had trouble with that, trying to reconcile the two. a suffering Savior, a suffering Messiah, and a reigning Messiah. And so they used to have, they used to divide it into two different messiahs. Rightly so, which they really should have done. And they said, the one Messiah was the son of Joseph, the suffering one, and the other one was the son of David, the reigning one And in a lot of ways, that's a true way of looking at it, that Jesus came the first time as the suffering Messiah, and he'll come the second time as the reigning Messiah. But the Jews had trouble with that, and they were really looking mainly just for the reigning Messiah that would come. And you notice verse 13 there, when I read this verse, I remember Handel's Messiah there. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying, And Handel's Messiah, it's exact King James wording, word for word Just like that. Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward men. And so we can have peace through the Lord. The world can't have peace without Christianity, without the Lord. They might have a lot of money, they might have a lot of other things, but they don't have peace Then let's continue on. Verse 15. And it came to pass, as the angels were gone away from them into heaven, the shepherds said one to another. Let us now go even unto Bethlehem and see this thing which has come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us And they came with haste and faint found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in the manger. And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning the child And all they that heard it wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds. But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen as it was told unto them. So the shepherds they decided to go back to Bethlehem and see this babe lying in the manger. So they went there. And they said that this thing, Bethlehem, let us see this thing, verse 15, which has come to pass, which the Lord hath made known to us. This was an unusual thing. This is not usual through history, and especially for today, that angels come and make known things to people. That's an exception. As God was setting up things, as God was come in the flesh and to save us from our sins. It was an exception to the rule of how things were made known, and it was made known by angels. appearing to the people. Let us see this thing which the Lord hath made known unto us. But you know, God has generally ordained that his news should be spread by other human beings. And that's how we're supposed to spread it today. It's not spread around by angels today. And you go on here Verse 16, they came with haste, found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child. And so here we have being done what is the normal thing, the rule that God has set up. They made known abroad what happened. And what who this child was. First the angels made it known to them, and then they made it known abroad. They were spreading those good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people. And you know, God has ordained the foolishness of preaching. Let's go back just for a second back to 1 Corinthians chapter 1 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 18. 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 18, where it talks about how God has ordained the foolishness of preaching. The foolishness of us giving the gospel to people right around us. Verse 18 of 1 Corinthians chapter 1. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But unto us which are saved it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For after that, in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God, it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. And you know, God, He could have ordained many different means for people to be saved To come unto him. He could have just had a light go off in our head just spontaneously, and we knew all the things about the Lord and come unto him without anybody telling us He could have had it like that, but he didn't. He could have had it written in the sky in sky writing or whatever. But God has ordained the foolishness of preaching The foolishness of us giving the gospel, the good news, to those around us. And that's how it spread. That's how we came to the Lord, and that's how other people are going to come to the Lord. And then here it says, the preaching of the cross, verse 18, is to them that perish foolishness. They have to have their hearts opened up to the word. They have to have a new heart to receive it. It's foolishness if God has not opened up their heart. And then it says, I will bring destroy the wisdom of the wise. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? In Sunday school this morning, we were studying about Stephen. He was disputing with the wise of this world He was disputing with the Cyrenians and the Alexandrians and all kinds of Epicureans and all these different groups, all these different philosophies. But where are all these different philosophies? God has made foolish the wisdom of this world And the world by wisdom doesn't know God, only by the revelation of his spirit and of his working of his spirit. And it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believed. Some people have restricted this preaching to be just preaching in the Sunday morning service. Well, this preaching is a broader term than that. It's the giving out of the gospel. Just like in the Bible, a prophet is somebody that gives out God's word. And preaching is giving out God's Word. We give it out in the Sunday morning service, we give it out in Sunday school, we give it out witnessing from day to day. We can give out the gospel in a Christian film. We can give out the gospel many different ways. But that preaching is what God uses in the lives of people to save them. Let's go back there for a second to Luke chapter 2. Luke chapter 2 and verse 18. And all they that heard it wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds Now here we have all these people there in Bethlehem and around there. They've heard this report of Jesus being born. They've heard the good tidings of great joy But they really don't understand it. Most of them have not had a new heart given to them to understand all of those things, and they're just wondering at it. But we have to go from wandering to salvation. God has to give us a new heart and a new spirit. And so Mary, verse 19, she kept all these things, pondered them in her heart. And Jesus, he was going to go back to Nazareth eventually and grow up there. He was going to grow up as a small child, a baby small child, grow up all the way up in a lowly, commonplace in a carpenter shop. uh there in uh Nazareth. And Jesus, he had a a regular growing up. I don't There's no indication in Scripture that he did miracles when he was growing up. There are apocryphal gospels of the Roman Catholic Church. and others that that have him when he's a baby levitating his bot baby bottle or different things, doing all kinds of miracles. But he had a lowly, common upbringing there in Nazareth. And uh so lowly and so common that the people in Nazareth couldn't accept That it was Jesus, the Messiah, who had grown up among them. And of course, a prophet is not without honor, save in his own country and in his own house. Well, verse 20, and the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things they had heard and seen as it was told unto them. Glorifying and praising God. What is the chief end of man? Well, we Presbyterians, we have a ready answer for that if we know anything about our catechism. The first question of our Presbyterian catechism, the Westminster Catechism, is what is the chief end of man? What is it? To glorify God and to enjoy him forever. And to glorify God, that's the chief end of man. That's what we should be doing in this life and in the life to come. Glorifying God in our lives, in all that we say and do. Glorifying and praising God. And uh people make other things into being the chief end of man. When we were in Brazil, uh we went to a couple of churches down there in Brazil and the preachers there uh made uh witnessing and going out and giving the good tidings of the gospel to other people to be the chief end of man. Well, that's not the chief end of man, exactly. That's part of it. Part of it is we ought to be witnessing, but that's not all of it. We need to be glorifying God in everything that we say and do My daughter, she gave me a little uh saying here uh by Oswald Chambers. And she gave me this, of course she knows we're missionaries, and she came across this, and it's along that line. And he said, the goal of the missionary is to do God's will Not to be useful or to win the lost. A missionary is useful, and he does win the lost. But that is not his goal. His goal is to do the will of his Lord. And on the same line of glorifying God. is his goal. And along that line, we witness, we give out the good news of the gospel. That's one of the things that we do And God has ordained that Christianity should be an evangelistic religion. Evangelistic. And did you know that all religions in the world are not evangelistic? They don't do proselytizing, not all of them. The Christians proselytize and evangelize. The Muslims, they're big on proselytizing and evangelizing, but the Buddhists do not. The people believing in Shinto, they don't do it. The Hindus don't do evangelizing and proselytizing. But we have a religion that God has given to us that has good tidings of great joy. which shall be to all people. And so God has ordained that we should spread around these good news. We should have that as one of our main things we do all the time, not every day, not every minute, but that we do regularly, giving out the good news of the gospel. Let's go back to Mark chapter 16. Just a couple chapters over, actually. Actually, just one page over in my Bible. Luke chapter 16 and verse 15. Mark 16, 15 And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel, the good tidings to every creature. Go into all the world. When it says every creature here, it's not talking about giving the good news to dogs and cats. or things like that, but to every type of human being, every tribe, every people group, every type of human being, Jew and Gentile. In the Bible, it was a big thing between Jew and Gentile. And the Jews Thought the gospel was just for the Jews, but it's also for the Gentiles. To every creature go ye into all the world. And did you know that in the NIV Bible, it says of these verses here at the end of Mark 16 that the oldest and best manuscripts do not have these verses? And so they're telling you that Mark chapter 16, most of it should not be in the Bible. But it should be in the Bible. And it is part of the Bible. And of course, the people with the NIV and the New Bibles, they're so enlightened today that they now know that things that people preached on in the past were not really in the Bible But no, they were in the Bible. The Bible has been passed down through the centuries and it has been preserved. And so these verses in Mark 16 are really in the Bible? And they are, go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Then let's go over to Acts chapter 1. Acts chapter 1 and verse 8. These are called the Great Commission. At the end of every one of the Gospels, and here at the beginning of the book of Acts, we have given The Great Commission about those good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people. And here we have Acts chapter 1 and verse 8. But ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth. And then when Jesus had said these things, verse 9, while they beheld, he was taken up, and a cloud received him out of their sight. The very last thing that Jesus said on this earth was go out and give those good tidings of great joy to other people. The very last thing. Why would he have said it last? He said it last because it's very important, and it's something that he does not want us to forget. That he wants us to go out and give that good news of the gospel. And so it has all these different places we can give out the good news of the gospel. Jerusalem is here in Kingsville. Judea is Maryland. Samaria is the United States. And the uttermost part of the earth is Brazil and Cameroon. And so we might not all go to Brazil and Cameroon, but we're all here in Kingsville, or we're all in Maryland. And we have opportunities to give out the good tidings of great joy. We need to be always looking for opportunities to witness to other people and to give out those good news to other people. And we need to have love to God, first of all. Love to God. And what did Jesus say? He said, if ye love me, say you love me. Is that what he said? No. I've been in gospel concerts before, and they said, oh, if you all love Jesus, tell Jesus you love him. But that's not in the Bible. That's never in the Bible. It's if you love Jesus, if ye love me, keep my commandments. And one of the greatest commandments is give out the good tidings of great joy. If ye love me, keep my commandments. Keep my commandments. What's a commandment? It's something that's obligatory. We must do a commandment. That's what the word means Today it's popular for people to say, oh, well, hey, I don't obey God, I don't do things for God because it's a commandment, I do it because I love the Lord, and that's a lot better reason Well, I mean that's that's good, and we should do it because we love the Lord, but we also do it because it's a commandment. That's obligatory for us to do it. There are still commandments today. So we have love for God as we give out the good news of the gospel. And we also have love for those around us, concern for them. And the problem is today that people don't care about other people. They really don't have any interest in other people. You know, we live on Main Street there in Smyrna. And our neighbors are definitely not the most friendly people in the world And we have tried to, you know, make friends with them, and you know you all a lot of times you see on TV You know, this guy becomes a mass murderer and they go go to the next door neighbor and they ask the next door neighbor, well, what did you think about this guy? And they say, well, I didn't actually know his name, and I don't know that I ever talked to him, but he seemed like he was all right, you know, and uh the thing is, is that And then I used to think, you know, boy, it's just something that we just that people just don't get around to doing, talking to their neighbors. But it's on purpose they don't talk to their neighbors They don't want their neighbors to know anything about them. They don't have any interest in their neighbors. And that shouldn't be the way it is with a Christian. A Christian should have interest in other people, should be friendly. You know, that's that's why we're friendly and how we show our friendliness, because we have interest in somebody else. And that's how a Christian should be. And we have that interest to bring other people to the Lord. Interest. And love for them. You remember the two great commandments? To love God with all our heart and with all our soul and love our neighbor as ourselves. There's a great story in 2 Kings I've been preaching through 2 Kings over in Marcus Hook, and we went through this story uh a few months ago about the four lepers in 2 Kings. I preached on this way back, I think, here Or maybe it wasn't so long ago, I don't know. But anyway, the four lepers. And remember those four lepers, they were at the city gate, and there was a big siege going on. And they were between the besieging air army and the people under siege, and they were starving to death. And they finally decided, well, if we keep sitting here, we're going to starve to death. If we go back into the city that's under siege, we're going to starve to death. But if we go over to the army of the Syrians, they might just give us some food, and they might just save us Have pity on poor lepers. So they went over there and they found that the Syrians had all fled because the Lord had made them flee. And the camp was there with all the food and everything, and they gathered up all the food. They gathered up all the things that they had, and they looked around, they hid some here, hid some there And finally it occurred to them that we do not well. Today is a day of good tidings. Good tidings And we hold our peace. And we don't want to be holding our peace. We want to see that today is a day of good tidings, of great joy. And we need to go out and give those good tidings of great joy to those around us. And the Bible says we should give it to our friends, to our family. It also says we should go out into the highways and hedges and compel them to come in. Over in Marcus Hook, we've been doing some door-to-door every month. And that's a good way to go out to the highways and hedges and compel them to come in. And I want to leave you with my favorite thing again this morning is tracks for giving out the gospel That's my favorite thing, and it should be a favorite thing of you yours, I should think, because Tracks, you can give the gospel, the good tidings of great joy. You can give those to people that you never even see You can give those to people like your neighbors that really don't want anything to do with you. But you might just get them to take a tract. Although some of my neighbors have refused those too. But anyway, the thing is that in the tract you have a complete gospel plan. It's complete. And the people can read it at their leisure, without any pressure. And I've always found in giving out tracts, it's always better to give them to people when they're by themselves. It's not good when they're with other people because they're self-conscious of what the other people are going to think of them when they take the track. It's better when they're by themselves. And of course with a tract They don't have to be self-conscious when they're reading it. They can take it home in their bedroom or wherever they are and can read it and the Lord can work on their hearts. And uh so we need to be involved in giving out those good tidings of great joy Which shall be to all people. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we pray that thou would bless these thoughts to our hearts. And O Lord, help us to be the witnesses that we should be Help us to spread the good tidings in Jesus' name, amen.