I'd have to start and do something a little bit different this evening Look and see if this sounds familiar. We're going to do a responsive reading, and I'd like to do the first 11 verses of Psalm chapter 22. We call this Good Friday, and I believe that's an understatement when we're talking about the redemptive work of our Lord Jesus Christ. But when we go to Psalm 22, we do responsive reading, I don't think we could ever ever look at enough scripture and s and see it But let's I'm going to start and let's just read the first twelve verses and see if this sounds familiar to you. Now remember, this is a prophecy going way back into the days of David. Look at this. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Why art thou so far from helping me and from the words of my roaring? But thou art holy, O thou that inhabitest the praises of Israel. They cried unto thee and were delivered. They trusted in thee and were not confounded, but I am a worm. And no but I am a worm and no man, a reproach of men and despised of the people. He trusted on the Lord that he would deliver him. Let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in him. I was cast upon thee from the womb. Thou art my God from my mother's belly. And altogether, many bulls have compassed me, strong bulls of Bashan have beset me round As we bridge that gap. And we're back there in the Old Testament with this responsive reading. We see these prophecies leading up to this moment. And we see here in the book of John how Christ pours his heart out. And did you hear what Mike said when he prayed? He said that Jesus thought about us. That it just i it that doesn't send chills up your spine that Jesus would think about us for going through this Way to hear this message this evening. In John chapter 17, this is the end of the consolatory discourse of Christ consoling the very people he's ready to die for And he brings this together in John chapter 17 and starts out of a truth. These words spake Jesus and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father. The hour is come. Glorify thy son, that thy son also may glorify thee. As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him And this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. I have glorified thee on the earth. I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self, with the glory which I had with thee before the world was. Once again, we are in John 17. We're going into verse 6. If anybody missed that. I have manifested thy name unto the men which thou gavest me out of the world, thine they were, and thou gavest them me, and they have kept thy word. Now they have known that all things whatsoever thou hast given me are of thee. For I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me, and they they have received them, and have known surely that I came out from thee And they have believed that thou didst send me. I pray for them. I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me, for they are thine. And all mine are thine. And thine are mine, and I am glorified in them. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we just thank Thee and praise Thee for these words. We can see them in many of our Bibles in red letters. These are the actual words of our Lord Jesus Christ. The word of God, the scripture, the logos. the word that thou hast given unto us and pray that we will hide them in our hearts that we might not sin against thee. Bless us as we go forward this evening and I thank thee for this precious time of fellowship that thou hast brought us together. We beg thee to walk amongst us greatly this evening. In the name of Jesus Christ, we remember thee. We thank thee. And we lift thee up this evening. Sign, we pray. Amen. This chapter is a prayer. You see in Matthew chapter 6, verse 9 through 13, and Luke 11, verses 2 through 4, have always been known and identified as the Lord's Prayer. They were from our Lord, but not for our Lord. This is the actual prayer of our Lord Jesus Christ. It is Christ's prayer, Christ's alone prayer. This is one prayer. There was one Lord's prayer which he taught us to pray. It is a prayer that he would not pray for himself, but that he would pray for us. And this was no obligation of him to pray. But read these words. If you get a chance this evening, go back and read the rest of this chapter this evening. He is praying not only for those that were with him at the time, up until that time, but for those that will believe on him. This is his last will and testament. It's a prayer. It's a benediction for a perfect sermon that he had just given all the way from chapters 13 to 16. And how beautiful when the pastor gives a benediction I think that is very important when a pastor prepares a message. It's so important to bring it all together with a benediction and give a wonderful blessing on that message. We see here in these verses, if you remember last year when Good Friday service, it might be hard to remember back that far, I'm sorry, but we barely got out of the first two verses of John 17, and we're going to go forward this evening. So basically we see a prayer for the glory of the Father for the Son. We see many a time did Christ pray to the Father. And we see that as inferred in the gospels all throughout Scripture. He gave thanks for his food. He prayed for his miracles. He thanked the Lord when the miracles were accomplished and he looked up to heaven. And when we look we we look up the heaven and say even metaphorically we have hope things are looking up you ever hear of that one things are looking up where do you think that came from? Well we're looking up to heaven, we're looking up at Christ Things are looking up in our lives. And I think that's a blessing when we live in such a time of depression and there's so many hard things going on around us. When we're looking to heaven, we're looking to Christ. You have hope You have wonderful hope, and he gives that here to us and he shares it. Look at the position of his body in the first, very first verse. It says, These words spake Jesus, and he lifted his eyes up to heaven. Look at the position that he was looking up in absolute honor and reverence to the Father. We see that he looked up. It's amazing how sons and daughters innately look up to their fathers and their mothers for strength and protection. We are to look up to God. Matthew Henry quotes, he said, as prayer is to be made to God only So it is our duty in prayer to eye him as a father and to call him our father. Galatians chapter 4, 6 we read, and because ye are sons God hath sent forth the Spirit of the Son into your hearts crying, Abba Father. It's basically saying, Daddy. You know, it's like resting our head in his bosom and looking up at him and looking for strength from him and asking him and begging him to help us. And that's what Christ is showing us here. Our Heavenly Father is a good Father. He was a wonderful father to his precious son on this earth. And we can learn everything about parenting and grandparenting. and all areas of relationships by looking and following the example of our Lord Jesus Christ and how he treated his father with utter respect. He didn't go behind his father's back and blame him for all the bad things that happened in his life He went back and he revered him. He thanked him. And he looked up to heaven just as he was about to be, for the only time in the history of this world, Christ being separated from his Father. What a horrible thought. Perhaps that's one of those metaphorical things he was looking up in that cup. Remember it said, let that cup pass before me. He begged the Father, but not my will, but thy will be done. Maybe that was one of the ingredients, the components in that cup that he saw that was so hard for him. I heard a message today where the pastor said, He loved us so much and he was bearing so much sin and burdens on us. He probably didn't even feel the nails in his hands and his feet. It was so hard in his it was so his heart was a soft, beautiful heart, but he had such love and compassion for us. And he had so much more that was in his heart and on his mind. Perhaps he didn't even feel the pain of it. With him that was possible Christ affirms the glory of his hour. We see this in verses one and verses one and two. What was his hour His hour, he affirms, is the glory of the cross. And many times Christ mentions that all throughout the scripture. He upholds this by praying to the Father. There were other prayers to the Father, but wouldn't you like to have seen or heard those prayers? Wouldn't you have liked to see them? You read these verses in chapter 13 all the way to 16, and you see the longest sermon, this consolidator discourse that Christ gives. Why is it called that by theologians? You remember my favorite name, there are so many names for Christ in Scripture. My favorite name goes back to Luke 2. He was referred to as the consolation of Israel. The comfort. And why? Not only was he the consolation, but he gave us the consolation. He sent the Holy Spirit to comfort our hearts, didn't he? Isn't that incredible? There were other prayers like in Matthew chapter 14, verse 23. And when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray. And when the evening was come, he was there alone. He prayed. Luke 5. 16, we read, and he withdrew himself into the wilderness and he prayed. You know what we're doing here is we're seeing a very important conversation that goes all the way back to the Old Testament when Christ, who is referred to as Adonai, and God the Father is referred to as Jehovah has a conversation, in essence a session meeting, all the way back in Psalm 2, verses 7 through 9. I will declare the decree. The Lord hath said unto me, Thou art my son. This day have I begotten thee. Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron, thou shalt dash them in pieces like a boder's vessel. And God, the Father, says two things in these words. He says, Anyone who loves my son, I will love them. I will bless them. I will lift them up. But if they hate my son, I will crush them with a rod. I will probably there is no in between here. And it's very important because as we see the lead-in in verses 2 and 3, you want to know the real definition of what eternal life is? Is anybody here interested in eternal life? I think you are. That's one of the reasons you're here. I think you all love it. But it's such a simple, elementary definition. There have been so many religions that have taken eternal life and have ripped it to shreds and what it becomes, what happens when you're when you're dying, what happens when you actually die. You hear about this this this whole lie about purgatory, soul sleep. Save your there's no life after breath you're no there's no life after death so save your breath you just die and you become nothing that's what the evolutionist and the atheist believes. This is eternal life. Go to verse 3 And this is life eternal. That's a pretty good opening. And this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God and Jesus Christ whom thou sent. That is the answer of all time, of all religions. What is eternal life? That they might know Jesus Christ. So then your next question should be if you even begin to care about this, which I know you do, how do I get to know Jesus Christ? That's the most important question you will ever have in your eternal existence. How do I get to know him? Well, look at verse 4. I have glorified thee. There's one way to glorify him. I have glorified thee on earth. I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. We see that Christ used prayer. This is one of the ways that we get to know and have a personal, intimate relationship with Jesus Christ. Pray. Lay your blessings at his feet. Lay all your trials at his feet. Get a private time. And make it part of your life and make it daily. As we were reading all throughout in the adult Sunday School class several weeks ago, David worshiped the Lord seven times daily. Seven times. He couldn't get enough of it. Remember Daniel. Remember when Daniel was thrown cast into the lions, then? Why? He opened his doors up, and when he was told not to pray, he opens his doors up in the midst and he's praying to the Lord three times a day and they took him and they cast him into a lion's dead. We're to pray. This here we see this is a prayer a private conversation that Christ revealed from heaven before creation, what we just read in Psalm 2, and we see the love of the Father for a Son. There's so many wonderful verses that show how much God the Father loves his son. My begotten son. Doesn't mean my created son, but begotten means my son. Which I had absolutely no obligation to reveal him to you, but since I love you, I reveal him to you. And I teach you who he is. I show you what he did for you. And we read in Psalm 22 how he was spat upon, he was rejected. That is the tenor of what most people feel about Jesus Christ. Love him. And I beg you to love him. Prayer is a means of grace that is given of God. If Christ prayed, we better pray, that's one of the ways to give James 5, 16. Confess your faults one to another and pray one for another that ye may be healed. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. I think that's a good reason to pray for healing. Don't we need healing? In every way. I think some of the hardest pains that people bear on this earth aren't even wounds. It's not even cancer. It's not even heart problems or any type of chronic illnesses. I think most people suffer from absolute mental anguish. From being hurt. John MacArthur has opened up several of those sermons. I remember listening. I love listening. He says, he's opened many of them. He says, this is a dangerous world He's right about that. It's a dangerous world and bad things happen. What was this prayer? What kind of prayer was this? This was a prayer after a sermon. This was a benediction. And how beautiful it is once again when a pastor who prepares the preaching, confirms the message by a precious prayer at the end. This prayer is not only a last will and testament of Christ, but also a perfect benediction for a perfect ministry. I've been studying the justification by faith. Well, many parts of my life, but especially this week. I love justification by faith Because it shows us who Christ really is and who we are to go to for it with our faith. And basically what's so important about that is there is a way, and we will be studying this in the adult Sunday school class There is a sad real pandemic, especially in our nation, that there are most people that have what's called an alien face. And they are looking for Christ in other ways, not way the way he says. And what justification by faith does, it takes us back. to Christ and where we are to go. And we have to ask the question, as we're looking at this tonight, is it enough that he died? That's a very important question when you're witnessing to people. Is it enough that Christ died? No, it's not. Because he died, he lives. And because he died, you live. And we see here eternal life is to know Jesus And that is so important with our faith is knowing Jesus Christ and knowing that because He died, He lives Why didn't he just come down from heaven at 30 years old and just get right on the cross and get it over with and go right back up? Why didn't he do that 40 days later? Because he was giving his signature. He was giving his absolute atoned Redemptive work and teaching us from his ministry who he really don't ever say was. There is never a word, the word was does not come into anything to do with Christ. He never was, he always is. And his redemptive work here, his perfect ministry, shows us he was giving us his signature on who he really is. He could not go to that cross and die on it and save us from our sins and resurrect without fulfilling this law perfectly and showing us that he could do that. That was the only way that we could have a propitiation for our sins. I wish I had a chalkboard here. You need to ingest that word so it comes after pores Propitiation means satisfying the judgment that we deserve for sinning against God. If we were ever to sin against God in our life one time, I'm talking about just one time. One time only could we ever be perfect again. That's like saying your car was in an accident, brand new from the lot, and it was in the accident and saying you can make it brand new again. It's not possible. It's not possible. So there had to be a substitute. Now, I know you've all heard this many times that Christ is the unblemished Lamb. And I'm not taking anything away from that. He's a perfect unblemished land. But there was a blemish that he had to deal with here on this earth that had nothing to do with his His redemptive work, it had nothing to do with him ever sinning, but there was one blemish that he had to deal with for redemption. What was that blemish? Us. We're that sin that he had to bear on the cross, that he's the unblemished Lamb that could cleanse the blemishes of our sin and make us righteous again before the Father. And that's what we're here, that is the mission and what we love and what we talk about here. Here we see this is a design on how we are to worship Christ, corporate worship, with shepherding, preaching. And to endorse and to insignify the message with prayer, Christ showed us how to do this. All those beautiful years he walked on this earth before he went to the cross some 33 years You can call this traditional worship, or you can call it conventional, or whatever you want to call it, but what it is is when you're preaching the Word of God, you're praying to Him, and you're singing songs, praising His name obediently, that is obedient worship. Psalm 96 9 says, O worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness, fear before him all the earth The prayer that he has was a sermon. That's number one. Number two, it was a prayer of sacrament. The Lord's Supper. Christ prayed that God would bless the perfect will of the Father by sending His son to have his body broken and his blood poured out for his glory, Christ broke bread with his disciples. Isn't it amazing how Christians love to get together and eat together? Isn't it a wonderful thing we have lunches on Sundays and we have these pot providence dinners? And we have different ways we get together. We have the Presbytery next Friday. There's going to be a big dinner for all the pastors and everyone that's there in the afternoon Christians love to get together. How many times did Christ feed his disciples? He fed the five thousand, then he fed the four thousand. He we went into the Samaria to the woman at the well, and the first thing he did was he had the disciples buy meat at the market. Which they were not supposed to the Jews were not supposed to go near the Samarians. And so he ha he feeds them. And so he breaks bread. And what do we do? What did we do this past Sunday? We broke bread. We had communion. It was fellowship with him. To remember him. Matthew 26, 26, we read, and as they were eating, Jesus took bread and blessed it and broke it and gave it to the disciples and said, Take, eat, this is my body. And he took the cup and gave thanks and gave it to them, saying, drink ye all of it, for this is my blood of the New Testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins. We don't see all of Christ's prayers recorded, but we see some of these. We see how he re prays and he lifts his eyes to heaven and he looks up to the Lord. This was a sermon, this was a prayer of sacrament. Number three, it was a prayer for family. And oh how family has been so sought after by Satan to destroy the family. He loves to destroy the family unit. He loves it. It's n isn't it any reason why that the the the rate of of uh uh of single wed single mothers out there are out there where there's hardly any fathers anymore I mean, this has been a very sad progression that many have had to go through. And this was a prayer for the family. Christ affirms his relationship to the Father by showing how important the family is. You ever take time after supper to rest a little, then open up the scriptures and pray? It's a great time to do it. Pray before you eat and have a little Bible study afterwards. This is what Christ is doing. His word is God's word. And the Lord's Supper there. That was his last supper, and that was a prayer. Our Lord Jesus Christ's family are his disciples, his faithful followers. as being the son of Abraham who taught his household the ways of the Lord. Look at Genesis chapter 18, verse 19. For I know him, that he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord to do justice and judgment, that the Lord may bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken of him. So we see here Christ would reaffirm his love for his family as the son of David who also blessed his household. And look at this verse in 2 Samuel 6, verse 20. 2 Samuel 6 verse 20. Then David returned to bless his household, and Michael, the daughter of Saul, came out to meet David and said, How glorious was the king of Israel today, who uncovered himself today in the eyes of the handmaids of the servant, as one of the vain fellows shamelessly uncovereth himself. And Christ also blessed his family. We are his family. And he says that here in this wonderful discourse. And who are Christ's family? Matthew 12, verse 50. Look at that. Look at the answer to that. For whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same as my brother and sister and mother. You know, is there an area in your life where you have a family member that's missing? Think about that You missing a mother and a father? My mother's 70, 82nd birthday would have been yesterday. She's been gone since 2003. My father's been gone since 2016. You have parents that you've lost You have aunts, uncles, anyone? And you have that hole in your heart? Let me tell you a little story. When Christ said to the disciples, I just love this, he said to them, they were coming after him, and they were always pulling on him, they always wanted him to do certain things. And he goes, hey, your your your brother and your mother or something like that was asking about you. And he goes, wait a minute, who was my mother? And who was my brother? And he says, those that will follow me are my family. And what he's saying is, he is every family member, the substitute for every family member that you miss and may have lost. He's the substitute. You miss your parents. Your heavenly father, your earthly father may not be present, but your heavenly father is. He is the substitute. Every single that's why he said this. I'm your brother, I'm your sister, I'm your mother, I'm your father, I am everything to you, and I will lift you up. I believe that. I always have. I think that's a wonderful blessing. This was a farewell prayer This was number one, it was a sermon. Number two, it was a sacrament. Number three, it was a prayer for the family. This was a farewell prayer. Paul's farewell at Ephesus, I'll never forget that, before he would go to Jerusalem, would end in prayer Acts chapter 20, verse 36 says, and when he had thus spoken, he kneeled down and prayed with them all. And here, Christ, this is what I think this is incredible. Christ is consoling the very people that are about to leave him. The disciples are about to go away from him They're about to hide from him. Do you remember what happened after he resurrected? He literally had to walk through a wall and find them in a room and pull them out of there and say, I'm here. I told you I was going to resurrect from the dead. The very people that would leave him at the cross, the very one that denied him thrice, he is consoling them. Where are they? Why weren't they consoling him? Remember, they took him into all these kangaroo courts right before he was crucified? Into Anath, into Caiaphas, into Pilate. Where were they? And he's consoling them. I find that fascinating also. It was a farewell prayer. Then it was a prayer to prepare for sacrifice, showing his priestly duty. Christ is prophet, priest, and king. He prays here as a priest, preparing to offer up sacrifice for the glory of the Father. He will be the ultimate sacrifice. Thus abrogating the old ceremonial law, and that is why you do not show up here on Sunday morning, and we have bullocks and we have calves all sprawled out over the altar. And cutting them up and letting them bleed all over the floor. That's why we don't do it anymore. He's the perfect unblemished land. He abrogated. He changed it. He didn't change this This still remains in effect. He fulfilled this and he basically illumined it and made it more just just just showed us how to obey it perfectly. He showed us how to do that by doing it himself And showed us the importance of how it is to remember God's word. You see in Isaiah 53, 7, and there's no way we could ever leave Isaiah 53 out of this message tonight. He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shears is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. As a sheep, a quiet sheep. You imagine all the allegations that they had against him. They said he's an insurrectionist. They said that he was a liar. They called him pretty much everything that they can imagine, but there was no evidence. Pilate comes back at the end of John chapter 18 and says, But I find no fault in this man at all. What did he do wrong? Why are you crucifying your king? And the Jews who were supposed to love him come back and say, wait a minute, you call him our king? We worship no other king but Caesar. How sad that was. And here Christ, he goes as a lamb to the slaughter. He could have been like what we would have done, crying our eyes out. I didn't do this, I didn't do that, it's his fault, he's that fault He went quiet as a lamb to the slaughter and as a sheep before her shears is dumb. It was a prayer for sacrifice. And this is so important for us. This is a prayer to avow his mediatorial work And here in these massive moments of redemptive history, Christ, who is God incarnate, stands right in front of the disciples. He looks into heaven and no doubt sees the beatific vision. And offers prayer right to the Father as the intercessor between man and God. He's interceding in this prayer physically. He's showing that he can bridge that gap between our filth. And God the Father and pray for us. And He's doing that right now. He intercedes for us. Why do you miss a chance to pray Pray. He says, ask in my name, and I'll give you the desires of your heart. And the desires of your heart better be the desires for him, what's in your what's his desires for your heart So why why why hold off? Pray. He's interceding. He works for you. Isaiah 59, 15 says. Yea, truth faileth, and he that departeth from evil maketh himself a prey. And the Lord saw it, and it displeased him, and there was no judgment. And he saw that there was no man, and wondered that there was no intercessor. Therefore his arm brought salvation unto him, and his righteousness it sustained him. In verse 20, and the Redeemer shall come to Zion, and unto them that turn from the transgression in Jacob, saith the Lord, and it says he will be their intercessor. As we move forward, we see Christ reveals the very essence of eternal life, to know the true and living God through Jesus Christ, which he incorporates all through these verses. It's so important. We're chosen by God. In 1 John 5 20, we read, and we know that the Son of God has come and have given us an understanding that we may know Him that is true, and we are in him that is true, even in his son, Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life. Do we know what Good Friday is really all about? Do we really believe it? Do we know what really happened? And what the essence of this is? All the focus is on our Lord Jesus Christ, not on the signs of most of the churches that are around here showing us that it's all about Easter bunnies, showing us it's all about These things that are very uh that that should not that that should not be the the essence of worship on the Sabbath day regarding rabbits and regarding all these different things that are out there as substitutes. for what really happened. The warning. This is a warning to us. It's a warning for us to understand. That there is a heaven to gain and there is a hell to shun. Hell is real. It's very real. And here Christ is our way out It's incredible how down through the ages how mankind is infatuated with the eternal and have conjured up endless means by which to get there, drawing in and harnessing the energy from all sources in the universe, paying money to the Catholics. in order to get out to to to get it to be in the purgatory and get out of purgatory. We see the Vatican. There's there's all there's shamanism, there's animism, there's all these i isms, there's so many of them. There's the Buddhists And there's also karma. There's so many ways, but there is one that offers a reunion with our family, with Jesus Christ, who is our family. He says he is. And if he says he is, we all don't even think we know how to process that. Are you glad you're a Christian? Jesus says, this is life eternal, as Jesus stands before the disciples who are now growing weary. He says, these are the keys to the beautiful gates of heaven. Christ stands before his children. He looks to heaven. I love Psalm 19. 1. The heavens declare the glory of God and the firmament showeth forth his handiwork. And he says, Going forward I have glorified thee on earth. I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do John 16, 33 ends, be of good cheer. How does he finish the work? On the cross, he says, he says, it is finished, but then he goes on to say, he goes, just prior to that Be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. What did he overcome? Yes, sin, death Illness, sickness, the prayer requests we have here every Wednesday evening. We're all everyone's hurting here. We have family that is sick and they're hurting. All of these things the Lord has overcome, all of it. It's just a matter of time. Hang in there. He says, please. He says, occupy till I return in his parables. And be patient. Christ rejoices in the share of the glory of his Father. He says, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self, with the glory which I had with thee before the world was. He can't wait to get back to his rightful throne. Remember when John peered into heaven and the train of and the Christ's train filled the temple. There was no one to open the book. Remember, he was crying. But wait, there is one. And he fills the temple. His train fills that, and he's the one that has the power to open the book, the Lamb's book of life. What did Christ being glorified confirm and signify? He being glorified and being adored by the Father included all the honors. powers and the joys of his exalted state in paradise, going back to heaven and being with his father. Proverbs 8. 30 says, Then I was by him as one brought up with him, and I was daily his delight, rejoicing always before him. Daniel 7, 13 says, I saw in the night visions and behold, one like the Son of Man, came with the clouds of heaven and came to the Ancient of Days. What a wonderful name for Christ, the Ancient of Days. And they brought him near before him. And there was given him dominion and glory and a kingdom. But all people, nations, and language should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom that will not be destroyed. This is all the way back to Daniel. This is the prophecy of Daniel himself. And then we could go back to Psalm 2. O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self, with the glory which I had with thee before the world was. And the massive truth about that, as the Lord says back in Psalm 2, I will make thine enemies thy footstool. That's how much I love you. And guess what? All those that follow you and love you, the enemies, will be their footstool also. That's incredible unlimited power I will finish up here in a second. This is massive truth that's revealed here. Christ is eternal. He's with the Father before creation. He is co-eternal with God. He is from eternity. He's the brightness of his Father's glory. Hebrews chapter 1, verse 3, we read, who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself purged our sins, Sat down on the right hand of the majesty on high. And it's very clear what our Lord Jesus Christ would endure. As we move forward, we saw these verses. He says, I have manifested thy name unto the men which thou gavest me out of the world, in verse 6, thine they were, and thou gavest them me, and they have kept thy word. How what does the Lord say about how he knows us? Is it just a general, like he just knows the general races and the cultures and he just knows basically geographical locations How does he say that he knows us? He knows his sheep and he calls them by his name. While he's praying this He knew each and every one of your names and know exactly what's on your heart. He knows that. That's incredible. We see how now they have known that all things whatsoever thou hast given me are of thee, for I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me. He says, I have given them the word of God, and they know me Whatsoever things I said to them, I put it in their hearts. The Lord has to open your heart up to have that desire to get into his word, to know him. And if you have that, you'll never lose it But if you've lost it, there's a good chance you never had it. It's very, very important. And he says that they know me. He said I pray for them. In verse 9, I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me, for they are thine. So who comes first? The one that chooses God, or does God choose you? That's a very important thing that most people don't understand today. It's God's own choosing, chosen by God. Wonderful book by Dr. Sproul. Chosen by God. You ought to read it. Very good book. And then we see here, all mine are thine, and thine are mine, and I am glorified in them. It gets better. I mean it's all, well, I don't know if you could say anything, it's better, but you keep reading these verses. He says in verse 11, And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to thee, Holy Father. Keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one as we are. He calls for the church to be unified. He calls for us to be together, to lift one another up. And when we have problems, fix them. When we're hurting, pray for one another. He says if you see a brother hurting, don't give him one coat, give him two. Help him. If you have the ability to do it, help him. He's praying for the unity of the church to come together, for us to work together as one body of Christ to guard in his kingdom. And then as we finish up, when you go to his mediatorial work, the very last verse in Isaiah 53 says, Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great. And he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he hath poured out a soul unto death, and he was numbered among the transgressors, and he bare the sins of many, and he made intercession for the transgressors He's there to hear our prayers, to intercede for us, to wash away our transgressions, and to prepare us. Don't be afraid of death. Don't be afraid of what's on the other side. Dying is a hard part. The dying part of it, you know, the process we have to go through. But death itself We learned this evening what life eternal is. It's simple. To know Jesus Christ. That's life eternal Is it any wonder Paul cried out to the Philippian jailer, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved? He didn't tell the Philippian jailer, No, go count the rosary. Spend the next several years of your life having people to pay penance and get you out of purgatory. Or do this or do that, he said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and all of thy house. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth on him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. And I'll leave you with that verse. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank Thee and praise Thee, Lord, for Good Friday, great Friday, perfect Friday. The incredible most incredible moment and event in this world when thou stripped thyself of all of thy dignity and went to the cross of to die for our sins, to save us from our sins. And O Lord, thou rose from the dead, seen by over five hundred witnesses, and ascended on the right hand of the Father. We thank thee, Lord, for what thou did for us, and because thou died and thou lives, we live. And I ask the Lord that thou wouldst prepare our hearts for the upcoming messages this Sabbath day to worship thee and to be prepared to pray for those that are leading and teaching and preaching. And to be in prayer between now and Sunday, I pray that we will all get to know thee more every minute of our lives. And all this we ask in the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen.