Pleasure to be here, Po. Yeah, I wanted to share with you a little something. Here that I saw on the news recently. And you know, in the book of Revelation, it talks about Armageddon, right? And we studied that. And you know, at Armageddon, there is a supper there, which is a supper of the vultures there. And it says they're going to eat the flesh of mighty men, of captains, of bond and free, and all that. But you know it says there, they're going to eat the flesh of horses And you know, uh people like to fold us on taking the Bible literally, and uh, you know You would think that horses are all gone from warfare today. You know, it's uh you know the 21st century And why are we talking about horses and the f and the literal flesh of horses? And uh, you know, in World War II the uh Poles, the Polish Army had the best cavalry in the world, but they didn't stand very well against German tanks there when they invaded. But anyway, this is a news item, and it says that Russia has increasingly been seen using unconventional transport such as horses or bicycles. Right now in the war in Ukraine. And then it has a story about uh they had a drone there, found what they thought was a logistics hub for the Russians It was in an old barn or something, and the drone managed to get inside, and they expected to find tanks and things like that in there, and they found horses in there. And they found unconventional transport tools. The Russian soldiers are seen using unconventional transport tools such as pack animals and bicycles. to conduct assaults or logistics missions. And then one reason might be it says the smaller profile of a horse or civilian car might be harder for a drone to spot. And they might get in under the drones with a horse. And there was a drone company that had seen clips of Russian soldiers riding on horses to attack Ukrainian positions. And one famous example they remember was in Zaporozhyna, where a Ukrainian drone crew attract attacked Russian infantry crossing the front lines on horseback last month. And so maybe the Bible's not so far off when it talks about horses. That there very possibly can be horses. And of course, at Armageddon. The Antichrist and the devil are getting everything they can possibly get together for that battle. And they might uh you know, d uh get a whole lot of horses in there and different things, everything they can possibly have. And so anyway, that's very interesting, I thought. Let's turn our Bibles to Mark chapter 16. Mark chapter 16. And since I'm here two weeks in a row, I decided that I'd give you an Easter message a week early. My wife just told me it's not Easter yet, but anyway, Easter is next week. And I'm not going to be here next week. So we'll look at it this week here uh on Palm Sunday. Let's bow. And I wanted to mention also a prayer request. Pray for the Christ family. The Christ family, that's my sister's husband's family. And my sister's husband's brother just died this past couple days ago. As a sudden thing, he was up on top of his big camper and he he had just had a heart attack recently uh sorts and they told him it was a r arrhythmia and uh he had just like the day before got a heart monitor put on. He was up on top of his camper And his wife noticed that he didn't come down for a long time. And she went out there and he had fallen down to the ground. He had hit his head and he died a little while later And so he was 69 years old, which is interesting. It's the same exact age as his father when he died, 69. But anyway, so they're very uh broken up about this, the the Christ family, so keep them in prayer. And why don't we do that right now? Oh Lord, we just pray that thou bless in the message this morning, that thou would turn our hearts to thee. And O Lord, be with the Chris, comfort, strengthen, and encourage them, and draw them close to thee. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. And we knew him pretty well. He was always together at the family get-togethers. Well, anyway, so we have Mark chapter 16. We read the responsive reading earlier. And you know, before we come to Mark chapter 16, Easter, we have Palm Sunday. We're celebrating Palm Sunday today, at least that's on the calendar. And I preached you a couple of times messages on Palm Sunday. And do you remember the big thing we can remember about Palm Sunday is how the whole crowd said, Save now we pray. And then a few days later they said, crucify him, crucify him. That was a really good illustration of how people can say things and not really mean it Not at a change of their heart. And we got a lot of people out there today saying, Save now, we pray, that really haven't been saved. And of course you can tell by their lives. Are they living for the Lord? Are they going according to God's word, God's dec decreed will Well, Jesus, he was crucified, and as I've told you before as well, I believe he was crucified on Wednesday, Wednesday at sundown. That makes exactly three days and three nights till Saturday sundown, the beginning of the first day of the week. And so Jesus was in the grave literally three days and three nights, I believe And of course the reason they say that it should be Friday is because the next day was the Sabbath day, and we assume that to be Saturday usually, but They had other Sabbath days. And they had a Sabbath day in connection with the Passover, the beginning of the Passover, and it was the Passover drawing on. in the Bible when Jesus was crucified. And so I believe it was on Wednesday. So three days and three nights later we have the first day of the week. And that brings us to Mark chapter 16. It says, When the Sabbath was passed, Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of James and Salome, had bought sweet spices that they might come and anoint him. Now, here we have an interesting point. When did they buy these spices? Now, if you believe he was crucified on Friday, they didn't have a lot of time to buy those spices because they definitely couldn't buy it on the Sabbath day, whatever Sabbath day it was. So the only possibility would have been that they f got somebody to sell them spices in the middle of the night before they came. But that's not really as good a possibility as the fact that they had a an extra day or two in between with Wednesday and they had time to buy the sweet spices And so three days and three nights he was in the grave, just as it was prophesied, and prophecy we see all the time through the Bible that it's fulfilled literally. Literally, just as it is, three days and three nights. So they had bought these spices and they wanted to come and anoint him. Notice the great care they took of dead bodies. This was not only for Jesus, but this was for other people as well. And they took great care of the dead bodies. They didn't just burn them up, they took care of them. And I think that's the not only traditional way of doing things, it's the traditional Christian way It's Christian to take good care of the body because it's going to be raised from the dead. That these bones are going to be raised And then verse 2. And very early in the morning, the first day of the week, they came unto the sepulchre at the rising of the sun. And they said among themselves, who shall roll away the stone from the door? And there was a huge stone on the door. And people have written books on who moved the stone. Who moved the stone? And that is a good question. Who could have moved the stone? And of course, these books go through the point that If the disciples actually had moved the stone, first of all, there were 16 soldiers there guarding it. And that would have been very difficult to do to m to get through those soldiers, impossible to do. But then how'd they move the stone and stole Jesus' body Why would they have died for Jesus? Why would they have been martyrs, which they were No, they didn't steal the body. They didn't move the stone. The soldiers wouldn't have moved the stone. There was a seal put on it, and a breaking of the seal was the death penalty. It would have been the death penalty to the soldiers Even though later on they did get delivered from that death penalty when they said the soul the disciples had stolen the body away. And the Romans wouldn't have done it, wouldn't have moved the stone. They had the soldiers there guarding it. And so who moved the stone? The angel moved the stone. And so they looked, they saw the stone was rolled away, and it says it tells us here it was very great. And entering into the sepulchre of verse 5, they saw a young man. He looked like a young man. Just like a regular young man. You know, he didn't have wings out his back. Sometimes in the Bible, the angels do have wings. We have the seraphim that have wings and they're uh they're flying around the throne of God and We have that, but not always. In fact, most times I would say angels don't appear with wings. And here we have a young man, a young man. And we know it was an angel. It wasn't just some guy that happened to be there or some prophet sent there or something, because he was clothed in a long white garment And they were afraid. They were affrighted. They knew it was supernatural. This wasn't just one guy sitting there, a regular guy. And verse 6, he said, Be not affrighted. Ye seek Jesus of Nazareth, which was crucified. He is risen, he is not here. Behold the place where they laid him. And you know the thing is, is the Bible tells us that we come upon angels unaware in our lives. And uh, you know, it's uh I remember my brother-in-law who just lost his brother, he used to talk about how he met an angel. on the road when his camper, big camper rig broke down. And the axle fell apart and it needed some detailed wet welding. And he was in this gas station there out in Florida in the middle of nowhere. And across the street, there happened to be a guy with a welding truck with all the equipment and he got the that guy came over and welded his camper right on the spot. And he used to talk about like that was an angel there, and maybe it was, I don't know. But anyway, they we do come upon them unawares sometimes. Just like this young man here. And so he says, Jesus is not here. He is risen. He is risen from the dead. Muhammad did not rise from the dead. Buddha didn't rise from the dead. None of them did. And then verse 7. But go your way, tell his disciples in Peter that he goes before you to Galilee. So that you have good news. Good news. Tell about the resurrection of Jesus. We've got that same good news today. And so then we got verse eight. And they went out quickly and fled from the sepulchre. For they trembled and were amazed, neither said they anything to any man, for they were afraid. And you know, our modern Bibles today Our modernists today, they say we should close the book of Mark right there. Right there with that verse. They say that verses 9 through 20 are not really in the Bible. They say they're not in the oldest and best manuscripts And if you get an NIV, an NIV will have those verses in it, but it'll give you a footnote And it'll say that these verses 9 through 20 of Mark chapter 16 are not in the oldest and best manuscripts. Well, that's not true at all. They're definitely not in the best manuscripts, even if they might be old. And so the thing is, is that they do that with this passage And I just for fun last night, I looked in the Bible that's kind of taking over the place of the NIV, I think, these days. And I think that's the English Standard Version. And so they have that coming on the scene. Of course the Bibles always change with the new Bibles. And I thought I took a look in the English Standard Version to see what they do with these verses. And they did the same thing as the NIV. They put a, in fact, there wasn't a footnote at the bottom of the page, right at the beginning of verse 9, it says, these following verses are not in the oldest manuscripts. And you know they do that also with John chapter 8. John chapter 8, the woman taken in adultery They take out 12 verses there and say they're not in the oldest and best manuscripts. And they take these verses out. A big reason they do is because they don't, uh because they have some prejudice against them, and we're going to see that. coming on later here. But you know, that's a very slippery slope, very dangerous thing to start saying things don't belong in the Bible. What are we going to find tomorrow that doesn't belong in the Bible? Are we going to find out that the things that I'm preaching on today weren't really in the Bible No, no, God has preserved his word. God gave his word, and God preserved his word by the scribes that very carefully preserved the word down through the centuries. God did a great job of provide preserving his word. And it's not just a thing that's haphazard. And you know what these new Bibles, they have rules for determining what's in the Bible. And one rule they have is that whatever makes less sense should be in the Bible. That's the rule. And the other rule is the shorter version is best. Has to be shorter, has to make less sense. And uh they have these these nonsense rules for determining the Word of God. And with these with this oldest and best manuscripts Did you know that through the Eastern Roman Empire, the Greek manuscripts were well preserved of the Bible? Europe was in chaos for the dark ages. But in the Eastern Roman Empire and Constantinople, it was stable right there, and they kept on co copying the scriptures, and there are thousands of manuscripts that come down from them, the Byzantine text type it's told. But anyway, they preserved God's word. And you know, thousands of manuscripts have Mark 16, 9 to 20 in them. How many don't have it? Two, basically. Two manuscripts. And they're called Siniticus and Vaticanus. The Siniticus was found in the trash can on Mount Sinai. A guy went there in Tishendors found him, found it. And then the Vaticanus comes from where? Comes from the Vatican. And those two don't have Mark chapter 16, 9-20 in them, but they do have a space in the manuscript for Mark 16, 9-20. Which is interesting. They recognize that that's w in the other manuscripts. And so anyway, uh The funny thing is about Sinaticus and Vaticanus is that they disagree more than they agree on other things in the Bible. But just because they happen to agree on Mark 16, 9 to 20, they want to throw that out. And that's ridiculous. No, we have a more sure word of prophecy, the Bible tells us. A more sure word of prophecy. More sure than nonsense rules. So anyway, we go on here. Verse 9. These verses that are actually in the Bible. And notice how verse 8 ends up. How they have Mark ending up. And they were afraid. What kind of uh a closing thing is that for for Mark? No. Then verse nine. Now when Jesus, and by the way, on that on that English Standard Version, they put double brackets before this passage and after this passage to make it clear that they don't think it should be in the Bible Now, when Jesus was risen early the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had cast seven devils. And that's always been looked on as a very significant thing that God, that Jesus appeared first to mar to a woman, to Mary Magdalene. And he appeared to her. And remember, she went into the tomb first and saw that the tomb was empty. She ran back and told Peter and the disciples. Peter and John ran to the tomb. They looked in there and they saw that it was empty, and then they went away. But Mary Magdalene stayed there after Peter and John went back. And when she stayed there, we have in John, we're told the account that Jesus met her there, and Jesus thought I mean, Mary thought sh Jesus was the gardener. She didn't recognize him right offhand. It kind of reminds me of in my personal life. Uh my grandmother lived in Nebraska, just by an aside here. But anyway, my grandmother lived in Nebraska and I was in the I uh was in seminary And anyway, so I rarely saw I was back in the East Coast, but uh this friend I helped move out to the West Coast, I was driving the U Haul truck for him. And so I decided to stop in there and drop in by surprise to see my grandmother. So I dropped in to see her. I walked into her house there, and then she looked up at me and she says, Are you the plumber? Because she didn't didn't expect to see me there. But anyway, the thing is, that's what Mary said here to Jesus. Are you the gardener? But then Jesus revealed himself to her and that she was seeing Jesus Jesus risen from the dead. And verse 10, and she went and told them that had been with him, as they mourned and wept. And they, when they had heard that he was alive and had been seen of her, believed not. And so she went back, she told them about Jesus. And what were they doing when she came back? They were mourning and weeping. And that's very natural when people are going to miss someone, when they're sad to see them go. The Christ family today is mourning, and that's natural. One of his daughters was described as hysterical. And that's that's to be expected, that's normal. To mourn for somebody that you're going to miss, that you uh that that you enjoyed being with. And today, once again, I always go over this a million times, is that When you come to a funeral, it's not a place for celebration. It's a place for the old traditional Christian funeral with mourning. And so anyway, they mourned and wept. But anyway, Mary told them that he had risen from the dead, and did they believe it? No, they're kind of like us. So hard-hearted and they wouldn't believe the account that Jesus had risen from the dead. Then verse 12. After that he appeared in another form unto two of them as they walked and went into the country. And they went and told it unto the residue, neither believe they them And of course we know the account of this with the two disciples on the way to Emmaus, and they're talking there. Jesus comes up and walks with them. They don't know it's him. They sit down to have something to eat with Jesus. They still don't know it's him. And then finally their eyes are opened. And so they come and they tell that they saw Jesus But they still wouldn't believe it. They couldn't believe it. And you know, Jesus had told them that he was going to rise from the dead. He had told them that, and he upbraided them for their hardness of heart. And we have that in verse 14. Afterward he appeared unto the eleven as they sat at meat and upbraided them with their unbelief. And hardness of heart, because they believed not them which had seen him after he was risen And so he it was not to be expected for them not to believe. They should have believed. They should have known that he would fulfill the prophecies literally. Same thing today We should know that Armageddon is really going to happen. That these things of the future are really going to happen literally. And believe it. And then verse 15, one of the most famous verses in the Bible, and he said unto them, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. This famous giving of the Great Commission, we're told, is not really in the Bible. No, it is in the Bible. You notice we're supposed to preach the gospel to every creature Not to the fishes in the sea, no. I had a guy in Collingswood got very upset with me when when I intimated that the uh fish in this there's a text that talks about the fish praising the Lord or something like that. when I said that the fish uh really weren't uh knowing what they were doing and he got very upset. But you know the thing is, is it to every creature meet every creature with souls, eternal souls, people. And preach the gospel to every creature. And that means strangers. That means door-to-door. That means people we don't know. Preach it to every creature. Verse 16, he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, but he that believeth not shall be damned. Now, here we have some people that look to this verse for the proof for it for baptismal salvation. It says, he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved. Well, it's natural to believe and then be baptized. We're told to do that. But you notice with the damned part of this verse, There's no baptism there at all. It's not he that believeth not and he that is not baptized. No. And also Paul said, he said, Christ sent me not to baptize, not to baptize, but to preach the gospel. And so baptism doesn't save, but it's something we should do to show people that we're a Christian. It's a public confession of faith. And that's what we do to show people that we're Christian. We don't walk down an aisle. At least I don't believe we should show people we're Christians by walking down the aisle. No, we show people we're Christians by being baptized. So he that's normal, he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved. Let me go on to verse 17. And these signs shall follow them that believe it. Here's the reason that people have a prejudice against these verses. And these signs shall follow them that believe. In my name shall they cast out devils, they shall speak with new tongues, they shall take up serpents And if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them. They shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover. So people have looked at this, I believe, especially these ones who like to throw out these verses. They've looked at this and they said, what is this about taking up serpents and drinking deadly things And uh, you know, that shouldn't be in the Bible. Just like with the woman taking an adultery. They want to throw that out because they think, well, that excuses adultery. But what did Jesus say to the woman? He said, Go and sin no more. And so anyway, they don't like this that it has these signs. And you know, we see these signs right in the Bible. The apostles, they cast out devils. They speak with new tongues. They learn languages without having studied them. They speak with new tongues. That's what tongues are in the Bible. And they did take up serpents in the Bible. Remember the case where a serpent was taken up? Paul was gathering sticks for the fire, a snake came out, a viper came out and bit him. And it was deadly. It was a very poisonous serpent. And they they knew what it was. They saw it. They looked at Paul and they thought he's going to drop dead any second. But he didn't. God preserved him. They shall take up serpents. Of course, our West Virginia snake handlers, they look to this verse as their text And of course a lot of them die of snake bite because they do that. And you know the thing is, it's not what we're not supposed to put out a show of taking on up serpents, but God can protect us when we have that happen to us. You know, I remember there in uh in Cameroon, you know, Cameroon is full of uh poisonous snork serpents, and the Lord protected us there. And in fact, one night I was showing the film. A Christian film that I used to show at the evening evangelistic work. And uh anyway, it was in the dark there. I was sitting a little while ways back. I looked back and I was going to get something and I saw a snake right next to me there. And but the Lord uh preserved me there. And also in Brazil they have some s poisonous snakes there. And I was trimming bushes. This was a little more mundane, but I was trimming bushes in the back of our house. And I was pushing back the bushes and here was a poisonous snake just a few inches from my hand sitting sending itself on top of the bush And uh so praise the Lord, he does protect us, and even after Paul was bitten, he was protected. And the Lord protects us against a lot of things They shall take up service and they shall drink any deadly thing. It shall not hurt them. Well, we don't have any real we do have a specific example of that in the Old Testament In the Old Testament, you remember they told the man of God, we studied this in our uh in our study of 2 Kings, they told the man of God, there is death in the pot. And they had poison in the pot, poisonous mushrooms or whatever they had. And Elisha cured the pot. And through the power of the Lord and they were all well and no problem and they had the the stuff that was in the pot In Africa, poison is really regarded highly. And also, if they can't explain the death of someone Uh if it's unexplained, they like to blame it on b the person being poisoned, they say. And of course that's that they probably do have some of that And back in the Roman Empire, you know, with the emperors of the Roman Empire, they used to say poison is queen back in the Roman Empire, because they'd poison the emperors And so anyway, that's always been a problem. But here, if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them Then verse 19, so then after the Lord had spoken unto them, he was received up into heaven and sat on the right hand of God. And they went forth and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word with signs following So the writer of this, Mark, he got revealed to him, inspired to him by God, that Jesus, after he ascended up into heaven, he sat down on the right hand of God. He was had that revealed to him. And so the apostles, the disciples, they're all of the Christians. They went up, went forth, and preached everywhere. It's not just for preachers to preach the gospel, it's for every Christian to preach the gospel. The Lord working with them and confirming the word with signs And that was the purpose of science, to confirm the word. Confirm that they were inspired of God to give forth the Bible. They had these signs that they gave, the miracles. And of course, it's not enough just to do a miracle, the devil can do miracles, we've seen that. But you have to do miracles according to God's word and in line with God's word. So here we have Mark chapter 16. Something we want to remember is that we have a more sure word of prophecy. See, it is in the Bible. We can trust that. We can trust that every word of this Bible is there for a reason that God did inspire with this King James Bible And uh we can trust every word of it. We can trust that it's a good translation to a the best translation there is in the King James Bible. And anyway, we can trust that we're not preaching on somebody's something that's going to be out of the Bible tomorrow. You know, they with people with the critical text They think that they always got to be trying to search for the true text of the Bible. You know, and we found the true text didn't have these 12 verses. Well, that's all nonsense. Then one other thing we want to remember is we want to be more believing than the disciples were. They didn't want to believe that Jesus had risen from the dead. Let us believe the prophecies that God gives in the Bible that they are going to come to pass and that God is going to save. How do we know we're saved? Well, we take God at His Word. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. We take him at His Word, and we've called upon His name. He's put that in our hearts, and we're serving Him And we know we're a Christian, we take them out as where we believe it. Let's bow in prayer. Lord, just bless these thoughts to our hearts And O Lord, we just thank Thee for thy word, that it is a more sure word of prophecy. In Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, at this time we'd like to