It's opening our Bibles to again 2 Timothy and Chapter 1. Are we still there? Yes. Second Timothy Chapter One And we read these chapters again just simply because it's it's refreshing of what's gone by, but it's also good to have the word in front of our eyes and in front of our hearts. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, according to the promise of life which is in Christ Jesus. 2 Timothy. My dearly beloved Son, grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience, that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day. greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy when I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that in thee also Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God, which is in thee, by the putting on of my hands, for God hath not given us the spirit of fear But of power and of love and of a sound mind. Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord. Nor of me his prisoner, but be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God who hath saved us and called us with an holy calling, not according to our I'm sorry, not according to his own purpose and grace, I'm sorry, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us by Christ Jesus before the world began But is now made manifest by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who hath abolished death and hath brought life and immortality to light through the gospel Whereunto I am appointed a preacher, and an apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles, for the which cause I also suffer these things Nevertheless, I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day. Hold fast the form of sound words, which thou hast heard of me in faith and love, which is in Christ Jesus. That good thing which was committed unto thee, keep by the Holy Ghost which dwelleth in us. This thou knowest that all they which are in Asia have turned away from me, of whom Phylagius and Hermogenes the Lord give mercy unto the house of Aenecephorus For he hath oft refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain. But when he was in Rome, he sought me out very diligently and found me. The Lord grant unto him that he may find mercy of the Lord in that day, and in how many things he hath ministered unto me at Ephesus, thou knowest very well May God be pleased to bless that His word to our hearts and ears as we have shared it this morning. Shall we pray? Father, we pause in our service now to um look to you and your spirit to bring um uh peace in our hearts as your word is brought before us that these truths which have been read um through the decades and and and been a benefit and blessing to individuals and congregations. We now implore you that it will be a benefit to us here today. Only your spirit can be our teacher to bring forth the truths that you would have us to learn. Cause us to set aside the distractions that oftentimes fill our heads and hearts and on Sunday morning and and just let us rest in you at this time. Your praise, Lord, is what we are intending to bring about Uh gloring f gloring in our Savior Jesus Christ. For it's in his name we pray. Amen. Well, in my office I have a number of pictures hanging on the wall, pictures of former missionaries and and mission executives and uh pastors of churches and And they're all black and white, um, indicating a a time gone by. Um 99% of them are at home with the Lord now. And uh I recall uh one wall I've got all of the board presidents are up there. Um they're all in black and white except for Bradzell, who's the current president and he's still alive for which we're thankful. Um but uh look at those and I recall a number of them, uh Dr. Gordon and Dr. White and Dr. LeRoy um presidents when I was a board member or missionary. And and there are times when uh I heard their instruction Um, I listened to the things they taught. And there were times when I could get on the phone and call them and ask them for guidance and help and instruction while they were there uh but they're gone. No longer to be to be received uh in as as a teacher over uh it's it's now well the baton's been passed Um and it's uh it behooves uh us in the office now to take what we've received, to continue on in the same vein that they did, um, because that was their intent that we produce truly biblical missions. We come to this second letter of Timothy, and again as a matter of rehearsal, it's a similar situation. Paul again speaking to his young son in the Lord, and he's talking to him sincerely out of heart, knowing that he's not going to be leaving the jail on his own. Power. This is it. And he's imploring Timothy, Timothy, these are the things that we've talked about, these are the things that we've seen, and these are the things that I want you to Hold on to. They're important. Because when I'm gone, I want you, as the baton of ministry is passed to you, I want you to carry that in the same vein as I have. And the same principles that are there Today, Paul gives his third admonition or teaching point in this first chapter. And that's the things that we want to view today. When you're reading through 2 Timothy 1 as we have seen it here, I think it's fairly easy for you to see or to note when Paul is talking about himself And when Paul almost figuratively points his finger at Timothy and says, Timothy, this is for you. Some verses, you know, first five verses, Paul basically is talking about himself. And then we come to verse 6, and it's like he swings his finger over and he says, Now Timothy, this is for you. Look at verse 6. I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God, which is in thee, by the putting on of my hands. Talks about himself, and then all of a sudden he swings over and he says, Timothy, remember. Fan the flame. No, don't let the fire go out. Ministry. Your service to the Lord. Keep that going, you know. And then he jumps a few more verses, look down to verse eight, and it says Second administer, second teaching point. Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner But be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God. Talk, talk, talk. Timothy, remember. Timothy, remember. And and those there are probably known weaknesses in Timothy. So he has to emphasize it. He says, don't be ashamed of testifying of Christ. Don't be ashamed of me, Prisoner Paul. And then he says, you know, Timothy, you're going to have to join, be a partaker of the afflictions. Suffering is going to be part of it. And then he switches away and we come to the third place in our reading today. Look at verses 13 and 14. Timothy, hold fast the form of sound words which thou hast heard of me in faith and love, which is in Christ Jesus. That good thing which is committed unto thee, keep by the Holy Ghost which dwelleth in us. So those three points. He says, Timothy, he says, fan the flame. Timothy, don't be ashamed. Timothy, hold on to the form of sound words. And you look back and Paul says, this is his way of instructing him, giving truth, truth, truth, and then pointing to Timothy. And asking him to hold on to these things. Look at a little more closely here to verse 13. He says, hold fast. In other words, keep, cling to it, hold on to it. And when you read that, you kind of ask the question: why is he saying that? Did Timothy maybe have the uh occasion in his life for forgetting things that Paul taught? I'd say I surely do. things that I was taught by uh within the board office or I'm sure if you go back and ask my teachers, thankfully they're probably all in glory now You can't ask them, you know. They know that I've forgotten some things, but it's us as human beings in general, isn't it? The things that we are implored to remember, the things that we as human beings should hold on to, we oftentimes don't And it's not that we don't care, but we just have priorities in thinking and in remembering, and unless we put it to the task of clinging to it and holding on to it, we don't It's simply as the old phrase goes, in one ear and out the other. You know? That's just the type of beings we are And then hold fast to what? What does he ask him to hold fast to? The form of Sound words. The form of sound words. It's an interesting phrase. This word form can be like a sketch or a plant or a blueprint to a building. He's not speaking of specific words, but he says, I want you to hold fast to that overall plan, the form of what I've been teaching. The things that you've heard of me in times past, the pattern of good words that Paul has taught Timothy, and probably As Timothy traveled with Paul, heard him heard him teach other things to other people. He says, I want you to hold fast to those things, this pattern. There are other places in the New Testament that Paul calls upon his readers to basically hold fast to his teachings. The references would be, follow me. In other words, Paul says follow or imitate me. In other words, the words that I'm teaching, follow those words. Philippians 3. 17, Paul says, Brethren, be followers together of me. Now that's not Paul sang up in front, and he says, All right, everybody in church, line up behind me and follow me. Words really almost imitate me. Follow the words, the principles, the truths that I've been teaching, and follow after them In 1 Corinthians 4, he says the same thing. Wherefore, I beseech you, I beg you, be ye followers of me. Not that ministers purposely do it, but there's a tendency when you are in such a position to have people follow. to follow after what they say and not necessarily analyze and think of what is being said. You hear members of congregations say, well, Dr. so-and-so's view is this, and that's what I believe, you know. Or Reverend So-and-so teaches that, and that's what I believe, you know Pastor so-and-so, this is how we learned it, and that's what I believe. And that isn't always the right that's not what Paul is saying. As a matter of fact, later on in Corinthians, Paul says be ye followers of me even as I also am of Christ. So there is, you know, if if Paul becomes teacher of the pastor of Pilgrim Church You say, well, man, who better than the Apostle Paul? But Paul puts that qualifier up there. He says, follow what I'm teaching only as what I'm teaching follows Christ. And that's the emphasis upon us as believers, isn't it? How do I know what Christ teaches? How do I know what Christ is teaching is I don't compare scripture with scripture and understand what God's Word is presenting me as God's Word. It means I have to hold fast to the form, the outline, the the the the blueprint of sound words of good teaching that's there. The form of sound words, the pattern, the godly blueprint of teaching was consistent with Paul's life, and I think others could see it. And he says, follow that because it was that which was following after Christ. Now, this teaching point that he presents, asking Timothy to hold on to, This pattern of sound teaching is so important that Paul basically repeats it in verse 14. Okay? Look at verse 14. That good thing which was committed unto thee, keep same thought The pattern of sound words and that good thing which was committed, same idea. He says it just a little bit different form, but he's saying it again. It's an important thing. Timothy. Hold on to this, that good thing, that form of sound words, the wholesome teaching, the gospel which Paul taught Timothy. which was committed, which was deposited, he says to Timothy, keep it, guard it. Cling to it. Now we all have topics of interest that we all enjoy. Things that we find, you know, are recipes or uh sewing or auto mechanics or you know uh fishing or whatever it is. And when it's that corner of life that I have an interest in, I really get into it and I cling to it, you know Because it's enjoyable to me, it's profitable, it's just part of what I am. But Paul is saying to Timothy, Timothy, this form and pattern of sound words Not garbage, you know, this good thing that the Holy Spirit had put into you, this is what you need to work at. And it's not easy, is it? It's not easy. Of all the things of life that we have, this isn't real easy. Again, why was Paul so concerned about this? Well, in reading Paul's epistles, we find dozens of warnings to individual churches that he taught over those couple of years. And he says, there's false teachers here, there's false doctrines here. I warn you about those, because they can bring about destruction. Timothy, you know probably people who were in this. One good example, in an earlier letter to the church at Colossae, Paul says, as then ye did receive Christ Jesus the Lord. In him walk ye, being rooted and built up in him, confirmed in the faith as ye were taught, abounding in it in thanksgiving. Now, he says, beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit after the traditions of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ. Whoa. Church of Colossae, you know all of those basic doctrines is rooted and built up in Christ, confirmed in the faith. You were taught you are abounding in thanksgiving. They're on a good path. But he says all of a sudden there are people who've come in, and he says they spoil you through philosophies and being deceived. Empty stuff, you know. Empty-headed talk. And he says, you've got to watch this because they are not after Christ, they are after the rudiments of the world. And so he sees these things. 1 Timothy 6, Paul says, O Timothy, keep that which is committed to thy trust. Whoa, there he is again. Timothy, keep it! That which you've been given, keep it. In other words, there's a tendency for Timothy and for all of us to kind of let things slide Keep that which is committed to thy trust, avoid avoiding profane and vain babblings. Empty words. and oppositions of science falsely so-called, which some professing have erred concerning the faith, some having departed from the faith What happens when I don't cling to those things which are rooted and grounded, those things which are sound patterns of biblical truths He says, Timothy, you know some of them would have happened. They become shipwrecked spiritually. And I think all of us, if we could have the ability to search our our mental you know computers here. Some of us are filing cabinets. And we can come up with all kinds of people that we knew and we say, what happened to them? You know, they maybe sat here with us Or we knew them someplace at another time. Wait, we used to sing, we used to do this, we had all these other examples. What happened to them? They're just phoot, they're gone. The tendency for human beings by the authorship of of Satan is to pull them away from these sound words. He says, Timothy, you have to be careful of these things. And then later on in the book that we see here, 2 Timothy 2. 16, but shun profane and vain babblings, again those empty words, for they will increase unto more ungodliness. Again and again and again, Paul says, my Christian life, my time as an apostle, as a teacher, is one where I have seen those things happen. Or they've just drifted off. They've listened to. They've not been anchored and cling to that anchor of sound words and truths. It's just slipped away. Timothy, it's imperative that you hold fast, that you keep, that you guard, because some of those that you've already known have made their lives shipwrecked. And to be honest with you, those things we're going to see even later on as we look through 2 Timothy, there are more examples of this very thing that will pop up. The question is, how was Timothy, and in truth, you and I, expected to hold fast and keep the sound words? How do we do it? You know, it's the age-old question. Well, what does he tell us? First of all, I think Timothy understood, or Paul understood, Timothy's need Um he knows the young man. He's walked with him. He's talked with him. He he sees the special aspects of of his life. So again, verse fourteen. That good thing which was committed unto thee, keep by what? By the Holy Ghost, which dwelleth in us. It is impossible unless we are allowing the Holy Spirit to guide us in asking the Lord Himself to hold on to these things for us to do it in our own strength. We can't. We can't expect to live the day that we're supposed to facing the challenges we do without the guidance of the Holy Spirit. There's no source, there's no access to the holding on of these truths, keeping these form of sound words It can only be accomplished through the Holy Spirit that dwelt in them, and may I remind you, that dwells in us, in everyone who is of God So don't ever presume that by keeping and guarding and holding fast the pattern of sound words in our life that's accomplished by our own strength. For without the continual energy of the Holy Spirit indwelling in us, we can do nothing. We can do absolutely nothing. But there's a second aspect to holding on to these things, which he doesn't mention right here, but we'll get into it more when we get to 2 Timothy chapter 2. Paul says, Study to show thyselves approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. Not only the indwelling Holy Spirit to allow me to keep to these truths, but he says, Timothy, it's incumbent upon you to study them. It's incumbent upon you to get something more than a cursory understanding of the words that are found here in Scriptures and allow that to be sufficient Dr. William Hendrickson shared what he referred to as a popular mantra in his commentary on 2 Timothy. He says It doesn't matter what you believe just as long as you are serious about what you believe. Now he doesn't he's not Holding to that, but he's saying, Yeah, I'm writing this, and in my day, he says, it doesn't matter what you believe, the world says, but as long as you're serious in whatever you believe. That's all that matters. Charles Schultz, creator of Yeah. Listen to him. It doesn't matter what you believe, just as long as you're sincere. You're kidding. It doesn't matter what you believe in, so as long as you believe in something, our world says. How ridiculous. How absolutely ridiculous. As long as I'm serious about this, as long as I'm sincere, as long as I have something to believe in. Well, everybody believes in something. But you have to ask what are you believing in? You know? Good luck? You know? Uh to to carry around some Lucky charm to be able to have this because it's on a certain day at a certain time. All this other concept. No. You have to believe in the truths that are permeated throughout the Word of God as it's set before us So many Christians have abandoned their hold upon the pattern of sound words for those things that just seem right. Something that just tickles the ears. Oh boy, that sounded good. I like that. I like the way that sounds to me. Something that satisfies them for a brief moment They allow their emotions or their human logic or even words from important people to cloud the truth. And pretty soon the truth is set aside and we start believing the lie instead. How many lost their life savings on Harold Camping's prediction of the rapture of God and judgment back on September sixth of nineteen ninety-four. Oops, I mean back on May twenty-first, twenty eleven. Oops, I mean on October twenty-first, twenty eleven You know? How many preachers on on T V on radios and in tent meetings and so forth? have purported to bring forth uh great truths, but have deceived thousands upon thousands of the sheep who are willing to follow their voices that have no reason No sound judgment, no principles that are found within the Word of God. Go to any Christian bookstore. You find dozens of books on any topic from the experts that are given. And I'm not saying Christian books don't have value. They do. But as you peruse through and you thumb through, how many Bible verses are we seeing within there? Maybe one for a chapter, and then he builds a truth or a falsehood around those particular verses. Experts. Bringing us some easy reading on how to handle marriage for the checkbook or dealing with loneliness or depression or assorted other vices, yet If I don't have the grounding and the firm hold upon the Word of God, how can I compare what they're teaching me in their best-selling novel with what is truth? It makes it so easy because it's an easy read and the Bible's not really easy, you know, and I've got to work it and all these names and all this other stuff and uh it's so hard. But so-and-so, my She does a really good job. He has a really good way of saying it. We have some Filipino friends currently living in California. Friends who were members of a church that we ministered to back in the 80s, really lovely people. They eventually worked their way to California. One of these friends posted a picture. It was a photograph of a piece of paper, and on this piece of paper was the word COVID, written vertically. C-O-V-I-D. And a little line underneath. And how many letters are in COVID? Six. Alright? You put a six down there. And then they took the numerical equation for each of those uh letters, you know, uh C is number three, um O is I think like fifteen or whatever, and put them all down and guess what that totals up to be? 66. And and therefore they got they they came to the conclusion, 666, and they put the question down on their on the post, still want that vaccine? You know? So I read that and I thought, these ladies know better than that. I said, you know, you could use the word family Or use the word grapes and come up with the same conclusion, and I love grapes, and I love my family, it doesn't mean that has anything to do with anything But when you allow the Word of God to be shoved aside in order to follow something that, oh boy, that caught my eye, that caught my attention, that feels good. It makes sense now. I understand it all. All of a sudden there's a huge trap that we fall into of falsehoods. Our friends knew better, though God's word knows the best. Pilgrim church family hold fast to the pattern of sound words, which means that it's incumbent for each to entrust your life to the leading of the Holy Spirit with a diligent study of the Word of God. Not because you have a Sunday school lesson to teach or to watch over this group or do devotions or something like that, but because you're a child of God. You're a child of God. And as a child of God, you're expected to grow irrespective of what age you are. Some years ago, Millie and I went to Lancaster, Pennsylvania, for a Ken Ham conference. President at the time of Answers to Genesis. And at one point, uh he burned within my heart the failure of the church to deal with what had been taking place as responsibility And he mentioned that um obviously he had a uh uh a book that he was selling. It was on the first eleven chapters of Genesis, but it was it was an excellent work. And he said failure of the church of a previous generation was sourced in the fact that when the children came in, we filled them with good Bible stories, you know. They give it a little lesson, a little flannel graph coloring in some of, you know, uh Joseph and the uh coat of many colors or all this other stuff, you know. And then as they move through the Sunday school lessons, they go on a little bit. And and and then he says, by the time they reach an age where they have to ask and answer questions in life. What could they rely upon? They had one, maybe two hours of church a week. Then they had how many hours in school? Then they had how many hours before a screen? So when it came time when they're really answering questions in life that were difficult, what do I do? Where do I go? Should I drink this? Should I ingest this? Should I go with those people? He said, Well, I had one, maybe two hours a week of my Bible study. And I had remember hours of TV and a school system that is godless. So he says, is it any wonder by the time the church reach a certain age and they look over, where are the young people? What happened? What is the difference of all of these things? It brought forth great truth. There's an old adage that says, you are what you eat. And if an hour or two on Sunday morning is the bulk of this godly nutrition, how well do we stand up for the 166 hours in the rest of the week? All of us. Just because I am X number of years older, you know, just because I've I've been member of the church, or just because I've been a believer of these many years, doesn't necessarily mean that I'm eating as I ought to eat. Now you may question that because I may you know I may be eating more than I ought to eat, you know. But you know what I mean? You know, spiritually speaking, how do I answer those questions in life? Because somebody said it and it sounds good? Because they had a good colored program? Because it's a bestseller? I have to be able to know the pattern of sound words and hold them Keep them and allow the Holy Spirit to be my guide and allow the study of His Word to be my thoughts and teachers. If you recall about a month ago I shared with you my sister in law Carrie, California Uh sharing with us, uh she had bumped into her husband getting into the car and had this black spot and it came up to be melanoma And she had the uh little spot taken out and they wanted her to go in again and uh dig in some more to find out if there were more that were there I want to share with you her text to family members after she had her second surgery. She says, hey guys, feeling a little better today after my surgery. I am home and within a week. I am home and will hear within a week how how far the cancer may have gone. I'm encouraged that we just noticed it. already at this point in a matter of a few weeks. And I'm not dealing with the passing of stones. She had the kidney stone problem at this point either Timing sometimes is everything, and God's timing is perfecto. Today's Bible verse, but as it is written, I have not seen nor ear heard Neither have entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. 1 Corinthians 2. 9. So just how amazing is God! Well, way back in May, I had a dermatology appointment scheduled through my primary doctor for August regarding something on my face. The appointment then was already started in May as scheduled for the same week in August that I bumped into my husband's shoulder and noticed the black mark on my upper arm. Knowing myself and having kidney stone surgery coming up right before school, if I hadn't had that dermatology appointment already scheduled I probably would have waited to make another appointment for another dark mole that I've that I'm already genetically predisposed to, and then dismissed it But alas, the appointment was already there, waiting for me, so after discussing the original reason for my seeing him, I happened to mention to the dermatologist the spot on my upper arm. He quickly took it off that day for the biopsy, discovered the malignant melanoma, and here we are. God went before me, and he always goes before us. Isaiah 41:10, fear not, for I am with thee. Actually, the rest of the verse is fantastic for us all. Be not dismayed, upset, worried, agitated because of what some unwelcome situation or occurrence, says Wibster's dictionary. For I am thy God, I will strengthen thee, yea, I will help thee, yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. God is so good. Well, this past Tuesday, Kerry wrote, surgeon called me this morning and said that there was no more cancer. but that um but that she had gotten it all. I am very blessed. Praise the Lord. He is taking care of it all I use her as an illustration, and she'd be embarrassed if she knew that I did this. But nevertheless, it proves the point. To be able to approach a situation in life and not have an understanding of the pattern of the scripture that is offered to us, that blueprint that's out there, leaves me floundering. Leaves me saying, what is going to happen? You know? And we've quoted these verses before. You know, fear not, for I am with thee. Oh, but I'm still worried. Why? Truth of the matter is, God says this because it's true. Hold fast to the pattern of sound words. They're valuable. They bring us to a place where I can say I can confidently enter the next thing. Doesn't mean I don't have concerns. Doesn't mean you know it leaves me a little bit, you know. But I can say, unlike anyone else For me, this is what God did for me. And she's recognized that. And we can and should be able to do that in life. Now, those are baby steps throughout life. It doesn't mean because she's got this that she'll take the next one, you know, real easy. We went through that two years ago with her husband, you know, and his his heart almost d having to be replaced, you know All all all of these things put together. If I don't have God's word, and it's not empty faith, if I don't if I'm not able to cling to, hold on, keep Guard the pattern of sound words, this deposit of good stuff that's been given to us. Where do we go? No place. See? It's not dependent upon us. It's dependent upon him. And if he loves me so much, and if he's given his word for those truths Why he says, why aren't you looking at it? Why aren't you reading it? Why aren't you aren't you studying it? You know? Why aren't you adapting it and app Playing it. Why aren't you talking to me more often? Why aren't you trusting me? You know. And then and I'm not saying that to any of us. I'm just saying collectively as human beings that's how we are. When things are going pretty good, you know, don't worry about it. When things are not going so good, oh Lord, where are you? You know. He says, I'm always there. I'm always there. Timothy, and for all of us, this third admonition, hold on to. cling to the pattern of sound words and much more than what Paul has been given, much more than the pattern of salvation. You know, this book provides us with tons of stuff that He desires for us to learn and hold on to. Let's pray. Father, we'll pause as your word has been offered, and we pray that your spirit will continue to do the work that is intended. As seeds have been planted. May you water. May you bring about an increase in the hearts of each of us, as you know best, to the level of what each of us are able to handle and understand and know Not comparing one to another, but just each of us. You have a personal interest in each one of us. And may your word continue to bring profit in that end. And ultimately, Lord, it's not for anything, but for your glory. And Lord, that's hard for us to see sometimes. It caused us to be patient, to see the long-coming work of your Spirit in our lives And in another year or two years or five years of the Lord's Harries, we can look back and see how great you have been, how blessed we have been to know that your word is here for us. May we cling to it May we be good students of it, and may your word be applied in our hearts today as in every day ahead, for Jesus' sake. Amen