Again today. And we have still the same projection of death with co The Chinese flu of 60,000 that there was last week. And that's the ballpark figure for the normal flu that we have every year And of course that number is actually quite inflated, uh that they're counting everybody and their brother as deaths from Chinese flu even though they haven't even been tested for for it. They're still counting them as deaths. And uh so this is not the great emergency that they make it out to be But uh anyway, praise the Lord that there are protests uh cropping up around the country and people are finally waking up and going and protesting at the state capitals and There's one scheduled in Delaware, I know, and we plan to be in that that's supposed to be on May 1st, is what I hear. My sis my daughter's been publicizing it a little bit And uh so but I was interested, uh they had the protest in New Jersey and the one sign there was very good. It said the First Amendment is essential. And that's what it is. It is essential. Freedom is essential. And we need that. And so, and of course, this is the perfect time to study Revelation. Perfect. Because the things that are going on right now are just the type of things you see in the book of Revelation leading right into those things. So let's go to Revelation chapter 6 Revelation chapter 6. And here we have the very famous passage of the four horsemen of the apocalypse. And uh that's something that's often been talked about and depicted. The four horsemen And this is the first half of the tribulation period. The tribulation period is seven years. And the first three and a half years we see here in chapter six with the six sealed judgments that we have here. And so we have chapter 6 and verse 1. The lamb opened one of the seals. He was the only one worthy to open the seals. And the four beasts, one of them says, Come and see each time. This is one of the seraphim And so what are you what does John see with the first horseman on a white horse? He has a bow. A crown, and he conquers and goes forth conquering. Well, here I think it's pretty clear that this is the Antichrist coming on the scene. The Antichrist. And we have everything getting set up for the Antichrist today. Right this minute here in America and around the world with total government control. The Antichrist is total government control coming on the scene. And I remember when I was in high school, we had to read the book by George Orwell, 1984. And that was back in maybe 1971 when I read that, and I thought, oh boy, 1984, that's a long time in the future. And that's like reading today something of 2033 or something. But anyway, uh we read that, and it's a scary book. And it's about a reign of totalitarianism with the Antichrist type of reigning. And what they had in that book was in everybody's room in their house, they had a camera watching them. And Big Brother was watching everybody. Big Brother. Well, what do we got today? Big Brother is really watching everybody. When you consider all these cell phones, you know we are very unusual, uh you and I, in that we don't have a regular cell phone, uh smartphone. And some of our family think we're kind of weird that way. But anyway, we got the we don't have a smartphone, but you know the smartphone, they can listen in on everything you're doing They can track everywhere you are with the GPS. They know everything you're doing, everything you're going. And that that that camera in the house of 1984, that's here And you know, y my uh daughter in their house they have asked Google and they they they you know they just have the thing on all the time and they they ask a question and the thing answers Well, you know, if it's listening for the questions, what else is it listening to? It's listening to everything. And we've got uh Big Brother is definitely watching. And for s my set daughter was telling me That one day she was talking about doing something. She hadn't done it. She hadn't gone there. She was just talking in her house about doing it. And all of a sudden she hadn't ads On her email or on her internet about that thing. And you know, they're listening. Big Brother is watching. And not only is Big Brother watching, it's Big Brother knows best. He knows best. And so we're all supposed to get in line with everything Big Brother tells us, because he knows best. He has the experts. He has the elite doctors And he knows best. And then they were telling me when I was over in New Jersey this week that in New Jersey they got drones out making sure that people are complying with the stay-at-home I mean it's just going right down the the line to total government control with the white horse, with him that sat on him, conquering and going forth to conquer. And it's interesting here that we have The Antichrist conquering with the first horse, but then you don't have you have the second horse, which is war. Well, wouldn't they both be together? Well, not necessarily. You know it's possible to conquer without war. And Hitler did a good job of that in World War II. Just by threatening, you do a lot of conquering. And Hitler took Czechoslovakia, took the Sudetenland, took Austria without firing a shot And then finally he had to fire some shots when he got to Poland. And that's how it is here with the Antichrist. He's conquering, and then war comes afterward. And we have this uh Antichrist coming on the scene. Who is the Antichrist? Well, we don't know. A lot of Christians through the past have said it was the Pope And I have great doubt about that one. The uh it seems to be more of a political figure. Uh and so here we have although the Pope could assume that role as well, but I would tend to think of somebody supper from the Pope, and people have said Obama was the Antichrist, and they've said all kinds of different things. But anyway, we don't know yet, but there's a figure that'll come on the scene Then we go to verse 4, and we have the second horseman of the apocalypse. And the second horseman is a red horse, and we have warrior taking peace from the earth. Well, the Bible talks about in the end they're going to talk peace, peace when there is no peace. And today we got the United Nations. The United Nations was supposed to be the last great hope of man that was going to preserve us from war. And there have been more wars since the United Nations came in in the 20th century than ever before. Wars everywhere. And they talk a lot about peace, but there is no peace. And so here we have the Antichrist, then you have war with his conquering. And then you go on to the third horseman of the apocalypse. And we have that in verse 5. Come and see. And I beheld and lo a black horse. And he that sat on him had a pair of balances in his hand. Here we have famine comes on the scene. Famine. And shortages with war. You know, we've seen a little bit of that today, with uh people grabbing all the toilet paper and everything else. And I went over to Target the other day and they had huge shelves empty there where the toilet paper used to be And uh we saw a movie at home, an old video, talking about a nuclear attack On America. We've had quite a few movies like that. But anyway, it showed the scene in the movie where everybody was running to the grocery store and feverishly grow grabbing everything from the grocery store. Well we've seen that today We have seen that right now. And so with war and with the Antichrist, the normal thing that comes with war is famine. It is shortages, shortages of different things. And they're saying that we're likely to see some shortages right now in America through all the disruption of the supply chains Here, there's going to be a lot of shortages of various things. And uh so here we have this black horse. And he has a pair of balances. Back in Bible times, that's how they weighed things, by the balance. They'd have a balance there and they'd put the weights on there and they'd have a one-pound weight and they'd uh measure uh the things out. And so they're weighing things with the famine. And it's high prices for things. Things are short. Verse 6, I heard a voice in the midst of the forebeast say, A measure of wheat for a penny. Well, a penny was the old daily wage for a laborer. A penny. And so here you'd have to pay your whole salary to get just enough food to survive. A measure of wheat or three measures of barley here. You know, I'm always always wondering at how little we spend today on our food. You know, our food is actually relatively cheap. And uh, you know, we d we s spend five percent, of course it depends on how you eat, but five percent, ten percent or whatever of our salary on food And uh but here it's like a hundred percent just on subsistence food because of the famine. And then it says here, see thou hurt not the oil and the wine. Well, how do you hurt oil and wine? Well what's it saying there is don't even think about buying oil and wine. Don't even think about it. It's too expensive. Too costly. Too much shortage of that, of the oil and the wine. And then here wine. You notice all these things are raw right here. We have raw barley, raw wheat, and we have raw oil and raw wine. In the Bible, grape juice is wine. We have grape juice and we also have fermented wine, depending on the context. But here I'd say it would be the grape juice. And don't even think about getting that from the grapes, from the olives, the wine, the oil. And it's a time of great shortage of famine upon the earth here in the future. And many countries have had famine in the past are continuing to have famine. Over there in Kenya they're always taking up offerings for the people over there because they're always having famine over there. And that's a lot to do with climate change, and there always has been climate change and there always will be climate change. And over there, the desert is creeping up on the part of the country of Kenya And so there's shortages of food. You know, there's always climate change, but the question is whether our greenhouse emissions are causing that uh uh climate change and that's not what c what's causing it at all. And and we're not having that much of global warming anyway So here we have famine. Then we go on to the fourth horseman of the apocalypse. And we didn't read here, so let's read those. Verse 7. And when he had opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth beast say, Come and see. And I looked, and behold, a pale horse, and his name that sat on him was death. And hell followed with him, and power was given over them, unto them, over the fourth part of the earth, to kill with sword. And with hunger, and with death, and with the beasts of the earth. So we have Antichrist, War, Famine. And now we have just plain death through all of the above, and even some more. It's a pale horse, death, and we got hell. Following with him. There really is a hell. People say hell is just what you make it here on this earth, but there really is a hell in the hereafter and a heaven. And so death and hell followed with him. And one-fourth of all the people on the earth at that time died. In this first half of the tribulation period, in these four horsemen, just well just the first four horsemen, you got one-fourth of everybody dies. That's a lot of people What's the percentage of people dying today with Chinese flu? It's like one thousandth of a percent or something like that. Yeah, it's like very little And here it's 25% of everybody, not just the ones who have it, but of everybody, and of course, one-fourth. So that's a big, big problem there And they are killed with the sword, that's with the war, and the sword is synonymous with war And it's synonymous with fighting with other people. Jesus said, if you don't have a sword, go out and buy one so that we can have some self-defense. That the Bible is not something that teaches pacifism. With the sword. But anyway, here they're killed with the sword, with hunger. We've talked about that. They're killed with death. That seems pretty repetitive, redundant, but the Bible does that, set talks like that many times for emphasis. Kill them with death. And with the beasts of the earth. You know that's very interesting. Kill with the beasts of the earth. Today we think about, well, you know, the beasts Beasts are all under control, that we don't have to worry about beasts today. That's something of the past when the pioneers had to worry about the beasts. But right now, with the Chinese flu and everybody staying inside, there's been a lot of news articles about how all the animals were coming out. And they had in the capital city of Santiago, they trapped their third cougar right downtown. And they were talking about that the bears were coming out in Yellowstone and having a field day out there and all the animals are having a good time. They're talking about carnivorous rats coming out. I saw an article on that. And then they're talking about the crocodiles in Mexico or all on the beach and having a good time. And they're talking about all these different animals coming out. And you know, the animals still can be a threat, still can be a threat to people. And they're killed with the beasts of the earth. And I think about today how they've made a practice of releasing wolves out into the wild And the pioneers and the people in the past, they went to great lengths to get rid of those wolves. Great lengths they went to. Because the wolves used to attack the livestock and the people and they were a big threat. And now we're putting them all back there. And over there in Cameroon where we were and also in Brazil, snakes were a big threat. And snakes have always been a big threat. And uh so anyway, that's not so far-fetched to have people being killed with the beasts of the earth and with all these different things. So there's the four horsemen of the apocalypse. Then we go on here to the other seal judgments. And in the book of Revelation we have three sets of seven judgments We have the seal judgments, the trumpet judgments, and the bile judgments. And they get more and more concentrated as time goes on. And it goes through the seven seals, and on the seventh seal, you have the seven trumpets come out with concentration of God's wrath. And then you have the seven trumpets, and on the seventh trumpet. The vials come out, which is God's completely concentrated wrath. And so here we have that first set of seven here with the sealed judgments. And verse 9 And when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the word of God and for the testimony which they held. And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth? And white robes were given unto every one of them, and it was said unto them that they should rest yet for a little season. Until their fellow servants also and their brethren that should be killed as they were should be fulfilled. So here we have the fifth. Seal, and this is martyrdom. Martyring the saints. Well, how do we have saints being martyred when they were all raptured out before the tribulation? Well, that's because a lot of people got saved after the rapture. You know what's gonna happen when you know you have all these movies about uh you know a thief in the night and uh people are all together and people disappear. And I believe that's basically going to be how it's going to happen. And uh and that I would turn a few people to the Lord, I would think. And the Lord will use that in quite a few people. And so there will be Christians coming on the scene in the tribulation period, and they will be being martyred, being killed for their faith. And so here we have John sees under the altar the souls of them that had been martyred He sees their souls. I think it's, you know, the Bible talks sometimes about the people that were in the boat or 250 souls, something like that. But here is he says, he saw the souls. And I think it's talking about people that haven't got their glorified bodies yet. And they haven't got their glorified bodies yet, the people saved during the tribulation. It would seem that they got their glorified bodies later. And so, anyway, he sees these souls. What do these souls look like? Well, I would I would guess that these souls they look you know, a little different than people normally look, but they they would still have the look of of normal people, more or less. And, you know, if we go to heaven and nobody can recognize anybody else, what good does that do? is I think we're going to be able to recognize other people. And uh, you know, I think that uh maybe we'll be slightly better looking than we were, but we're still Have recognizable features there in heaven. And so the souls, he sees the souls under the altar. The ones that had been martyred. And they were martyred for the word of God and for the testimony which they held. Marty for the Word of God and for the testimony. They were upholding the Word of God. We have the Word of God. The Word of God tells us, Forsake not the assembling of yourselves together. assembling of yourselves together. We're trying to do that today. And many other things of the Word of God. And they were upholding God's word and they were owning up to being Christians The testimony which they held. And so, what are these people that had been martyred? What are they crying out? How long, O Lord, holy and true, until you avenge our deaths? Here they're not quite saying, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Not exactly. And sometimes we have that in the Bible, sometimes we don't have that in the Bible And here they're saying they're crying out for vengeance. And it would seem that these are the people that have been martyred during the tribulation because they want vengeance on the very people that martyred them, that killed them. And you know, if it was martyrs from way back and they wanted vengeance on the whole human race, that wouldn't be quite the same. is it would seem that they want to have vengeance of their blood that was shed. Vengeance. And God says, vengeance is mine saith the Lord. We're not supposed to take vengeance. And we're supposed to forgive and we're not supposed to take vengeance, but God says vengeance is mine. And when God takes vengeance, it's pretty rough. And uh, you know, Hollywood, every other movie out of Hollywood is vengeance. The guy's daughter is killed, his father is killed, or whatever it is, and the whole movie is them getting vengeance. Well, that's not what's supposed to be what we're supposed to be doing. But God is going to get vengeance. Avenge our blood on the earth. And then verse 11, here's one reason I would say that uh souls there are somewhat like our bodies in that they wear robes. They're given robes to wear. Robes are given every one of them, white robes. This is the righteousness of the saints. And In Brazil, they'd like to imitate this with the voodoo down there. The voodoo followers all like to go around in white robes and white outfits But anyway, we do have that in the Bible here, and we do have that in heaven. And so they're told to wait a little while. For vengeance, until the rest of the martyrs will be martyred. And then verse 12. And I beheld when he had opened the sixth seal. And lo, there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon became as blood, and the stars of heaven fell into the earth, even as a fig. uh tree casteth her untimely figs when she is shaken of a mighty wind, and the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together, and every mountain and island were moved out of their places, and the kings of the earth and the great men and the rich men and the chief captains and the mighty men and every bondman and every free man. That includes everybody, doesn't it? hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains, and said to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us, and hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb. For the great day of his wrath is come, and who shall be able to stand? And once again, these are true events which will happen in the future. God foretells the future for us here. So we have natural disasters here with the sixth seal. Natural disasters. We have disasters in the heavens, disasters on the earth. We have a great earthquake. We have the sun getting black, the moon becoming red as blood. They have such a thing today as red moons, blood moons, and uh it'll be even worse here. And then it says verse 13, the stars of heaven fall into the earth. I don't think it's talking about stars like the sun falling into the earth, but it was talking about meteors. Meteors falling into the earth. Big meteor showers. They're falling into the earth And then the heaven departs as a scroll when it's rolled together. I don't really know what that is. But uh somehow there's some sort of an unfolding in the heaven there. And, and it's a scary unfolding, and then on the earth every mountain and island are moved out of their places Big events, big cataclysms. The mountains are shaken, the islands are disappearing, and it's a great cataclysm And so what's the reaction of the people? Well, what do you suppose the reaction would be? Would do you think their reaction is going to be God had nothing to do with this? I don't think so. God says over and over in the Bible, when he sends his judgments, and they shall know that I am the Lord. And here they're going to know that God is the Lord. And they don't know that quite yet here in America. That's scary. Cuomo doesn't know it yet, but God's going to make him know one of these days. And uh so we have all these different categories. We got the kings, we got the powerful people, the great men, the famous people, the rich, like Bill Gates. The chief captains, the generals, the mighty men, we got everybody. They're all afraid, overcome with fear. They're going out into the woods, out into the uh mountains with the rocks and things, and of course there's cataclysm hitting that, but at least they're away from the earthquake a little bit. People flee out of the cities when you have a big earthquake They don't want the buildings to fall upon them. But here they're actually asking the mountains to fall on them, to hide them from this great wrath. That's being poured out upon the earth. And it's not only the wrath of God the Father, it's the wrath of the Lamb, the wrath of Christ. Falling on the earth. The mystery of iniquity is being finished. God has let iniquity go for centuries on this earth, millennia on this earth, but now it's going to be finished. And the wrath of God is coming. And you know these people as they're crying out here, they give a good summary statement there in verse seventeen. The great day of his wrath is come. And that's what we have in the book of Revelation. The great day of his wrath is come. And so what do we have? We have fear. What do we have today in America? Fear, great fear. Fear of the government. Fear of the coronavirus. Fear of all these things. Fear. Let's go back to 2 Timothy 1 just for a second. 2 Timothy chapter 1. 2 Timothy chapter 1. And we have verse 7. We read that in our call to worship. 2 Timothy chapter 1 and verse 7. For God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind. Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner. But be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God. God has not given us the spirit of fear but of power and love and a sound mind. It was referred to earlier in Sunday school that today people's minds are being messed with. And just like it was mentioned that in the in the store the person will say, get back, get back, get back, you know, they're just just terrified of getting close to somebody else. They're terrified. Nothing with their minds, but we have a sound mind as a Christian. A sound mind. We don't have to have that fear. Because we know God is in control. He's in control of everything. And uh y you wonder what people are going to do when there really are the things of the sealed judgments, what they're doing what they're doing today with the the non-crisis we have But God has not given us the spirit of fear. And that's in so many things. When we're witnessing to other people, we don't want to have that spirit of fear. We don't want to have that spirit of fear in our lives. Uh you and I were uh we on Sunday night a lot of times we like to go to local Baptist churches there in Smyrna And one Sunday night we were at the local Baptist church there, and uh and the pastor came and he said he had a question for us uh that were there in the congregation. And he said he was having a difference of opinion with his wife, and his wife had been helping this homeless lady. And this lady was trying to help her out any time any way she could. And so his wife was determined to take this homeless lady down to the shelter or take her somewhere in the car And the pastor told her no. No, you can't be carrying around this homeless lady in your car. And he wanted to know who was right on this there in the congregation. But you know, uh you know, that's that's the spirit of fear. And of course he said, Oh well, you know, if you get this homeless lady in the car, you don't know if she's a serial killer or what she is, if she's gonna uh chop your head off or whatever. And of course this pastor, one thing to be said in his defense, he's a retired state policeman And so he's seen all the serial killers and all the other people and so he's seen all that and so he gets a little bit antsy about it. But anyway, you know, we can't have that spirit of fear. You know, we won't witness to anybody, won't do anything for anybody uh because we have that spirit of fear. Back when there were hitchhikers on the road, I used to like to hick pitch up pick up hitchhikers to witness to them. And of course my mo my wife used to have a fit about that. But anyway, the thing is, is that uh we used to pick 'em up to witness to them, but you don't know are they a serial killer or what But uh we can't have a spirit of fear. Of course, you have to use some judgment and who you pick up or whatever, but the thing is, is God has not given us the spirit of fear But of power, love, and of a sound mind. And uh the Bible says, in the last days men's hearts will be failing them for fear. And that's what we have today going on right around us. Men's hearts failing them for fear. And what were they afraid of here at the time Paul is writing to Timothy? Well, they were afraid of the government. Of the persecutions. Paul was in prison writing this epistle. He was in prison. And he said, Don't be ashamed of me and of the testimony of our Lord before the government. But be a partaker of the afflictions of the gospel. And so God has given us a sound mind. You know, a Christian should not have mental problems. You know, Christians can be weak and they can have mental problems, but that should not be the way it is. And uh that's God has given us a sound mind and power and love. And so today we know during this Chinese flu God is in control of everything. And He's in control of everything. And we don't have to worry about things. We don't have to have that spirit of fear. And God is going to finish all things in the book of Revelation. And we have the confidence that He's going to take all power to Himself later on. And we just need to rest in Him. Let's bow in prayer. O Lord, we pray that thou bless these thoughts to our hearts. And O Lord, we thank Thee for the book of Revelation. We thank Thee for the comfort that it is for the future. And, O Lord, we pray, O Lord, that thou would preserve us from this Chinese flu, that thou would preserve us from the panic, that thou would preserve us from the government getting involved in our lives and taking away our freedoms. Oh Lord, we pray that thou turn hearts to thee through this Chinese flu. Turn hearts to thee. Help people to know that God is the Lord. In Jesus' name. Amen.