Ask us again to open our Bibles to Second Timothy and Chapter One. Second Timothy chapter one, and if you would just follow along with your eyes as I'll read the first fourteen verses. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, according to the promise of life, which is in Christ Jesus, to Timothy. My dearly beloved Son, grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience, that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers. night and day, greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy when I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee Which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois and thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that in thee also. Wherefore, I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. For God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love, and of a sound mind. Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me, his prisoner But be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God, who saved us and called us with an holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace. which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began, but is now made manifest by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who hath abolished death. and have brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. Whereunto I am appointed a preacher, and an apostle, and a teacher to of the Gentiles For the which cause I also suffer these things. Nevertheless I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day. Hold fast the form of sound words which thou hast heard of me, in faith and love, which is in Christ Jesus. That good thing which was committed unto thee, keep by the Holy Ghost which dwelleth in us. Our praise to God for His word as it seeds our hearts we pray this morning with good things. Let's pray. Father will Thank you for what you are doing and what you're going to do through your word. We thank you that it stands the uh the test of time. has proven in our own hearts to be that which has been a delight, something that we have uh grown hungry for, something that has fed our souls And something that will be a profit to us in the days and weeks, months and years ahead until Jesus returns May it be a blessing to us today as it's open before us. Let your spirit teach our hearts, your servant hidden, Christ shown in his glory. For he prayed in his name. Amen. Trust you keep your Bibles open to our passage today. If you recall last week we spent some time on on uh verse eight of our first uh uh First chapter here. Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner, but be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God. disgust Timothy's embarrassment, his uh shame, his fear because of the things that were going on around him and in Paul's life. And uh Paul tells him that that shouldn't be. God's Spirit didn't give you that. And I just comment in the weeks and months ahead as we go through 2 Timothy. Don't be discouraged or concerned as we slow down sometimes. You know, we have a lot of verses here, and we take one verse at a time. uh I sometimes liken it to uh a miner and uh the work that he goes into digging into the earth and to find a vein of whatever he's searching for, gold or or some preciousness. And when he gets to that vein He slows down and he works and he works and he works. And it may take longer, but he wants to to gle gather, glean out all of that ore that's in there. And that's what we have with the Word of God Uh we can become familiar with the passage and read it over, but uh it's preferable that we walk away with our our stomachs full on something that we've got rather than just uh some some potato chips and and uh a little bit of you know this and that froth uh and and say, well that was nice, you know. So we have that with us. With that said, look aga look down as we go into this a little deeper to verse 12. And we're going to continue on in this verse, and I want us to be reminded of what we've seen so far Paul is where? Prison. Not expected to come out on his own accord, expected to be the end here. He sees Timothy, his son in the Lord, as somebody who's recognized that God has given him a gift of ministry, and that he wants to help Timothy along. And in this helping him along, he sees some weaknesses, as all of us, as we've tutored anybody. Here's an area that you need some help in. Here's some area that we need to work on. And that's what he's done in this particular spot So he writes, verse 12, for the which cause I also suffer these things. What cause? Why is he suffering? Remember, it's the preaching of the gospel. He says, I'm not ashamed of it. He says, the testimony, the testifying of Jesus Christ. That's what Timothy was hesitant at. He says, I'm not ashamed of that. And as a matter of fact, what I've done has put me in prison. For the which cause I suffer these things Current imprisonment, past imprisonments. Last week we read out of 2 Corinthians 11, the beatings and the whippings and all of these other things have occurred. He's suffered Because of his position with Jesus Christ and the testimony that is there. For which cause I also suffer these things, nevertheless, I am not ashamed You could be ashamed of failure and things that go on around you, things that you belong to, things that you're part of, and it just doesn't go real well, you'd be ashamed of it. But Paul says these things I'm not ashamed of. And the question is why? Timothy obviously needed to hear this because he was hesitant to speak boldly for the Lord. So he says, Timothy, I'm not ashamed of it. I call you to step up with me and partake in these sufferings, but I'm not ashamed of it. And it was a lesson that Timothy had to learn in his day. Considering the Roman Empire, considering the uh the Jews who were opposed to Christ, considering everything that was going on. And I think it's a great lesson for us today. He says, I'm not ashamed of the Lord Jesus Christ. And we talked about this last week, the matter of of being in defense of the gospel speaking to those who are uh are not believers, those who are Mormons or or Jehovah's Witnesses who come around, uh those who don't believe what we believe and in and yet they knock on the door and they want to implement their thinking and we defend ourselves, we defend Christ. But also living as a Christian, the way I deal business, the the way I handle various issues and so forth. They see us as being different. The Apostle Peter writes, be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you the reason of the hope that is in you. How do they know I have a hope? Is it just the gleam in my face? I think you know that halo that grows around me, huh? It's the way I act, the way I interact, the way I speak, the way I deal, all of those things in the things that come out of my mouth. So Peter says, be ready to do that. The thought here that we want to look at this morning is why was Paul not ashamed? There's three things he gives in this particular verse that he speaks of very clearly, and I think they're important for all of us. The first says, For I know whom I have believed. I know it. Just not, I know about whom I have believed, but he says, I know whom I have believed, I know him. You can actually do some real extensive studies on Bible characters. Open up your Bible and you go to your Old Testament, you got your Moses, you got your Paul in the New Testament, you got your Abraham, you got your John, you got Jesus Christ. And you can study them. You can study all that's available from the scriptures if you want to be accurate, and plus even outside to see what other people have said, and you can know uh the the the details of their life. You can know where they want. You can know the things they were engaged in. You can know all you know all about them, but you don't know them. You say, well, they lived centuries ago. That's true, but one out of the scriptures, Jesus Christ, is the only one that you can study him, know about him, but he also offers himself as knowing him And that's what Paul's talking about. He is the one that we can come to know, and Paul says, I know him. Timothy, I know whom I have believed. By personal experience. He says, I've experienced the mercy and the grace and the love and the power of Jesus Christ in my life. I know that. I didn't study that It was personally experienced in me, therefore I'm not ashamed. For I can implicitly trust and obey and I can love this one that I don't see. And undoubtedly Undoubtedly, I know him. Jesus himself says in John 10, 14, I am the good shepherd, and I know my sheep, and am known of mine. So Jesus says, I know my sheep, meaning his followers. But he says also, the sheep know me. They know him, not know about him. Jesus speaks it with great confidence and am known of mine and how thankful I am That Jesus doesn't say, I am the good shepherd, and I know about my sheep and they know about me. And there are a lot today in the church that know about Jesus, but they don't know him. They can spew forth a lot of the details, oh, we all agree on those things, but they don't know him personally Jesus can say, I know Keith, I know his weight and his height, and I know his medications, I know his habits, I I know that he uh he enjoys listening to this and he enjoys watching that and participating in this. I know all of those things about him. And you can find out those things too. They're they're not difficult, you know. I may not necessarily tell you everything, but those are things that you do it, you know. We can find out those facts But Jesus also says, I know when he's lonely and worried. I know when he's hurting inside and doesn't want to share it with anyone. I know when he's tempted, when he has to be strong to stand against those temptations, and those things You don't know. Those things are our the inner soul. That's about knowing about someone versus knowing them. Jesus says, I know my sheep. I know them and they know me. In like manner I can confidently say that I know my Savior. I know about Him, not just that He was born in Bethlehem and lived uh three decades or so. Uh that he had followers that came after him and a dozen and we called them apostles and I knew that he was uh uh arrested and put on a mock trial and he was crucified and and put in a tomb and that after three days he came out of that tomb alive. I I know those details. Even history points out to those details. But I also know that He is my Savior, my Lord, that He is my rock and He is my refuge, my shepherd and my defense, my strong tower, my shield, my buckler. My light and my salvation, the strength of my life. He is my song, my portion, my helper. He is my Jesus. He is my Jesus. And as much as I can know about any of you and all of you personally and all of the details, I can't say that about you. I'm you're mine. Not even my wife. I can't say she's mine. She's her own individuals. We are married, but she's not mine like Jesus is mine. Like I know him. And he knows me. And this is the confidence that Paul comes up. He says, I'm not ashamed of this one, because I know whom I have believed. The second aspect that he puts in this verse that talks about why he's not ashamed, he says, and am persuaded that he is able. I am persuaded that he is able, by the preponderance of evidence, by personal testimony. By every word that has been spoken by the Lord Jesus Christ, I am convinced, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that God is able. Little kids have a song, he is able, he's able, and uh he is able We won't go into that one, but uh they sing that. You know, and we live in a world that doesn't necessarily understand that principle We have guarantees and warranties. I bought a tool the other week and and it says you want to sign this for an extra X number of dollars, you get a extra warranty on it. You know, well why You know, I have to have a guarantee or a warranty because it's going to break down. The hot water tank, the radio tire, uh the lawnmower, the whatever it is, the batteries on the on the camera, you know, it's gonna break the people that we are with. We listen to them and they fail. They have an MD or a PhD or an REV attached to their name. It doesn't mean they're exempt from failing. Because we're still in this earth suit, you know. We're still in this body. And because of that, we don't always have that ability. to fulfill everything that is expected of us, nor of that which we expect of ourselves. And yet he comes here and he says, but he is able. But God, says the apostle, has never, can never, display any kind of failure, weakness, shortcoming, or indecisiveness in any of his actions. God simply cannot fail to accomplish everything. And that is the God that we have. And yet, although he is able, it doesn't necessarily mean that he will do it When we think is the best time or fashion to do it. Does God have the ability to stop this virus that has taken on, you know. thousands and thousands of people and kill thousands and thousands of people? Was God able to stop the the attack on nine eleven? Was God able to s to to rescue my mom from from uh cancer so she didn't wouldn't have died? Is he able to do that? Of course he is. He sounded as if God is able. And yet it doesn't, his ability is only limited to what I think he ought to do when he doesn't do it God's able to do anything he so wills, and that's the difference. Some may shake their fists at him and say, why didn't he do this? I'm angry. And yet that wasn't his will, his timing, his pattern, his way of dealing with each and every situation that's before him and before us. I want to share a text with you. It comes from my sister-in-law in California. Almost three years ago, um uh her husband, my brother, uh we almost lost him. He's thirteen years younger. And um uh he round this time of the year, uh September, October, something like that uh wasn't feeling well, uh went to the hospital and just kind of collapsed. Further tests and studies, he even had a stroke while he was on the table getting tested. He said, uh when was it that you had your heart attack Yeah, I didn't have a heart attack. You know, he was fifty-five. Well I never had a heart attack, but you did and your heart's damaged. Your heart is so damaged that you're you we're you're gonna need a transplant by the end of the year This is October, November, December. And so she calls me up and and we prayed and they have their trust in the Lord is is implicit by the grace of God through medicines, uh his diet, uh, through uh uh uh just th the way they worked at it. Uh Kenton is back at school teaching, uh doesn't need a heart transplant. It's just been an absolute miracle. So I get this text from his wife this week, sent to a number of people. I have some news that I would like you to pray about in earnest for me. About two weeks ago I lightly bumped into Ken, that's my brother, while getting into the car and couldn't believe how bad it hurt. When I looked in my arm, there was a dark black speck on it. Long story short, this morning I received a call from the dermatologist that I have a malignant melanoma. and that a surgeon will be contacting me to take the significant portion of my left upper left arm to see if there is more. Lord willing, it is not spread, and if I will just need to go for every four months in the next two years to have it checked out I have been feeling very sick, stomach pains and back uh pains, uh shoulder pains, my blood pressure has been very high. So I'm praying that it may not be related to the cancer, but that I will trust God and call on Him for guidance and direction and strength. I'm telling you this, not so you feel sorry or sad, but so that you will boldly approach God's throne for me, uh, with me, and ask him to totally annihilate any possibility of more cancer cells in my body. He is able, and I trust in his care and sovereign power. I have a lithotripsy procedure this week, as well as then if you would pray for the doctors on this on Wednesday, and that's just past Wednesday. It's a sonic wave procedure that to break up two large kidney stones. When it rains, it pours. Blessings from above. Well she had the Lithrospi, whatever it was called, you know, blasted the kidney stones and as far as I know that that's worked well and I think it's helped with that. Part that I want to emphasize here is that and I talked to her on the phone, she says, I understand the situation that we're in, just as it was with her husband. He says, whatever God wills, but my God is able. And that's the confidence they they go through with. And that's how they walk through this this situation, you know And that's what the Apostle Paul comes to Timothy, and he says, Timothy, what have I been going through? Sure, God is able to throw me out of prison. You know, s unlock the doors that happened with Peter, remember that one? And and walk right out of the prison and have no problems. He is able. But it isn't always the direction that God goes. The prophet Jeremiah writes, Ah, Lord God, behold, thou hast made the heavens and the earth by thy great power and stretched out arm, and there is nothing too hard for thee. Isn't that beautiful? Jeremiah uses an illustration that everybody can see. God created all of this. Clear skies and you look out there and you just see the masses of stars, everything laying out there. He's created them all by stretch out by his power. And if he can do that, he says, there's nothing here on earth that he cannot do. He is able to do it all. But, Pastor, I understand that God can dissolve kidney stones and He can clear out arteries, He can shrink tumors, all of that. But what about the heart of mankind? I know some people that are just absolutely dead set against Jesus Christ. They've just closed the door. They hate Him. They have nothing to do with the truth of God's Word. Prophet Ezekiel speaks: A new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I put in you, and I will take away the stony heart. out of your flesh, and I will give you a heart of flesh. He is able. I remember our time in Western PA visiting one of the husbands of one of our church members, and he only attended dinners. That was his extent of of church work and got very sick at the end of his life. Was in a nursing home and we visited him a number of times and I got the call that it was this was about the last time that, you know, he'd be able to be coherent and talk. And so I got n next to him and and uh uh his uh name was Pio. He's very Italian family. And I says, PO, let me read some Bible to you. And he was there like this and he rolled over on his side. I dump don't wouldn't even look at me. I didn't even hear it And so I read the scriptures, I prayed for him, and I knew he heard. But his heart was just so hardened against that word. Now I don't know what happened to him. There could have been in the last moments of his uh cognizant life that that the the Spirit of God touched him and took all the the witnessing that his wife had given and all the verses that he's heard and everything and changed his heart Jeremiah says he's going to take that stone heart and make it into a heart of flesh. God is able. God is able. And that's what Paul is saying. For I know whom I have believed and am persuaded, I'm convinced that God is able. But able to do what? What does the verse say? What does it say? To keep that which I have committed unto him against that day. What does he know that God is going to keep? What was precious to Paul at this time? What does he speak about as being precious to him? Could be a lot of things. I remember again the church that we worked in It's probably been about 25 years ago I met this dear old grandmother. She lived out in the country by herself a house that she had lived in, probably her old family had lived in for, you know, generations And although she wa her eyesight was very poor and her hearing was a little bit not too good, she was as a feisty 95-year-old grandmother as I'd ever known, you know And I enjoyed going out and talking with her. She'd get me to help do little things around the house, you know, and and do stuff, you know, and a little of this and that. One day we got in a discussion about money. And she says, I want to tell you a secret. She says, come over here. And she says, look behind the couch. And she had a couch in the co covering the corner of the of the room. And there's some coffee cans back there She says, grab one. So I reached down and I grabbed it up, and there was a wad of money bundled up, rubber bands around it like that, you know. She had a couple of them. And she says, come on over in the kitchen. Here's the fridge. And she says, open up that freezer. Up behind it, there's some meat wrapping paper. And there's cold hard cash, all wrapped up. You know. She's out in the middle of the sticks. You know, but I mean if anybody broke in, you know, she was convinced that nobody would find it, you know. doubt that but um she you know and I says you know Gregory George I says you can't do this you gotta take your money and you gotta put it in the bank you can't leave it like this and she says never I don't trust those banks Well, at 95, she experienced what a lot of Americans did during the Great Depression, the failure of the banks. And she saw those institutions as nothing more that would rob and cheat her hard-earned money. That was precious to her. And she wasn't going to trust what was precious to her to a bank. You know? You know? Obviously things have changed. You know, the laws had had had uh changed within the country for as far as safekeeping is concerned. But nevertheless, uh that was there for sure. What's precious to you? Your house? Maybe a special car? Those those those gardens, you know? What what are those things that your your your spouse, your children? I think most people would say, well my children are precious to me What we hold on to are the things that are there, but what about the preciousness of your soul? How dear and near it is. And I read through here and I see these truths that Paul says out. He is able, confident able to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day. I've committed my soul to him. We commit our children, we commit our families. We pray when we do get together and say, Lord protect our children, protect them, keep them, and so forth. And again it's according to his will. He is able to. And there are times and I know that I've probably escaped And my parents would have said, Boy, that was an answer of prayer. And here Paul says, but what I've committed to him against that day is is my salvation, my soul. He says it's been sealed on there, and that is precious to me. For what shall it profit a man if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Or what shall the man give in exchange for his soul? Jesus' own word says, what is so precious that the whole world's values The whole world's uh uh uh exchange for the everything that it has for one soul. He said, What what can you he says can't The preciousness of the soul far exceeds all of the wealth that the world has to offer. So Jesus says these things are absolutely boundless. He is able to keep that which I have committed against him against that day. Here are Jesus' words in John 10. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. And they give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My father, which gave them me, is greater than all And no man is able to pluck them, snatch them out of my father's hand. I and my father are one. Talk about security. Talk about a bank ball security. He says, the souls that the Father has entrusted to me to redeem upon the cross He says he's holding them in his hand, and no man is able to, no power, nothing is able to snatch that soul out of the Father's hand. Secure. Paul says, I've committed my soul in the hands of the eternal God. He is able, doesn't ever show us a lack of ability, he is able to keep it against that day, against eternity. What a powerful picture. He says, therefore, I can go through all of this and not worry They can beat me, I can be half drowned, I can be dying of thirst, I can all these other things suffer, and and if I was rescued from them, it still wouldn't make a difference. He says, I've trusted in the Lord. Do you know the Lord Jesus? Not just know about him, but do you know him personally? And if you do, are you assured of his ability to do all things? Are you convinced? Are you confident that what he has promised to do, that he will do And finally, have you entrusted your soul's safekeeping into his loving hands? That extra insert that was of late passed out, if you would take a look at that Interesting story about the author in the inside. That's for your perusal at a later time. But I want you to look at the hymn. I think there are more verses here than than in the hymnal that we're going to sing. But think of the author, and the chorus is on the bottom. But notice what he says: I know not why God's wondrous grace To me he hath made known, nor why unworthy Christ in love redeemed me for his own. He's saying his salvation. I don't know why. He's examining his life, and he says there's no reason for God's wondrous grace, for his love to buy me. Second stance. I know not how this saving faith to me he did impart, nor how believing in his word wrought peace within my heart. Well, that's a head scratcher. I believe what the word says, and I got peace within my heart. I don't know how it happened, but it did. Third one. I know not how the Spirit moves, convincing men of sin, revealing Jesus through the Word, creating faith in him. The Holy Spirit, taking the word, and convinces men that they are sinners when all along they have fought all of their days and says, Not me! But the Spirit of God does it and changes their hearts. I know not what of good or ill may be reserved for me, of weary ways or golden days, before his face I see the future. He says, I don't know what the future is going to be. Good, bad, uh whatever, I don't know. I know not when the Lord may come, at night or noonday fair, nor if I'll walk the veil with him or meet him in the air. I don't know when Jesus is returning. And I don't know if I'm going to meet him on death or if I meet him in the rapture. Whatever it is. I don't know. I don't know. And then the last the chorus, but I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day. Hi. It just shouts of Paul in all of Paul's life in our lives. There's so many questions in life that we have. Why this? Why me? Why you? Why this situ why all these other things? I don't know. But uh one thing I do know I know that the one that I've believed, that he has the ability and he does, keep me, and he will keep me for all eternity. What a glorious God. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Paul's inspiration by the Spirit to pen these words to his beloved Son and the Lord. and to us, that this word has been preserved in order that we might learn, that our ears, being able to hear our hearts being able to receive that truth that has been penned before us in order that we might glorify you Lord, we don't know why you save as you do. We don't know why things happen in our life. We don't know the future at all, but we do know that you are a savior. And we do know that you have the ability to keep our souls through eternity, in the glories of the heaven that you've talked about in no uncertain terms, the beauty of it, the joy of it, the release from all these things that are in this earth Oh Father, continue to evidence yourself in the work of your Spirit through the Word in our day. Looking forward to the return of our Jesus Christ, our Savior. Amen.