Please open your Bibles to Paul's letter to the Philippians chapter 4 and follow along as I read verses 10 through 19. Philippians chapter 4, beginning with verse 10. The apostle writes, but I rejoice in the Lord greatly That now at the last your care of me hath flourished again, wherein ye were also careful, but lacked opportunity. Not that I speak in respect of one, for I have learned, in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content. I know both how to be abased and I know how to abound everywhere, and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry. Both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through Christ, which strengtheneth me. Notwithstanding Ye have well done that ye did communicate with my affliction. Now ye Philippians know also That in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed for Macedonia, no church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but you only For even in Thessalonica he sent once and again unto my necessity. Not because I desire a gift. But I desire fruit that may abound to your account. But I have all, and abound, I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you. an odour of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. Again, may God bless the reading and the hearing of his most holy and infallible word this morning. Let's pray. Father, We pause in our worship hour now to open this your word and ask that you'll hide your servant and Christ to be seen and proclaimed in his glory. Seed Lord good to our hearts in order that we might be more perfected servants for your use. In Christ's name. Amen. Although next presidential election is I think it's a year from tomorrow. It seems like already the pot's being stirred and has been for some time. No end to the political rhetoric concerning the economy, China and tariffs, talks about job cuts and trading partners and failing stock markets and uh yah yah na and it just weighs heavy on the ears and hearts of the people. All these words create a an atmosphere of real concern. And for many, it kind of boils down to the fact that they say, whether it's real or not, they say, what are we going to do? It leaves a future kind of unknown, kind of hanging there, a tension, a financial loss and collapse. For others who have experienced what seems to be an unusual number of bumps on the road, they can likewise be saying, even now, what are we going to do? We've all gone through those times and no doubt we will go through them again. And that may seem to be something you've experienced in the past, in the past few months or past years, or you might even be sitting here this morning and saying to yourself, What are we going to do? Kind of leaves us hanging. Last month was the 90th anniversary of something that defined fear and financial loss. You know what that is? Ninety years ago. Stock market crash, you know. Kaboom. Uh it was really uh tragic. The Uh October 29, 1929 signaled the beginning of the Great Depression and talk about an atmosphere of fear. Talk about uh tension that ran through the country. Eventually people worldwide were saying, what are we going to do? Uh and I've heard and talked to people who lived in those days and and uh felt those whether as children or even their parents or grandparents Stock market crashed, there were 4. 3 million unemployed. In 1931, that number rose to eight million. Early as 1933, almost thirteen million out of work. That's a quarter of the workforce in the country. A quarter of all workers. Five thousand banks had failed. Those who were out of jobs Um those who still had jobs, many of them had to take up to a quarter uh of uh percentage to their salaries. pictures of Americans out of work lining the breadlines or selling apples on the street are replete. You get online and you search those and you'll see uh just long lines of of people just waiting for uh loaf of bread or soup or whatever I think they were probably the hardest times for Americans as a nation that we've ever faced. And there are those who you could probably talk to today and say, what was it like during those times? They were in want, where the rich became poor and the poor became even poorer, and they were true tremendous struggles of indeed, what are we going to do? There are many times in our lives that we are in want. And in need is a better picture. There are times when we've experienced those downturns in an economy or in a situation of business or of life that we've made that struggle and we say, I'm in need It probably wouldn't be anything near what was lived through in the times of the Depression, but it could be something tangible. Like food, like money, like health care, or stuff like that, or it could be something of the intangible matters of the heart, loneliness or loss. Where we experience those downturns and we say, what are we going to do? How are we going to make it? In those situations, whether it's me or you or somebody else, where do we go and what do we do? In reality, that's part of the world in which we live in. And those things have to be thought about because if it's not now, there will be. You know, I have great optimism of the Lord's return, but before that occurs, we are rubbing shoulders with a world that's entrenched with troubles. If your Bibles are open again, they're Philippians 4. I want you to look again at verse 10, and Paul says, But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly. That now at the last your care of me hath flourished again, wherein you were also careful, but lacked opportunity. In Paul's letter to the church at Philippi, this is the thank you portion. When we write letters, we kind of divide them up to some needs and some things that we want to talk about, and it's always good to include in our letters. Thank you. Paul is doing this. They sent gifts of some kind, maybe a couple of times, and he really appreciated it. Where was Paul at this time? At the Hilton? No. He was in prison. He was in prison. And so he's writing to this church and being thankful, being so thoughtful. You've always cared for me. But you just lacked opportunity. It didn't always have an opportunity. You know, it always wasn't present, but your heart was there looking for my needs, and I really appreciate that And that really warms us when people do that. Doesn't have to be a tangible thing, but just to say, I'm thinking about you. You know, I'm concerned about your particular situation. I try and encourage all of our missionaries overseas to keep up with their personal correspondence and letters were the other side of the world from some of these works. And sometimes on the field it can just become habitual, the the normal operations of things. And I want them to understand that there are people who support them in prayers and in and financial gifts. And as you make those communication letters, they have a heart feeling for what's going on. You're participating in their work with them So continue to do that in order their concerns are passed on. Those thank yous show appreciation in very marvelous ways. Now in verse 11 Paul begins by telling the church that his thank you was not because he wanted more. Now sometimes we'll do that, you know. Sometimes we'll say, Thanks, really like this gift. And we're really saying, do you think maybe next time, you know, we get there some more? Something like But he's not saying that. He says, not that I speak in respect of want. Now there is that word. Not that I'm speaking in respect of the fact that I have a need, okay? A necessity. King James English, I am not saying this because I am in need. And that's an interesting thought. He's not discouraging them. He's most thankful for their support, for their overlook in his life, but he's saying this is of truth. How could Paul say that? Wasn't he in a Roman prison? Didn't Paul have health needs? Many say that he suffered from malaria. Uh eyesight was bad. At the end of some letters, he's saying, I'm signing this in my own hand. In other words, I don't see real well, had a secretary write this out, but I want to sign this all for me Conditions of life were difficult on Paul. So he's not saying, uh I have needs, but he says, that's not what I'm really talking about. Verse 11, not that I speak in respect of want, not because I have a need, for I have learned. In whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content. An attitude of contentment. Paul is not sitting on the floor of the Roman prison in a yoga position going, hmm, I can be content in this, you know. That's not his attitude. That's not his presentation to these people. He's not meditating on his troubles, but he is saying that his contentment, his heart's joy, his satisfaction wasn't measured by material things of any gift that's given. And that's something we've experienced. Watching the folks out in California and the fire goes through and swoosh and And there they're looking at uh to the chimney, what's left of their house, and everything is gone. And they say, but a little smile on their face, you know, but we're all alive You know, we're all alive. I said sense of contentment to say their happiness, their heart's joy wasn't based upon the material things I don't know if I could maybe experience that. Trust that it'll never be my temptation, but nonetheless, that's what they say. Verse 12, no. I know, I've experienced both how to be abased, and I know how to abound. Everywhere, in all things I am instructed I've received teaching and education of a certain fashion, both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. Paul says in my life I've experienced, not gonna have asked for it, wealth and poverty. I've experienced tragedies. You read through uh was it 2 Corinthians 11? He talks about being shipwrecked and beat and all these other types of things that he went through. I've experienced all the ups and downs of life Those were teaching moments. Those were things in his life that he experienced. Those were hardships that he had gone through. I've experienced wealth and poverty, having plenty and having nothing, yet I am content in any or either situation. Now, we could say, well, if I had poverty and wealth, I'd sure think I'd be happier in wealth, you know. I'd sure be happier if I had this, or I'd sure be at least that's what's presented to us in the world, isn't it I'd be happier if I had more or bigger or whatever. But Paul's telling him in his current educational process of life, he says this is a marvelous truth that he's learned. This wasn't the case on Black Tuesday, was it? When the stock market crashed, many lives of businessmen were taken by themselves. gassed or jumped out windows or you know the suicide was because I've lost all my material things of life and life therefore isn't worth living. They saw tragedy in those things The words of Jesus echoed up and down the the streets of Wall Street. Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt Where thie through and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal For where your treasure is, there will your heart be. The seed of satisfaction, of contentment. My treasure is found where? Paul was saying, it wasn't found in the tangible gifts that you gave me, even though I so appreciate it. It wasn't found in my times in in in you know the the the good thing things that I worked for or whatever or even in the bad times or whatever wasn't found in any of those And that was echoed by Jesus in these powerful training moments. So how then could Paul say that his contentment was solidified? in whatever situation he found himself. What does verse 13 say? I can do all things through Christ, which strengthens me. Well that just seems to be really so off the wall. But that was the educational process that Paul went through. I don't think he could have said that in the beginning of his life. But he had to go through the ups and downs and being torn apart and beat up and having plenty and having loss and found every single occasion Christ had not left him Always found satisfaction, heart's joy, never abandoned by him, never had suffered loss by Christ. Read a sentence here from commentator William Hendrickson on Paul's experience. He says, the path which I have traveled led me ever closer to Christ. to his love, to his power, yes, to Christ and contentment in him, that very contentment is riches to me. That's Paul's statement. The path of life that I live, all of the things that I've experienced in life were formulated by Christ in order that I would find my satisfaction in Him. That he is the one, and he says, strengthens me, well, that means he can carry me through those down times, the times of loss, the times of hurt. picks me up and walks me through. And that's really the testimony of every child of God, or at least it ought to be. Paul had found the secret. His experiences taught him that in any circumstance of life, to have or have not, to have in abundance or have in wantonness. Paul says that Christ's confidence in him and especially Christ's grace was sufficient in every case. The unmerited favor of his Savior brought him to a place of contentment, not happiness. And there's a great difference. Contentment. He says, Christ gave me that which I need and walks with me and has never abandoned me. And if his love is upon me He's not going to abandon me, and what else could I find to be satisfying? Content. And again, it's not a matter of happiness It's not a matter of external joys and such. He's saying that Christ is my all-in-all. 1 Timothy 6, 6, but godliness with contentment Paul says, is great gain. A simple proverbical principle, you know. My spiritual life Found in the joys of life, I find that contentment to be that which is of great worth Psalm 37, 16. For a little which a righteous man hath has is better than the riches of many wicked. The righteous person seizes upon his righteousness as being my satisfaction, my contentment. And if I have little in this world's goods, It is far better than the wicked who have an abundance of this world's goods, because those things will fail. They will be you know become ashed. They will become gone. They won't uh profit in life at all. Well, that's the introduction to my message today. We're on Psalm 23. And some weeks ago we looked at the very beginning of the Psalm. The Lord is my shepherd. And just as a principle of review, we saw that this is David's testimony in saying, I have a relationship with God. He says, He is my shepherd. Not that he owns him, but he's saying, I have that privilege to say that he's mine. I belong to him. And what a joy and what a tremendous principle that binds us to. The next words are what? I shall not want. I shall not want. And we've seen this in a number of illustrations, even from the Apostle Paul's wife. There's that word again, I shall not be in need. For David to say this, being seen as sheep, the picture was not as obvious as it made it seem. David saying, The Lord is my shepherd, hence I am the sheep, and for him to say, I don't have any needs, I don't have any wants, is kind of an unusual thought, especially when you think of David's life. As you review his life, you see that it was filled with many wants, and he had many days where he lacked everything. Think of the year as being chased by Saul. Hiding in the caves, wanting to settle, uh the the struggles of such a life pleading with God, and yet entrusting his care and his future and those of his men into his hands. Think of the years of Absalom's rebellion, his own son seeking his life. Lord just give me a peace about what's going on. Why are these things taking place? David knew hardships and personal poverty and struggles. Greatly struggling in his own soul. Read the Psalms and see some of the words that David pours out his own experience as why these things are happening. So David says, I am a man in practical experience in want. I have need. And yet he comes in this psalm and says, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. What is true of David is also true for every child of God. Jesus himself says, For us in this world ye shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer, for I have overcome the world. As a child of God, we shall suffer want. It could be severe tribulation. It should be not only rejection, but abuse and so forth Uh uh think of believers in various corners of the world who experience those very same things, those principles. We've already mentioned the Apostle Paul and his hardships. Think the same of true throughout the Bible, Elijah, John the Baptist, and even our Lord Himself. In our own world, there are believers in India and Pakistan and North Korea and just around the globe. We're doing what we're doing today could only be done in secret, in the hiding places. They suffer want, needs, uh, tremendously in the world in which we live. And David says, I shall not want. Well, he wasn't talking about material things or physical things. He was talking about life, even his own health Some years ago I was in Bible College of East Africa in Nairobi and it was a graduation time and one of the students, graduate, came up to me and he says, Pastor, how come Um, you know, Americans, you have Christians there, and we have Christians here. And yet how come Kenya struggles with so many so much poverty and so many things like that in America? You have an awful lot. Why is God blessing America and not blessing here? His assumption was that material things or those things that we see as being prosperity or a blessing from God were always associated with, you know, the the the tangibles of life. I said that's not God's blessing. That's not in the the relationship that's bonded. It can be a benefit and it can happen because we then become stewards of what we've been given, but that's not an indicator of God's blessing. He says, we are in tremendous want in this country. And from this side of the ocean we say, Amen to that, you know. We are in tremendous want I shall not want shows that these sheep are completely content with the shepherd's care and have no desire to look elsewhere. They are looking to their shepherd and saying, I'm satisfied with him. I find my contentment in him. and where he's placed me and what I've gone through and where he's led me and what he's done. And we're going to see more of this in weeks to come as we see the rest of this of this particular Psalm. But it's a tremendous joy. Their eyes were on him and their trust was implicit. That's why they could say that. If you would turn your Bibles to Psalm 103. Because the shepherd had bought David, you know, purchased him, because he has bought us and purchased us. We're a member of his flock. We've entrusted our lives into his hands. Look at this one psalm here, and there are obviously many cases, but look at the things that the psalmist writes that are benefits, that the shepherd has passed on to his sheep. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits, okay? My policy, I open it up. You know, what does my policy provide for me in case of this or what? You know? Well, obviously he's paid for this. Verse 3. Who Forgive us all thine iniquities. Wow. Are those of you who saw the video that we had here before? The struggles that this couple had were from the earlier days of the burden of the sin of life and and feeling that God was a vindictive God and and bearing down and and couldn't see grace And obviously here he's saying you can't hold anything because when there's forgiveness involved that was paid for by Christ. He didn't do sixty percent or uh fifty percent or ninety-five percent He paid for them. He uh our iniquities, he forgives them, who healeth all thy diseases. Obviously we say, what's he talking about? I still have umpteen diseases, you know. But if there's going to be healing, it's going to be he who's going to the one to do it. Verse 4, who redeems thy life from destruction, Wow. The paths that we walk sometime in the lives of people, testimony people give, and a path of destruction, that's where they're going. Who redeemed them? Who brought them out? Who saved them? Who rescued them? Who pulled them from the precipice and brought them on their feet again, but the shepherd alone, who crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies. The very pinnacle of life, the mercies of God, not giving me what I deserve, the righteousness that has been provided by Christ. uh crowns me with his loving kindness. Verse five, Who satisfies thy mouth with good things? Now that wasn't quite what was being roasted out on the fire last night or what we consumed, although those were good things But what the scripture talks about is tasting and seeing the goodness of the Lord. Our experience with Him, how marvelous it is. The benefits bless my soul. I can taste the good things in my mouth that God has given, so that thy youth is renewed like the eagles. Again, restored Joy. Verse 6. The Lord executeth righteousness and judgment for all who are oppressed. Who is going to speak for those other people? Who's going to speak for me? Who's going to rescue them? Who's going to correct this injustice The psalmist says, the sheep say, He will. My good shepherd will do that. He's the only one who can. Verse seven then verse eight, the Lord is merciful and gracious Slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy, a repetition of mercy, you know. Giving me what I don't deserve in not giving me what I do deserve, keeping upon me, and slow to anger, how many times would we have been fried in life? How many thoughts? How many words? How many actions? I one time you figured to do the math aspect. If I just sin once a day, Multiply that times 365, times the number of years you are. Okay? Think of the pile of of sin that comes And how easily it would be justified to be able to do it. And he says he's slow in his anger. He holds back his hand because he's molding us and he's not done with us He's bringing us along this glorious path. 9. He will not always chide, or he will not always accuse, neither will he keep his anger forever. Boy, what a joy that is. How often do we keep our anger when we see somebody or see a situation, you know? God doesn't do that. Perfect, beautiful justice. Verse 10, He hath not dealt with us after our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. You know if we you go on through the psalm, and you can go on through the scriptures themselves, but especially the psalms, enlist the benefits in your policy. The benefits that that David says I shall not want, because this is my benefit. And this is my benefit, and this is my benefit, and this and this and this and this. And it just piles up, and there's nothing in this world that can compare to it. Nothing. So David says, irrespective of what takes place in my life, I'm anchored to my shepherd, the good shepherd in my life. Are we any different? We're not kings like David. Not placed in such a responsibility, nor have that relationship, a man after God's own heart, a woman after God's own heart But we have been redeemed by Jesus Christ. We have one who gave his life for us. And so our relationship is just as precious and just as joyous. And there is no way then that we can say, I have a need, and it just can't be met Maybe can't be met by what I'm looking for. It maybe can't be satisfied by what I'm searching for, striving for, pushing for, or working for, demanding. But the need can be met as he knows my need better than I do. And so we walk along with that. Contentment is the hallmark, the indicator of a man or a woman who has just put his or her affairs in the hands of God. For them to say, I am completely satisfied, I'm happy, I'm joyous within my soul at the Savior's management of my life. Because he cares for me, he loves me, as he does with all of his flock. He manages my life. And the older we get, it's easier to look back and say, boy, he did, didn't he? You know. He moved me from here to there or he brought me to be with somebody else, you know, marriage and he he provided these people within a a a local body or whatever the situation is, he's managed all of these things in the past. And looking back historically, we say, boy, that's easy to see So if he's done that in the past, why can't I say I'm going to trust him yet in the future? His plan is perfect for that. So that's why the Apostle Paul says, I can do all things through Christ, which strengtheneth me. You can say, as a child of God, I can do all things through Christ. It doesn't mean, you know, I can go rob banks, I can do whatever. No. He's saying what has been placed in my path, I can accomplish it And I can have a contentment because Christ strengthens me. I can find my contentment in life. I can find my satisfaction in life And there are some times that I have to sit back and say, okay, Lord, what are you trying to say to me now? You know, I I know this is how I'm supposed to be, but this is how I'm feeling, and it's not right. Help it to be measured out, you know, help it to be balanced out. So we can say with Paul in his prison time, uh, I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. We can say along with David The Lord is my shepherd, and I shall not want, because he meets my needs. Let's pray. Father, we pause and Ask you to rehearse in our hearts once and again the joy of our relationship with you. Redeemed. from the sin that so easily had befallen us born into it and carried with it. And the remnants are still hanging on to this body of ours And yet you saw in us what you wanted to see and purchased our sin from us and took it upon yourself on the cross. and enabled us to be grafted into your body, to become part of Christ's family. Lord, forgive us when we've grumbled at our state. And we're so worried about what would happen tomorrow, or what will happen the next day, or the next year, or whatever. Help us to find our total satisfaction and contentment in you as our shepherd. And that we have no want, no need, for you, Lord, have seen us through in the past. You are doing it even now, and you shall do it in the future. We praise you for it in Christ's name. Amen.